# § 301.6225-1   Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.

(a) *Imputed underpayment based on partnership adjustments*—(1) *In general.* In the case of any partnership adjustments (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(6)) by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), if the adjustments result in an imputed underpayment (as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section), the partnership must pay an amount equal to such imputed underpayment in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. If the adjustments do not result in an imputed underpayment (as described in paragraph (f) of this section), such adjustments must be taken into account by the partnership in the adjustment year (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(1)) in accordance with § 301.6225-3. Partnership adjustments may result in more than one imputed underpayment pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section. Each imputed underpayment determined under this section is based solely on partnership adjustments with respect to a single taxable year.


(2) *Partnership pays the imputed underpayment.* An imputed underpayment (determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and included in a notice of final partnership adjustment (FPA) under section 6231(a)(3)) must be paid by the partnership in the same manner as if the imputed underpayment were a tax imposed for the adjustment year in accordance with § 301.6232-1. The FPA will include the amount of any imputed underpayment, as modified under § 301.6225-2 if applicable, unless the partnership waives its right to such FPA under section 6232(d)(2). See § 301.6232-1(d)(2). For the alternative to payment of the imputed underpayment by the partnership, see § 301.6226-1. If a partnership pays an imputed underpayment, the partnership's expenditure for the imputed underpayment is taken into account by the partnership in accordance with § 301.6241-4. For interest and penalties with respect to an imputed underpayment, see section 6233.


(3) *Imputed underpayment set forth in notice of proposed partnership adjustment.* An imputed underpayment set forth in a notice of proposed partnership adjustment (NOPPA) under section 6231(a)(2) is determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section without regard to any modification under § 301.6225-2. Modifications under § 301.6225-2, if allowed by the IRS, may change the amount of an imputed underpayment set forth in the NOPPA and determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Only the partnership adjustments set forth in a NOPPA are taken into account for purposes of determining an imputed underpayment under this section and for any modification under § 301.6225-2.


(b) *Determination of an imputed underpayment*—(1) *In general.* In the case of any partnership adjustment by the IRS, an imputed underpayment is determined by-


(i) Grouping the partnership adjustments in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and, if appropriate, subgrouping such adjustments in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;


(ii) Netting the adjustments in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;


(iii) Calculating the total netted partnership adjustment in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section;


(iv) Multiplying the total netted partnership adjustment by the highest rate of Federal income tax in effect for the reviewed year under section 1 or 11; and


(v) Increasing or decreasing the product that results under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section by—


(A) Any amounts treated as net positive adjustments (as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section) under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section; and


(B) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, any amounts treated as net negative adjustments (as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section) under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.


(2) *Calculation of the total netted partnership adjustment.* For purposes of determining an imputed underpayment under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the *total netted partnership adjustment* is the sum of all net positive adjustments in the reallocation grouping described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the residual grouping described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.


(3) *Adjustments to items for which tax has been collected under chapters 3 and 4 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code).* A partnership adjustment is disregarded for purposes of calculating the imputed underpayment under paragraph (b) of this section to the extent that the IRS has collected the tax required to be withheld under chapter 3 or chapter 4 (as defined in § 301.6241-6(b)(2)(ii) and (iii)) that is attributable to the partnership adjustment. See § 301.6241-6(b)(3) for rules that apply when a partnership pays an imputed underpayment that includes a partnership adjustment to an amount subject to withholding (as defined in § 301.6241-6(b)(2)(i)) under chapter 3 or chapter 4 for which such tax has not yet been collected.


(4) *Treatment of adjustment as zero for purposes of calculating the imputed underpayment.* If the effect of one partnership adjustment is reflected in one or more other partnership adjustments, the IRS may treat the one adjustment as zero solely for purposes of calculating the imputed underpayment. In addition, if a positive adjustment to an item is related to, or results from, a positive adjustment to another item, one of the positive adjustments will generally be treated as zero solely for purposes of calculating any imputed underpayment unless the IRS determines that an adjustment should not be treated as zero in the calculation of the imputed underpayment. This paragraph applies to the calculation of any imputed underpayment, including imputed underpayments calculated by a partnership or pass-through partner (for example, as part of the filing of an administrative adjustment request (AAR) under section 6227). 






(c) *Grouping of partnership adjustments*—(1) *In general.* To determine an imputed underpayment under paragraph (b) of this section, partnership adjustments are placed into one of four groupings. These groupings are the reallocation grouping described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the credit grouping described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the creditable expenditure grouping described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and the residual grouping described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. Adjustments in groupings may be placed in subgroupings, as appropriate, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The IRS may, in its discretion, group adjustments in a manner other than the manner described in this paragraph (c) when such grouping would appropriately reflect the facts and circumstances. For requests to modify the groupings, see § 301.6225-2(d)(6).


(2) *Reallocation grouping*—(i) *In general.* Any adjustment that allocates or reallocates a partnership-related item to and from a particular partner or partners is a *reallocation adjustment.* Except in the case of an adjustment to a credit (as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section) or to a creditable expenditure (as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section), reallocation adjustments are placed in the reallocation grouping. Adjustments that reallocate a credit to and from a particular partner or partners are placed in the credit grouping (see paragraph (c)(3) of this section), and adjustments that reallocate a creditable expenditure to and from a particular partner or partners are placed in the creditable expenditure grouping (see paragraph (c)(4) of this section). 


(ii) *Each reallocation adjustment results in at least two separate adjustments.* Each reallocation adjustment generally results in at least two separate adjustments. One adjustment reverses the effect of the improper allocation of a partnership-related item, and the other adjustment effectuates the proper allocation of the partnership-related item. Generally, a reallocation adjustment results in one positive adjustment (as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section) and one negative adjustment (as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section).


(3) *Credit grouping.* Each adjustment to a partnership-related item that is reported or could be reported by a partnership as a credit on the partnership's return, including a reallocation adjustment, is placed in the credit grouping. Each adjustment to any tax, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount for the taxable year for which the partnership is liable under chapter 1 of the Code (chapter 1) and each adjustment to an imputed underpayment calculated by the partnership is placed in the credit grouping.






(4) *Creditable expenditure grouping*—(i) *In general.* Each adjustment to a creditable expenditure, including a reallocation adjustment to a creditable expenditure, is placed in the creditable expenditure grouping.


(ii) *Adjustment to a creditable expenditure*—(A) *In general.* For purposes of this section, an adjustment to a partnership-related item is treated as an adjustment to a creditable expenditure if any person could take the item that is adjusted (or item as adjusted if the item was not originally reported by the partnership) as a credit. See § 1.704-1(b)(4)(ii) of this chapter. For instance, if the adjustment is a reduction of qualified research expenses, the adjustment is to a creditable expenditure for purposes of this section because any person allocated the qualified research expenses by the partnership could claim a credit with respect to their allocable portion of such expenses under section 41, rather than a deduction under section 174.


(B) *Creditable foreign tax expenditures.* The creditable expenditure grouping includes each adjustment to a creditable foreign tax expenditure (CFTE) as defined in § 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(*b*) of this chapter, including any reallocation adjustment to a CFTE.


(5) *Residual grouping*—(i) *In general.* Any adjustment to a partnership-related item not described in paragraph (c)(2), (3), or (4) of this section is placed in the residual grouping.


(ii) *Adjustments to partnership-related items that are not allocated under section 704(b).* The residual grouping includes any adjustment to a partnership-related item that derives from an item that would not have been required to be allocated by the partnership to a reviewed year partner under section 704(b).


(6) *Recharacterization adjustments*—(i) *Recharacterization adjustment defined.* An adjustment that changes the character of a partnership-related item is a recharacterization adjustment. For instance, an adjustment that changes a loss from ordinary to capital or from active to passive is a recharacterization adjustment.


(ii) *Grouping recharacterization adjustments.* A recharacterization adjustment is placed in the appropriate grouping as described in paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section.


(iii) *Recharacterization adjustments result in two partnership adjustments.* In general, a recharacterization adjustment results in at least two separate adjustments in the appropriate grouping under paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section. One adjustment reverses the improper characterization of the partnership-related item, and the other adjustment effectuates the proper characterization of the partnership-related item. A recharacterization adjustment results in two adjustments regardless of whether the amount of the partnership-related item is being adjusted. Generally, recharacterization adjustments result in one positive adjustment and one negative adjustment.






(d) *Subgroupings*—(1) *In general.* If all partnership adjustments are positive adjustments, this paragraph (d) does not apply. If any partnership adjustment within any grouping described in paragraph (c) of this section is a negative adjustment, the adjustments within that grouping are subgrouped in accordance with this paragraph (d). The IRS may, in its discretion, subgroup adjustments in a manner other than the manner described in this paragraph (d) when such subgrouping would appropriately reflect the facts and circumstances. For requests to modify the subgroupings, see § 301.6225-2(d)(6).


(2) *Definition of negative adjustments and positive adjustments*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, partnership adjustments made by the IRS are treated as follows:


(A) An increase in an item of gain is treated as an increase in an item of income;


(B) A decrease in an item of gain is treated as a decrease in an item of income;


(C) An increase in an item of loss or deduction is treated as a decrease in an item of income; and


(D) A decrease in an item of loss or deduction is treated as an increase in an item of income.




(ii) *Negative adjustment.* A *negative adjustment* is any adjustment that is a decrease in an item of income; a partnership adjustment treated under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section as a decrease in an item of income; an increase in an item of credit; a decrease in an item of tax, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount for which the partnership is liable under chapter 1; or a decrease to an imputed underpayment calculated by the partnership for the taxable year.


(iii) *Positive adjustment.* A positive adjustment is any adjustment that is not a negative adjustment as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.














(3) *Subgrouping rules*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(3), an adjustment is subgrouped according to how the adjustment would be required to be taken into account separately under section 702(a) or any other provision of the Code, regulations, forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS applicable to the adjusted partnership-related item. A negative adjustment must be placed in the same subgrouping as another adjustment if the negative adjustment and the other adjustment would have been properly netted at the partnership level and such netted amount would have been required to be allocated to the partners of the partnership as a single partnership-related item for purposes of section 702(a), other provision of the Code, regulations, forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS. For purposes of creating subgroupings under this section, if any adjustment could be subject to any preference, limitation, or restriction under the Code (or not allowed, in whole or in part, against ordinary income) if taken into account by any person, the adjustment is placed in a separate subgrouping from all other adjustments within the grouping.


(ii) *Subgrouping reallocation adjustments*—(A) *Reallocation adjustments in the reallocation grouping.* Each positive adjustment and each negative adjustment resulting from a reallocation adjustment as described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section is placed in its own separate subgrouping within the reallocation grouping. For instance, if the reallocation adjustment reallocates a deduction from one partner to another partner, the decrease in the deduction (positive adjustment) allocated to the first partner is placed in a subgrouping within the reallocation grouping separate from the increase in the deduction (negative adjustment) allocated to the second partner. Notwithstanding the requirement that reallocation adjustments be placed into separate subgroupings, if a particular partner or group of partners has two or more reallocation adjustments allocable to such partner or group, such adjustments may be subgrouped in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section and netted in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(B) *Reallocation adjustments in the credit grouping.* In the case of a reallocation adjustment to a credit, which is placed in the credit grouping pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the decrease in credits allocable to one partner or group of partners is treated as a positive adjustment, and the increase in credits allocable to another partner or group of partners is treated as a negative adjustment. Each positive adjustment and each negative adjustment resulting from a reallocation adjustment to credits is placed in its own separate subgrouping within the credit grouping.


(iii) *Subgroupings within the creditable expenditure grouping*—(A) *In general.* Each adjustment in the creditable expenditure grouping described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section is subgrouped in accordance with paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (iii) of this section. For rules related to creditable expenditures other than CFTEs, see paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.


(B) *Subgroupings for adjustments to CFTEs.* Each adjustment to a CFTE is subgrouped based on the separate category of income to which the CFTE relates in accordance with section 904(d) and the regulations in part 1 of this chapter, and to account for any different allocation of the CFTE between partners. Two or more adjustments to CFTEs are included within the same subgrouping only if each adjustment relates to CFTEs in the same separate category, and each adjusted partnership-related item would be allocated to the partners in the same ratio had those items been properly reflected on the partnership return for the reviewed year.




(iv) *Subgrouping recharacterization adjustments.* Each positive adjustment and each negative adjustment resulting from a recharacterization adjustment as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section is placed in its own separate subgrouping within the residual grouping. If a particular partner or group of partners has two or more recharacterization adjustments allocable to such partner or group, such adjustments may be subgrouped in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section and netted in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.






(e) *Netting adjustments within each grouping or subgrouping*—(1) *In general.* All adjustments within a subgrouping determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section are netted in accordance with this paragraph (e) to determine whether there is a net positive adjustment (as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section) or net negative adjustment (as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section) for that subgrouping. If paragraph (d) of this section does not apply because a grouping only includes positive adjustments, all adjustments in that grouping are netted in accordance with this paragraph (e). For purposes of this paragraph (e), netting means summing all adjustments together within each grouping or subgrouping, as appropriate.


(2) *Limitations on netting adjustments.* Positive adjustments and negative adjustments may only be netted against each other if they are in the same grouping in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If a negative adjustment is in a subgrouping in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the negative adjustment may only net with a positive adjustment also in that same subgrouping in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. An adjustment in one grouping or subgrouping may not be netted against an adjustment in any other grouping or subgrouping. Adjustments from one taxable year may not be netted against adjustments from another taxable year.


(3) *Results of netting adjustments within groupings or subgroupings*—(i) *Groupings other than the credit and creditable expenditure groupings.* Except as described in paragraphs (e)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section, each net positive adjustment (as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section) with respect to a particular grouping or subgrouping that results after netting the adjustments in accordance with this paragraph (e) is included in the calculation of the total netted partnership adjustment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each net negative adjustment (as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section) with respect to a grouping or subgrouping that results after netting the adjustments in accordance with this paragraph (e) is excluded from the calculation of the total netted partnership adjustment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Adjustments underlying a net negative adjustment described in the preceding sentence are adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment (as described in paragraph (f) of this section).


(ii) *Credit grouping.* Any net positive adjustment or net negative adjustment in the credit grouping (including any such adjustment with respect to a subgrouping within the credit grouping) is excluded from the calculation of the total netted partnership adjustment. A net positive adjustment described in this paragraph (e)(3)(ii) is taken into account under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section. A net negative adjustment described in this paragraph (e)(3)(ii), including a negative adjustment to a credit resulting from a reallocation adjustment that was placed in a separate subgrouping pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, is treated as an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, unless the IRS determines that such net negative adjustment should be taken into account under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.

A net negative adjustment to a tax, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount for which the partnership is liable under chapter 1 or an adjustment to any imputed underpayment calculated by the partnership for the taxable year is not an adjustment described in paragraph (f) of this section (adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment).




(iii) *Treatment of creditable expenditures*—(A) *Creditable foreign tax expenditures.* A net decrease to a CFTE in any CFTE subgrouping (as described in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section) is treated as a net positive adjustment described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section and is excluded from the calculation of the total netted partnership adjustment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A net increase to a CFTE in any CFTE subgrouping is treated as a net negative adjustment described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. For rules related to creditable expenditures other than CFTEs, see paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.


(B) [Reserved]


(4) *Net positive adjustment and net negative adjustment defined*—(i) *Net positive adjustment.* A *net positive adjustment* means an amount that is greater than zero which results from netting adjustments within a grouping or subgrouping in accordance with this paragraph (e). A net positive adjustment includes a positive adjustment that was not netted with any other adjustment. A net positive adjustment includes a net decrease in an item of credit.


(ii) *Net negative adjustment.* A *net negative adjustment* means any amount which results from netting adjustments within a grouping or subgrouping in accordance with this paragraph (e) that is not a net positive adjustment (as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section). A net negative adjustment includes a negative adjustment that was not netted with any other adjustment.






(f) *Partnership adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a partnership adjustment does not result in an imputed underpayment if—


(i) After grouping, subgrouping, and netting the adjustments as described in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, the result of netting with respect to any grouping or subgrouping that includes a particular partnership adjustment is a net negative adjustment (as described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section); or


(ii) The calculation under paragraph (b)(1) of this section results in an amount that is zero or less than zero, unless paragraph (f)(3) of this section applies.






(2) *Treatment of an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment.* Any adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment (as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section) is taken into account by the partnership in the adjustment year in accordance with § 301.6225-3. If the partnership makes an election pursuant to section 6226 with respect to an imputed underpayment, the adjustments that do not result in that imputed underpayment that are associated with that imputed underpayment (as described in paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(B) of this section) are taken into account by the reviewed year partners in accordance with § 301.6226-3.






(3) *Exception to treatment as an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment*—(i)* Application of this paragraph (f)(3).* If the calculation under paragraph (b)(1) of this section results in an amount that is zero or less than zero due to the inclusion of a net negative adjustment to a tax, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount for which the partnership is liable under chapter 1 or an adjustment to any imputed underpayment calculated by the partnership for the taxable year, this paragraph (f)(3) applies, and paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply except as provided in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.


(ii) *Recalculation if paragraph (f)(3) of this section applies*—(A) *In general.* If this paragraph (f)(3) applies, the imputed underpayment is recalculated under paragraph (b)(1) of this section without regard to a net negative adjustment to a tax, penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount for which the partnership is liable under chapter 1 or an adjustment to any imputed underpayment calculated by the partnership for the taxable year. The net negative adjustment that was excluded from the imputed underpayment recalculation is then treated in one of two ways under paragraphs (f)(3)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section depending on the results of the recalculation.


(B) *Recalculation is greater than zero.* If the result of the recalculation under paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section is greater than zero, the IRS may apply the portion of the net negative adjustment(s) that was excluded from the recalculation to reduce the imputed underpayment to zero, but not below zero. In this case, the imputed underpayment is zero, but the adjustments included in the recalculation and the remaining net negative adjustment(s) excluded from the recalculation under paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(A) of this section are not adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment subject to treatment as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. See paragraph (h)(13) of this section (*Example 13*).


(C) *Recalculation is zero or less than zero.* If the result of the recalculation under paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section is zero or less than zero, the adjustments included in the recalculation are treated as adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section. The net negative adjustment(s) that was excluded from the recalculation is not an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment subject to treatment as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. See paragraph (h)(14) of this section (*Example 14*).




(g) *Multiple imputed underpayments in a single administrative proceeding*—(1) *In general.* The IRS, in its discretion, may determine that partnership adjustments for the same partnership taxable year result in more than one imputed underpayment. The determination of whether there is more than one imputed underpayment for any partnership taxable year, and if so, which partnership adjustments are taken into account to calculate any particular imputed underpayment is based on the facts and circumstances and nature of the partnership adjustments. See § 301.6225-2(d)(6) for modification of the number and composition of imputed underpayments.


(2) *Types of imputed underpayments*—(i) *In general.* There are two types of imputed underpayments: A general imputed underpayment (described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section) and a specific imputed underpayment (described in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section). Each type of imputed underpayment is separately calculated in accordance with this section.


(ii) *General imputed underpayment.* The general imputed underpayment is calculated based on all adjustments (other than adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment under paragraph (f) of this section) that are not taken into account to determine a specific imputed underpayment under paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section. There is only one general imputed underpayment in any administrative proceeding. If there is one imputed underpayment in an administrative proceeding, it is a general imputed underpayment and may take into account adjustments described in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section, if any, and all adjustments that do not result in that general imputed underpayment (as described in paragraph (f) of this section) are associated with that general imputed underpayment.


(iii) *Specific imputed underpayment*—(A) *In general.* The IRS may, in its discretion, designate a specific imputed underpayment with respect to adjustments to a partnership-related item or items that were allocated to one partner or a group of partners that had the same or similar characteristics or that participated in the same or similar transaction or on such other basis as the IRS determines properly reflects the facts and circumstances. The IRS may designate more than one specific imputed underpayment with respect to any partnership taxable year. For instance, in a single partnership taxable year there may be a specific imputed underpayment with respect to adjustments related to a transaction affecting some, but not all, partners of the partnership (such as adjustments that are specially allocated to certain partners) and a second specific imputed underpayment with respect to adjustments resulting from a reallocation of a distributive share of income from one partner to another partner. The IRS may, in its discretion, determine that partnership adjustments that could be taken into account to calculate one or more specific imputed underpayments under this paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(A) for a partnership taxable year are more appropriately taken into account in determining the general imputed underpayment for such taxable year. For instance, the IRS may determine that it is more appropriate to calculate only the general imputed underpayment if, when calculating the specific imputed underpayment requested by the partnership, there is an increase in the number of the partnership adjustments that after grouping and netting result in net negative adjustments and are disregarded in calculating the specific imputed underpayment.


(B) *Adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment associated with a specific imputed underpayment.* If the IRS designates a specific imputed underpayment, the IRS will designate which adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment, if any, are appropriate to associate with that specific imputed underpayment. If the adjustments underlying that specific imputed underpayment are reallocation adjustments or recharacterization adjustments, the net negative adjustment that resulted from the reallocation or recharacterization is associated with the specific imputed underpayment. Any adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment that are not associated with a specific imputed underpayment under this paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(B) are associated with the general imputed underpayment.




(h) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. For purposes of these examples, unless otherwise stated, each partnership is subject to the provisions of subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Code, each partnership and its partners are calendar year taxpayers, all partners are U.S. persons, the highest rate of income tax in effect for all taxpayers is 40 percent for all relevant periods, and no partnership requests modification under § 301.6225-2.


(1) *Example 1.* Partnership reports on its 2019 partnership return $100 of ordinary income and an ordinary deduction of −$70. The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year and determines that ordinary income was $105 instead of $100 ($5 adjustment) and that the ordinary deduction was −$80 instead of −$70 (−$10 adjustment). Pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the adjustments are both in the residual grouping. The −$10 adjustment to the ordinary deduction would not have been netted at the partnership level with the $5 adjustment to ordinary income and would not have been required to be allocated to the partners of the partnership as a single partnership-related item for purposes of section 702(a), other provision of the Code, regulations, forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS. Because the −$10 adjustment to the ordinary deduction would result in a decrease in the imputed underpayment if netted with the $5 adjustment to ordinary income and because it might be limited if taken into account by any person, the −$10 adjustment must be placed in a separate subgrouping from the $5 adjustment to ordinary income. See paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. The total netted partnership adjustment is $5, which results in an imputed underpayment of $2. The −$10 adjustment to the ordinary deduction is a net negative amount and is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment which is taken into account by Partnership in the adjustment year in accordance with § 301.6225-3.


(2) *Example 2.* The facts are the same as *Example 1* in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, except that the −$10 adjustment to the ordinary deduction would have been netted at the partnership level with the $5 adjustment to ordinary income and would have been required to be allocated to the partners of the partnership as a single partnership-related item for purposes of section 702(a), other provision of the Code, regulations, forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS. Therefore, the $5 adjustment and the −$10 adjustment must be placed in the same subgrouping within the residual grouping. The $5 adjustment and the −$10 adjustments are then netted in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Such netting results in a net negative adjustment (as defined under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section) of −$5. Pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the −$5 net negative adjustment is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment. Because the only net adjustment is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment, there is no imputed underpayment.


(3) *Example 3.* Partnership reports on its 2019 partnership return ordinary income of $300, long-term capital gain of $125, long-term capital loss of −$75, a depreciation deduction of −$100, and a tax credit that can be claimed by the partnership of $5. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the IRS determines that ordinary income is $500 ($200 adjustment), long-term capital gain is $200 ($75 adjustment), long-term capital loss is −$25 ($50 adjustment), the depreciation deduction is −$70 ($30 adjustment), and the tax credit is $3 ($2 adjustment). Pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the adjustment to the tax credit is in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The remaining adjustments are part of the residual grouping under paragraph (c)(5) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, all of the adjustments in the residual grouping are positive adjustments. Because there are no negative adjustments, there are no subgroupings within the residual grouping. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the adjustments in the residual grouping are summed for a total netted partnership adjustment of $355. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent (highest tax rate in effect), which results in $142. Under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, the $142 is increased by the $2 credit adjustment, resulting in an imputed underpayment of $144.


(4) *Example 4.* Partnership reported on its 2019 partnership return long-term capital gain of $125. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the IRS determines the long-term capital gain should have been reported as ordinary income of $125. There are no other adjustments for the 2019 taxable year. This recharacterization adjustment results in two adjustments in the residual grouping pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section: an increase in ordinary income of $125 ($125 adjustment) as well as a decrease of long-term capital gain of $125 (−$125 adjustment). The decrease in long-term capital gain is a negative adjustment under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section and the increase in ordinary income is a positive adjustment under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the adjustment to long-term capital gain is placed in a subgrouping separate from the adjustment to ordinary income because the reduction of long-term capital gain is required to be taken into account separately pursuant to section 702(a). The $125 decrease in long-term capital gain is a net negative adjustment in the long-term capital subgrouping and, as a result, is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment under paragraph (f) of this section and is taken into account in accordance with § 301.6225-3. The $125 increase in ordinary income results in a net positive adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. Because the ordinary subgrouping is the only subgrouping resulting in a net positive adjustment, $125 is the total netted partnership adjustment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, $125 is multiplied by 40 percent resulting in an imputed underpayment of $50.


(5) *Example 5.* Partnership reported a $100 deduction for certain expenses on its 2019 partnership return and an additional $100 deduction with respect to the same type of expenses on its 2020 partnership return. The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 and 2020 taxable years and determines that Partnership reported a portion of the expenses as a deduction in 2019 that should have been taken into account in 2020. Therefore, for taxable year 2019, the IRS determines that Partnership should have reported a deduction of $75 with respect to the expenses ($25 adjustment in the 2019 residual grouping). For 2020, the IRS determines that Partnership should have reported a deduction of $125 with respect to these expenses (−$25 adjustment in the 2020 residual grouping). There are no other adjustments for the 2019 and 2020 partnership taxable years. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the adjustments for 2019 and 2020 are not netted with each other. The 2019 adjustment of $25 is the only adjustment for that year and a net positive adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, and therefore the total netted partnership adjustment for 2019 is $25 pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The $25 total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent resulting in an imputed underpayment of $10 for Partnership's 2019 taxable year. The $25 increase in the deduction for 2020, a net negative adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment for that year. Therefore, there is no imputed underpayment for 2020.


(6) *Example 6.* On its partnership return for the 2020 taxable year, Partnership reported ordinary income of $100 and a capital gain of $50. Partnership had four equal partners during the 2020 tax year, all of whom were individuals. On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, the capital gain was allocated to partner E and the ordinary income was allocated to all partners based on their interests in Partnership. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year, the IRS determines that for 2020 the capital gain allocated to E should have been $75 instead of $50 and that Partnership should have recognized an additional $10 in ordinary income. In the NOPPA mailed by the IRS, the IRS may determine pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section that there is a general imputed underpayment with respect to the increase in ordinary income and a specific imputed underpayment with respect to the increase in capital gain specially allocated to E.


(7) *Example 7.* On its partnership return for the 2020 taxable year, Partnership reported a recourse liability of $100. During an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year, the IRS determines that the $100 recourse liability should have been reported as a $100 nonrecourse liability. Under paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, the adjustment to the character of the liability is an adjustment to an item that cannot be allocated under section 704(b). The adjustment therefore is treated as a $100 increase in income because such recharacterization of a liability could result in up to $100 in taxable income if taken into account by any person. The $100 increase in income is a positive adjustment in the residual grouping under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section. There are no other adjustments for the 2020 partnership taxable year. The $100 positive adjustment is treated as a net positive adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, and the total netted partnership adjustment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is $100. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent for an imputed underpayment of $40.




(8) *Example 8.* Partnership reports on its 2019 partnership return $400 of CFTEs in the general category under section 904(d). The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year and determines that the amount of CFTEs was $300 instead of $400 (−$100 adjustment to CFTEs). No other adjustments are made for the 2019 taxable year. The −$100 adjustment to CFTEs is placed in the creditable expenditure grouping described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section, the decrease to CFTEs in the creditable expenditure grouping is treated as a positive adjustment to (decrease in) credits in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Because no other adjustments have been made, the $100 decrease in credits produces an imputed underpayment of $100 under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(9) *Example 9.* Partnership reports on its 2019 partnership return $400 of CFTEs in the passive category under section 904(d). The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year and determines that the CFTEs reported by Partnership were general category instead of passive category CFTEs. No other adjustments are made. Under the rules in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, an adjustment to the category of a CFTE is treated as two separate adjustments: An increase to general category CFTEs of $400 and a decrease to passive category CFTEs of $400. Both adjustments are included in the creditable expenditure grouping under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, but they are included in separate subgroupings. Therefore, the two amounts do not net. Instead, the $400 increase to CFTEs in the general category subgrouping is treated as a net negative adjustment under paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section and is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment under paragraph (f) of this section. The decrease to CFTEs in the passive category subgrouping of the creditable expenditure grouping results in a decrease in CFTEs. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, it is treated as a positive adjustment to (decrease in) credits in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, which results in an imputed underpayment of $400 under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(10) *Example 10.* Partnership has two partners, A and B. Under the partnership agreement, $100 of the CFTE is specially allocated to A for the 2019 taxable year. The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year and determines that $100 of CFTE should be reallocated from A to B. Because the adjustment reallocates a creditable expenditure, paragraph (c)(4) of this section provides that it is included in the creditable expenditure grouping rather than the reallocation grouping. The partnership adjustment is a −$100 adjustment to general category CFTE allocable to A and an increase of $100 to general category CFTE allocable to B. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, the −$100 adjustment to general category CFTE and the increase of $100 to general category CFTE are included in separate subgroupings in the creditable expenditure grouping. The $100 increase in general category CFTEs, B-allocation subgrouping, is a net negative adjustment, which does not result in an imputed underpayment and is therefore taken into account by the partnership in the adjustment year in accordance with § 301.6225-3. The net decrease to CFTEs in the general-category, A-allocation subgrouping, is treated as a positive adjustment to (decrease in) credits in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, resulting in an imputed underpayment of $100 under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(11) *Example 11.* Partnership has two partners, A and B. Partnership owns two entities, DE1 and DE2, that are disregarded as separate from their owner for Federal income tax purposes and are operating in and paying taxes to foreign jurisdictions. The partnership agreement provides that all items from DE1 and DE2 are allocable to A and B in the following manner. Items related to DE1: To A 75 percent and to B 25 percent. Items related to DE2: To A 25 percent and to B 75 percent. On Partnership's 2018 return, Partnership reports CFTEs in the general category of $300, $100 with respect to DE1 and $200 with respect to DE2. Partnership allocates the $300 of CFTEs $125 and $175 to A and B respectively. During an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2018 taxable year, the IRS determines that Partnership understated the amount of creditable foreign tax paid by DE2 by $40 and overstated the amount of creditable foreign tax paid by DE1 by $80. No other adjustments are made. Because the two adjustments each relate to CFTEs that are subject to different allocations, the two adjustments are in different subgroupings under paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B) of this section. The adjustment reducing the CFTEs related to DE1 results in a decrease in CFTEs within that subgrouping and under paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is treated as a decrease in credits in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section and results in an imputed underpayment of $80 under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The increase of $40 of general category CFTE related to the DE2 subgrouping results in an increase in CFTEs within that subgrouping and is treated as a net negative adjustment, which does not result in an imputed underpayment and is taken into account in the adjustment year in accordance with § 301.6225-3.




(12) *Example 12.* Partnership has two partners, A and B. For the 2019 taxable year, Partnership allocated $70 of long term capital loss to B as well as $30 of ordinary income. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the IRS determines that the $30 of ordinary income and the $70 of long term capital loss should be reallocated from B to A. The partnership adjustments are a decrease of $30 of ordinary income (−$30 adjustment) allocated to B and a corresponding increase of $30 of ordinary income ($30 adjustment) allocated to A, as well as a decrease of $70 of long term capital loss ($70 adjustment) allocated to B and a corresponding increase of $70 of long term capital loss (−$70 adjustment) allocated to A. See paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, for purposes of determining the imputed underpayment, each positive adjustment and each negative adjustment allocated to A and B is placed in its own separate subgrouping. However, notwithstanding the general requirement that reallocation adjustments be subgrouped separately, the reallocation adjustments allocated to A and B may be subgrouped in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section because there are two reallocation adjustments allocated to each of A and B, respectively. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, because the partnership adjustment allocated to A would not have been netted at the partnership level and would not have been allocated to A as a single partnership-related item for purposes of section 702(a), other provisions of the Code, regulations, forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS, the positive adjustment and the negative adjustment allocated to A remain in separate subgroupings. For the same reasons with respect to the adjustments allocated to B, the positive adjustment and the negative adjustment allocated to B also remain in separate subgroupings. As a result, the reallocation grouping would have four subgroupings, one for each adjustment: The decrease in ordinary income allocated to B (−$30 adjustment), the increase in ordinary income allocated to A ($30 adjustment), the decrease in long term capital loss allocated to B ($70 adjustment), and the increase long term capital loss allocated to A (−$70 adjustment). Pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, no netting may occur between subgroupings. Accordingly, the ordinary income allocated to A ($30 adjustment) and the long term capital loss allocated to B ($70 adjustment) are both net positive adjustments. These net positive adjustments are added together to determine the total netted partnership adjustment of $100. The total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent, which results in an imputed underpayment of $40. The ordinary income allocated to B (−$30 adjustment) and the long term capital loss allocated to A (−$70 adjustment) are net negative adjustments treated as adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment taken into account by the partnership pursuant to § 301.6225-3.




(13) *Example 13.* The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 partnership return and makes adjustments as follows: net positive adjustment of $100 ordinary income, net negative adjustment of $20 in credits, and a net negative adjustment of $25 to a chapter 1 tax liability of the partnership. The IRS determines that the net negative adjustment in credits should be taken into account in the calculation of the imputed underpayment in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the $100 net positive adjustment to ordinary income is multiplied by 40 percent (highest tax rate in effect), which results in a $40 imputed underpayment. The adjustments in the credits grouping are then applied, which include the adjustment to credits and the adjustment to the chapter 1 tax liability. Applying the credits results in an amount less than zero as described in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section ($40−$20−$25 = −$5). Pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, the imputed underpayment is recalculated without regard to the adjustment to the chapter 1 tax liability, resulting in a recalculation amount greater than zero as described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section ($40−$20 = $20). Pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, the IRS may apply a portion of the adjustment to chapter 1 tax liability to reduce the recalculation to zero but not below zero. In this case, the recalculation amount would be reduced to zero using $20 of the $25 adjustment to chapter 1 tax liability. Because the imputed underpayment was reduced to zero, pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, the adjustments that went into the recalculation are not adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment. These adjustments are the $100 adjustment to ordinary income and the $20 adjustment to credits. The remaining $5 adjustment to the chapter 1 tax liability of the partnership is an adjustment that is treated as described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section and is therefore not taken into account on the partnership's adjustment year return.


(14) *Example 14.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (h)(13) of this section (*Example 13*), but the negative adjustment to credits is $50 instead of $20. Applying the credits results in an amount less than zero as described in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section ($40−$50−$25 = −$35). Pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, the imputed underpayment is recalculated without regard to the adjustment to the chapter 1 tax liability, resulting in a recalculation amount less than zero as described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(C) of this section ($40−$50 = −$10). Pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, the partnership adjustments resulting in the −$10 recalculation amount are adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment treated in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, and the $25 adjustment to chapter 1 tax liability is not treated as such an adjustment and is therefore not taken into account on the partnership's adjustment year return.


(15) *Example 15.* On its timely filed return for the 2022 taxable year, Partnership reports that it self-certified as a qualified opportunity fund, as defined in section 1400Z-2(d). Partnership also reports that it has not satisfied the 90-percent investment standard, as defined in § 1.1400Z2(a)-1(b)(4) of this chapter, and reports an amount due under section 1400Z-2(f) of $100. The IRS does not utilize § 301.6241-7(g) to determine adjustments to these partnership-related items without regard to subchapter C of chapter 63. In an administrative proceeding involving Partnership's 2022 taxable year, the IRS, in examining the amount due under section 1400Z-2(f), determines that Partnership incorrectly reported its qualified opportunity zone property for one month and that there should be one $40 adjustment to reduce the assets Partnership reported as qualified opportunity zone property. The IRS also determines that the basis of one of Partnership's qualified opportunity zone properties should be reduced by $30. Under paragraph (d) of this section, the adjustments to the basis and character of an asset are not adjustments to an item of income. Therefore, the $30 adjustment to the basis of the asset and the $40 recharacterization of an asset are treated as positive adjustments. As a result of the determinations, the IRS determines that the amount due for Partnership failing the section 1400Z-2(d)(1) investment standard should be increased. This results in a $4 adjustment to Partnership's liability under section 1400Z-2(f) which, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section is a positive adjustment because it is an increase in an amount Partnership is liable for under chapter 1. The total netted partnership adjustment for the 2022 taxable year is $70 ($30 basis adjustment + $40 recharacterization adjustment). Under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the $4 adjustment to Partnership's liability under chapter 1 is treated as an adjustment to a credit. Assuming the highest rate under section 1 or 11 is 40% this results in an imputed underpayment of $32 (($70 × 40%) + $4 section 1400Z-2(f) adjustment). The IRS issues a notice of final partnership adjustment to Partnership for its 2022 taxable year and Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 with regard to the $32 imputed underpayment. Under § 301.6226-2(g)(4) , when Partnership furnishes statements to its reviewed year partners, Partnership must pay the $4 section 1400Z-2(f) amount because it is the liability of Partnership and may not include that adjustment in the statements.




(i) *Applicability date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, this section applies to partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and ending after August 12, 2018. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, paragraphs (b)(4), (c)(3), (d)(2)(ii), (e)(3)(ii), (f)(1)(ii), (f)(3), and (h)(13), (14), and (15) of this section apply to taxable years ending on or after November 20, 2020.



 


(2) *Election under § 301.9100-22 in effect.* This section applies to any partnership taxable year beginning after November 2, 2015 and before January 1, 2018, for which a valid election under § 301.9100-22T is in effect.



---

[N] [T.D. 9844, 84 FR 6534, Feb. 27, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9969, 87 FR 75490, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 756, Jan. 5, 2023]






