# § 23.120   Department of Labor requirements.

(a) *In general.* The Executive Order minimum wage applicable from January 30, 2022 through December 31, 2022, is $15.00 per hour. The Secretary will determine the applicable minimum wage rate to be paid to workers performing work on or in connection with covered contracts on an annual basis, beginning January 1, 2023.


(b) *Method for determining the applicable Executive Order minimum wage.* The Secretary will determine the applicable minimum wage under the Executive Order, beginning January 1, 2023, by using the methodology set forth in § 23.50(b).


(c) *Notice*—(1) *Timing of notification.* The Administrator will notify the public of the applicable minimum wage rate to be paid to workers performing work on or in connection with covered contracts on an annual basis at least 90 days before any new minimum wage is to take effect.


(2) *Method of notification*—(i) _Federal Register._ The Administrator will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ stating the applicable minimum wage rate to be paid to workers performing work on or in connection with covered contracts on an annual basis at least 90 days before any new minimum wage is to take effect.


(ii) *Website.* The Administrator will publish and maintain on *https://alpha.sam.gov/content/wage-determinations,* or any successor site, the applicable minimum wage rate to be paid to workers performing work on or in connection with covered contracts.


(iii) *Wage determinations.* The Administrator will publish a prominent general notice on all wage determinations issued under the Davis-Bacon Act and the Service Contract Act stating the Executive Order minimum wage and that the Executive Order minimum wage applies to all workers performing on or in connection with such contracts whose wages are governed by the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Davis-Bacon Act, and the Service Contract Act. The Administrator will update this general notice on all such wage determinations annually.


(iv) *Other means as appropriate.* The Administrator may publish the applicable minimum wage rate to be paid to workers performing work on or in connection with covered contracts on an annual basis at least 90 days before any such new minimum wage is to take effect in any other media that the Administrator deems appropriate.


(d) *Notification to a contractor of the withholding of funds.* If the Administrator requests that a contracting agency withhold funds from a contractor pursuant to § 23.110(c), the Administrator and/or contracting agency shall notify the affected prime contractor of the Administrator's withholding request to the contracting agency.


