# § 1.10   Meaning of terms.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this part.


*Act.* The Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Alcohol.* Ethyl alcohol distilled at or above 190° proof.


*Applicant.* Any person who has filed an application for a basic permit under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act with the appropriate TTB officer.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.1, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 1, Basic Permit Requirements Under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, Nonindustrial Use of Distilled Spirits and Wine, Bulk Sales and Bottling of Distilled Spirits.


*Basic permit.* A document issued under the Act authorizing a person to engage in activities at a particular location.


*Brandy.* Brandy or wine spirits for addition to wines as permitted by internal revenue law.


*Distilled spirits.* Section 117(a) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 211(a)) defines “distilled spirits” as ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, and other distilled spirits, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof for nonindustrial use.


*In bulk.* Distilled spirits in containers having a capacity in excess of one wine gallon.


*Malt beverage.* A beverage made by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or decoction, or combination of both, in potable brewing water, of malted barley with hops, or their parts, or their products, and with or without other malted cereals, and with or without the addition of unmalted or prepared cereals, other carbohydrates or products prepared therefrom, and with or without the addition of carbon dioxide, and with or without other wholesome products suitable for human food consumption. Standards applying to the use of processing methods and flavors in malt beverage production appear in § 7.11 of this chapter.


*Other term.* Any other term defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act and used in this part shall have the same meaning assigned to it by the Act.


*Permittee.* Any person holding a basic permit issued under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, joint-stock company, business trust, association, corporation, or other form of business enterprise, including a receiver, trustee, or liquidating agent.


*Resale at wholesale.* A sale to any trade buyer.


*Trade buyer.* Any person who is a wholesaler or retailer of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages.


*Wine.* Section 117(a) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 211(a)) defines “wine” as any of the following products for nonindustrial use that contain not less than 7 percent and not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume:


(1) Wine as defined in section 610 and section 617 of the Revenue Act of 1918 (26 U.S.C. 5381-5392); and


(2) Other alcoholic beverages not so defined, but made in the manner of wine, including sparkling and carbonated wine, wine made from condensed grape must, wine made from other agricultural products than the juice of sound, ripe grapes, imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider, perry, and sake.


*Wine gallon.* The liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-373, 61 FR 26098, May 24, 1996. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-416, 64 FR 49985, Sept. 15, 1999; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16920, Apr. 4, 2006; T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5476, Feb. 1, 2011; T.D. TTB-145, 81 FR 94196, Dec. 22, 2016]




