# § 4231.8   Filing requirements; timing and method of filing.

(a) *When to file.* Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, a notice of a proposed merger or transfer, and, if applicable, a request for a compliance determination or facilitated merger (which may be filed separately or combined), must be filed not less than the following number of days before the proposed effective date of the transaction—


(1) 270 days in the case of a facilitated merger under § 4231.12;


(2) 120 days in the case of a merger (other than a facilitated merger) for which a compliance determination under § 4231.10 is requested, or a transfer; or


(3) 45 days in the case of a merger for which a compliance determination under § 4231.10 is not requested.


(b) *Method of filing.* PBGC applies the rules in subpart A of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of filing with PBGC under this part.


(c) *Computation of time.* PBGC applies the rules in subpart D of part 4000 of this chapter to compute any time period for filing under this part.


(d) *Who must file.* The plan sponsors of all plans involved in a merger or transfer, or the duly authorized representative(s) acting on behalf of the plan sponsors, must jointly file the notice required by subpart A of this part, and, if applicable, a request for a facilitated merger under § 4231.12.


(e) *Where to file.* See § 4000.4 of this chapter for information on where to file.


(f) *Date of filing.* PBGC applies the rules in subpart C of part 4000 of this chapter to determine the date a submission under this part was filed with PBGC. For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the notice, and, if applicable, a request for a compliance determination or facilitated merger, is not considered filed until all of the information required under this part has been submitted.


(g) *Waiver of timing of notice.* PBGC may waive the timing requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and section 4231(b)(1) of ERISA if—


(1) A plan sponsor demonstrates to the satisfaction of PBGC that failure to complete the merger or transfer in less than the applicable notice period set forth in paragraph (a) of this section will cause harm to participants or beneficiaries of the plans involved in the transaction;


(2) PBGC determines that the transaction complies with the requirements of section 4231 of ERISA; or


(3) PBGC completes its review of the transaction.




