# § 268.3   Different phases of the Maglev Deployment Program.

(a) The Maglev Deployment Program includes five phases, as described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. The current projected timing for implementing these phases is indicated to assist applicants in planning their projects. All dates beyond the first date (the deadline for the submission of preconstruction planning applications) are for planning purposes only and are subject to change—including possible acceleration of deadlines—based on the progress of the Maglev Deployment Program; grantees will be notified accordingly.


(b) *Phase I—Competition for Planning Grants (Early October 1998—September 15, 1999)*—(1) *Description.* In Phase I, States will apply for funds for preconstruction planning activities. As required by § 268.13, applications must be filed with FRA by February 15, 1999. FRA will select one or more projects to receive preconstruction planning financial assistance awarded under this part to perform Phase II of the Maglev Deployment Program.


(2) *Timing of Major Milestones.* (i) February 15, 1999—Planning grant applications due.


(ii) May 24, 1999—FRA announces grantees for planning grants.


(iii) August 31, 1999—FRA awards planning grants for the conduct of activities listed in Phase II.


(c) *Phase II—Project Description Development (July 1, 1999—June 30, 2000)*—(1) *Description.* In Phase II, each grant recipient will prepare and submit to FRA a project description, supporting preconstruction planning reports, and an EA. Supporting reports may include demand and revenue analyses, project specification, cost estimates, scheduling, financial studies, a system safety plan (including supporting analysis), and other information in support of the project description. FRA will use this information in reaching a decision on which projects to down-select for completion of site-specific environmental studies, investment grade revenue forecasts, and other studies and analyses necessary prior to initiation of construction. FRA will initiate documentation of environmental factors considered in the project selection process.


(2) *Timing of Major Milestones.* (i) February 29, 2000—Deadline for submission of appropriate EA's needed by FRA for the down-selection of one or more projects under Phase III.


(ii) June 30, 2000—Deadline for submission of project descriptions and any related supporting reports needed by FRA for down-selection of one or more projects.


(d) *Phase III—Project Selection Process (July 1, 2000—September 30, 2000)*—(1) *Description.* FRA will evaluate the information provided by the grant recipients under Phase II and will down-select one or more projects for completion of additional environmental studies, investment grade revenue forecasts, and other studies and analyses necessary prior to initiation of construction.


(2) *Timing of Major Milestones.* September 30, 2000—FRA down-selects one or more project(s).


(e) *Phase IV—Project Development and Completion of Site-specific EIS (October 1, 2000—November 30, 2001*)—(1) *Description.* The financial assistance recipient(s) down-selected in Phase III will complete additional environmental studies, investment grade revenue forecasts, and other studies and analyses necessary prior to initiation of construction, and address issues raised by FRA's review of system safety plans (including supporting analysis). They will also initiate final design and engineering work for the down-selected project(s). If more than one project is down-selected in Phase III, FRA will select one of them for final design, engineering, and construction funding. Detailed agreements for the construction and operation of the selected project will be negotiated.


(2) *Timing of Major Milestones.* (i) March 31, 2001—If more than one project is down-selected in Phase III, FRA will select one project.


(ii) December 31, 2001—FRA will issue a Final Record of Decision on the site-specific EIS for the one selected project, confirming the project design.


(f) *Phase V—Completion of Detailed Engineering and Construction January 1, 2002 and beyond).* In Phase V, the sponsoring State or State-designated authority will oversee the efforts of the public/private partnership formed to progress the selected project, to complete the detailed engineering designs, and finance, construct, equip, and operate the project in revenue service. Construction will be contingent upon the appropriation of Federal funds. In no event will construction be authorized until FRA is fully satisfied that the system will meet appropriate safety standards.




