# ยง 52.2527   Determination of attainment.

(a) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Huntington-Ashland, West Virginia-Kentucky-Ohio PM_2.5_ nonattainment Area attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the Area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the Area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Huntington-Ashland PM_2.5_ nonattainment Area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).


(b) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Steubenville-Weirton fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Steubenville-Weirton PM_2.5_ nonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).


(c) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007-2009, EPA determined that the Charleston fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Charleston PM_2.5_ nonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).


(d) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH and Wheeling, WV-OH fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment areas attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the areas' air quality as of the attainment date, whether the areas attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH and Wheeling, WV-OH PM_2.5_ nonattainment areas are not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).


(e) Based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, EPA determined that the Martinsburg-Hagerstown, West Virginia-Maryland (WV-MD) fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) by the applicable attainment date of April 5, 2010. Therefore, EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 179(c) to determine, based on the area's air quality as of the attainment date, whether the area attained the standard. EPA also determined that the Martinsburg-Hagerstown, WV-MD PM_2.5_ nonattainment area is not subject to the consequences of failing to attain pursuant to section 179(d).



---

[N] [76 FR 55544, Sept. 7, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 56643, Sept. 14, 2011; 76 FR 62641, Oct. 11, 2011; 76 FR 75467, Dec. 1, 2011; 77 FR 1414, Jan. 10, 2012]




