# ยง 3286.803   State qualifying installation programs.

(a) *Qualifying installation program supersedes.* The HUD-administered installation program will not be implemented in any state that is identified as fully or conditionally accepted under the requirements and procedures of this subpart I or in accordance with part 3282 of this chapter.


(b) *Minimum elements.* To be accepted as a fully qualifying installation program, a state installation program must include the following elements:


(1) Installation standards that meet or exceed the requirements of ยง 3286.107(a) and that apply to every initial installation of a new manufactured home within the state;


(2) The training of manufactured home installers;


(3) The licensing of, or other method of certifying or approving, manufactured home installers to perform the initial installations of new manufactured homes in the state;


(4) A method for inspecting the initial installations of new manufactured homes in the state that is implemented and used to hold installers responsible for the work they perform; and


(5) Provision of adequate funding and personnel to administer the state installation program.


(c) *Conditional acceptance.* (1) A state installation program that meets the minimum requirements set forth under paragraphs (b)(1), (4), and (5) of this section may be conditionally accepted by the Secretary if the state provides assurances deemed adequate by the Secretary that the state is moving to meet all of the requirements for full acceptance. If the Secretary conditionally accepts a state's installation program, the Secretary will provide to the state an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full acceptance.


(2) A conditionally accepted state will be permitted to implement its own installation program in lieu of the HUD-administered program for a period of not more than 3 years. The Secretary may for good cause grant an extension of conditional approval upon petition by the state.


(d) *Limited exemptions from requirements.* A state installation program may be accepted by the Secretary as a qualifying installation program if the state can demonstrate that it lacks legal authority, as a matter of federal law, to impose the minimum requirements set forth under paragraph (b) of this section in certain geographic areas of the state, but that the minimum requirements do apply in all other geographic areas of the state.




