# § 63.844   Emission limits for new or reconstructed sources.

(a) *Potlines.* The owner or operator shall not discharge or cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any emissions of TF, POM, PM, nickel, arsenic or PCB in excess of the applicable limits in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) *TF limit.* Emissions of TF shall not exceed 0.6 kg/Mg (1.2 lb/ton) of aluminum produced; and


(2) *POM limit.* Emissions of POM from potlines must not exceed 0.39 kg/Mg (0.77 lb/ton) of aluminum produced.


(3) *PM limit.* Emissions of PM from potlines must not exceed 2.45 kg/Mg (4.9 lb/ton) of aluminum produced.


(4) *Nickel limit.* Emissions of nickel shall not exceed 0.035 kg/Mg (0.07 lb/ton) of aluminum produced from each Soderberg potline at a primary aluminum reduction plant.


(5) *Arsenic limit.* Emissions of arsenic shall not exceed 0.003 kg/Mg (0.006 lb/ton) of aluminum produced from each Soderberg potline at a primary aluminum reduction plant.


(6) *PCB limit.* Emissions of PCB shall not exceed 2.0 µg TEQ/ton of aluminum produced from each Soderberg potline at a primary aluminum reduction plant.


(b) *Paste production plants.* (1) The owner or operator shall meet the requirements in § 63.843(b)(1) through (3) for existing paste production plants and shall not discharge or cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any emissions of PM in excess of the limit in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) Emissions of PM shall not exceed 0.0028 kg/Mg (0.0056 lb/ton) of green anode.


(c) *Anode bake furnaces.* The owner or operator shall not discharge or cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any emissions of TF, PM, POM or mercury in excess of the limits in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) *TF limit.* Emissions of TF shall not exceed 0.01 kg/Mg (0.02 lb/ton) of green anode;


(2) *POM limit.* Emissions of POM shall not exceed 0.025 kg/Mg (0.05 lb/ton) of green anode;


(3) *PM limit.* Emissions of PM shall not exceed 0.035 kg/Mg (0.07 lb/ton) of green anode; and


(4) *Mercury limit.* Emissions of mercury shall not exceed 1.7 µg/dscm.


(d) *Pitch storage tanks.* Each pitch storage tank shall be equipped with an emission control system designed and operated to reduce inlet emissions of POM by 95 percent or greater.


(e) *COS limit.* Emissions of COS must not exceed 1.55 kg/Mg (3.1 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for each potline.


(f) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records and inspection of the source.



---

[N] [62 FR 52407, Oct. 7, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 62416, Oct. 15, 2015]




