# ยง 721.11304   Dicarboxylic acids, polymers with alkanoic acid, alkanediol, substituted-alkylalkanoic acid, substituted alkyl carbomonocycle, alkanedioic acid and alkanediol, alkanolamine blocked, compds. with alkanolamine (generic).

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as dicarboxylic acids, polymers with alkanoic acid, alkanediol, substituted-alkylalkanoic acid, substituted alkyl carbomonocycle, alkanedioic acid and alkanediol, alkanolamine blocked, compds. with alkanolamine (PMNs P-17-387 and P-17-388) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the PMN substances such that the proportion of amine counterions is greater than 4% by weight, isocyanate residuals are present at greater than 0.1% by weight, or the proportion of the acid group is greater than 20% by weight. It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the PMN substances such that the average molecular weight is less than the confidential molecular weight specified in the PMNs, or such that the proportion of the low molecular weight species is greater than the confidential values specified in the PMNs for the 500 and 1000 Dalton species.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of ยง 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46128, Aug. 18, 2021]




