# § 81.83   Civil money penalties.

(a) *Imposition.* The Secretary may impose a civil money penalty on a GSE that has failed: 


(1) To submit, within the time prescribed in § 81.22, a housing plan that substantially complies with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c), as implemented by § 81.22; 


(2) To make a good-faith effort to comply with a housing plan submitted and approved by the Secretary; or 


(3) To submit any of the information required under sections 309(m) or (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act, sections 307(e) or (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, or subpart E of this part. 


(b) *Amount of penalty.* The amount of the penalty shall not exceed: 


(1) For any failure described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, $35,000 for each day that the failure occurs; and


(2) For any failure described in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, $16,000 for each day that the failure occurs.


(c) *Factors in determining amount of penalty.* In determining the amount of a penalty under this section, the Secretary shall consider the factors in 12 U.S.C. 4585(c)(2) including the public interest. 


(d) *Procedures*—(1) *Notice of Intent.* The Secretary shall notify the GSE in writing of the Secretary's determination to impose a civil money penalty by issuing a Notice of Intent to Impose Civil Money Penalties (“Notice of Intent”). The Notice of Intent shall provide: 


(i) A concise statement of the facts constituting the alleged misconduct; 


(ii) The amount of the civil money penalty; 


(iii) Notice of the GSE's right to a hearing on the record; 


(iv) The procedures to follow to obtain a hearing; 


(v) A statement of the consequences of failing to request a hearing; and 


(vi) The date the penalty shall be due unless the GSE contests the matter. 


(2) To appeal the Secretary's decision to impose a civil money penalty, the GSE shall, within 20 days of service of the Notice of Intent, file a written Answer with the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Hearings and Appeals, Department of Housing and Urban Development, at the address provided in the Notice of Intent. 


(3) *Administrative law judge.* A HUD ALJ shall preside over any hearing conducted under this section, in accordance with § 81.84 and, to the extent the provisions are not inconsistent with any of the procedures in this part or FHEFSSA, with 24 CFR part 26, subpart B. 


(4) *Issuance of order.* If the GSE consents to the issuance of the order or the ALJ finds, on the hearing record, that a preponderance of the evidence establishes the conduct specified in the notice of charges, the ALJ may issue an order imposing a civil money penalty. 


(5) *Consultation with the Director.* In the Secretary's discretion, the Director of OFHEO may be requested to review any Notice of Intent, determination, order, or interlocutory ruling arising from a hearing. 


(e) *Action to collect penalty.* The Secretary may request the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action to collect the penalty, in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4585(d). Interest on, and other charges for, any unpaid penalty may be assessed in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. 


(f) *Settlement by Secretary.* The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit any civil money penalty that may be, or has been, imposed under this section. 



---

[N] [60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 50218, Sept. 24, 1996; 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]




