# § 721.11024   Polyphosphoric acids, 2-[alkyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethyl esters, compds. with N-(aminoiminomethyl)urea (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polyphosphoric acids, 2-[alkyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethyl esters, compds. with N-(aminoiminomethyl)urea (PMN P-14-472) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (3), and (6) (particulate) and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1)(i) and (ii), (sensitization), (g)(2)(i) and (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(h), (q), and (y)(1). It is a significant new use to have manufacturing activities that result in inhalation exposure.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=3.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 43288, Aug. 20, 2019]




