# ยง 1260.530   Certification of eligibility.

(a) *State organizations or associations: Requirements for certification.* (1) To be eligible for certification to nominate producer members to the Board, State organizations or associations must meet all of the following criteria:


(i) Total paid membership must be comprised of at least a majority of cattle producers or represent at least a majority of cattle producers in a State or unit.


(ii) Membership must represent a substantial number of producers who produce a substantial number of cattle in such State or unit.


(iii) There must be a history of stability and permanency.


(iv) There must be a primary or overriding purpose of promoting the economic welfare of cattle producers.


(2) Written evidence of compliance with the certification criteria shall be contained in a factual report submitted to the Secretary by all applicant State organizations or associations.


(3) The primary consideration in determining the eligibility of a State organization or association shall be based on the criteria set forth in this section. However, the Secretary may consider any additional information that the Secretary deems relevant and appropriate.


(4) The Secretary shall certify any State organization or association which he determines complies with the criteria in this section, and his eligibility determination shall be final.


(b) *Organizations or associations representing importers.* The determination by the Secretary as to the eligibility of importer organizations or associations to nominate members to the Board shall be based on applications containing the following information:


(1) The number and type of members represented (*i.e.*, beef, or cattle importers, etc.).


(2) Annual import volume in pounds of beef and beef products and/or the number of head of cattle.


(3) The stability and permanency of the importer organization or association.


(4) The number of years in existence.


(5) The names of the countries of origin for cattle, beef, or beef products imported.


