# § 86.535-90   Dynamometer procedure.

(a) The dynamometer run consists of two tests, a “cold” start test and a “hot” start test following the “cold” start by 10 minutes. Engine startup (with all accessories turned off), operation over the driving schedule, and engine shutdown make a complete cold start test. Engine startup and operation over the first 505 seconds of the driving schedule complete the hot start test. The exhaust emissions are diluted with ambient air and a continuously proportional sample is collected for analysis during each phase. The composite samples collected in bags are analyzed for hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and, optionally, for oxides of nitrogen. A parallel sample of the dilution air is similarly analyzed for hydrocarbon, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, and, optionally, for oxides of nitrogen. Methanol and formaldehyde samples (exhaust and dilution air) are collected and analyzed for methanol-fueled vehicles (a single dilution air formaldehyde sample covering the total time of the test may be collected in place of individual test phases).


(b) [Reserved]


(c) The vehicle speed, as measured from the dynamometer roll, shall be used. A speed *vs.* time recording, as evidence of dynamometer test validity, shall be supplied on request of the Administrator.


(d) Practice runs over the prescribed driving schedule may be performed at test points, provided an emission sample is not taken, for the purpose of finding the minimum throttle action to maintain the proper speed-time relationship, or to permit sampling system adjustments.


(e) The drive wheel tires must be inflated to the manufacturer's recommended pressure, ±15 kPa (±2.2 psi). The drive wheel tire pressure shall be reported with the test results.


(f) If the dynamometer has not been operated during the two-hour period immediately preceding the test, it shall be warmed up for 15 minutes by operating at 50 km/h (31 mph) using a nontest vehicle, or as recommended by the dynamometer manufacturer.


(g) If the dynamometer horsepower must be adjusted manually, it shall be set within one hour prior to the exhaust emissions test phase. The test vehicle shall not be used to make this adjustment. Dynamometers using automatic control of preselectable power settings may be set anytime prior to the beginning of the emissions test.


(h) The driving distance, as measured by counting the number of dynamometer roll revolutions, shall be determined for the transient cold start, stabilized cold start, and transient hot start phases of the test.



---

[N] [54 FR 14551, Apr. 11, 1989]




