# § 485.711   Condition of participation: Plan of care and physician involvement.

For each patient in need of outpatient physical therapy or speech pathology services, there is a written plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a physician, or by a physical therapist or speech pathologist respectively.


(a) *Standard: Medical history and prior treatment.* The following are obtained by the organization before or at the time of initiation of treatment:


(1) The patient's significant past history.


(2) Current medical findings, if any.


(3) Diagnosis(es), if established.


(4) Physician's orders, if any.


(5) Rehabilitation goals, if determined.


(6) Contraindications, if any.


(7) The extent to which the patient is aware of the diagnosis(es) and prognosis.


(8) If appropriate, the summary of treatment furnished and results achieved during previous periods of rehabilitation services or institutionalization.


(b) *Standard: Plan of care.* (1) For each patient there is a written plan of care established by the physician or by the physical therapist or speech-language pathologist who furnishes the services. 


(2) The plan of care for physical therapy or speech pathology services indicates anticipated goals and specifies for those services the—


(i) Type;


(ii) Amount;


(iii) Frequency; and


(iv) Duration.


(3) The plan of care and results of treatment are reviewed by the physician or by the individual who established the plan at least as often as the patient's condition requires, and the indicated action is taken.


(4) Changes in the plan of care are noted in the clinical record. If the patient has an attending physician, the therapist or speech-language pathologist who furnishes the services promptly notifies him or her of any change in the patient's condition or in the plan of care. 


(c) *Standard: Emergency care.* The rehabilitation agency must establish procedures to be followed by personnel in an emergency, which cover immediate care of the patient, persons to be notified, and reports to be prepared.



---

[N] [54 FR 38679, Sept. 20, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 2326, 2327, Jan. 9, 1995; 63 FR 58913, Nov. 2, 1998; 73 FR 69941, Nov. 19, 2008]




