# § 674.34   Deferment of repayment—Federal Perkins loans, NDSLs and Defense loans.

(a) The borrower may defer making a scheduled installment repayment on a Federal Perkins loan, an NDSL, or a Defense loan, regardless of contrary provisions of the borrower's promissory note and regardless of the date the loan was made, during periods described in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section.


(b)(1) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, during a period after the commencement or resumption of the repayment period on a loan, when the borrower is—


(i) Enrolled and in attendance as a regular student in at least a half-time course of study at an eligible institution;


(ii) Enrolled and in attendance as a regular student in a course of study that is part of a graduate fellowship program approved by the Secretary;


(iii) Engaged in graduate or post-graduate fellowship-supported study (such as a Fulbright grant) outside the United States; or


(iv) Enrolled in a course of study that is part of a rehabilitation training program for disabled individuals approved by the Secretary as described in paragraph (g) of this section.


(2) No borrower is eligible for a deferment under paragraph (b)(1) of this section while serving in a medical internship or residency program, except for a residency program in dentistry.


(3) The institution of higher education at which the borrower is enrolled does not need to be participating in the Federal Perkins Loan program for the borrower to qualify for a deferment.


(4) If a borrower is attending an institution of higher education as at least a half-time regular student for a full academic year and intends to enroll as at least a half-time regular student in the next academic year, the borrower is entitled to a deferment for 12 months.


(5) If an institution no longer qualifies as an institution of higher education, the borrower's deferment ends on the date the institution ceases to qualify.


(c) The borrower of a Federal Perkins loan, an NDSL, or a Defense loan need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period during which the borrower is engaged in service described in §§ 674.53, 674.54, 674.55, 674.56, 674.57, 674.58, 674.59, and 674.60.


(d) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period not to exceed 3 years during which the borrower is seeking and unable to find full-time employment.


(e) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for periods of up to one year at a time (except that a deferment under paragraph (e)(4) of this section may be granted for the lesser of the borrower's full term of service in the Peace Corps or the borrower's remaining period of economic hardship deferment eligibility) that, collectively, do not exceed 3 years, during which the borrower is suffering an economic hardship, if the borrower provides documentation satisfactory to the institution showing that the borrower is within any of the categories described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(4) of this section.


(1) Has been granted an economic hardship deferment under either the Federal Direct Loan Program or the FFEL programs for the period of time for which the borrower has requested an economic hardship deferment for his or her Federal Perkins loan.


(2) Is receiving payment under a Federal or state public assistance program, such as Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Supplemental Security Income, Food Stamps, or state general public assistance.


(3) Is working full-time and earning a total monthly gross income that does not exceed the greater of—


(i) The monthly earnings of an individual earning the minimum wage described in section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; or


(ii) An amount equal to 150 percent of the poverty guideline applicable to the borrower's family size as published annually by the Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902(2). If a borrower is not a resident of a State identified in the poverty guidelines, the poverty guideline to be used for the borrower is the poverty guideline (for the relevant family size) used for the 48 contiguous States.


(4) Is serving as a volunteer in the Peace Corps.


(5) To qualify for a subsequent period of deferment that begins less than one year after the end of a period of deferment under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the institution shall require the borrower to submit a copy of the borrower's Federal income tax return if the borrower filed a tax return within eight months prior to the date the deferment is requested.


(6)(i) For purposes of paragraph (e)(3) of this section, a borrower is considered to be working full-time if the borrower is expected to be employed for at least three consecutive months at 30 hours per week.


(ii) For purposes of paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, family size means the number that is determined by counting the borrower, the borrower's spouse, and the borrower's children, including unborn children who will be born during the period covered by the deferment, if the children receive more than half their support from the borrower. A borrower's family size includes other individuals if, at the time the borrower requests the economic hardship deferment, the other individuals—


(A) Live with the borrower; and


(B) Receive more than half their support from the borrower and will continue to receive this support from the borrower for the year the borrower certifies family size. Support includes money, gifts, loans, housing, food, clothes, car, medical and dental care, and payment of college costs. 


(f)(1) To qualify for a deferment for study as part of a graduate fellowship program pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a borrower must provide the institution with a statement from an authorized official of the borrower's graduate fellowship program certifying—


(i) That the borrower holds at least a baccalaureate degree conferred by an institution of higher education;


(ii) That the borrower has been accepted or recommended by an institution of higher education for acceptance on a full-time basis into an eligible graduate fellowship program; and


(iii) The borrower's anticipated completion date in the program.


(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, an eligible graduate fellowship program is a fellowship program that—


(i) Provides sufficient financial support to graduate fellows to allow for full-time study for at least six months;


(ii) Requires a written statement from each applicant explaining the applicant's objectives before the award of that financial support;


(iii) Requires a graduate fellow to submit periodic reports, projects, or evidence of the fellow's progress; and


(iv) In the case of a course of study at a foreign university, accepts the course of study for completion of the fellowship program.


(g) To qualify for a deferment for study in a rehabilitation training program, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the borrower must be receiving, or be scheduled to receive, services under a program designed to rehabilitate disabled individuals and must provide the institution with the following documentation:


(1) A certification from the rehabilitation agency that the borrower is either receiving or scheduled to receive rehabilitation training services from the agency.


(2) A certification from the rehabilitation agency that the rehabilitation program—


(i) Is licensed, approved, certified, or otherwise recognized by one of the following entities as providing rehabilitation training to disabled individuals—


(A) A State agency with responsibility for vocational rehabilitation programs;


(B) A State agency with responsibility for drug abuse treatment programs;


(C) A State agency with responsibility for mental health services programs;


(D) A State agency with responsibility for alcohol abuse treatment programs; or


(E) The Department of Veterans Affairs; and


(ii) Provides or will provide the borrower with rehabilitation services under a written plan that—


(A) Is individualized to meet the borrower's needs;


(B) Specifies the date on which the services to the borrower are expected to end; and


(C) Is structured in a way that requires a substantial commitment by the borrower to his or her rehabilitation. The Secretary considers a substantial commitment by the borrower to be a commitment of time and effort that would normally prevent an individual from engaging in full-time employment either because of the number of hours that must be devoted to rehabilitation or because of the nature of the rehabilitation.


(h) *Military service deferment.* (1) The borrower need not pay principal, and interest does not accrue, on a Federal Perkins Loan, an NDSL, or a Defense Loan, for any period during which the borrower is—


(i) Serving on active duty during a war or other military operation or national emergency; or


(ii) Performing qualifying National Guard duty during a war or other military operation or national emergency.


(2) *Serving on active duty during a war or other military operation or national emergency* means service by an individual who is—


(i) A Reserve of an Armed Force ordered to active duty under 10 U.S.C. 12301(a), 12301(g), 12302, 12304, or 12306;


(ii) A retired member of an Armed Force ordered to active duty under 10 U.S.C. 688 for service in connection with a war or other military operation or national emergency, regardless of the location at which such active duty service is performed; or


(iii) Any other member of an Armed Force on active duty in connection with such emergency or subsequent actions or conditions who has been assigned to a duty station at a location other than the location at which the member is normally assigned.


(3) *Qualifying National Guard duty during a war or other operation or national emergency* means service as a member of the National Guard on full-time National Guard duty, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(5), under a call to active service authorized by the President or the Secretary of Defense for a period of more than 30 consecutive days under 32 U.S.C. 502(f) in connection with a war, other military operation, or national emergency declared by the President and supported by Federal funds.


(4) As used in this paragraph—


(i) *Active duty* means active duty as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(1) except that it does not include active duty for training or attendance at a service school;


(ii) *Military operation* means a contingency operation as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13); and


(iii) *National emergency* means the national emergency by reason of certain terrorist attacks declared by the President on September 14, 2001, or subsequent national emergencies declared by the President by reason of terrorist attacks.


(5) These provisions do not authorize the refunding of any payments made by or on behalf of a borrower during a period for which the borrower qualified for a military service deferment. 


(6) For a borrower whose active duty service includes October 1, 2007, or begins on or after that date, the deferment period ends 180 days after the demobilization date for each period of service described in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(1)(ii) of this section.


(7) Without supporting documentation, a military service deferment may be granted to an otherwise eligible borrower for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date of the qualifying eligible service based on a request from the borrower or the borrower's representative.


(i) *Post-active duty student deferment.* (1) Effective October 1, 2007, a borrower of a Federal Perkins loan, an NDSL, or a Defense loan serving on active duty military service on that date, or who begins serving on or after that date, need not pay principal, and interest does not accrue for up to 13 months following the conclusion of the borrower's active duty military service and initial grace period if—


(i) The borrower is a member of the National Guard or other reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States or a member of such forces in retired status; and


(ii) The borrower was enrolled, on at least a half-time basis, in a program of instruction at an eligible institution at the time, or within six months prior to the time, the borrower was called to active duty.


(2) As used in paragraph (i)(1) of this section “Active duty” means active duty as defined in section 101(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code, for at least a 30-day period, except that—


(i) Active duty includes active State duty for members of the National Guard under which the Governor activates National Guard personnel based on State statute or policy and the activities of the National Guard are paid for with State funds;


(ii) Active duty includes full-time National Guard duty under which the Governor is authorized, with the approval of the President or the U.S. Secretary of Defense, to order a member to State active duty and the activities of the National Guard are paid for with Federal funds;


(iii) Active duty does not include active duty for training or attendance at a service school; and


(iv) Active duty does not include employment in a full-time, permanent position in the National Guard unless the borrower employed in such a position is reassigned to active duty under paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section or full-time National Guard duty under paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) If the borrower returns to enrolled student status, on at least a half-time basis, during the 13-month deferment period, the deferment expires at the time the borrower returns to enrolled student status, on at least a half-time basis.


(4) If a borrower qualifies for both a military service deferment and a post-active duty student deferment under both paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, the 180-day post-demobilization military service deferment period and the 13-month post-active duty student deferment period apply concurrently.


(j) The institution may not include the deferment periods described in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section and the period described in paragraph (k) of this section in determining the 10-year repayment period.


(k) The borrower need not pay principal and interest does not accrue until six months after completion of any period during which the borrower is in deferment under paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section.



---

[N] [59 FR 61410, Nov. 30, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 61815, Dec. 1, 1995; 62 FR 50848, Sept. 26, 1997; 64 FR 57531, Oct. 25, 1999; 64 FR 58311, Oct. 28, 1999; 67 FR 67076, Nov. 1, 2002; 71 FR 45697, Aug. 9, 2006; 72 FR 61996, Nov. 1, 2007; 73 FR 63247, Oct. 23, 2008; 78 FR 65805, Nov. 1, 2013]




