# § 147.1050   State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Maryland, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Maryland Department of the Environment approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on April 19, 1984 (49 FR 15553); the effective date of this program is June 4, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application: 


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Maryland. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Maryland Department of the Environment, 2500 Broening Highway, Baltimore, Maryland, 21224. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19107, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 07 promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989; 


(2) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 01, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989; 


(3) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 02, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989; 


(4) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 03, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989; 


(5) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 08, Chapter 04, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989; 


(6) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 13, Chapter 05, section .19, promulgated and effective as of August 1, 1989; 


(7) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 01, Chapter 02, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989; 


(8) Code of Maryland Regulations, Title 26, Subtitle 01, Chapter 04, promulgated and effective as of March 1, 1989. 


(b) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region III and the Maryland Department of the Environment, as submitted on August 2, 1983, and revised on February 16, 1984. 


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* Statement from the Maryland Attorney General on the Underground Injection Control Program, as submitted on August 2, 1983, and revised on February 16, 1984. 


(d) *Program Description.* The Program Description and other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto. 



---

[N] [56 FR 9416, Mar. 6, 1991]




