# § 2.28   Reopening of cases.

(a) *Favorable information or information supporting medical parole or compassionate release.* Upon the receipt of new information of substantial significance favorable to the prisoner, including medical information, or other extraordinary and compelling information, a Commissioner may reopen a case, and order a special reconsideration hearing on the next available docket, or modify the previous decision. The advancement of a presumptive release date or a decision to continue to a 15-year reconsideration hearing requires the concurrence of two Commissioners.


(b) *Institutional misconduct.* Consideration of disciplinary infractions and allegations of new criminal conduct occurring after the setting of a parole date are subject to the provisions of § 2.14 (in the case of a prisoner with a presumptive date) and § 2.34 (in the case of a prisoner with an effective date of parole). 


(c) *Additional sentences.* If a prisoner receives an additional concurrent or consecutive federal sentence following his initial parole consideration, the Regional Commissioner shall reopen his case for a new initial hearing on the next regularly scheduled docket to consider the additional sentence and reevaluate the case. Such action shall void the previous presumptive or effective release date. However, a new initial hearing is not mandatory where the Commission has previously evaluated the new criminal behavior, which led to the additional federal sentence, at a rescission hearing under 28 CFR 2.34; except where the new sentence extends the mandatory release date for a prisoner previously continued to the expiration of his sentence.


(d) *Conviction after revocation.* Upon receipt of information subsequent to the revocation hearing that a prisoner whose parole has been revoked has sustained a new conviction for conduct while on parole, the Regional Commissioner may reopen the case pursuant to § 2.52(c)(2) for a special reconsideration hearing on the next regularly scheduled docket to consider forfeiture of time spent on parole and such further action as may be appropriate. The entry of a new order shall void any presumptive or effective release date previously established.


(e) *Release planning.* When an effective date of parole has been set by the Commission, release on that date shall be conditioned upon the completion of a satisfactory plan for parole supervision. The appropriate Regional Commissioner may on his own motion reconsider any case prior to release and may reopen and advance or retard an effective parole date for purposes of release planning. Retardation without a hearing may not exceed 120 days.


(f) *New adverse information.* Upon receipt of new and significant adverse information that is not covered by paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, a Commissioner may refer the case to the National Commissioners with his recommendation and vote to schedule the case for a special reconsideration hearing. Such referral shall automatically retard the prisoner's scheduled release date until a final decision is reached in the case. The decision to schedule a case for a special reconsideration hearing shall be based on the concurrence of two Commissioner votes, including the vote of the referring Commissioner. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 2.12 and 2.13. The entry of a new order following such hearing shall void the previously established release date. 



---

[N] [44 FR 3406, Jan. 16, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 36138, July 14, 1981; 49 FR 44098, Nov. 2, 1984; 61 FR 55743, Oct. 29, 1996; 68 FR 41529, July 14, 2003; 86 FR 51612, Sept. 16, 2021; 86 FR 56646, Oct. 12, 2021]




