# § 1042.315   Determining compliance.

This section describes the pass-fail criteria for the production-line testing requirements. We apply these criteria on an engine-family basis. See § 1042.320 for the requirements that apply to individual engines that fail a production-line test.


(a) Calculate your test results as follows:


(1) *Initial and final test results.* Calculate and round the test results for each engine. If you do multiple tests on an engine in a given configuration (without modifying the engine), calculate the initial results for each test, then add all the test results together and divide by the number of tests. Round this final calculated value for the final test results on that engine. Include the Green Engine Factor to determine low-hour emission results, if applicable.


(2) *Final deteriorated test results.* Apply the deterioration factor for the engine family to the final test results (*see* § 1042.240(c)).


(3) *Round deteriorated test results.* Round the results to the number of decimal places in the emission standard expressed to one more decimal place.


(b) For Category 1 and Category 2 engines, if a production-line engine fails to meet emission standards and you test additional engines as described in § 1042.310, calculate the average emission level for each pollutant for all the engines. If the calculated average emission level for any pollutant exceeds the applicable emission standard, the engine family fails the production-line testing requirements of this subpart. Tell us within ten working days if an engine fails. You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the engine family as described in § 1042.225(f).



---

[N] [73 FR 37243, June 30, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23004, Apr. 30, 2010; 88 FR 4662, Jan. 24, 2023]




