# § 42.09-20   Surveys of foreign vessels.

(a) *General.* Foreign vessels of countries which have not ratified or acceded to the 1966 Convention, or which do not have valid certificates issued under other international convention or treaty and recognized by the United States of America, if desiring to depart from a port or place in the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Territory of Guam, or other U.S. possessions, shall be subjected to survey, marking, and certification by a load line assigning and issuing authority as authorized under § 42.07-35 or § 42.07-40, unless: 


(1) The vessel is exempted by the provision of 46 U.S.C. 5102; or


(2) The vessel is under tow and carrying neither passengers nor cargo. 


(b) *Scope of survey.* A periodical survey described in § 42.09-15(c) shall be conducted by and prove satisfactory to the assigning and issuing authority. It shall be made prior to issue or reissue of the applicable certificate. 


(c) *Certification of load lines.* The assigning and issuing authority after determining the vessel meets the applicable requirements in this part may issue a load line certificate subject to requirements in § 42.07-45 and on the applicable form described in subpart 42.50 of this part: *Provided,* That the load line certificate issued shall be valid for a period of 1 year. The certificate may be revalidated by endorsement for additional 1 year periods if the condition of the vessel so warrants, but in any event the certificate shall become void five (5) years from date of issue, or at the expiration of the fourth (4th) yearly validation, whichever occurs first. Whenever the condition of the vessel warrants special limitations, such information and facts shall be attested to on the front or back of the certificate as necessary, by the assigning and issuing authority. 



---

[N] [CGFR 68-60, 33 FR 10056, July 12, 1968, as amended by CGFR 68-126, 34 FR 9013, June 5, 1969; CGD 80-120, 47 FR 5723, Feb. 8, 1982; USCG-1998-4442, 63 FR 52190, Sept. 30, 1998] 




