# § 1.5000C-1   Tax on specified Federal procurement payments.

(a) *Overview.* This section provides definitions and general rules relating to the imposition of, and exemption from, the tax on specified Federal procurement payments under section 5000C. Section 1.5000C-2 provides rules concerning withholding under section 5000C(d)(1), including the steps that must be taken to determine the obligation to withhold and whether an exemption from withholding applies. Section 1.5000C-3 provides the time and manner for depositing the amounts withheld under section 5000C and the related reporting requirements. Section 1.5000C-4 contains the rules that apply to a foreign contracting party that must pay and report the tax under section 5000C when the tax obligation under section 5000C is not fully satisfied by withholding, as well as procedures by which a contracting party may seek a refund when the amount withheld exceeds its tax liability under section 5000C. Section 1.5000C-5 contains an anti-abuse rule. Section 1.5000C-6 contains examples illustrating the principles of §§ 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-4. Finally, § 1.5000C-7 contains the effective/applicability date for §§ 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-7.


(b) *Imposition of tax.* Except as otherwise provided, section 5000C imposes on any foreign contracting party a tax equal to 2 percent of the amount of a specified Federal procurement payment. In general, the tax imposed under section 5000C applies to specified Federal procurement payments received pursuant to contracts entered into on and after January 2, 2011. Specified Federal procurement payments received by a nominee or agent on behalf of a contracting party are considered to be received by that contracting party. The tax imposed under section 5000C is to be applied in a manner consistent with U.S. obligations under international agreements. Payments for the purchase or lease of land or an interest in land are not subject to the tax imposed under section 5000C.


(c) *Definitions.* Solely for purposes of section 5000C and §§ 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-7, the following definitions apply:


(1) The term *acquiring agency* means the U.S. government department, agency, independent establishment, or corporation described in paragraph (c)(7) of this section that is a party to the contract. To the extent that a U.S. government department or agency, other than the acquiring agency, is making the payments pursuant to the contract, that department or agency is also considered to be the acquiring agency.


(2) The term *contract* has the same meaning as provided in 48 CFR 2.101, and thus does not include a grant agreement or a cooperative agreement within the meaning of 31 U.S.C. 6304 and 6305, respectively. A contract may include an agreement that is not executed under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), 48 CFR Chapter 1.


(3) The term *contract ratio* refers to the nonexempt amount over the total contract price.


(4) The term *contracting party* means any person that is a party to a contract with the U.S. government that is entered into on or after January 2, 2011. See § 1.5000C-1(b) for situations involving a nominee or agent.


(5) The term *foreign contracting party* means a contracting party that is a foreign person.


(6) The term *foreign person* means any person other than a United States person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)).


(7) The term *Government of the United States* or *U.S. government* means the executive departments specified in 5 U.S.C. 101, the military departments specified in 5 U.S.C. 102, the independent establishments specified in 5 U.S.C. 104(1), and wholly owned government corporations specified in 31 U.S.C. 9101(3). Unless otherwise specified in 5 U.S.C. 101, 102, or 104(1), or 31 U.S.C. 9101(3), the term Government of the United States or U.S. government does not include any quasi-governmental entities or instrumentalities of the U.S. government.


(8) The term *international procurement agreement* means the World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement within the meaning of 48 CFR 25.400(a)(1) and any free trade agreement to which the United States is a party that includes government procurement obligations that provide appropriate competitive government procurement opportunities to U.S. goods, services, and suppliers. A party to an international procurement agreement is a signatory to the agreement and does not include a country that is merely an observer with respect to the agreement.


(9) The term *nonexempt amount* means the portion of the contract price allocated to nonexempt goods and nonexempt services.


(10) The term *nonexempt goods* means goods manufactured or produced in a foreign country that is not a party to an international procurement agreement with the United States.


(11) The term *nonexempt services* means services provided in a foreign country that is not a party to an international procurement agreement with the United States.


(12) The term *outlying areas* has the same meaning as set forth in 48 CFR 2.101(b), which includes Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island, Palmyra Atoll, and Wake Atoll.


(13) The term *qualified income tax treaty* means a U.S. income tax treaty in force that contains a nondiscrimination provision that applies to the tax imposed under section 5000C and prohibits taxation that is more burdensome on a foreign national than a U.S. national (or in the case of certain income tax treaties, taxation that is more burdensome on a foreign citizen than a U.S. citizen), regardless of its residence.


(14) The term *Section 5000C Certificate* means a written statement that includes the information described in § 1.5000C-2(d) that the foreign contracting party submits to an acquiring agency for the purposes of demonstrating that the foreign contracting party is eligible for certain exemptions from withholding (in whole or in part) under section 5000C with respect to a contract. The term may also include any form that the Internal Revenue Service may prescribe as a substitute for the Section 5000C Certificate, such as Form W-14, “Certificate of Foreign Contracting Party Receiving Federal Procurement Payments.”


(15) The term *specified Federal procurement payment* means any payment made pursuant to a contract with a foreign contracting party that is for goods manufactured or produced or services provided in a foreign country that is not a party to an international procurement agreement with the United States. For purposes of the prior sentence, a foreign country does not include an outlying area.


(16) The term *Taxpayer Identification Number* or *TIN* means the identifying number assigned to a person under section 6109, as defined in section 7701(a)(41).


(17) The term *total contract price* means the total cost to the U.S. Government of the goods and services procured under a contract and paid to the contracting party.


(d) *Exemptions.* The tax imposed under paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to the payments made in the following situations. For the exemptions in paragraphs (d)(5), (6) and (7) of this section, see § 1.5000C-2(d) for the procedures to eliminate withholding by an acquiring agency.


(1) *Simplified acquisitions.* Payments for purchases under the simplified acquisition procedures that do not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold as described in 48 CFR 2.101.


(2) *Emergency acquisitions.* Payments made pursuant to a contract if the contract is—


(i) Awarded under the “unusual and compelling urgency” authority of 48 CFR 6.302-2, or


(ii) Entered into under the emergency acquisition flexibilities as defined in 48 CFR part 18.


(3) *Certain personal service contracts.* Payments for services provided by, and under contracts with, a single individual in which the payments do not (and will not) exceed on an annual calendar year basis the simplified acquisition threshold as described in 48 CFR 2.101 for all years of the contract. Payments that satisfy this exemption remain exempt if the contract is later renegotiated so that future payments under the contract do not meet this exemption.


(4) *Certain foreign humanitarian assistance contracts.* Payments made by the U.S. government pursuant to a contract with a foreign contracting party to obtain goods or services described in or authorized under 7 U.S.C. 1691, *et seq.,* 22 U.S.C. 2151, *et seq.,* 22 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.,* 22 U.S.C. 5801 *et seq.,* 22 U.S.C. 5401 *et seq.,* 10 U.S.C. 402, 10 U.S.C. 404, 10 U.S.C. 407, 10 U.S.C. 2557, and 10 U.S.C. 2561, if the acquiring agency determines that the payment is for the purpose of providing foreign humanitarian assistance.


(5) *Certain international agreements.* Payments made by the U.S. government pursuant to a contract with a foreign contracting party when the payments are entitled to relief from the tax imposed under section 5000C pursuant to an international agreement with the United States, including relief pursuant to a nondiscrimination provision of a qualified income tax treaty, because the foreign contracting party is entitled to the benefit of that provision.


(6) *Goods manufactured or produced or services provided in the United States.* A payment made pursuant to a contract to the extent that the payment is for goods manufactured or produced or services provided in the United States.


(7) *Goods manufactured or produced or services provided in a country that is a party to an international procurement agreement.* A payment made pursuant to a contract to the extent the payment is for goods manufactured or produced or services provided in a country that is a party to an international procurement agreement, as defined in paragraph (c)(8) of this section.


(e) *Country in which goods are manufactured or produced or services provided*—


(1) *Goods manufactured or produced.* Solely for purposes of section 5000C, goods are manufactured or produced in the country (or countries)—


(i) Where property has been substantially transformed into the goods that are procured pursuant to a contract; or


(ii) Where there has been assembly or conversion of component parts (involving activities that are substantial in nature and generally considered to constitute the manufacture or production of property) into the final product that constitutes the goods procured pursuant to a contract.


(2) *Provision of services.* Solely for purposes of section 5000C, services are considered to be provided in the country where the individuals performing the services are physically located when they perform their duties pursuant to the contract.


(3) *Allocation of total contract price to determine the nonexempt amount.* If, pursuant to a contract, goods are manufactured or produced, or services are provided, in multiple countries and only a portion of the goods manufactured or produced, or the services provided, pursuant to the contract are nonexempt goods or nonexempt services, a foreign contracting party may use a reasonable allocation method to determine the nonexempt amount. A reasonable allocation method would include taking into account the proportionate costs (including the cost of labor and raw materials) incurred to manufacture or produce the goods in each country, or taking into account the proportionate costs incurred to provide the services in each country.


(4) *Reduction or elimination of withholding by an acquiring agency.* For procedures to reduce or eliminate withholding by an acquiring agency based on where goods are manufactured or produced or where services are provided, including as a result of an allocation under this paragraph (e), see § 1.5000C-2(d).



---

[N] [T.D. 9782, 81 FR 55138, Aug. 18, 2016]




