# § 1493.280   Special requirements of the foreign financial institution letter of credit and the terms and conditions document, if applicable.

(a) *Permitted mechanisms to document special requirements.* (1) A foreign financial institution letter of credit is required in connection with the sale to which CCC's payment guarantee pertains.


(i) If the obligation to pay by the foreign financial institution is conditioned on shipment documentation, the letter of credit must stipulate presentation of at least one original clean on board bill of lading as a required document, unless:


(A) The seller, or a related company previously reported to CCC by the seller pursuant to 1493.220(a)(5), is named as the shipper on the clean, on-board bill of lading. If the seller or a related company is named the shipper on the bill of lading, the letter of credit may stipulate a copy or photocopy of an original, clean, on-board bill of lading; or


(B) The letter of credit stipulates presentation of electronic documents per paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(ii) If the letter of credit will allow for presentation of electronic documents, the letter of credit must so stipulate.


(iii) If the obligation to pay by the foreign financial institution is conditioned on a contractual event requiring other than shipment documentation, the contractual event must be clearly stipulated in either the letter of credit or the terms and conditions document.


(2) The use of a terms and conditions document is optional. The terms and conditions document, if any, must be specifically identified and referred to in the foreign financial institution letter of credit.


(3) The special requirements in paragraph (b) of this section must be documented in one of the two following ways:


(i) The special requirements may be set forth in the foreign financial institution letter of credit as a special instruction from the foreign financial institution; or


(ii) The special requirements may be set forth in a separate terms and conditions document.


(b) *Special requirements.* The following provisions are required and must be documented in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section:


(1) The terms of the repayment obligation, including a specific promise by the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit to pay the repayment obligation;


(2) The following language: “In the event that the Commodity Credit Corporation (“CCC”) is subrogated to the position of the obligee hereunder, this instrument shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, excluding its conflict of laws principles. In such case, any legal action or proceeding arising under this instrument will be brought exclusively in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York or the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, as determined by CCC, and such parties hereby irrevocably consent to the personal jurisdiction and venue therein.”;


(3) A provision permitting the holder of the payment guarantee to declare all or any part of the repayment obligation, including accrued interest, immediately due and payable, in the event a payment default occurs under the letter of credit or, if applicable, the terms and conditions document; and


(4) Post default interest terms.




