# § 334.505   St. Johns River, U.S. Coast Guard Station Mayport, Sector Jacksonville, Florida; restricted area.

(a) *The area.* The restricted area encompasses all navigable waters of the United States as defined at 33 CFR part 329, within the area bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates: Commencing from the shoreline at latitude 30°23.315366′ N, longitude 081°26.056735′ W; thence directly to latitude 30°23.325775′ N, longitude 081°26.071548′ W; thence directly to latitude 30°23.266063′ N, longitude 081°26.132775′ W; thence to latitude 30°23.215082′ N, longitude 081°26.1287404′ W; thence proceed directly to a point on the shoreline at latitude 30°23.204522′ N, longitude 081°26.111753′ W thence following the mean high water line to the point of beginning. The datum for these coordinates is WGS84.


(b) *The regulation.* (1) The restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section is only open to U.S. Government vessels. U.S. Government vessels include, but are not limited to, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, Department of Defense, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, state and local law enforcement, emergency services and vessels under contract with the U.S. Government. Warning signs notifying individuals of the restricted area boundary and prohibiting all unauthorized entry into the area will be posted along the property boundary.


(2) All persons, vessels and other craft are prohibited from entering, transiting, drifting, dredging or anchoring within the restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section without prior approval from the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Station Mayport or his/her designated representative.


(3) Fishing, trawling, net-fishing and other aquatic activities are prohibited in the restricted area without prior approval from the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Station Mayport or his/her designated representative.


(4) The restrictions described in paragraph (b) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Station Mayport and/or such persons or agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [80 FR 9386, Feb. 23, 2015]




