# § 1.995-3   Distributions upon disqualification.

(a) *General rule.* Under section 995 (b)(2), a shareholder of a corporation which is disqualified from being a DISC, either because pursuant to § 1.992-2(e)(2) it revoked its election to be treated as a DISC or because it has failed to satisfy the requirements as set forth in § 1.992-1 to be a DISC for a taxable year, shall be deemed to have received (at the times specified in paragraph (b) of this section) distributions taxable as dividends aggregating an amount equal to his pro rata share of the accumulated DISC income (as defined in § 1.996-3(b)) of such corporation which was accumulated during the immediately preceding consecutive taxable years for which the corporation was a DISC. The pro rata share referred to in the preceding sentence shall be determined as of the close of the last of such consecutive taxable years for which the corporation was a DISC. See § 1.996-7(c) for rules relating to the carryover of, and maintaining a separate account for, such accumulated DISC income in certain reorganizations.


(b) *Time of receipt of deemed distributions.* Distributions described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be received in equal installments on the last day of each of the 10 taxable years of the corporation following the year of the disqualification described in paragraph (a) of this section, except that in no case may the number of equal installments exceed the number of the immediately preceding consecutive taxable years for which the corporation was a DISC.


(c) *Transfer of shares.* Deemed distributions are includible under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in a shareholder's gross income as a dividend only so long as he continues to hold the shares with respect to which the distribution is deemed made. Thus, the transferee of such shareholder will include in his gross income under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section the remaining installments of the deemed distribution which the transferor would have included in his gross income as a dividend had he not transferred the shares. However, if the transferee acquires the shares in a transaction in which the transferor's gain is treated under § 1.995-4 in whole or in part as a dividend, then under § 1.996-4(a) such transferee does not include subsequent installments in his gross income to the extent that the transferee treats such subsequent installments as made out of previously taxed income.


(d) *Effect of requalification.* Deemed distributions under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section continue and are includible in gross income as dividends by the shareholders whether or not the corporation subsequently requalifies and is treated as a DISC.


(e) *Effect of actual distributions and deemed distributions under section 995(b)(1)(G).* If, during the period a shareholder of a DISC, or former DISC, is taking into account deemed distributions under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an actual distribution is made to him out of accumulated DISC income or a deemed distribution because of foreign investment attributable to producer's loans is made under § 1.995-2(a)(5) out of accumulated DISC income, such actual or deemed distribution shall first reduce the last installment of the deemed distributions scheduled to be included in the shareholder's gross income as a dividend, and then the preceding scheduled installments in reverse order. If deemed distributions are scheduled to be included in gross income for two or more disqualifications, an actual distribution or a deemed distribution under § 1.995-2 (a)(5) which is treated as made out of accumulated DISC income reduces the deemed distributions resulting from the earlier disqualification first.


(f) *Examples.* This section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7324, 39 FR 35112, Sept. 30, 1974, as amended by T.D. 7854, 47 FR 51741, Nov. 17, 1982]




