# § 447.298   State disproportionate share hospital allotments.

(a) *Calculation of State's base allotment for Federal fiscal year 1993.* (1) For Federal fiscal year 1993, CMS will calculate for each State a DSH allotment, using the State's “base allotment.” The State's base allotment is the greater of: 


(i) The total amount of the State's projected DSH payments for Federal fiscal year 1992 under the State plan applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992, calculated in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or 


(ii) $1,000,000. 


(2) In calculating the State's DSH payments applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992, CMS will derive amounts from payments applicable to the period of October 1, 1991, through September 30, 1992, under State plans or plan amendments that meet the requirements specified in § 447.296(b). The calculation will not include—


(i) DSH payment adjustments made by the State applicable to the period October 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991 under State plans or plan amendments that do not meet the criteria described in § 447.296; and 


(ii) Retroactive DSH payments made in 1992 that are not applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992. 


(3) CMS will calculate a percentage for each State by dividing the DSH base allotment by the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures, excluding administrative costs, made during Federal fiscal year 1992. On the basis of this percentage, CMS will classify each State as a “high-DSH” or “low-DSH” State. 


(i) If the State's base allotment exceeded 12 percent of its total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures made under the State plan in Federal fiscal year 1992, CMS will classify the State as a “high-DSH” State. 


(ii) If the State's base allotment was 12 percent or less of its total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures made under the State plan in Federal fiscal year 1992, CMS will classify the State as a “low-DSH” State. 


(b) *State disproportionate share hospital allotments for Federal fiscal year 1993.* (1) For Federal fiscal year 1993, CMS will calculate a DSH allotment for each low-DSH State that equals the State's base allotment described under paragraph (a) of this section, increased by State growth, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(2) For high-DSH States, the dollar amount of DSH payments in Federal fiscal year 1993 may not exceed the dollar amount of DSH payments applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992 (that is, the State base allotment). 


(c) *State disproportionate share hospital allotment for Federal fiscal years 1994 and after.* For Federal fiscal years 1994 and after—


(1) For low-DSH States, CMS will calculate the DSH allotment for each Federal fiscal year by increasing the prior year's State DSHs allotment by— 


(i) State growth, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section; and 


(ii) A supplemental amount, if applicable, as described in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(2) For high-DSH States, the dollar amount of DSH payments applicable to any Federal fiscal year may not exceed the dollar amount of payments applicable to Federal fiscal year 1992 (that is, the State base allotment). This payment limitation will apply until the Federal fiscal year in which the State's DSH payments applicable to that Federal fiscal year, expressed as a percentage of the State's total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures in that Federal fiscal year, equal 12 percent or less. When a high-DSH State's percentage equals 12 percent or less, the State will be reclassified as a low-DSH State.


(d) *State growth.* (1) The State growth for a State in a Federal fiscal year is equal to the product of— 


(i) The growth factor that is CMS's projected percentage increase in the State's total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures (including administrative costs) relative to the corresponding amount in the previous year; and 


(ii) The State's prior year DSH allotment. 


(2) If the growth factor is zero or is negative, the State growth is zero. 


(3) If a low-DSH State experiences a level of negative growth to the extent that its previous Federal fiscal year's DSH allotment would be more than 12 percent of its current Federal fiscal year's total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures (excluding administrative costs), the low-DSH State's previous year's DSH allotment will be reduced to the extent necessary to maintain the individual low-DSH State's 12-percent limit and that amount will become the low-DSH State's DSH allotment for the current Federal fiscal year. In no Federal fiscal year will a low-DSH State's DSH allotment be allowed to exceed its individual State 12-percent limit. 


(e) *Supplemental amount available for low-DSH States.* (1) A supplemental amount is the State's share of a pool of money (referred to as a redistribution pool). 


(2) CMS will calculate the redistribution pool for the appropriate Federal fiscal year by subtracting from the projected national DSH expenditure target the following: 


(i) The total of the State DSH base allotments for all high-DSH States; 


(ii) The total of the previous year's State DSH allotments for all low-DSH States; 


(iii) The State growth amount for all low-DSH States; and 


(iv) The total amount of additional DSH payment adjustments made in order to meet the minimum payment adjustments required under section 1923(c)(l) of the Act, which are made in accordance with § 447.296(b)(5). 


(3) CMS will determine the percent of the redistribution pool for each low-DSH State on the basis of each State's relative share of the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures for the Federal fiscal year compared to the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures for the Federal fiscal year projected to be made by all low-DSH States. The percent of the redistribution pool that each State will receive is equal to the State's total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures divided by the total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures for all low-DSH States. 


(4) CMS will not provide any low-DSH State a supplemental amount that would result in the State's total DSH allotment exceeding 12 percent of its projected total unadjusted medical assistance expenditures. CMS will reallocate any supplemental amounts not allocated to States because of this 12-percent limitation to other low-DSH States in accordance with the percentage determined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. 


(5) CMS will not reallocate to low-DSH States the difference between any State's actual DSH expenditures applicable to a Federal fiscal year and its State DSH allotment applicable to that Federal fiscal year. Thus, any unspent DSH allotment may not be reallocated. 


(f) *Special provision.* Any increases in a State's aggregate disproportionate payments, that are made to meet the minimum payment requirements specified in § 447.296(b)(5), may exceed the State base allotment to the extent such increases are made to satisfy the minimum payment requirement. In such cases, CMS will adjust the State's base allotment in the subsequent Federal fiscal year to include the increased minimum payments. 



---

[N] [57 FR 55143, Nov. 24, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 43182, Aug. 13, 1993]




