# § 184.1807   Sodium thiosulfate.

(a) Sodium thiosulfate (Na_2_S_2_O_3_·5H_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 010102-0917-097) is also known as sodium hyposulfite. It is prepared synthetically by the reaction of sulfides and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_), the reaction of sulfur and sulfite, or the oxidation of metal sulfides and hydrosulfides.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the “Food Chemicals Codex,” 3d Ed. (1981), p. 304, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) The ingredient is used as a formulation aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(14) of this chapter and reducing agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(22) of this chapter.


(d) The ingredient is used in alcoholic beverages and table salt in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1) at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice. Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 0.00005 percent for alcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(2) of this chapter and 0.1 percent for table salt as defined in § 170.3(n)(26) of this chapter.


(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [43 FR 22938, May 30, 1978, as amended at 49 FR 5613, Feb. 4, 1984]




