# § 54.19   Appeal of a grading service decision.

Appeal service is a redetermination of the class, grade, other quality, or compliance of product when the applicant for the appeal service formally challenges the correctness of the original determination.


(a) *Authority to request appeal service.* A request for appeal service with respect to any product may be made by any person who is financially interested in the product when that person disagrees with the original determination as to class, grade, other quality, or compliance of the product as shown by the markings on the product or its containers, or as stated in the applicable official memorandum.


(b) *Requesting appeal service.* A request for appeal service shall be filed with the Chief. The request shall state the reasons for appeal and may be accompanied by a copy of any previous official report, or any other information that the applicant may have received regarding the product at the time of the original service. Such request may be made orally (including by telephone) or in writing (including by email). If made orally, the person receiving the request may require that it be confirmed in writing.


(c) *Determining original service from appeal service.* Examination requested to determine the class, grade, other quality, or compliance of a product that has been altered or has undergone a material change since the original service, or examination of product requested for the purpose of obtaining an official memorandum and not involving any question as to the correctness of the original service for the product involved, shall be considered equivalent to original service and not appeal service.


(d) *Not eligible for appeal service.* Grade determinations cannot be appealed for any lot or product consisting of less than 10 similar units or carcasses. Moreover, appeal service will not be furnished with respect to product that has been altered or has undergone any material change since the original service.


(e) *Withdrawal of appeal service.* A request for appeal service may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time before the appeal service has been performed; however, the applicant is responsible for payment of any expenses incurred by the Branch towards providing the appeal service prior to withdrawal.


(f) *Denial or withdrawal of appeal service.* A request for appeal service may be rejected or such service may be otherwise denied to or withdrawn from any person, without a hearing, in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 54.11(b), if it appears that the person or product involved is not eligible for appeal service under § 54.19(a) and (b), or that the identity of the product has been lost; or for any of the causes set forth in § 54.11(b). Appeal service may also be denied to, or withdrawn from, any person in any case under § 54.11(a).


(g) *Who performs appeal service.* Appeal service shall be performed by the National Meat Supervisor or his or her designee.


(h) *Appeal service report.* Immediately after appeal service has been performed for any products, a report shall be prepared and issued referring specifically to the original findings and stating the class, grade, other quality, or compliance of the products as shown by the appeal service.



---

[N] [84 FR 48562, Sept. 16, 2019]




