# § 1307.12   Decisions and notices.

(a) *Decision by a member of the TVA Board or a hearing officer.* If the hearing is held before a “hearing officer” as defined in § 1307.11(b), that hearing officer shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including recommended findings and proposed decision to the TVA Board for a final decision. A copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the recipient. Where the initial decision is made by a hearing officer, the recipient may file with the TVA Board exceptions to the initial decision, which shall include a statement of reasons therefor. Such exceptions shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice of initial decision. In the absence of exceptions, the TVA Board may on its own motion within forty-five (45) days after the initial decision serve on the recipient a notice that it will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of such notice of review, the TVA Board shall review the initial decision and issue its own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the TVA Board. 


(b) *Decisions on record or review by the TVA Board.* Whenever a record is certified to the TVA Board for decision or it reviews the decision of a hearing officer pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or whenever the TVA Board conducts the hearing, the recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with the Board briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a copy of the final decision of the Board shall be given in writing to the recipient and to the complainant, if any. 


(c) *Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.* Whenever a hearing is waived, a decision shall be made by the TVA Board on the record and a copy of such decision shall be given to the recipient, and to the complainant, if any. 


(d) *Rulings required.* Each decision shall set forth a ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part with which it is found that the recipient has failed to comply. 


(e) *Approval by TVA Board.* Any final decision (other than a decision by the TVA Board) which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this part or section 504 shall promptly be transmitted to the TVA Board which may approve such decision, vacate it, or remit or mitigate any sanction imposed. 


(f) *Content of orders.* The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which this regulation applies, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of section 504 and this part, including provisions designed to assure that no financial assistance to which this regulation applies will thereafter be extended to the recipient determined by such decision to have failed to comply with this part, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies TVA that it will fully comply with this part. 


(g) *Posttermination proceedings.* (1) A recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive financial assistance upon satisfaction of the terms and conditions for such eligibility contained in that order, or if the recipient otherwise comes into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance of future full compliance with this part. 


(2) Any recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request that TVA fully restore the recipient's eligibility to receive financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If TVA determines that those requirements have been satisfied, it shall restore such eligibility. 


(3) If TVA denies any such request, the recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying its reasons for believing TVA to have been in error. The recipient shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by TVA. The recipient, upon proving at such a hearing that the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section are satisfied, will be restored to such eligibility. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect. 



---

[N] [45 FR 22895, Apr. 4, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 51356, Aug. 26, 2003]




