# § 52.30   Criteria for limiting application of sanctions under section 110(m) of the Clean Air Act on a statewide basis.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purpose of this section:


(1) The term “political subdivision” refers to the representative body that is responsible for adopting and/or implementing air pollution controls for one, or any combination of one or more of the following: city, town, borough, county, parish, district, or any other geographical subdivision created by, or pursuant to, Federal or State law. This will include any agency designated under section 174, 42 U.S.C. 7504, by the State to carry out the air planning responsibilities under part D.


(2) The term “required activity” means the submission of a plan or plan item, or the implementation of a plan or plan item. 


(3) The term “deficiency” means the failure to perform a required activity as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(4) For purposes of § 52.30, the terms “plan” or “plan item” mean an implementation plan or portion of an implementation plan or action needed to prepare such plan required by the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, or in response to a SIP call issued pursuant to section 110(k)(5) of the Act. 


(b) *Sanctions.* During the 24 months after a finding, determination, or disapproval under section 179(a) of the Clean Air Act is made, EPA will not impose sanctions under section 110(m) of the Act on a statewide basis if the Administrator finds that one or more political subdivisions of the State are principally responsible for the deficiency on which the finding, disapproval, or determination as provided under section 179(a)(1) through (4) is based.


(c) *Criteria.* For the purposes of this provision, EPA will consider a political subdivision to be principally responsible for the deficiency on which a section 179(a) finding is based, if all five of the following criteria are met. 


(1) The State has provided adequate legal authority to a political subdivision to perform the required activity.


(2) The required activity is one which has traditionally been performed by the local political subdivision, or the responsibility for performing the required activity has been delegated to the political subdivision.


(3) The State has provided adequate funding or authority to obtain funding (when funding is necessary to carry out the required activity) to the political subdivision to perform the required activity.


(4) The political subdivision has agreed to perform (and has not revoked that agreement), or is required by State law to accept responsibility for performing, the required activity.


(5) The political subdivision has failed to perform the required activity.


(d) *Imposition of sanctions.* (1) If all of the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section have been met through the action or inaction of one political subdivision, EPA will not impose sanctions on a statewide basis.


(2) If not all of the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section have been met through the action or inaction of one political subdivision, EPA will determine the area for which it is reasonable and appropriate to apply sanctions.



---

[N] [59 FR 1484, Jan. 11, 1994]




