# ยง 921.773   Requirements for permits and permit processing.

(a) Part 773 of this chapter, *Requirements for Permits and Permit Processing,* shall apply to any person who applies for a permit for surface coal mining and reclamation operations. 


(b) In addition to the requirements of part 773, the following permit application review procedures shall apply: 


(1) Any person applying for a permit shall submit five copies of the applications to the Office. 


(2) The Office shall review an application for administrative completeness and acceptability for further review and shall notify the applicant in writing of the findings. The Office may: 


(i) Reject a flagrantly deficient application, notifying the applicant of the findings; 


(ii) Request additional information required for completeness stating specifically what information must be supplied and negotiate the date by which the information must be submitted; or 


(iii) Judge the application administratively complete and acceptable for further review. 


(3) Should the applicant not submit the information as required by ยง 921.773(b)(2)(ii) by the specified date, the Office may reject the application. When the applicant submits the required information by the specified date, the Office shall review it and advise the applicant concerning its acceptability. 


(4) When the application is judged administratively complete, the applicant shall be advised by the Office to file the public notice required by ยง 773.6 of this chapter. 


(5) A representative of the Office shall visit the proposed permit area to determine whether the operation and reclamation plans are consistent with actual site conditions. The applicant will be notified in advance of the time of the visit. At the time of the visit, the applicant shall have the locations of the proposed permit boundaries, topsoil storage areas, sediment control structures, roads, and other significant features contained in the application marked by flags. 


(c) In addition to the information required by subchapter G of this chapter, the Office may require an applicant to submit supplementary information to ensure compliance with applicable Federal laws and regulations other than the Act. 


(d) No person shall conduct coal exploration which results in the removal of more than 250 tons of coal nor shall any person conduct surface coal mining operations without a permit issued by the Secretary pursuant to 30 CFR part 773 and applicable permits issued pursuant to the laws of the State of Massachusetts, including: The Historic and Scenic Rivers Act, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 21, sections 8-17B; Massachusetts Register of Historic Places, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 152 and the regulations (950 CMR 71); Historical Preservation Statutes, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 9, sections 26-27(D); real property statutes. Mass Ann. Laws Ch. 184, sections 31-32; statutes governing State forests and parks, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 132, sections 40-46; of the Wetlands Protection Act Ch. 131, sections 40-46; statutes and rules governing dredging permits, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 21A; section 14, 310 CMR 9.01 *et seq.;* the Massachusetts Hazardous Waste Management Act Ch. 21C, sections 1-14; the Massachusetts Clean Water Act Ch. 21, sections 26-53; statutes governing the construction of roads, drains, or ditches, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 252, Sections 15-18; statutes governing drilling or removal of sand or any minerals, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 132A, Sections 13-181 and statutes governing use, storage, and handling of explosives, Mass. Ann. Laws Ch. 148, Sections 9-19.


(e) The Secretary shall provide for coordination of review and issuance of a coal exploration or surface coal mining and reclamation permit with the review and issuance of other Federal and State permits listed in this subpart and part 773 of this chapter.



---

[N] [52 FR 13809, Apr. 24, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 79672, Dec. 19, 2000]




