# § 412.312   Payment based on the Federal rate.

(a) *General.* The payment amount for each discharge based on the Federal rate determined under § 412.308(c) is determined under the following formula: [Federal rate × DRG weight × Geographic adjustment factor × Large urban add-on × (1 + Capital disproportionate share adjustment factor + capital indirect medical education adjustment factor) × (for hospitals located in Alaska and Hawaii, a cost-of-living adjustment factor)] + (Any applicable outlier payment). 


(b) *Payment adjustments*—(1) *DRG weights.* The relative resource requirements of the discharge are taken into account by applying the DRG weighting factor that is assigned to the discharge under § 412.60. 


(2) *Geographic adjustment factors*—(i) *Local cost variation.* A geographic adjustment factor is applied that takes into account geographic variation in costs. 


(ii) *Large urban add-on.* An additional adjustment is made for hospitals located in a large urban area to reflect the higher costs incurred by hospitals located in those areas. For purposes of the payment adjustment under this paragraph, the definition of large urban area set forth at § 412.63(c)(6) continues to be in effect for discharges occurring on or after September 30, 2004.


(iii) *Cost-of-living adjustment.* An additional adjustment is made for hospitals located in Alaska and Hawaii to account for the higher cost-of-living in those States. 


(3) *Disproportionate share adjustment.* For hospitals with at least 100 beds located in an urban area and serving low-income patients, a disproportionate share adjustment factor is applied that reflects the higher costs attributable to furnishing services to low income patients. 


(4) *Indirect medical education adjustment.* An additional adjustment is made based on the ratio of residents to the average daily patient census of the hospital to account for the indirect costs of medical education. 


(c) *Additional payment for outlier cases.* Payment is made for day outlier cases as provided for in § 412.82 and for cost outlier cases if both capital-related and operating-related costs exceed the cost outlier threshold as provided for in § 412.84. 


(d) *Payment for transfer cases.* Payment is made for transfer cases as provided for in § 412.4.


(e) *Payment for extraordinary circumstances.* For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2001—


(1) Payment for extraordinary circumstances is made as provided for in § 412.348(f).


(2) Although no longer independently in effect, the minimum payment levels established under § 412.348(c) continue to be used in the calculation of exception payments for extraordinary circumstances, according to the formula in § 412.348(f).


(3) Although no longer independently in effect, the offsetting amounts established under § 412.348(e) continue to be used in the calculation of exception payments for extraordinary circumstances. However, for cost reporting periods beginning during FY 2005 and subsequent fiscal years, the offsetting amounts in § 412.348(e) are determined based on the lesser of—


(i) The preceding 10-year period; or


(ii) The period of time under which the hospital is subject to the prospective payment system for capital-related costs.


(f) *Payment adjustment for certain clinical trial or expanded access use immunotherapy cases.* For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2020, in determining the payment amount under this section for certain clinical trial or expanded access use immunotherapy cases as described in § 412.85(b), the DRG weighting factor described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is adjusted as described in § 412.85(c).



---

[N] [56 FR 43449, Aug. 30, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 50113, Aug. 1, 2002; 69 FR 49250, Aug. 11, 2004; 69 FR 60252, Oct. 7, 2004; 85 FR 59023, Sept. 18, 2020]




