# ยง 3171.7   Drilling plan.

With each copy of Form 3160-3, the operator must submit to the BLM either a drilling plan or reference a previously submitted field-wide drilling plan (a drilling plan that can be used for all the wells in a field, any differences for specific wells will be described in the APD specific to that well). The drilling plans must be in sufficient detail to permit a complete appraisal of the technical adequacy of, and environmental effects associated with, the proposed project. The drilling plan must adhere to the provisions and standards of subpart 3172 of this part and, if applicable, subpart 3176 of this part and must include the following information:


(a) Names and estimated tops of all geologic groups, formations, members, or zones.


(b) Estimated depth and thickness of formations, members, or zones potentially containing usable water, oil, gas, or prospectively valuable deposits of other minerals that the operator expects to encounter, and the operator's plans for protecting such resources.


(c) The operator's minimum specifications for blowout prevention equipment and diverter systems to be used, including size, pressure rating, configuration, and the testing procedure and frequency. Blowout prevention equipment must meet the minimum standards outlined in subpart 3172 of this part.


(d) The operator's proposed casing program, including size, grade, weight, type of thread and coupling, the setting depth of each string, and its condition. The operator must include the minimum design criteria, including casing loading assumptions and corresponding safety factors for burst, collapse, and tensions (body yield and joint strength). The operator must also include the lengths and setting depth of each casing when a tapered casing string is proposed. The hole size for each well bore section of hole drilled must be included. Special casing designs such as the use of coiled tubing or expandable casing may necessitate additional information.


(e) The estimated amount and type(s) of cement expected to be used in the setting of each casing string. If stage cementing will be used, provide the setting depth of the stage tool(s) and amount and type of cement, including additives, to be used for each stage. Provide the yield of each cement slurry and the expected top of cement, with excess, for each cemented string or stage.


(f) Type and characteristics of the proposed circulating medium or mediums proposed for the drilling of each well bore section, the quantities and types of mud and weighting material to be maintained, and the monitoring equipment to be used on the circulating system. The operator must submit the following information when air or gas drilling is proposed:


(1) Length, size, and location of the blooie line, including the gas ignition and dust suppression systems;


(2) Location and capacity of the compressor equipment, including safety devices, describe the distance from the well bore, and location within the drill site; and


(3) Anticipated amounts, types, and other characteristics as defined in this section, of the stand by mud or kill fluid and associated circulating equipment.


(g) The testing, logging, and coring procedures proposed, including drill stem testing procedures, equipment, and safety measures.


(h) The expected bottom-hole pressure and any anticipated abnormal pressures, temperatures, or potential hazards that the operator expects to encounter, such as lost circulation and hydrogen sulfide (see subpart 3176 of this part). A description of the operator's plans for mitigating such hazards must be included.


(i) Any other facets of the proposed operation that the operator would like the BLM to consider in reviewing the application. Examples include, but are not limited to:


(1) For directional wells, proposed directional design, plan view, and vertical section in true vertical and measured depths;


(2) Horizontal drilling; and


(3) Coil tubing operations.




