# § 58.805   Meaning of words.

For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart, words in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meaning: 


(a) *Whey.* “Whey” is the fluid obtained by separating the coagulum from milk, cream, and/or skim milk in cheesemaking. The acidity of the whey may be adjusted by the addition of safe and suitable pH adjusting ingredients. Moisture removed from cheese curd as a result of salting may be collected for further processing as whey if the collection of the moisture and the removal of the salt from the moisture are conducted in accordance with procedures approved by the Administrator.


(b) *Dry Whey.* “Dry Whey” is the product resulting from drying fresh whey which has been pasteurized and to which nothing has been added as a preservative. It contains all constituents, except moisture, in the same relative proportions as in the whey.


(c) *Dry Sweet Whey.* Dry whey not over 0.16 percent titratable acidity on a reconstituted basis. 


(d) *Dry Whey—% Titratable Acidity.* Dry whey over 0.16 percent, but below 0.35 percent titratable acidity on a reconstituted basis. The blank being filled with the actual acidity. 


(e) *Dry Acid Whey.* Dry whey with 0.35 percent or higher titratable acidity on a reconstituted basis. 


(f) *Modified Whey Products:*

(1) Partially demineralized whey, 


(2) Partially delactosed whey, 


(3) Demineralized whey, and 


(4) Whey protein concentrate-products defined by regulations of the Food and Drug Administration. 


(g) *Lactose* (*milk sugar*). That food product defined by regulations of the Food and Drug Administration. 



---

[N] [40 FR 47911, Oct. 10, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 1257, Jan. 6, 1981. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 55 FR 39912, Oct. 1, 1990]




