# ยง 310.3   Schools and courses.

(a) *Schools with Federal aid.* The following schools are presently operating with Federal aid under the 1958 Act or the Act:


(b) *General rules for operation of a School.* (1) The Schools shall maintain adequate berthing, messing and classroom instruction facilities ashore, or have plans to establish same at the earliest possible time, unless prevented from doing so by conditions beyond the control of the School. During a period a school is implementing an approved plan, Cadets may be housed and instructed on a Training Ship. However, the approved plan may include the ongoing use of the Training Ship as an instructional and laboratory facility and for the berthing of entering class cadets for a period not to exceed six months for purposes of shipboard indoctrination.


(2) The School shall arrange for the Cadet or Midshipman to take the United States Coast Guard original licensing examination prior to the date of graduation.


(3) As a condition to receiving payments of any amount allowable by the 1958 Act and the Act in excess of $25,000 for any year, a School shall agree to admit student residents of other States to the extent of at least ten percent (10%) of each entering class, if such out-of-State students apply for admission and are otherwise qualified for such admission. The calculation of residents of other States shall exclude residents of foreign countries, but shall include residents of Territories and possessions of the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico).


(4) Upon the request of the Administration a school shall furnish such reports and estimates as may be required in the preparation of Federal Budget estimates.


(5) State authorities shall prescribe and administer rules and regulations for the internal organization and administration of each School.


(6) The Administration shall have the right to inspect shore base facilities at all reasonable times.


(7) Records pertaining to a School, its officers, crew, Cadets, the Training Ship, and shore base, shall be maintained by each School and shall be available to the Supervisor upon request. A detailed record of applications for admissions, enrollments, reenrollments, absences with or without leave, hospitalizations, determinations of students not in good standing, disenrollments, graduations, and other data concerning cadets and Midshipmen shall be kept by each school for the period of enrollment plus one year. Copies of these records shall be furnished to the Supervisor upon request.


(8) The Administration may include in any pamphlets, brochures or other public information materials an adequate description of each School giving the reader knowledge of the existence of the School, its purposes and where to obtain application forms and further information.


(c) *Curriculum.* (1) The minimum period of training shall be three (3) years. For the Cadets and Midshipmen at the schools located in California, Maine, Massachusetts, New York and Texas at least six (6) months of the total time must be aboard a Training Ship in cruise status. A maximum of two (2) months of training time aboard commercial vessels of not less than 2,500 horsepower may be substituted for two (2) months of the specified cruise time. For the cadets at the Great Lakes Maritime Academy, six (6) months of the time shall be aboard Great Lakes commercial vessels and an additional three (3) months shall be aboard either a Training Ship in a cruise status or Great Lakes commercial vessels while underway. Cadets in training status aboard commercial vessels shall sign on board as cadets and shall pursue their training within the framework of formal sea projects prepared and monitored by their respective Schools.


(2) State authorities shall prescribe and be responsible for the courses of instruction and general system of training and the addition of such reasonable maritime courses as may be prescribed by Federal authorities, subject to approval by the Maritime Administrator. The curriculum as a composite shall, as a minimum, meet the requirements set out in the Federal Curriculum Standards for Merchant Marine Officers Training Program.


(3) Copies of the Federal Curriculum Standards for Merchant Marine Officers Training Program at the State maritime academies may be obtained from the Maritime Administration, Office of Policy and Plans, 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590.



---

[N] [46 FR 37694, July 22, 1981, as amended at 49 FR 13365, Apr. 4, 1984; 69 FR 31901, June 8, 2004]




