# § 103.7   Fees.

(a) *Department of Justice (DOJ) fees.* Fees for proceedings before immigration judges and the Board of Immigration Appeals are described in 8 CFR 1003.8, 1003.24, and 1103.7.


(1) *USCIS may accept DOJ fees.* Except as provided in 8 CFR 1003.8, or as the Attorney General otherwise may provide by regulation, any fee relating to any EOIR proceeding may be paid to USCIS. Payment of a fee under this section does not constitute filing of the document with the Board or with the immigration court. DHS will provide the payer with a receipt for a fee and return any documents submitted with the fee relating to any immigration court proceeding.


(2) *DHS-EOIR biometric services fee.* Fees paid to and accepted by DHS relating to any immigration proceeding as provided in 8 CFR 1103.7(a) must include an additional $30 for DHS to collect, store, and use biometric information.


(3) *Waiver of immigration court fees.* An immigration judge may waive any fees prescribed under this chapter for cases under their jurisdiction to the extent provided in 8 CFR 1003.8, 1003.24, and 1103.7.


(b) *USCIS fees.* USCIS fees will be required as provided in 8 CFR part 106.


(c) *Remittances.* Remittances to the Board of Immigration Appeals must be made payable to the “United States Department of Justice,” in accordance with 8 CFR 1003.8.


(d) *Non-USCIS DHS immigration fees.* The following fees are applicable to one or more of the immigration components of DHS:


(1) [Reserved]

(2) *Petition for Approval of School for Attendance by Nonimmigrant Student* (*Form I-17*). (i) For filing a petition for school certification: $3,000 plus, a site visit fee of $655 for each location required to be listed on the form.


(ii) For filing a petition for school recertification: $1,250, plus a site visit fee of $655 for each new location required to be listed on the form.


(3) *Form I-68.* For application for issuance of the Canadian Border Boat Landing Permit under section 235 of the Act:


(i) $16.00; or


(ii) $32 for a family (applicant, spouse, and unmarried children under 21 years of age, and parents of either spouse).


(4) *Form I-94.* For issuance of Arrival/Departure Record at a land border port-of-entry: $6.00.


(5) *Form I-94W.* For issuance of Nonimmigrant Visa Waiver Arrival/Departure Form at a land border port-of-entry under section 217 of the Act: $6.00.


(6) *Form I-246.* For filing application for stay of deportation under 8 CFR part 243: $155.00. The application fee may be waived by DHS.


(7) *Form I-823.* For application to a PORTPASS program under section 286 of the Act:


(i) $25.00; or


(ii) $50.00 for a family (applicant, spouse, and minor children).


(iii) The application fee may be waived by DHS.


(iv) If fingerprints are required, the inspector will inform the applicant of the current Federal Bureau of Investigation fee for conducting fingerprint checks before accepting the application fee.


(v) The application fee (if not waived) and fingerprint fee must be paid to CBP before the application will be processed. The fingerprint fee may not be waived.


(vi) For replacement of PORTPASS documentation during the participation period: $25.00.


(vii) For the SENTRI program, see paragraph (d)(16) of this section.




(8) *Fee Remittance for F, J, and M Nonimmigrants (Form I-901).* The fee for Form I-901 is:


(i) For F and M students: $350.


(ii) For J-1 au pairs, camp counselors, and participants in a summer work or travel program: $35.


(iii) For all other J exchange visitors (except those participating in a program sponsored by the Federal Government): $220.


(iv) There is no Form I-901 fee for J exchange visitors in federally funded programs with a program identifier designation prefix that begins with G-1, G-2, G-3, or G-7.


(9) *Special statistical tabulations.* The DHS cost of the work involved.


(10) *Monthly, semiannual, or annual “Passenger Travel Reports via Sea and Air” tables.*

(i) For the years 1975 and before: $7.00.


(ii) For after 1975: Contact: U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Systems Center, Kendall Square, Cambridge, MA 02142.


(11) *Request for Classification of a citizen of Canada to engage in professional business activities under section 214(e) of the Act (Chapter 16 of the North American Free Trade Agreement).* $50.00.


(12) *Request for authorization for parole of an alien into the United States.* $65.00.


(13) *Global Entry.* For filing an application for Global Entry—$120. Minors under the age of 18 who apply to the Global Entry program concurrently with a parent or legal guardian, or whose parent or legal guardian is already a participant of Global Entry, are exempt from payment of the application fee.




(14) *U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card.* Application fee: $70.


(15) *Notice of Appeal or Motion (Form I-290B) filed with ICE SEVP.* For a Form I-290B filed with the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP): $675.


(16) *SENTRI program.* For filing an application for the SENTRI program—$120. Minors under the age of 18 who apply to the SENTRI program concurrently with a parent or legal guardian, or whose parent or legal guardian is already a participant of SENTRI, are exempt from payment of the application fee. Registration of one vehicle for use in the SENTRI lanes is included in the $120 application fee and may be done during the initial application or renewal process If an applicant or participant wishes to register more than one vehicle for use in the SENTRI lanes, or the participant registers any vehicle after the initial application or renewal process, that applicant or participant will be assessed an additional fee of $42 for each vehicle.





---

[N] [85 FR 46914, Aug. 3, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 18980, Apr. 1, 2022; 87 FR 41029, July 11, 2022; 89 FR 6384, Jan. 31, 2024; 89 FR 22628, Apr. 2, 2024]






