# § 721.10647   Multi-walled carbon nanofibers (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as multi-walled carbon nanofibers (PMNs P-10-115, P-10-116, P-10-117, P-10-118, P-10-119, P-10-120, P-10-121, P-10-122, P-10-123, P-10-124, P-10-125, and P-10-126) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after they have been completely reacted (cured); incorporated or embedded into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); embedded into a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing except for mechanical processing; or incorporated into an article as defined at 40 CFR 720.3.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6)(i). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 filters with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meets the minimum requirements of § 721.63(a)(4).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (electrical and thermal conductivity additive in encapsulated thermoplastics, thermosets, elastomers, glass, metals, and ceramics; mechanical reinforcement additive in encapsulated thermoplastics, thermosets, elastomers, glass, metals, and ceramics; energy storage additive; or chemical intermediate), (l), and (q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(b)(1) and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 51908, Sept. 2, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 102798, Dec. 18, 2024]




