# § 70.481   Agreements for payment of liability in installments.

(a) *Authorization of agreements.* The appropriate TTB officer, is authorized to enter into written agreements with any taxpayer under which such taxpayer is allowed to satisfy liability for payment of any tax in installment payments if the appropriate TTB officer determines that such agreement will facilitate collection of such liability.


(b) *Extent to which agreements remain in effect*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b), any agreement under paragraph (a) of this section shall remain in effect for the term of the agreement.


(2) *Inadequate information or jeopardy.* The officer who entered into an installment agreement under paragraph (a) of this section may terminate such agreement if:


(i) Information which the taxpayer provided prior to the date such agreement was entered into was inaccurate or incomplete, or


(ii) The appropriate TTB officer believes that collection of any tax to which an agreement under this section relates is in jeopardy.


(3) *Subsequent change in financial conditions*—(i) *In general.* If the officer who entered into an installment agreement under paragraph (a) of this section makes a determination that the financial condition of the taxpayer has significantly changed, the officer may alter, modify, or terminate such agreement.


(ii) *Notice.* Action may be taken by the appropriate TTB officer under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section only if:


(A) Notice of such determination is provided to the taxpayer no later than 30 days prior to the date of such action, and


(B) Such notice includes the reasons why the officer believes a significant change in the financial condition of the taxpayer has occurred.


(4) *Failure to pay an installment or any other tax liability when due or to provide requested financial information.* The officer who entered into an installment agreement under paragraph (a) of this section may alter, modify, or terminate such agreement in the case of the failure of the taxpayer:


(i) To pay an installment at the time such installment payment is due under such agreement,


(ii) To pay any other tax liability at the time such liability is due, or


(iii) To provide a financial condition update as requested by the appropriate TTB officer.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-301, 55 FR 47655, Nov. 14, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-450, 66 FR 29029, May 29, 2001]




