# ยง 1203.10   Decisions and notices.

(a) *Procedure on decisions by hearing examiner.* If the hearing is held by a hearing examiner, the hearing examiner shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the Director for a final decision, and a copy of the initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient. When the initial decision is made by the hearing examiner, the applicant or recipient may, within 30 days after the mailing of a notice of initial decision, file with the Director his exceptions to the initial decision, with his reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions, the Director may, on his own motion, within 45 days after the initial decision, serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that he will review the decision. On the filing of the exceptions or of notice of review, the Director shall review the initial decision and issue his own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review the initial decision, subject to paragraph (e) of this section, shall constitute the final decision of the Director. 


(b) *Decisions on record or review by the Director.* When a record is certified to the Director for decision or the Director reviews the decision of a hearing examiner pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or when the Director conducts the hearing, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with it briefs or other written statements of the recipient's contentions, and a written copy of the final decision of the Director will be sent to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any. 


(c) *Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.* When a hearing is waived pursuant to ยง 1203.9, a decision shall be made by ACTION on the record and a written copy of the decision shall be sent to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any. 


(d) *Rulings required.* Each decision of a hearing examiner or the Director shall set forth a ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply. 


(e) *Approval by ACTION.* A final decision by an official of ACTION other than by the Director, which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this part or title VI, shall promptly be transmitted to the Director, who may approve the decision, vacate it, or remit or mitigate a sanction imposed. 


(f) *Content of orders.* The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which this regulation applies, and may contain the terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of title VI and this part, including provisions designed to assure that Federal financial assistance to which this regulation applies will not thereafter be extended to the applicant or recipient determined by the decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it under this part, or to have otherwise failed to comply with this part, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies ACTION that it will fully comply with this part. 


(g) *Post-termination proceedings.* (1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of the order for eligibility, or if it brings itself into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this part. 


(2) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request ACTION to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. A request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If ACTION determines that those requirements have been satisfied, it shall restore the eligibility. 


(3) If ACTION denies a request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes ACTION is in error. The applicant or recipient shall be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record in accordance with the rules or procedures issued by ACTION. The applicant or recipient shall be restored to eligibility if it proves at the hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section remain in effect. 



---

[N] [39 FR 27322, July 26, 1974, as amended at 68 FR 51387, Aug. 26, 2003] 




