# ยง 66.7   Updates to the List of Bioengineered Foods.

(a) *Updates to the List.* AMS will review and consider updates to the List on an annual basis and will solicit recommendations regarding updates to the List through notification in the _Federal Register_ and on the AMS website.


(1) Recommendations regarding additions to and subtractions from the List may be submitted to AMS at any time or as part of the annual review process.


(2) Recommendations should be accompanied by data and other information to support the recommended action.


(3) AMS will post public recommendations on its website, along with information about other revisions to the List that the agency may be considering, including input based on consultation with the government agencies responsible for oversight of the products of biotechnology: USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Department of Health and Human Services' Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and appropriate members of the Coordinated Framework for the Regulation of Biotechnology or a similar successor.


(4) AMS will consider whether foods proposed for inclusion on the List have been authorized for commercial production somewhere in the world, and whether the food is currently in legal commercial production for human food somewhere in the world.


(5) If AMS determines that an update to the List is appropriate following its review of all relevant information provided, AMS will modify the List.


(b) *Compliance period.* Regulated entities will have 18 months following the effective date of the updated List of Bioengineered Foods to revise food labels to reflect changes to the List in accordance with the disclosure requirements of this part.




