# § 229.12   Availability schedule.

(a) *Effective date.* The availability schedule contained in this section is effective September 1, 1990.


(b) *Local checks and certain other checks.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, a depository bank shall make funds deposited in an account by a check available for withdrawal not later than the second business day following the banking day on which funds are deposited, in the case of— 


(1) A local check; 


(2) A check drawn on the Treasury of the United States that is not governed by the availability requirements of § 229.10(c); 


(3) A U.S. Postal Service money order that is not governed by the availability requirements of § 229.10(c); and 


(4) A check drawn on a Federal Reserve Bank or Federal Home Loan Bank; a check drawn by a state or unit of general local government; or a cashier's, certified, or teller's check; if any check referred to in this paragraph (b)(4) is a local check that is not governed by the availability requirements of § 229.10(c). 


(c) *Nonlocal checks*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, a depositary bank shall make funds deposited in an account by a check available for withdrawal not later than the fifth business day following the banking day on which funds are deposited, in the case of— 


(i) A nonlocal check; and 


(ii) A check drawn on a Federal Reserve Bank or Federal Home Loan Bank; a check drawn by a state or unit of general local government; a cashier's, certified, or teller's check; or a check deposited in a branch of the depositary bank and drawn on the same or another branch of the same bank, if any check referred to in this paragraph (c)(1)(ii) is a nonlocal check that is not governed by the availability requirements of § 229.10(c). 


(2) Nonlocal checks specified in appendix B-2 to this part must be made available for withdrawal not later than the times prescribed in that appendix. 


(d) *Time period adjustment for withdrawal by cash or similar means.* A depositary bank may extend by one business day the time that funds deposited in an account by one or more checks subject to paragraphs (b), (c), or (f) of this section are available for withdrawal by cash or similar means. Similar means include electronic payment, issuance of a cashier's or teller's check, or certification of a check, or other irrevocable commitment to pay, but do not include the granting of credit to a bank, a Federal Reserve Bank, or a Federal Home Loan Bank that presents a check to the depositary bank for payment. A depositary bank shall, however, make $450 of these funds available for withdrawal by cash or similar means not later than 5:00 p.m. on the business day on which the funds are available under paragraphs (b), (c), or (f) of this section. This $450 is in addition to the $225 available under § 229.10(c)(1)(vii). 


(e) *Extension of schedule for certain deposits in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.* The depositary bank may extend the time periods set forth in this section by one business day in the case of any deposit, other than a deposit described in § 229.10, that is—


(1) Deposited in an account at a branch of a depositary bank if the branch is located in Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, or the U.S. Virgin Islands; and


(2) Deposited by a check drawn on or payable at or through a paying bank not located in the same state as the depositary bank.


(f) *Deposits at nonproprietary ATMs.* A depositary bank shall make funds deposited in an account at a nonproprietary ATM by cash or check available for withdrawal not later than the fifth business day following the banking day on which the funds are deposited.



---

[N] [53 FR 19433, May 27, 1988, as amended by Reg. CC, 55 FR 50818, Dec. 11, 1990; 56 FR 7801, Feb. 26, 1991; 56 FR 66343, Dec. 23, 1991; 57 FR 36601, Aug. 14, 1992; 60 FR 51670, Oct. 3, 1995; 84 FR 31696, July 3, 2019; 84 FR 45403, Aug. 29, 2019]


