# § 1036.635   Certification requirements for high-GCWR medium-duty vehicles.

Engines that will be installed in Vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR that have GCWR above 22,000 pounds may be optionally certified under this part instead of vehicle certification under 40 CFR part 86, subpart S.


(a) Affected engines must meet the criteria pollutant standards specified in § 1036.104. The following specific provisions apply if engines are exempt from greenhouse gas standards under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section:


(1) Determine brake-specific CO_2_ emissions over the FTP, *e*_CO2FTPFCL,_ from the emission-data engine used for demonstrating compliance with criteria pollutant standards. You may alternatively determine *e*_CO2FTPFCL_ based on chassis testing as described in 40 CFR 86.1845-04(h)(6). Use *e*_CO2FTPFCL_ for calculating emission rates from in-use engines under § 1036.530. Report the measured CO_2_ emission rate and the method of testing in your application for certification.


(2) For plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, meet battery monitor requirements under 40 CFR 1037.115(f) instead of the battery-related requirements under 40 CFR 86.1815-27.


(b) Affected engines that will be installed in complete vehicles are exempt from the greenhouse gas emission standards in § 1036.108, but engine certification under this part 1036 depends on the following conditions:


(1) The vehicles in which the engines are installed must meet the following vehicle-based standards under 40 CFR part 86, subpart S:


(i) Evaporative and refueling emission standards as specified in 40 CFR 86.1813-17.


(ii) Greenhouse gas emission standards as specified in 40 CFR 86.1819-14.


(2) Additional provisions related to relevant requirements from 40 CFR part 86, subpart S, apply for certifying engines under this part, as illustrated in the following examples:


(i) The engine's emission control information label must state that the vehicle meets evaporative and refueling emission standards under 40 CFR 86.1813-17 and greenhouse gas emission standards under 40 CFR 86.1819-14.


(ii) The application for certification must include the information related to complying with evaporative, refueling, and greenhouse gas emission standards.


(iii) We may require you to perform testing on in-use vehicles and report test results as specified in 40 CFR 86.1845-04, 86.1846-01, and 86.1847-01.


(iv) Demonstrate compliance with the fleet average CO_2_ standard as described in 40 CFR 86.1865-12 by including vehicles certified under this section in the compliance calculations as part of the fleet averaging calculation for medium-duty vehicles certified under 40 CFR part 86, subpart S.


(3) State in the application for certification that you are using the provisions of this section to meet the fleet average CO_2_ standard in 40 CFR 86.1819-14 instead of meeting the standards of § 1036.108 and instead of certifying the vehicle to standards under 40 CFR part 1037.


(c) The provisions in paragraph (b) of this section are optional for affected engines that will be installed in incomplete vehicles. If vehicles do not meet all the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section, the engines must meet the greenhouse gas emission standards of § 1036.108 and the vehicles must be certified under 40 CFR part 1037.



---

[N] [89 FR 28211, Apr. 18, 2024]




