# § 60.47Da   Commercial demonstration permit.

(a) An owner or operator of an affected facility proposing to demonstrate an emerging technology may apply to the Administrator for a commercial demonstration permit. The Administrator will issue a commercial demonstration permit in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Commercial demonstration permits may be issued only by the Administrator, and this authority will not be delegated.


(b) An owner or operator of an affected facility that combusts solid solvent refined coal (SRC-I) and who is issued a commercial demonstration permit by the Administrator is not subject to the SO_2_ emission reduction requirements under § 60.43Da(c) but must, as a minimum, reduce SO_2_ emissions to 20 percent of the potential combustion concentration (80 percent reduction) for each 24-hour period of steam generator operation and to less than 520 ng/J (1.20 lb/MMBtu) heat input on a 30-day rolling average basis.


(c) An owner or operator of an affected facility that uses fluidized bed combustion (atmospheric or pressurized) and who is issued a commercial demonstration permit by the Administrator is not subject to the SO_2_ emission reduction requirements under § 60.43Da(a) but must, as a minimum, reduce SO_2_ emissions to 15 percent of the potential combustion concentration (85 percent reduction) on a 30-day rolling average basis and to less than 520 ng/J (1.20 lb/MMBtu) heat input on a 30-day rolling average basis.


(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility that combusts coal-derived liquid fuel and who is issued a commercial demonstration permit by the Administrator is not subject to the applicable NO_X_ emission limitation and percent reduction under § 60.44Da(a) but must, as a minimum, reduce emissions to less than 300 ng/J (0.70 lb/MMBtu) heat input on a 30-day rolling average basis.


(e) Commercial demonstration permits may not exceed the following equivalent MW electrical generation capacity for any one technology category, and the total equivalent MW electrical generation capacity for all commercial demonstration plants may not exceed 15,000 MW.


(f) An owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a pressurized fluidized bed or a multi-pollutant emissions controls system who is issued a commercial demonstration permit by the Administrator is not subject to the total PM emission reduction requirements under § 60.42Da but must, as a minimum, reduce PM emissions to less than 6.4 ng/J (0.015 lb/MMBtu) heat input.


(g) An owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a pressurized fluidized bed or a multi-pollutant emissions controls system who is issued a commercial demonstration permit by the Administrator is not subject to the SO_2_ standards or emission reduction requirements under § 60.43Da but must, as a minimum, reduce SO_2_ emissions to 5 percent of the potential combustion concentration (95 percent reduction) or to less than 180 ng/J (1.4 lb/MWh) gross energy output on a 30-boiler operating day rolling average basis.


(h) An owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a pressurized fluidized bed or a multi-pollutant emissions control system or advanced combustion controls who is issued a commercial demonstration permit by the Administrator is not subject to the NO_X_ standards or emission reduction requirements under § 60.44Da but must, as a minimum, reduce NO_X_ emissions to less than 130 ng/J (1.0 lb/MWh) or the combined NO_X_ plus CO emissions to less than 180 ng/J (1.4 lb/MWh) gross energy output on a 30-boiler operating day rolling average basis.


(i) Commercial demonstration permits may not exceed the following equivalent MW electrical generation capacity for any one technology category listed in the following table.



---

[N] [72 FR 32722, June 13, 2007, as amended at 77 FR 9450, Feb. 16, 2012]





