# § 41.63   Payment of tax by electronic fund transfer.

(a) Each importer who was liable, during a calendar year, for a gross amount equal to or exceeding five million dollars in taxes on cigars, cigarettes, cigarette papers, and cigarette tubes combining tax liabilities incurred under this part and part 40 of this chapter, shall use a commercial bank in making payment by electronic fund transfer (EFT) of such taxes during the succeeding calendar year. Payment of such taxes by cash, check, or money order is not authorized for an importer who is required, by this section, to make remittances by EFT. For purposes of this section, the dollar amount of tax liability is defined as the gross tax liability on all taxable withdrawals and importations (including similar products brought into the United States from Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands) during the calendar year, without regard to any drawbacks, credits, or refunds, for all premises from which such activities are conducted by the taxpayer.


(b) For the purposes of this section, a taxpayer includes a controlled group of corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1563, and implementing regulations in 26 CFR 1.1563-1 through 1.1563-4, except that the words “at least 80 percent” shall be replaced by the words “more than 50 percent” in each place it appears in subsection (a) of 26 U.S.C. 1563, as well as in the implementing regulations. Also, the rules for a “controlled group of corporations” apply in a similar fashion to groups which include partnerships and/or sole proprietorships. If one entity maintains more than 50% control over a group consisting of corporations and one, or more, partnerships and/or sole proprietorships, all of the members of the controlled group are one taxpayer for the purpose of determining who is required to make remittances by EFT.


(c) For the purposes of this section, (1) electronic fund transfer or EFT means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by check, draft, or similar paper instrument, which is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephonic instrument, or computer of magnetic tape, so as to order, instruct, or authorize a financial institution to either debit or credit an account, in accordance with procedures established by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and (2) electronic fund transfer or EFT does not have the meaning defined in § 41.11 for use elsewhere in this part.


(d) An importer who is required by this section to make remittances by EFT, shall make the EFT remittance in accordance with the requirements of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-245, 52 FR 534, Jan. 7, 1987, as amended by T.D. ATF-384, 61 FR 54095, Oct. 17, 1996. Redesignated and amended by T.D. TTB-16, 69 FR 52424, 52425, Aug. 26, 2004; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87947, Nov. 6, 2024]






