# § 184.1530   Niacin.

(a) Niacin (C_6_H_5_NO_2_, CAS Reg. No. 59-67-6) is the chemical 3-pyridinecarboxylic acid (nicotinic acid). It is a non-hygroscopic, stable, white, crystalline solid that sublimes without decomposition at about 230 °C. It is soluble in water and alcohol. It is insoluble in ether.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the “Food Chemicals Codex,” 4th ed. (1996), p. 264, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, Box 285, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20055 (Internet address *http://www.nap.edu*), or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a nutrient supplement as defined in § 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice. The ingredient may also be used in infant formula in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the Act.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [48 FR 52033, Nov. 16, 1983; 48 FR 54336, Dec. 2, 1983, as amended at 64 FR 1760, Jan. 12, 1999; 81 FR 5596, Feb. 3, 2016; 88 FR 17724, Mar. 24, 2023]




