# § 175.8   Exceptions for operator equipment and items of replacement.

(a) *Operator equipment.* This subchapter does not apply to—


(1) Aviation fuel and oil in tanks that are in compliance with the installation provisions of 14 CFR, chapter 1.


(2) Hazardous materials required aboard an aircraft in accordance with the applicable airworthiness requirements and operating regulations. Items of replacement for such materials must be transported in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) Items of replacement (company material (COMAT)) for hazardous materials described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be transported in accordance with this subchapter. When an operator transports its own replacement items described in paragraph (a)(2), the following exceptions apply:


(i) In place of required packagings, packagings specifically designed for the items of replacement may be used, provided such packagings provide at least an equivalent level of protection to those that would be required by this subchapter.


(ii) Aircraft batteries are not subject to quantity limitations such as those provided in § 172.101 or § 175.75(c) of this subchapter.


(4) Unless otherwise addressed by FAA regulation or policy (e.g. Advisory Circular), hazardous materials used by the operator aboard the aircraft, when approved by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.


(b) *Other operator exceptions.* This subchapter does not apply to—


(1) Oxygen, or any hazardous material used for the generation of oxygen, for medical use by a passenger, which is furnished by the aircraft operator in accordance with 14 CFR 121.574, 125.219, or 135.91. For the purposes of this paragraph (b)(1), an aircraft operator that does not hold a certificate under 14 CFR parts 121, 125, or 135 may apply this exception in conformance with 14 CFR 121.574, 125.219, or 135.91 in the same manner as required for a certificate holder. See § 175.501 for additional requirements applicable to the stowage of oxygen.


(2) Dry ice (carbon dioxide, solid) intended for use by the operator in food and beverage service aboard the aircraft.


(3) Aerosols of Division 2.2 only (for dispensing of food products), alcoholic beverages, colognes, liquefied gas lighters, perfumes, and portable electronic devices containing lithium cells or batteries that meet the requirements of § 175.10(a)(18) carried aboard a passenger-carrying aircraft by the operator for use or sale on that specific aircraft. A liquefied gas lighter design must be examined and successfully tested by a person or agency authorized by the Associate Administrator.


(4) A tire assembly with a serviceable tire, provided the tire is not inflated to a gauge pressure exceeding the maximum rated pressure for that tire, and the tire (including valve assemblies) is protected from damage during transport. A tire or tire assembly which is unserviceable or damaged is forbidden from air transport; however, a damaged tire is not subject to the requirements of this subchapter if it contains no material meeting the definition of a hazardous material (e.g., Division 2.2).


(5) Alcohol-based hand sanitizers and alcohol-based cleaning products that are accessible to crewmembers in the passenger cabin during the flight or series of flights for the purposes of passenger and crew hygiene. Conditions for the carriage and use must be described in an operations manual and/or other appropriate manuals.



---

[N] [71 FR 14604, Mar. 22, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 55693, Oct. 1, 2007; 76 FR 3381, Jan. 19, 2011; 78 FR 1092, Jan. 7, 2013; 79 FR 46039, Aug. 6, 2014; 81 FR 35543, June 2, 2016; 87 FR 44997, July 26, 2022]




