# ยง 900.301   Definitions.

As used in this subpart and in all supplementary instructions, forms, and documents, unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


(a) *Act. Act* means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress (48 Stat. 31), as amended, and as re-enacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 246), as amended.


(b) *Department. Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture.


(c) *Secretary. Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.


(d) *Administrator. Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in his stead.


(e) *Person. Person* includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, and any other business unit.


(f) *Order. Order* means the marketing order (including an amendatory order) with respect to which the Secretary has directed that a referendum be conducted.


(g) *Producer. Producer* means any person who is a dairy farmer and who, during the representative period, met the requirements of the term *producer* as defined in the order had such order been in effect during the representative period.


(h) *Handler. Handler* means any person who, during the representative period, met the requirements of the term *handler* as defined in the order had such order been in effect during the representative period.


(i) *Referendum agent. Referendum agent* means the person designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.


(j) *Representative period. Representative period* means the period designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 8c of the Act (7 U.S.C. 608c).


(k) *Cooperative association. Cooperative association* means any association of producers that the administrator has found to be qualified pursuant to section 608c(12) of the Act.



---

[N] [30 FR 15412, Dec. 15, 1965, as amended at 37 FR 8059, Apr. 25, 1972]




