# ยง 2.44   Administrator, Risk Management Agency and Manager, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.

(a) *Delegations.* Pursuant to ยง 2.16(a)(4), subject to reservations in ยง 2.16(b)(3), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation to the Administrator, Risk Management Agency, and Manager Federal Crop Insurance Corporation:


(1) Appoint such officers and employees as may be necessary for the transaction of the business of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and the Risk Management Agency.


(2) Conduct pilot programs involving revenue insurance, risk management savings accounts, or the use of futures markets to manage risk and support farm income.


(3) Provide education in management of the financial risks inherent in the production and marketing of agricultural commodities.


(4) Conduct a study and issue a report on the efficacy and accuracy of the application of pack factors regarding the measurement of farm-stored production for purposes of providing policies or plans of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 *et seq.*).


(5) Carry out functions relating to highly erodible land and wetland conservation under sections 1211-1213 and 1221-1223 of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3811-3813 and 3821-3823).


(6) Prepare cropland reports as required by section 11014(c) of the Agricultural Act of 2013, Public Law 113-79.


(7) Assist the Administrator, Economic Research Service with implementing section 10016 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 regarding locally or regionally produced agricultural food products (7 U.S.C. 2204h).


(8) Administer the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501, *et seq.*), except for sections 524(a)(1)(B), (a)(3), and (b) (7 U.S.C. 1524(a)(1)(B), (a)(3), (b)) and 531 (7 U.S.C. 1531).


(9) Coordinate with the Administrator, Farm Service Agency, on the type and format of data received under the noninsured crop assistance program authorized by Sec. 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (Pub. L 104-127, as amended) (7 U.S.C. 7333).






(10) Establish programs with any bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), or with other agencies within USDA, in support of the Service First initiative for the purpose of promoting customer service and efficiency, including delegating to employees of DOI and other USDA agencies the authorities of the Risk Management Agency to carry out projects on behalf of USDA (43 U.S.C. 1703).






(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [62 FR 19901, Apr. 24, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 3407, Jan. 21, 2009; 79 FR 44113, July 30, 2014; 83 FR 22188, May 14, 2018; 85 FR 65516, Oct. 15, 2020; 89 FR 80075, Oct. 2, 2024]




