# § 16.1   Applicability and description of part.

(a) *General.* The provisions of this part govern all Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) proceedings involving Federally-assisted airports, except for complaints or requests for determination filed with the Secretary under 14 CFR part 302, whether the proceedings are instituted by order of the FAA or by filing a complaint with the FAA under the following authorities:


(1) 49 U.S.C. 40103(e), prohibiting the grant of exclusive rights for the use of any landing area or air navigation facility on which Federal funds have been expended (formerly section 308 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended).


(2) Requirements of the Anti-Head Tax Act, 49 U.S.C. 40116.


(3) The assurances and other Federal obligations contained in grant-in-aid agreements issued under the Federal Airport Act of 1946, 49 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.* (repealed 1970).


(4) The assurances and other Federal obligations contained in grant-in-aid agreements issued under the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*

(5) The assurances and other Federal obligations contained in grant-in-aid agreements issued under the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 (AAIA), as amended and recodified, 49 U.S.C. 47101 *et seq.,* specifically section 511(a), 49 U.S.C. 47107, and 49 U.S.C. 47133.


(6) Section 505(d) of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, and the requirements concerning civil rights and/or Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) issues contained in 49 U.S.C. 47107(e) and 49 U.S.C. 47113; 49 U.S.C. 47123; 49 U.S.C. 322, as amended; 49 CFR parts 23 and/or 26; and/or grant assurance 30 and/or grant assurance 37.


(7) Obligations contained in property deeds for property transferred pursuant to section 16 of the Federal Airport Act (49 U.S.C. 1115), section 23 of the Airport and Airway Development Act (49 U.S.C. 1723), or section 516 of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act (49 U.S.C. 47125).


(8) Obligations contained in property deeds for property transferred under the Surplus Property Act (49 U.S.C. 47151-47153).


(b) *Other agencies.* Where a grant assurance concerns a statute, executive order, regulation, or other authority that provides an administrative process for the investigation or adjudication of complaints by a Federal agency other than the FAA, persons shall use the administrative process established by those authorities. Where a grant assurance concerns a statute, executive order, regulation, or other authority that enables a Federal agency other than the FAA to investigate, adjudicate, and enforce compliance under those authorities on its own initiative, the FAA may defer to that Federal agency.


(c) *Other enforcement.* If a complaint or action initiated by the FAA involves a violation of the 49 U.S.C. subtitle VII or FAA regulations, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the FAA may take investigative and enforcement action under 14 CFR part 13, “Investigative and Enforcement Procedures.”


(d) *Effective date.* This part applies to a complaint filed with the FAA and to an investigation initiated by the FAA on or after December 16, 1996.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56141, Sept. 12, 2013]




