# § 165.503   Security Zone; Captain of the Port Hampton Roads Zone.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Certain dangerous cargo* or *CDC* means a material defined as CDC in 33 CFR 160.202.


*Designated Representative* of the Captain of the Port is any U.S. Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port (COTP), Virginia to act on his or her behalf.


*Passenger vessel* means a vessel defined as a passenger vessel in 46 CFR part 70.


(b) *Location.* All navigable waters of the Captain of the Port Virginia zone (defined in 33 CFR 3.25-10) within 500 yards around a passenger vessel or vessel carrying a CDC, while the passenger vessel or vessel carrying CDC is transiting, moored or anchored.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) No vessel may approach within 500 yards of a passenger vessel or vessel carrying a CDC within the Captain of the Port Virginia zone, unless traveling at the minimum speed necessary to navigate safely.


(2) Under § 165.33, no vessel or person may approach within 100 yards of a passenger vessel or vessel carrying a CDC within the Captain of the Port Virginia zone, unless authorized by the COTP Virginia or his or her designated representative.


(3) The COTP Virginia may notify the maritime and general public by marine information broadcast of the periods during which individual security zones have been activated by providing notice in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7.


(4) A security zone in effect around a moving or anchored vessel will be enforced by a law enforcement vessel. A security zone in effect around a moored vessel will be enforced by a law enforcement agent shoreside, a law enforcement vessel waterside, or both.


(5) Persons desiring to transit the area of the security zone within 100 yards of a passenger vessel or vessel carrying a CDC must contact the COTP Virginia on VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz) or telephone number (757) 668-5555 or (757) 484-8192 to seek permission to transit the area. All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(d) *Enforcement.* The COTP will enforce these zones and may enlist the aid and cooperation of any Federal, state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency to assist in the enforcement of the regulation.



---

[N] [CGD05-04-067, 69 FR 40769, July 7, 2004, as amended by USCG-2005-21869, 80 FR 5336, Jan. 30, 2015; USCG-2019-0943, 85 FR 6806, Feb. 6, 2020]




