# § 622.481   Size limits.

All size limits in this section are minimum size limits unless specified otherwise. A fish not in compliance with its size limit in or from the EEZ around St. Croix may not be possessed, sold, or purchased, and must be released immediately with a minimum of harm. The operator of a vessel that fishes in the EEZ around St. Croix is responsible for ensuring that all species on board are in compliance with the size limits specified in this section. See § 622.10 regarding requirements for landing fish intact. See § 622.485(c)(2) regarding requirements for landing spiny lobster intact. See § 622.485(e) regarding requirements for landing queen conch with the meat and shell intact.


(a) *Reef fish.* (1) Yellowtail snapper—12 inches (30.5 cm), TL.


(2) Parrotfishes, except for redband parrotfish, and prohibited blue parrotfish, midnight parrotfish, or rainbow parrotfish—9 inches (22.9 cm), FL.


(3) Redband parrotfish—8 inches (20.3 cm), FL.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Spiny lobster.* 3.5 inches (8.9 cm), carapace length.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Queen conch.* (1) The minimum size limit is either 9 inches (22.9 cm) in length, that is, from the tip of the spire to the distal end of the shell, or 
3/8-inch (9.5 mm) in lip width at its widest point.


(2) A queen conch not in compliance with its size limit, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, in or from the EEZ around St. Croix, may not be possessed, sold, or purchased and must be released immediately with a minimum of harm. The operator of a vessel that fishes in the EEZ around St. Croix is responsible for ensuring that queen conch on board are in compliance with the size limit specified in paragraph (e)(1) this section.






