# ยง 501.3   Identity labeling of animal food in package form.

(a) The principal display panel of a food in package form shall bear as one of its principal features a statement of the identity of the commodity. 


(b) Such statement of identity shall be in terms of: 


(1) The name now or hereafter specified in or required by any applicable Federal law or regulation; or, in the absence thereof, 


(2) The common or usual name of the food; or, in the absence thereof, 


(3) An appropriately descriptive term, or when the nature of the food is obvious, a fanciful name commonly used by the public for such food. 


(c) Where a food is marketed in various optional forms (whole, slices, diced, etc.), the particular form shall be considered to be a necessary part of the statement of identity and shall be declared in letters of a type size bearing a reasonable relation to the size of the letters forming the other components of the statement of identity; except that if the optional form is visible through the container or is depicted by an appropriate vignette, the particular form need not be included in the statement. This specification does not affect the required declarations of identity under definitions and standards for foods promulgated pursuant to section 401 of the act. 


(d) This statement of identity shall be presented in bold type on the principal display panel, shall be in a size reasonably related to the most prominent printed matter on such panel, and shall be in lines generally parallel to the base on which the package rests as it is designed to be displayed. 


(e) Under the provisions of section 403(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, a food shall be deemed to be misbranded if it is an imitation of another food unless its label bears, in type of uniform size and prominence, the word *imitation* and, immediately thereafter, the name of the food imitated. 


(1) A food shall be deemed to be an imitation and thus subject to the requirements of section 403(c) of the act if it is a substitute for and resembles another food but is nutritionally inferior to that food. 


(2) A food that is a substitute for and resembles another food shall not be deemed to be an imitation provided it meets each of the following requirements: 


(i) It is not nutritionally inferior to the food for which it substitutes and which it resembles. 


(ii) Its label bears a common or usual name that complies with the provisions of ยง 502.5 of this chapter and that is not false or misleading, or in the absence of an existing common or usual name, an appropriately descriptive term that is not false or misleading. The label may, in addition, bear a fanciful name which is not false or misleading. 


(3) A food for which a common or usual name is established by regulation (e.g., in a standard of identity pursuant to section 401 of the act, in a common or usual name regulation and may, in addition, bear a fanciful name which is not false or misleading, and established pursuant to part 502 of this chapter), and which complies with all of the applicable requirements of such regulation(s), shall not be deemed to be an imitation.


(4) Nutritional inferiority includes: 


(i) Any reduction in the content of an essential nutrient that is present in a measurable amount. 


(ii) If the Commissioner concludes that a food is a substitute for and resembles another food but is inferior to the food imitated for reasons other than those set forth in this paragraph, he may propose appropriate revisions to this regulation or he may propose a separate regulation governing the particular food. 


(f) A label may be required to bear the percentage(s) of a characterizing ingredient(s) or information concerning the presence or absence of an ingredient(s) or the need to add an ingredient(s) as part of the common or usual name of the food pursuant to part 502 of this chapter.



---

[N] [41 FR 38619, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 14091, Mar. 15, 1977; 54 FR 18279, Apr. 28, 1989] 




