# ยง 63.1343   What standards apply to my kilns, clinker coolers, raw material dryers, and open clinker storage piles?

(a) *General.* The provisions in this section apply to each kiln and any alkali bypass associated with that kiln, clinker cooler, raw material dryer, and open clinker storage pile. All D/F, HCl, and total hydrocarbon (THC) emissions limit are on a dry basis. The D/F, HCl, and THC limits for kilns are corrected to 7 percent oxygen. All THC emissions limits are measured as propane. Standards for mercury and THC are based on a rolling 30-day average. If using a CEMS to determine compliance with the HCl standard, this standard is based on a rolling 30-day average. You must ensure appropriate corrections for moisture are made when measuring flow rates used to calculate mercury emissions. The 30-day period means all operating hours within 30 consecutive kiln operating days excluding periods of startup and shutdown. All emissions limits for kilns, clinker coolers, and raw material dryers currently in effect that are superseded by the limits below continue to apply until the compliance date of the limits below, or until the source certifies compliance with the limits below, whichever is earlier.


(b) *Kilns, clinker coolers, raw material dryers, raw mills, and finish mills.* (1) The emissions limits for these sources are shown in Table 1.


(2) When there is an alkali bypass and/or an inline coal mill with a separate stack associated with a kiln, the combined PM emissions from the kiln and the alkali bypass stack and/or the inline coal mill stack are subject to the PM emissions limit. Existing kilns that combine the clinker cooler exhaust and/or alkali bypass and/or coal mill exhaust with the kiln exhaust and send the combined exhaust to the PM control device as a single stream may meet an alternative PM emissions limit. This limit is calculated using Equation 1 of this section:


For new kilns that combine kiln exhaust, clinker cooler gas and/or coal mill and alkali bypass exhaust, the limit is calculated using Equation 2 of this section:


(c) *Open clinker storage pile.* The owner or operator of an open clinker storage pile must prepare, and operate in accordance with, the fugitive dust emissions control measures, described in their operation and maintenance plan (see ยง 63.1347 of this subpart), that is appropriate for the site conditions as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The operation and maintenance plan must also describe the measures that will be used to minimize fugitive dust emissions from piles of clinker, such as accidental spillage, that are not part of open clinker storage piles.


(1) The operation and maintenance plan must identify and describe the location of each current or future open clinker storage pile and the fugitive dust emissions control measures the owner or operator will use to minimize fugitive dust emissions from each open clinker storage pile.


(2) For open clinker storage piles, the operations and maintenance plan must specify that one or more of the following control measures will be used to minimize to the greatest extent practicable fugitive dust from open clinker storage piles: Locating the source inside a partial enclosure, installing and operating a water spray or fogging system, applying appropriate chemical dust suppression agents, use of a wind barrier, compaction, use of tarpaulin or other equally effective cover or use of a vegetative cover. You must select, for inclusion in the operations and maintenance plan, the fugitive dust control measure or measures listed in this paragraph that are most appropriate for site conditions. The plan must also explain how the measure or measures selected are applicable and appropriate for site conditions. In addition, the plan must be revised as needed to reflect any changing conditions at the source.


(3) Temporary piles of clinker that result from accidental spillage or clinker storage cleaning operations must be cleaned up within 3 days.



---

[N] [78 FR 10037, Feb. 12, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 44779, July 27, 2015; 83 FR 35132, July 25, 2018]




