# § 488.1230   Action when deficiencies are at the condition-level but do not pose immediate jeopardy.

(a)* Noncompliance with conditions of participation.* If the hospice program is no longer in compliance with the conditions of participation, either because the condition-level deficiency or deficiencies substantially limit the provider's capacity to furnish adequate care but do not pose immediate jeopardy, or the hospice program has repeat condition-level deficiencies based on the hospice program's failure to correct and sustain compliance, CMS does either of the following.


(1) Terminates the hospice program's provider agreement.


(2) Imposes one or more enforcement remedies set forth in § 488.1220(a) through (e) in lieu of termination, for a period not to exceed 6 months.


(b)* 15-calendar day notice.* Except for civil money penalties, for all remedies specified in § 488.1220 imposed when there is no immediate jeopardy, notice must be given at least 15 calendar days before the effective date of the enforcement action. The requirements of the notice are set forth in § 488.1210(e).


(c)* Not meeting criteria for continuation of payment.* If a hospice program does not meet the criteria for continuation of payment under § 488.1260(a), CMS terminates the hospice program's provider agreement in accordance with § 488.1265.


(d) *Termination timeframe when there is no immediate jeopardy.* CMS terminates a hospice program within 6 months of the last day of the survey, if the hospice program is not in compliance with the conditions of participation, and the terms of the plan of correction have not been met.


(e)* Transfer of care.* A hospice program, if its provider agreement terminated, is responsible for providing information, assistance, and arrangements necessary for the proper and safe transfer of patients to another local hospice program within 30 calendar days of termination. The State must assist the hospice program in the safe and orderly transfer of care and services for the patients to another local hospice program.




