# § 102-40.30   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Acid-contaminated property* means property that may cause burns or toxicosis when improperly handled due to acid residues adhering to or trapped within the material.


*Ammunition* as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(17), means ammunition or cartridge cases, primers, bullets, or propellant powder designed for use in any firearm.


*Ammunition components* means the individual parts of ammunition, including cartridge cases, primers, bullets/projectiles, and propellant powder.


*Biologicals* means hazardous materials associated with the products and operations of applied biology and/or biochemistry, especially serums, vaccines, etc., produced from microorganisms.


*Certified electronic product* means any electronic product which bears the manufacturer's certification label or tag (21 CFR 1010.2) indicating that the product meets applicable radiation safety performance standards prescribed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under 21 CFR part 1020.


*Commerce Control List Item (CCLI)* means property identified on the Commerce Control List (15 CFR part 774, supp. 1) subject to export controls under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 App. U.S.C. 2401-2420) and implemented by the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 730). Items may be placed on the list for reasons including, but not limited to, technology transfer, scarcity of materials, crime control, and national security.


*Controlled substances* means—


(1) Any narcotic, depressant, stimulant, or hallucinogenic drug, or any other drug or substance included in Schedules I, II, III, IV, or V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), except exempt chemical preparations and mixtures and excluded substances contained in 21 CFR part 1308; or


(2) Any other drug or substance that the Attorney General determines to be subject to control under Subchapter I of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801, *et seq.*); or


(3) Any other drug or substance that by international treaty, convention, or protocol is to be controlled by the United States.


*Demilitarization* means, as defined by the Department of Defense (DOD) in the Defense Material Disposition Manual, DOD 4160.21-M, to be the act of destroying the military offensive or defensive advantages inherent in certain types of equipment or material. The term includes mutilation, dumping at sea, scrapping, melting, burning, or alteration designed to prevent the further use of this equipment and material for its originally intended military or lethal purpose and applies equally to material in unserviceable or serviceable condition that has been screened through an Inventory Control Point and declared excess or foreign excess.


*Electronic Product* means any item powered by electricity that has logic circuitry enabling the item to perform its intended function.


*Explosive-contaminated property* means property that may ignite or explode when exposed to shock, flame, sparks, or other high temperature sources due to residual explosive material in joints, angles, cracks, or around bolts.


*Extremely hazardous material* means property hazardous to the extent that it generally requires special handling such as licensing and training of handlers, protective clothing, and special containers and storage. Because of its extreme flammability, toxicity, corrosivity or other perilous qualities, it could constitute an immediate danger or threat to life and property and which usually have specialized uses under controlled conditions. It is also material which have been determined by the holding agency to endanger public health and safety or the environment if released to the general public.


*Firearm,* as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(3), means:


(1) Any weapon (including a starter gun) which will or is designed to or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive;


(2) The frame or receiver of any such weapon;


(3) Any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or


(4) Any destructive device. Such term does not include an antique firearm.


*Hazardous material* means property that is deemed a *hazardous material,* chemical substance or mixture, or hazardous waste under the Federal *hazardous materials* transportation law (49 U.S.C. 5101, *et seq.*), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. 6901, *et seq.*), or the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 2601, *et seq.*). Generally, *hazardous materials* have one or more of the following characteristics:


(1) Are carcinogens (according to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations at 29 CFR part 1910), toxic or highly toxic agents, reproductive toxins, irritants, corrosives, hepatotoxins, nephrotoxins, neurotoxins, agents that act on the hematopoietic system, and agents that damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or mucous membranes;


(2) Are combustible liquids, compressed gases, explosives, flammable liquids, flammable solids, organic peroxides, oxidizers, pyrophorics, unstable (reactive) or water-reactive;


(3) Are radioactive to the extent it requires special handling;


(4) Identify hazards on associated SDS, MSDS, or HMIS documentation;


(5) Possess special characteristics which, in the opinion of the holding agency, could be hazardous to health, safety, or the environment if improperly handled, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise improperly used.


(6) Materials that, in the course of normal handling, use or storage, may produce or release dusts, gases, fumes, vapors, mists or smoke having any of the above characteristics.


*Hazardous waste* means those materials or substances, the handling and disposal of which are governed by 40 CFR part 261. Hazardous materials generally become *hazardous wastes* when they are no longer suitable for their intended or valid alternate purpose, or for resource recovery. Some solid (non-hazardous) wastes are predetermined *hazardous wastes* upon generation (40 CFR part 261, subpart D); some are determined *hazardous wastes* when they exhibit ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity, or extraction procedure toxicity. Hazardous materials having an expired shelf life should be reclassified as *hazardous waste* if required by Federal and/or state environmental laws or regulations. Before reclassification, the shelf life may be extended if supported by results of tests and recertification performed by authorized personnel in accordance with applicable regulations.


*Lead-containing paint* means paint or other similar surface coating material containing lead or lead compounds in excess of 0.06 percent of the weight of the total nonvolatile content of the paint or the weight of the dried paint film.


*Medical device* means any health-care product that does not achieve its principal intended purposes by chemical action in or on the body or by being metabolized. *Medical devices* are categorized in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301, *et seq.*). Potential hazards of these devices include chemical and heavy metal hazards, and biohazards.


*Munitions List Item (MLI)* means property and related technical data designated as defense articles and defense services pursuant to sections 2778 and 2794(7) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778 and 2794(7)).


*Noncertified Electronic Product* means any electronic product for which there is an applicable radiation safety performance standard prescribed or hereafter prescribed by the FDA under 21 CFR part 1020, and which the manufacturer has not certified as meeting such standard. The non-certification may be due to either:


(1) Manufacture of the product before the effective date of the standard; or


(2) The product was exempted from the applicable standard and is so labeled.


*Nuclear Regulatory Commission-Controlled Material* means material subject to the controls of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) pursuant to the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974. The materials are defined as follows:


(1) *Byproduct material.* Any radioactive material (except special nuclear material) yielded in or made radioactive by exposure to the radiation, incident to the process of producing or utilizing special nuclear material. (See 10 CFR part 30).


(2) *Source material.* Uranium or thorium, or any combination thereof, in any physical or chemical form or ores which contain by weight, one-twentieth of one percent (0.05%) or more of uranium, thorium, or any combination thereof. Source material does not include special nuclear material. (See 10 CFR part 40).


(3) *Special nuclear material.* Plutonium, uranium 233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, any other materials which the NRC, pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011, *et seq.*), including any amendments thereto, determined to be special nuclear material, or any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing, but does not include source material. (See 10 CFR part 70).


*Perishable* means an item subject to rapid deterioration, spoilage or death, when removed from special storage conditions or care, such as fresh food, animals, and plants.


*Precious metal* means gold, silver, and platinum group metals (platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium, and ruthenium).


*Radiation Safety Performance Standards.* Certain electronic items or components emitting hazardous electronic radiation are subject to performance standards (21 CFR part 1020). You must follow FDA policies related to acquisition, use, and disposal of items identified by the FDA or other authority for which performance standards are established. See 21 CFR 1000.15 for examples of electronic items that are required to follow *radiation safety performance standards.* Several types of electronic radiation (and examples of items that may emit that type of radiation) include: ionizing electromagnetic radiation (television receivers); ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation (tanning and therapeutic lamps); infrared and microwave electromagnetic radiation (certain alarm systems); and, laser emissions (certain cauterizing, burning, and welding devices).


*Reagent* means any hazardous material used to detect or measure another substance or to convert one substance into another by means of the reactions it causes.


*Safety Data Sheet (SDS)* means the documentation, as required by 29 CFR 1910.1200, identifying the potential hazards associated with the specific category of product or property. Sources of SDS information may be the manufacturer, distributor, or the procuring agency. Related documentation, such as a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) may also provide information on hazards associated with assets handled under this part.


*Universal Waste(s)* mean(s) any of the following hazardous waste that is/are managed under the universal waste requirements of 40 CFR part 273:


(1) Batteries as described in 40 CFR 273.2;


(2) Pesticides as described in 40 CFR 273.3;


(3) Mercury-containing equipment (including thermostats) as described in 40 CFR 273.4 and as defined at 40 CFR 273.9; and


(4) Light bulbs containing mercury (such as fluorescent bulbs) as described in 40 CFR 273.5.




