# § 3.500   General.

The effective date of a rating which results in the reduction or discontinuance of an award will be in accordance with the facts found except as provided in § 3.105. The effective date of reduction or discontinuance of an award of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation for a payee or dependent will be the earliest of the dates stated in these paragraphs unless otherwise provided. Where an award is reduced, the reduced rate will be effective the day following the date of discontinuance of the greater benefit.


(a) *Except as otherwise provided (38 U.S.C. 5112(a)).* In accordance with the facts found. 


(b) *Error; payee's or administrative (38 U.S.C. 5112(b), (9), (10)).* (1) Effective date of award or day preceding act, whichever is later, but not prior to the date entitlement ceased, on an erroneous award based on an act of commission or omission by a payee or with the payee's knowledge. 


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (r) of this section, and § 3.501 (e) and (g), date of last payment on an erroneous award based solely on administrative error or error in judgment. 


(c) *Annual income.* See § 3.660. 


(d) *Apportionment* (§§ *3.450 series; § 3.556*). (1) Except as otherwise provided, date of last payment when reason for apportionment no longer exists. 


(2) Where pension was apportioned under § 3.551(c), day preceding date of veteran's release from hospital, unless overpayment would result; date of last payment if necessary to avoid overpayment. 


(e) *Federal employees' compensation* (§ *3.708*). The day preceding the date the award of benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act became effective. If children on rolls and surviving spouse has primary title, award to children discontinued same date as surviving spouse's award. 


(f) *Contested claims § 3.402(b) and § subpart F of part 20 of this chapter).* Date of last payment. 


(g) *Death (38 U.S.C. 5112 (a), (b))*—(1) *Payee (includes apportionee).* Last day of month before death. 


(2) *Dependent of payee (includes apportionee):*

(i) Death prior to October 1, 1982: last day of the calendar year in which death occurred.


(ii) Death on or after October 1, 1982: last day of the month in which death occurred, except that section 306 and old-law pension reductions or terminations will continue to be effective the last day of the calendar year in which death occurred.


(3) *Veteran receiving retirement pay.* Date of death. 


(h) *Dependency of parent (38 U.S.C. 5112; Pub. L. 90-275;* §§ *3.4(a), (b)(2), 3.250, 3.551(b) and 3.660*). See § 3.660. 


(i) *Election of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits* (§ *3.700 series*). Day preceding beginning date of award under other law. 


(j) *Foreign residence (38 U.S.C. 5308(a)).* See § 3.653. 


(k) *Fraud (38 U.S.C. 6103(a), (d); §§ 3.669 and 3.901).* Beginning date of award or day preceding date of fraudulent act, whichever is later. 


(l)-(m) [Reserved]


(n) *Marriage (or remarriage)* (38 U.S.C. 101(3), 5112 (b))—(1) *Payee* (*includes apportionee*). Last day of month before marriage. 


(2) *Dependent of payee (includes apportionee):*

(i) Marriage prior to October 1, 1982: last day of the calendar year in which marriage occurred.


(ii) Marriage on or after October 1, 1982: last day of the month in which marriage occurred, except that section 306 and old-law pension reductions or terminations will continue to be effective the last day of the calendar year in which marriage occurred.


(3) *Conduct of surviving spouse.* Last day of month before inception of relationship. 


(o) *Penal institutions.* See § 3.666. 


(p) *Philippines (38 U.S.C. 107(a)(3); § 3.40).* Date of last payment when recognition of service withdrawn. 


(q) *Renouncement* (§ *3.106*). Last day of the month in which the renouncement is received. 


(r) *Service connection (38 U.S.C. 5112(b)(6); § 3.105).* Last day of month following 60 days after notice to payee. Applies to reduced evaluation, and severance of service connection. 


(s) *Treasonable acts or subversive activities* (38 U.S.C. 6104 and 6105; §§ 3.902, 3.903). (1) *Treasonable acts.* Date of the forfeiture decision or date of last payment, whichever is earlier.


(2) *Subversive activities.* Beginning date of award or day preceding date of commission of subversive activities for which convicted, whichever is later.


(t) *Whereabouts unknown* (§§ 3.158, 3.656). Date of last payment. 


(u) *Change in law or Department of Veterans Affairs issue, or interpretation.* See § 3.114. 


(v) *Failure to furnish evidence of continued eligibility.* See § 3.652 (a) and (b). 


(w) *Failure to furnish Social Security number.* Last day of the month during which the 60 day period following the date of VA request expires.


(x) *Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990 (§ 3.715).* (Compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation only.) Last day of the month preceding the month in which payment under the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990 is issued. 


(y) *Compensation for certain disabilities due to undiagnosed illnesses (§§ 3.105; 3.317).* Last day of the month in which the 60-day period following notice to the payee of the final rating action expires. This applies to both reduced evaluations and severance of service connection.



---

[N] [26 FR 1596, Feb. 24, 1961]


