# 205.301   General.

(a)(S-70) *Synopsis of exceptions to domestic source requirements.*

(i) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 4862(k), contracting officers also must synopsize through the Governmentwide point of entry (*https://www.sam.gov*), awards exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold that are for the acquisition of any clothing, fiber, yarn, or fabric items described in 225.7002-1(a)(1)(ii) through (x), if—


(A) The Secretary concerned has determined that domestic items are not available, in accordance with 225.7002-2(b); or


(B) The acquisition is for chemical warfare protective clothing, and the contracting officer has determined that an exception to domestic source requirements applies because the acquisition furthers an agreement with a qualifying country, in accordance with 225.7002-2(n).


(ii) The synopsis must be submitted in sufficient time to permit its publication not later than 7 days after contract award.


(iii) In addition to the information otherwise required in a synopsis of contract award, the synopsis must include one of the following statements as applicable:


(A) “The exception at DFARS 225.7002-2(b) applies to this acquisition, because the Secretary concerned has determined that items grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States cannot be acquired as and when needed in satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity at U.S. market prices.”


(B) “The exception at DFARS 225.7002-2(n) applies to this acquisition, because the contracting officer has determined that this acquisition of chemical warfare protective clothing furthers an agreement with a qualifying country identified in DFARS 225.003(10).”



---

[N] [71 FR 58536, Oct. 4, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 52895, Oct. 15, 2009; 74 FR 59914, Nov. 19, 2009; 80 FR 51749, Aug. 26, 2015; 87 FR 76990, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 88533, Dec. 22, 2023]










