# § 1313.4   Filing procedures and formats for contract summaries.

(a) *Filing of Summaries.* (1) Two copies of each contract summary, containing the applicable information specified in §§ 1313.6, 1313.7, or 1313.8, as appropriate, must be filed with the Board as soon as possible, but no longer than 7 days after the date of the contract (or contract amendment).


(2) The outside envelope or wrapper containing one or more contract summaries must be prominently marked “Rail Contract Summary” and addressed to: Tariffs Branch, Surface Transportation Board, Washington, DC 20423.


(3) A transmittal letter identifying the submitted publication(s), and the name and telephone number of a contact person, must accompany each filing of one or more contract summaries. Each transmittal letter shall clearly indicate in the upper left-hand corner thereof:


(i) The assigned alpha code of the filing carrier;


(ii) The number of summaries transmitted;


(iii) The filing fee enclosed (pursuant to 49 CFR 1002.2(a)); and


(iv) The transmittal number if the filer utilizes transmittal numbers.


(b) *Contract summary title page.* The title page of each contract summary must contain only the following information:


(1) In the upper right corner, the contract summary number (see paragraph (c) of this section), followed by the amendment number if an amended contract summary.


(2) In the center of the page, the filing carrier's name, followed by the words “CONTRACT SUMMARY” or “AMENDED CONTRACT SUMMARY”, as applicable, in large print.


(3) Date of contract and its effective date.


(4) In the center lower portion, the individual submitting the filing, and the name of the individual(s) for service of complaints (if not the same individual). If not otherwise noted, a complainant may rely on service to the individual submitting the filing.


(c) *Contract summary numbering system.* (1) The contract summary identification number must include the word “STB,” the standard carrier alphabetic code for the filing railroad (limited to four letters), the letter “C,” and a sequential number, with each separated by a hyphen. The following is an example: the 357th contract summary filed by the Conrail would have the following identification number: “STB-CR-C-357.”


(2) At its option, the carrier may issue contract summaries with nonconsecutive numbers if it assigns blocks of numbers for specific uses. An index to the blocks of reserved numbers shall be filed with the Board.


(d) *Format requirements for contract summary information.* (1) The contract summary must enumerate and have each item required in §§ 1313.6, 1313.7 or 1313.8 of this part, as applicable, completed. When the item does not pertain to the contract, the term “Not Applicable” (“NA”) shall be used.


(2) Changes in prior contract summaries must be underscored and must be followed by the words “addition,” “deletion,” “extension,” “cancellation,” or other appropriate descriptive phrase in parentheses. If the change to the contract is only in confidential matter, a statement to that effect must be made in the amended contract summary and must indicate the particular feature to which the change applies (i.e., rate, special feature, etc.). If “not applicable” is permitted in the original summary under §§ 1313.6 through 1313.8 of this part, the amended summary may use “not applicable” with a notation that a change pertained only to confidential data.


(3) Amended contract summaries may not substitute phrases such as “not applicable” or “no change” where disclosure was required in the original contact summary (such as in the commodity description); amended contract summaries must set forth all required non-confidential terms in the contract, whether amended or not.



---

[N] [61 FR 68669, Dec. 30, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 12946, Apr. 3, 2019]




