# § 52b.14   Other federal laws, regulations, executive orders, and policies that apply.

Other federal laws, regulations, executive orders, and policies apply to grants under this part. These include, but are not necessarily limited to:


(a) *Laws.*

An Act to Provide for the Preservation of Historical and Archeological Data (and other purposes), as amended (16 U.S.C. 469 *et seq.*). 


(b) *Regulations.*

(c) *Executive orders.*

(d) *Policies.* (1) Design Policy and Guidelines (1996). Division of Engineering Services, National Institutes of Health (_Note:_ To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Division of Engineering Services, 9000 Rockville Pike, Building 13, Room 2E43, Bethesda, MD 20892 (telephone 301-496-6186; not a toll-free number) or visit the following site on the World Wide Web (*http://des.od.nih/gov/nihpol.html*).).


(2) NIH Guidelines on the Inclusion of Women and Minorities as Subjects in Clinical Research (1994) (_Note:_ To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Office of Research on Women's Health, NIH, Room 201, Building 1, MSC 0161, Bethesda, MD 20892-0161 (telephone 301-402-1770; not a toll-free number).).


(3) NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (1994) (_Note:_ To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, NIH, 6000 Executive Boulevard, Suite 323, MSC 7010, Bethesda, MD 20892-7010 (telephone 301-496-9838; not a toll-free number).).


(4) “NIH Grants Policy Statement.” NIH Pub. No. 99-80 (Oct. 1998) (Note: To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Extramural Outreach and Information Resources Office (EOIRO), Office of Extramural Research, NIH, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 6208, MSC 7910, Bethesda, MD 20892-7910 (telephone 301-435-0714; not a toll-free number). Information may also be obtained by contacting the EOIRO via its e-mail address (*asknih@odrockml.od.nih.gov*) and by browsing the NIH Home Page site on the World Wide Web (*http://www.nih.gov*).).


(5) “Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (1996). Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources, Commission on Life Sciences, National Research Council (_Note:_ To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Office for Protection from Research Risks, NIH, 6100 Executive Boulevard, Suite 3B01, MSC 7507, Rockville, MD 20852-7507 (telephone 301-496-7005; not a toll-free number).).


(6) “Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.” (Rev. Sept. 1986). Office for Protection from Research Risks, NIH (Note: To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Office for Protection from Research Risks, NIH, 6100 Executive Boulevard, Suite 3B01, MSC 7507, Rockville, MD 20852-7507 (telephone 301-496-7005; not a toll-free number).).


(7) “Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories.” DHHS Publication No. (CDC) 88-8395 (1993). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) (_Note:_ To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Division of Safety, Occupational Safety and Health Branch, NIH, 13 South Drive, Room 3K04, MSC 5760, Bethesda, MD 20892-5760 (telephone 301-496-2960; not a toll-free number).).


(8) “NIH Guidelines for the Laboratory Use of Chemical Carcinogens,” DHHS Publication No. (NIH) 81-2385 (May 1981) (_Note:_ To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Division of Safety, Occupational Safety and Health Branch, NIH, 13 South Drive, Room 3K04, MSC 5760, Bethesda, MD 20892-5760 (telephone 301-496-2960; not a toll-free number).).


(9) “NIH Policy and Guidelines on the Inclusion of Children as Participants in Research Involving Human Subjects (March 6, 1998).” NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts (_Note:_ To obtain copies of the policy, interested persons should contact the Office of Extramural Research, NIH, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 6208, MSC 7910, Bethesda, MD 20817-7910 (telephone 301-435-0714; not a toll-free number). Information may also be obtained by browsing the NIH Home Page site on the World Wide Web (*http://www.nih.gov*).).



---

[N] [64 FR 63722, Nov. 22, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 3008, Jan. 20, 2016]




