# § 4280.121   Scoring RES and EEI grant applications.

Agency personnel will score each complete and eligible RES and EEI application based on the scoring criteria specified in this section, unless otherwise specified in a _Federal Register_ notice, with a maximum score of 100 points possible.


(a) *Environmental benefits.* A maximum of 5 points will be awarded for this criterion based on whether the applicant has indicated in the application that the proposed project will have a positive effect on resource conservation (*e.g.,* water, soil, forest), public health (*e.g.,* potable water, air quality), and the environment (*e.g.,* compliance with EPA's renewable fuel standard(s), greenhouse gases, emissions, particulate matter). If the project will have a positive impact on:


(1) Any one of the three impact areas, 1 point will be awarded.


(2) Any two of the three impact areas, 3 points will be awarded.


(3) All three impact areas, 5 points will be awarded.


(b) *Energy generated, replaced, or saved.* A maximum of 25 points will be awarded for this criterion. Applications for RES and EEI projects are eligible for points under both paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Quantity of energy generated or saved per REAP grant dollar requested.* A maximum of 10 points will be awarded for this sub-criterion. For RES and EEI projects, points will be awarded for either the amount of renewable energy generation per grant dollar requested, which includes those projects that are replacing energy usage with a renewable source; or the actual annual average energy savings over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation per grant dollar requested. Points will not be awarded for more than one category.


(i) *RES.* The quantity of energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested will be determined by dividing the projected total annual energy generated or replaced by the RES or RES retrofit (minus energy for residential use), which will be converted to BTUs, by the grant dollars requested. Points will be awarded based on the annual amount of energy generated or replaced (minus energy for residential use) per grant dollar requested for the proposed RES project. In cases where there are ineligible pre-application costs, the entire quantity of energy produced by the system is utilized for this scoring criteria as long as the use of energy produced is eligible. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined using paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section. If the annual amount of energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested is:


(A) 50,000 BTUs average annual energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested or higher, 10 points will be awarded; or


(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs annual energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested, points will be awarded according to the results of taking the energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested/50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.


(ii) *EEI.* The Agency will award up to 10 points under this sub-criterion based on the average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested for the EEI project. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. If the average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested is:


(A) 50,000 BTUs average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested or higher, 10 points will be awarded; or


(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested, points will be awarded according to the result of taking the energy saved per grant dollar requested/50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.


(2) *Quantity of energy replaced, generated, or saved.* A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this sub-criterion. Points will be awarded on the basis of whether the project is for energy replacement, energy savings, or energy generation; points will not be awarded for more than one category.


(i) *Energy replacement.* The Agency will award points under this sub-criterion for a RES project based on the amount of energy replaced by the project compared to the amount of energy used by the applicable process(es) over a 12-month period. If the estimated energy produced is more than 150 percent of the energy used by the applicable process(es), the project will be scored as an energy generation project under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(A) *Documentation for energy replacement.* For a RES project to qualify as energy replacement, the applicant must provide documentation in its application on prior energy use incurred by the applicant. Proposed energy use, such as that attributed to an expansion, is not considered in the replacement calculation. For a RES project involving new construction and being installed to serve the new facility, the project can be classified as energy replacement only if the applicant can document prior energy use from a facility that is within plus or minus 10 percent of the size of the facility it is replacing. The estimated quantities of energy must be converted to either BTUs, watts, or similar energy equivalents to facilitate scoring.


(B) *Calculation.* Energy replacement is determined by dividing the quantity of renewable energy that the RES project is estimated would have been generated if it were in place over the most recent 12-month period by the quantity of energy actually consumed over the same period by the applicable energy process(es) that is(are) consuming energy.


(C) *Awarding of points.* Using the results from paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, if the percentage of energy replacement is:


(*1*) Greater than 50 percent, 15 points will be awarded;


(*2*) Greater than 25 percent, but equal to or less than 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded; or


(*3*) Equal to or less than 25 percent, 5 points will be awarded.


(ii) *Energy generation.* If the proposed RES is intended for production of energy or is a proposed retrofitting of an existing RES which increases the amount of energy generated, the Agency will award 10 points.


(iii) *Energy saved.* The Agency will award up to 15 points under this sub-criterion for an EEI project based on the percentage of estimated energy saved by the installation of the project as determined by the projections in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit. If the estimated energy expected to be saved over the same period used in the energy assessment or energy audit, as applicable, will be:


(A) 50 percent or greater, 15 points will be awarded;


(B) 35 percent up to, but not including 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded;


(C) 20 percent up to, but not including 35 percent, 5 points will be awarded; or


(D) Less than 20 percent, no points will be awarded.


(c) *Commitment of funds.* A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the percentage of written commitment an applicant has from its fund sources that are documented with a complete application.


(1) *Calculation.* The percentage of written commitment is calculated as follows: Percentage of written commitment = total amount of funds for which written commitments have been submitted with the application/total amount of matching funds and other funds required.


(2) *Awarding of points.* Using the result from paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Agency will award points as shown in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) If the percentage of written commitments is 100 percent of the matching funds, 15 points will be awarded.


(ii) If the percentage of written commitments is less than 100 percent, but more than 50 percent, points will be awarded as follows: ((Percentage of written commitments −50 percent)/(50 percent)) × 15 points, where points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.


(iii) If the percentage of written commitments is 50 percent or less, no points will be awarded.


(d) *Previous grantees and borrowers.* A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on whether the applicant has received and accepted a REAP grant award or guaranteed loan commitment under 7 CFR part 4280 of this title or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 5001 of this title.


(1) If the applicant has never received and accepted a grant award or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 5001 of this title, 15 points will be awarded.


(2) If the applicant has not received and accepted a grant award or guaranteed loan commitment under this subpart, or a guaranteed loan commitment under 7 CFR part 5001 of this title within the 2 previous Federal fiscal years, 5 points will be awarded.


(3) If the applicant has received a grant award or guaranteed loan commitment under this subpart, or a guaranteed loan commitment under 7 CFR part 5001 of this title within the 2 previous Federal fiscal years, no points will be awarded.


(e) *Existing business.* A maximum of 5 points will be awarded for an existing agricultural producer business or rural small business that meets the definition of existing business in § 4280.103 of this part.


(f) *Simple payback.* A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the simple payback of the project as defined in § 4280.103. Points will be awarded for either RES or EEI; points will not be awarded for more than one category.


(1) *RES.* If the simple payback of the proposed project is:


(i) Less than 10 years, 15 points will be awarded;


(ii) 10 years up to but not including 15 years, 10 points will be awarded;


(iii) 15 years up to and including 25 years, 5 points will be awarded; or


(iv) Longer than 25 years, no points will be awarded.


(2) *EEI.* If the simple payback of the proposed project is:


(i) Less than 4 years, 15 points will be awarded;


(ii) 4 years up to but not including 8 years, 10 points will be awarded;


(iii) 8 years up to and including 12 years, 5 points will be awarded; or


(iv) Longer than 12 years, no points will be awarded.


(g) *Size of request.* For grant applications requesting $250,000 or less for RES, or $125,000 or less for EEI, an additional 10 points may be awarded such that a maximum score of 100 points is possible. All other applications will have a maximum possible score of 90 points.


(h) *State Director and Administrator priority points.* A maximum of 10 points are available for this criterion. A State Director, for its State allocation under this subpart, or the Administrator, for making awards from the National Office reserve, may award up to 10 points to an application based on the conditions specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section. In no case shall an application receive more than 10 points under this criterion.


(1) The application is for an under-represented technology.


(2) Selecting the application helps achieve geographic diversity, which may include points based upon the size of the funding request.


(3) The applicant is a member of an unserved or under-served population described as follows:


(i) Owned by a veteran, including but not limited to individuals as sole proprietors, members, partners, stockholders, etc., of not less than 20 percent. In order to receive points, applicants must provide a statement in their applications to indicate that owners of the project have Veteran status; or


(ii) Owned by a member of a socially-disadvantaged group, which are groups whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. In order to receive points, the application must include a statement to indicate that the owners of the project are members of a socially disadvantaged group.


(4) Selecting the application helps further a Presidential initiative or a Secretary of Agriculture priority.


(5) The proposed project is located in a Federally declared disaster area. Declarations must be within the last 2 calendar years.


(6) The proposed project is located in an area where 20 percent or more of its population is living in poverty, as defined by the United States Census Bureau, underserved community(ies) or has experienced long-term population decline, or loss of employment.






