# § 43.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*ABS interest* means:


(1) Any type of interest or obligation issued by an issuing entity, whether or not in certificated form, including a security, obligation, beneficial interest or residual interest (other than an uncertificated regular interest in a REMIC that is held by another REMIC, where both REMICs are part of the same structure and a single REMIC in that structure issues ABS interests to investors, or a non-economic residual interest issued by a REMIC), payments on which are primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral owned or held by the issuing entity; and


(2) Does not include common or preferred stock, limited liability interests, partnership interests, trust certificates, or similar interests that:


(i) Are issued primarily to evidence ownership of the issuing entity; and


(ii) The payments, if any, on which are not primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral held by the issuing entity; and


(3) Does not include the right to receive payments for services provided by the holder of such right, including servicing, trustee services and custodial services.


*Affiliate* of, or a person *affiliated* with, a specified person means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified.


*Appropriate Federal banking agency* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


*Asset* means a self-liquidating financial asset (including but not limited to a loan, lease, mortgage, or receivable).


*Asset-backed security* has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(79) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).


*Collateral* means, with respect to any issuance of ABS interests, the assets that provide the cash flow and the servicing assets that support such cash flow for the ABS interests irrespective of the legal structure of issuance, including security interests in assets or other property of the issuing entity, fractional undivided property interests in the assets or other property of the issuing entity, or any other property interest in or rights to cash flow from such assets and related servicing assets. Assets or other property *collateralize* an issuance of ABS interests if the assets or property serve as collateral for such issuance.


*Commercial real estate loan* has the same meaning as in § 43.14.


*Commission* means the Securities and Exchange Commission.


*Control* including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by” and “under common control with”:


(1) Means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.


(2) Without limiting the foregoing, a person shall be considered to control another person if the first person:


(i) Owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other person; or


(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees or persons performing similar functions of the other person.


*Credit risk* means:


(1) The risk of loss that could result from the failure of the borrower in the case of a securitized asset, or the issuing entity in the case of an ABS interest in the issuing entity, to make required payments of principal or interest on the asset or ABS interest on a timely basis;


(2) The risk of loss that could result from bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding with respect to the borrower or issuing entity, as appropriate; or


(3) The effect that significant changes in the underlying credit quality of the asset or ABS interest may have on the market value of the asset or ABS interest.


*Creditor* has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(g).


*Depositor* means:


(1) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity;


(2) The sponsor, in the case of a securitization transaction where there is not an intermediate transfer of the assets from the sponsor to the issuing entity; or


(3) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity in the case of a securitization transaction where the person transferring or selling the securitized assets directly to the issuing entity is itself a trust.


*Eligible horizontal residual interest* means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest in the issuing entity:


(1) That is an interest in a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity, provided that each interest meets, individually or in the aggregate, all of the requirements of this definition;


(2) With respect to which, on any payment date or allocation date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds to satisfy its obligation to pay all contractual interest or principal due, any resulting shortfall will reduce amounts payable to the eligible horizontal residual interest prior to any reduction in the amounts payable to any other ABS interest, whether through loss allocation, operation of the priority of payments, or any other governing contractual provision (until the amount of such ABS interest is reduced to zero); and


(3) That, with the exception of any non-economic REMIC residual interest, has the most subordinated claim to payments of both principal and interest by the issuing entity.


*Eligible horizontal cash reserve account* means an account meeting the requirements of § 43.4(b).


*Eligible vertical interest* means, with respect to any securitization transaction, a single vertical security or an interest in each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as part of the securitization transaction that constitutes the same proportion of each such class.


*Federal banking agencies* means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


*GAAP* means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.


*Issuing entity* means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the trust or other entity:


(1) That owns or holds the pool of assets to be securitized; and


(2) In whose name the asset-backed securities are issued.


*Majority-owned affiliate* of a person means an entity (other than the issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, such person. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.


*Originator* means a person who:


(1) Through an extension of credit or otherwise, creates an asset that collateralizes an asset-backed security; and


(2) Sells the asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer or issuing entity.


*REMIC* has the same meaning as in 26 U.S.C. 860D.


*Residential mortgage* means:


(1) A transaction that is a covered transaction as defined in § 1026.43(b) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1));


(2) Any transaction that is exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)); and


(3) Any other loan secured by a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property, including an individual condominium or cooperative unit and, if used as a residence, a mobile home or trailer.


*Retaining sponsor* means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the sponsor that has retained or caused to be retained an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets pursuant to subpart B of this part.


*Securitization transaction* means a transaction involving the offer and sale of asset-backed securities by an issuing entity.


*Securitized asset* means an asset that:


(1) Is transferred, sold, or conveyed to an issuing entity; and


(2) Collateralizes the ABS interests issued by the issuing entity.


*Securitizer* means, with respect to a securitization transaction, either:


(1) The depositor of the asset-backed securities (if the depositor is not the sponsor); or


(2) The sponsor of the asset-backed securities.


*Servicer* means any person responsible for the management or collection of the securitized assets or making allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests, but does not include a trustee for the issuing entity or the asset-backed securities that makes allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests if the trustee receives such allocations or distributions from a servicer and the trustee does not otherwise perform the functions of a servicer.


*Servicing assets* means rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to ABS interest holders and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the issuing entity's securitized assets. Servicing assets include amounts received by the issuing entity as proceeds of securitized assets, including proceeds of rights or other assets, whether as remittances by obligors or as other recoveries.


*Single vertical security* means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest entitling the sponsor to a specified percentage of the amounts paid on each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than such single vertical security).


*Sponsor* means a person who organizes and initiates a securitization transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the issuing entity.


*State* has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(16) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)).


*United States or U.S.* means the United States of America, including its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.


*Wholly-owned affiliate* means a person (other than an issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, wholly controls, is wholly controlled by, or is wholly under common control with, another person. For purposes of this definition, “wholly controls” means ownership of 100 percent of the equity of an entity.




