# § 738.2   Commerce Control List (CCL) structure.

(a) *Categories.* The CCL is divided into 10 categories, numbered as follows:


(b) *Groups.* Within each category, items are arranged by group. Each category contains the same five groups. Each Group is identified by the letters A through E, as follows:


(c) *Order of review.* The CCL includes a supplement no. 4 to part 774—Commerce Control List Order of Review. This supplement establishes the steps (i.e., the order of review) that should be followed in classifying items that are “subject to the EAR.”


(d) *Entries*—(1) *Composition of an entry.* Within each group, individual items are identified by an Export Control Classification Number (ECCN). Each number consists of a set of digits and a letter. The first digit identifies the general category within which the entry falls (*e.g.,* 3A001). The letter immediately following this first digit identifies under which of the five groups the item is listed (*e.g.,* 3A001). The second and third digits differentiate individual entries by identifying the type of controls associated with the items contained in the entry (*e.g.,* 3A001). Table 1 lists the Reasons for Control associated with this second and third digits.


(i) Reasons for Control are not mutually exclusive and numbers are assigned in order of precedence. As an example, if an item is controlled for both National Security and Missile Technology reasons, the entry's third alphanumeric character will be a “0”. If the item is controlled only for Missile Technology the third alphanumeric character will be “1”.


(ii) The numbers in either the second or third digit (*e.g.,* 3A001) serve to differentiate between multilateral, plurilateral, and unilateral entries. For example, an entry with the number “99” as the second and third digit, identifies the entire entry as controlled for a unilateral concern (*e.g.,* 2B991 for anti-terrorism reasons). If the second digit is a “2” and the third digit is a “9”, the item is controlled for unilateral purposes based on a nuclear proliferation concern (*e.g.,* 2A290 is controlled for unilateral purposes based on nuclear nonproliferation concerns).


(iii) The last digit within each entry (*e.g.,* 3A001) is used for the sequential numbering of ECCNs to differentiate between entries on the CCL.


(iv) Last two characters in a “600 series” ECCN. The last two characters of each “600 series” ECCN generally track the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List (WAML) categories for the types of items at issue. The WAML ML21 (“software”) and ML22 (“technology”) are, however, included in D (“software”) and E (“technology”) CCL product groups to remain consistent with the structure of the CCL.




(2) *Reading an ECCN.* An ECCN is made up of four sections, the “Heading,” “License Requirements,” “License Exceptions,” and “List of Items Controlled” sections. A brief description of each section and its use follows:


(i) *Heading.* A description of the items controlled is provided next to each ECCN. In certain ECCNs, the description is a summary and will direct you to “see List of Items Controlled” for a complete list of items classified under those respective ECCNs. The “Items” paragraph in the List of Items Controlled section will describe all of the items that the ECCN controls for the portions of the heading that precede the “see List of Items Controlled” phrase. Portions of the heading that follow the phrase are complete descriptions of the items controlled by that portion of the heading. If “see List of Items Controlled” appears at the end of the heading, the “Items” paragraph in the List of Items Controlled section is the exclusive, complete list of the items the ECCN controls.


(ii) *License Requirements.* This section contains a separate line identifying all possible Reasons for Control in order of precedence, and two columns entitled “Control(s)” and “Country Chart”.


(A) The “Controls” header identifies all applicable Reasons for Control, in order of restrictiveness, and to what extent each applies (e.g., to the entire entry or only to certain subparagraphs). Those requiring licenses for a larger number of countries and/or items are listed first. As you read down the list the number of countries and/or items requiring a license declines. Since Reasons for Control are not mutually exclusive, items controlled within a particular ECCN may be controlled for more than one reason. The following is a list of all possible Reasons for Control:


(B) The “Country Chart” header identifies, for each applicable Reason for Control, a column name and number (e.g., CB Column 1). These column identifiers are used to direct you from the CCL to the appropriate column identifying the countries requiring a license. Consult part 742 of the EAR for an indepth discussion of the licensing requirements and policies applicable to each Country Chart column.


(iii) *License Exceptions.* This section provides a brief eligibility statement for each ECCN-driven License Exception that may be applicable to your transaction, and should be consulted only AFTER you have determined a license is required based on an analysis of the entry and the Country Chart. The brief eligibility statement in this section is provided to assist you in deciding which ECCN-driven License Exception related to your particular item and destination you should explore prior to submitting an application. The term “Yes” (followed in some instances by the scope of Yes) appears next to each available ECCN-driven License Exception. Some ECCNs have License Exception STA exclusion paragraphs. These paragraphs identify items for which the License Exception STA provisions in § 740.20(c)(2) of the EAR may not be used, but do not otherwise affect License Exception STA availability. The term “N/A” will be noted for License Exceptions that are not available within a particular entry. In some “600 series” ECCNs, the STA license exception paragraph or a note to the License Exceptions section contains additional information on the availability of License Exception STA for that ECCN. If one or more License Exceptions appear to apply to your transaction, you must consult part 740 of the EAR to review the conditions and restrictions applicable to each available License Exception. The list of License Exceptions contained within each ECCN is not an all-exclusive list. Other License Exceptions, not based on particular ECCNs, may be available. Consult part 740 of the EAR to determine eligibility for non-ECCN-driven License Exceptions.


(iv) *List of Items Controlled*—(A) *Related definitions.* This header identifies, where appropriate, definitions or parameters that apply to all items controlled by the entry. The information provided in this section is unique to the entry, and hence not listed in the definitions contained in part 772 of the EAR.


(B) *Related controls.* If another U.S. government agency or department has export licensing authority over items related to those controlled by an entry, a statement is included identifying the agency or department along with the applicable regulatory cite. An additional cross-reference may be included in instances where the scope of controls differs between a CCL entry and its corresponding entry on list maintained by the European Union. This information is provided to assist readers who use both lists.


(C) *Items.* This paragraph describes the relationship between the “items” paragraph and ECCN headings and will assist your understanding as you classify items on the CCL. When the heading contains the phrase “see List of Items Controlled,” the portion of the heading preceding that phrase is only a summary of the items controlled by the ECCN and the “items” paragraph contains an exclusive list of items described in the heading. Paragraphs (d)(2)(iv)(C)(*1*), (*2*) and (*3*) of this section provide examples of the three different uses of the phrase “(see List of Items Controlled)” in ECCN headings. Each heading on the CCL uses one of these three structures. Understanding the relationship between the heading and the “items” paragraph is important when classifying items that are “subject to the EAR” on the CCL.


(*1*) “(See List of Items Controlled)” is at the end of the ECCN heading. An example of an ECCN where all of the heading text precedes the phrase “(see List of Items Controlled)” is ECCN 8A002 Marine systems, equipment, “parts” and “components,” as follows (see List of Items Controlled). ECCNs 1A001, 3A001, 6A001, 7A004 and 9A012 are other examples where all of the heading text precedes the phrase “(see List of Items Controlled).” In these types of headings, the items paragraphs must be reviewed to determine whether your item is contained within the heading and classified under that ECCN.


(*2*) “(See List of Items Controlled)” is in the middle of the ECCN heading. If the phrase “(see List of Items Controlled)” appears in the middle of the ECCN heading, then all portions of the heading that follow the phrase “(see List of Items Controlled)” will list items controlled in addition to the list in the “items” paragraph. An example of such a heading is ECCN 2B992 Non-“numerically controlled” machine tools for generating optical quality surfaces, (see List of Items Controlled) and “specially designed” “parts” and “components” therefor. Under the ECCN 2B992 example, the “items” paragraph must be reviewed to determine whether your item is contained within the first part of the heading (“non-'numerically controlled' machine tools for generating optical quality surfaces”) and classified under 2B992. The second part of the ECCN 2B992 heading (“and 'specially designed' 'parts' and 'components' therefor”) contains the exclusive list described in the heading. ECCNs 1A006, 3B992, 4A001, 6A006 and 7A001 are other examples where the phrase “(see List of Items Controlled)” appears in the middle of the ECCN heading.


(*3*) ECCNs that do not use the phrase “(see List of Items controlled).” When all items classified in the ECCN are listed in the heading, a sentence is generally included in the “items” paragraph to direct you to the heading. An example of such a heading is ECCN 4E980 “Technology” for the “development,” “production” or “use” of commodities controlled by 4A980. ECCNs 0A982, 5D101, 8D001 and 9A002 are other examples where the heading is the exclusive description of the items classified under those respective ECCNs.



---

[N] [61 FR 112756, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 68579, Dec. 30, 1996; 62 FR 25456, May 9, 1997; 64 FR 17970, Apr. 13, 1999; 27141, May 18, 1999; 70 FR 54628, Sept. 16, 2005; 71 FR 20883, Apr. 24, 2006; 71 FR 67035, Nov. 20, 2006; 72 FR 43531, Aug. 6, 2007; 76 FR 35286, June 16, 2011; 78 FR 22708, Apr. 16, 2013; 78 FR 61900, Oct. 4, 2013; 79 FR 77866, Dec. 29, 2014; 81 FR 85144, Nov. 25, 2016; 82 FR 61156, Dec. 27, 2017; 89 FR 72936, Sept. 6, 2024]




