# ยง 1944.261   Program participant fees.

(a) *Eligible program participants.* The grantee shall establish fees consistent with section 1944.145(a). Each program participant shall pay CHSP fees as stated in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, up to a maximum of 20 percent of the program participant's adjusted income. Consistent with section 802(d)(7)(A), the Secretary concerned shall provide for the waiver of fees for individuals who are without sufficient income to provide for any payment.


(b) *Fees shall include:* (1) Cash contributions of the program participant;


(2) Food Stamps; and


(3) Contributions or donations to other eligible programs acceptable as matching funds under section 1944.145(c).


(c) *Older Americans Act programs.* No fee may be charged for any meals or supportive services under CHSP if that service is funded under an Older Americans Act Program.


(d) *Meals fees:* (1) For full meal services, the fees for residents receiving more than one meal per day, seven days per week, shall be reasonable and shall equal between 10 and 20 percent of the adjusted income of the project resident, or the cost of providing the services, whichever is less.


(2) The fees for residents receiving meal services less frequently than as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be in an amount equal to 10 percent of the adjusted income of the project resident, or the cost of providing the services, whichever is less.


(e) *Other service fees.* The grantee may also establish fees for other supportive services so that the total fees collected from all participants for meals and other services is at least 10 percent of the total cost of CHSP. However, no program participants may be required to pay more than 20 percent of their adjusted incomes for any combination of services.


(f) *Other residents and nonresidents.* Fees shall be established for residents of eligible housing projects (other than eligible project residents) and for nonresidents who receive meals and other services from CHSP under section 1944.125(a). These fees shall be in an amount equal to the cost of providing the services.




