# § 35.212   Existing medical diagnostic equipment.

(a) *Accessibility.* A public entity shall operate each service, program, or activity offered through or with the use of MDE so that the service, program, or activity, in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. This paragraph (a) does not—


(1) Necessarily require a public entity to make each of its existing pieces of MDE accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities; or


(2) Require a public entity to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity, or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where personnel of the public entity believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the service, program, or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, a public entity has the burden of proving that compliance with this paragraph (a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the head of a public entity or their designee after considering all resources available for use in the funding and operation of the service, program, or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, a public entity shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with disabilities receive the benefits or services, programs, and activities provided by the public entity.


(3) A public entity meets its burden of proving that compliance with this paragraph (a) would result in a fundamental alteration under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if it demonstrates that compliance with this paragraph (a) would alter diagnostically required structural or operational characteristics of the equipment and prevent the use of the equipment for its intended diagnostic purpose.


(b) *Methods.* A public entity may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as reassignment of services to alternate accessible locations; home visits; delivery of services at alternate accessible sites; purchase, lease, or other acquisition of accessible MDE; or any other methods that result in making its services, programs, or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. A public entity is not required to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire accessible MDE where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, a public entity shall give priority to those methods that offer services, programs, and activities to qualified individuals with disabilities in the most integrated setting appropriate.






