# ยง 125.207   Emergency equipment requirements.

(a) No person may operate an airplane having a seating capacity of 20 or more passengers unless it is equipped with the following emergency equipment:


(1) One approved first aid kit for treatment of injuries likely to occur in flight or in a minor accident, which meets the following specifications and requirements:


(i) Each first aid kit must be dust and moisture proof and contain only materials that either meet Federal Specifications GGK-391a, as revised, or as approved by the Administrator.


(ii) Required first aid kits must be readily accessible to the cabin flight attendants.


(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section, at time of takeoff, each first aid kit must contain at least the following or other contents approved by the Administrator:


(iv) Protective latex gloves or equivalent nonpermeable gloves may be placed in the first aid kit or in a location that is readily accessible to crewmembers.


(2) A crash axe carried so as to be accessible to the crew but inaccessible to passengers during normal operations.


(3) Signs that meet the following requirements:


(i) Signs that are visible to all occupants to notify them when safety belts should be fastened. These signs must be so constructed that they can be turned on and off by a crewmember. They must be turned on for each takeoff and each landing and when otherwise considered to be necessary by the pilot in command.


(ii) Signs that are visible to all occupants to notify them when smoking is prohibited. These signs must be turned on for each takeoff and each landing and when otherwise considered to be necessary by the pilot in command.




(4) The additional emergency equipment specified in appendix A of this part.


(b) *Megaphones.* Each passenger-carrying airplane must have a portable battery-powered megaphone or megaphones readily accessible to the crewmembers assigned to direct emergency evacuation, installed as follows:


(1) One megaphone on each airplane with a seating capacity of more than 60 and less than 100 passengers, at the most rearward location in the passenger cabin where it would be readily accessible to a normal flight attendant seat. However, the Administrator may grant a deviation from the requirements of this paragraph if the Administrator finds that a different location would be more useful for evacuation of persons during an emergency.


(2) Two megaphones in the passenger cabin on each airplane with a seating capacity of more than 99 and less than 200 passengers, one installed at the forward end and the other at the most rearward location where it would be readily accessible to a normal flight attendant seat.


(3) Three megaphones in the passenger cabin on each airplane with a seating capacity of more than 199 passengers, one installed at the forward end, one installed at the most rearward location where it would be readily accessible to a normal flight attendant seat, and one installed in a readily accessible location in the mid-section of the airplane. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 19779, 45 FR 67235, Oct. 9, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 125-19, 59 FR 1781, Jan. 12, 1994; Amdt. 125-22, 59 FR 52643, Oct. 18, 1994; 59 FR 55208, Nov. 4, 1994; Docket No. FAA-2024-2052; Amdt. No. 125-76, 89 FR 68100, Aug. 23, 2024]




