# ยง 15.207   What are examples of claims allowed under the MPCECA?

The following are examples of the principal types of allowable claims, but these examples are not exclusive; other claims may be allowed, unless hereinafter excluded:


(a) *Transportation or travel losses.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property incident to transportation or storage pursuant to order or in connection with travel under orders, including property in the custody of a carrier, an agent or agency of the Government, or the claimant.


(b) *Enemy action or public service.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property as a direct consequence of:


(1) Enemy action or threat thereof, or terrorism, combat, guerrilla, brigandage, or other belligerent activity, or unjust confiscation by a foreign power or its nationals.


(2) Action by the claimant to quiet a civil disturbance or to alleviate a public disaster.


(3) Efforts by the claimant to save human life or Government property.


(c) *Property used for the benefit of the Government.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss, of property when used for the benefit of the Government at the request of, or with the knowledge and consent of superior authority.


(d) *Electronics and cellular phones.* Claims may be allowed for loss of, or damage to, cellular phones, personal data assistants and similar communication and electronic devices subject to the limitations in ยง 15.209(e).


(e) *Clothing and accessories.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, clothing and accessories customarily worn on the person, such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, or dentures subject to the limitations in ยง 15.209(e).


(f) *Expenses incident to repair.* Claimants may be reimbursed for the payment of any sales tax incurred in connection with repairs to an item. The costs of obtaining estimates of repair (subject to the limitations set forth in ยง 15.208(c)) are also allowable.




