# ยง 68.58   Compliance audits.

(a) The owner or operator shall certify that they have evaluated compliance with the provisions of this subpart, at least every three years to verify that the procedures and practices developed under this subpart are adequate and are being followed. When required as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, the compliance audit shall be a third-party audit.




(b) The compliance audit shall be conducted by at least one person knowledgeable in the process. 


(c) The owner or operator shall develop a report of the audit findings. 


(d) The owner or operator shall promptly determine and document an appropriate response to each of the findings of the compliance audit and document that deficiencies have been corrected. 


(e) The owner or operator shall retain the two (2) most recent compliance audit reports. This requirement does not apply to any compliance audit report that is more than five years old. 


(f) The next required compliance audit shall be a third-party audit when one or more of the following conditions applies:


(1) An accidental release meeting the criteria in ยง 68.42(a) from a covered process at a stationary source has occurred; or


(2) An implementing agency requires a third-party audit due to conditions at the stationary source that could lead to an accidental release of a regulated substance, or when a previous third-party audit failed to meet the competency or independence criteria of ยง 68.59(c).


(g)(1) If an implementing agency makes a preliminary determination that a third-party audit is necessary pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the implementing agency will provide written notice to the owner or operator that describes the basis for this determination.


(2) Within 30 days of receipt of such written notice, the owner or operator may provide information and data to, and may consult with, the implementing agency on the determination. Thereafter, the implementing agency will provide a final determination to the owner or operator.


(3) If the final determination requires a third-party audit, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of ยง 68.59, pursuant to the schedule in paragraph (h) of this section.


(4) The owner or operator may appeal a final determination made by an implementing agency under paragraph (g)(3) of this section within 30 days of receipt of the final determination. The appeal shall be made to the EPA Regional Administrator or, for determinations made by other implementing agencies, the administrator or director of such implementing agency. The appeal shall contain a clear and concise statement of the issues, facts in the case, and any relevant additional information. In reviewing the appeal, the implementing agency may request additional information from the owner or operator. The implementing agency will provide a written, final decision on the appeal to the owner or operator.


(h) The audit and audit report shall be completed as in paragraph (a) of this section, unless a different timeframe is specified by the implementing agency.





---

[N] [61 FR 31721, June 20, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 4697, Jan. 13, 2017; 84 FR 69914, Dec. 19, 2019; 89 FR 17686, Mar. 11, 2024]






