# ยง 7.14   Decisions and notices.

(a) *Decision by person other than the responsible agency official.* If the hearing is held by a hearing examiner such hearing examiner shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the responsible agency official for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient. Where the initial decision is made by the hearing examiner the applicant or recipient may within 30 days of the mailing of such notice of initial decision file with the responsible agency official his exceptions to the initial decision, with his reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions, the responsible agency official may on his own motion within 45 days after the initial decision serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that he will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of such notice of review the responsible agency official shall review the initial decision and issue his own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the responsible agency official.


(b) *Decisions on record or review by the responsible agency official.* Whenever a record is certified to the responsible agency official for decision or he reviews the decision of a hearing examiner pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or whenever he conducts the hearing, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with him briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a copy of his final decision shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.


(c) *Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.* Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to section 13(a) a decision shall be made by the responsible agency official on the record and a copy of such decision shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.


(d) *Rulings required.* Each decision of a hearing officer or responsible agency official shall set forth his ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this regulation with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.


(e) *Approval by Administrator.* Any final decision of a responsible agency official (other than the Administrator of the agency) which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this regulation or the Act, shall promptly be transmitted to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency who may approve such decision, may vacate it, or remit or mitigate any sanction imposed.


(f) *Content of orders.* The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which this regulation applies, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the Act and this regulation, including provisions designed to assure that no Federal financial assistance to which this regulation applies will thereafter be extended to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to this regulation, or to have otherwise failed to comply with this regulation, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency that it will fully comply with this regulation.



---

[N] [30 FR 321, Jan. 9, 1965. Redesignated at 45 FR 44575, July 1, 1980, and further redesignated at 55 FR 23078, June 6, 1990. 68 FR 51379, Aug. 26, 2003]




