# § 228.407   Analysis of work schedules; submissions; FRA review and approval of submissions; fatigue mitigation plans.

(a) *Analysis of work schedules.* Each railroad subject to this subpart must perform an analysis of one cycle of the work schedules (the period within which the work schedule repeats) of its train employees engaged in commuter or intercity rail passenger transportation and identify those work schedules intended to be assigned to its train employees, that, if worked by such a train employee, put the train employee at risk for a level of fatigue at which safety may be compromised. Schedules identified in paragraph (g) of this section do not have to be analyzed. A level of fatigue at which safety may be compromised, hereafter called “the fatigue threshold,” shall be determined by procedures that use a scientifically valid, biomathematical model of human performance and fatigue that has been approved by the Associate Administrator pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or previously accepted pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Each work schedule that violates the fatigue threshold must be—


(1) Reported to the Associate Administrator as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no later than April 12, 2012;


(2) Either—


(i) Mitigated by action in compliance with the railroad's fatigue mitigation plan that has been approved by the Associate Administrator as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, no later than April 12, 2012; or


(ii) Supported by a determination that the schedule is operationally necessary, and that the fatigue risk cannot be sufficiently mitigated by the use of fatigue mitigation tools to reduce the risk for fatigue to a level that does not violate the fatigue threshold, no later than April 12, 2012; or


(iii) Both, no later than April 12, 2012; and


(3) Approved by FRA for use in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Submissions of certain work schedules and any fatigue mitigation plans and determinations of operational necessity or declarations; FRA review and approval.* (1) No later than April 12, 2012, the railroad shall submit for approval to the Associate Administrator the work schedules described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. The railroad shall identify and group the work schedules as follows:


(i) Work schedules that the railroad has found, using a validated model (as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or approved by FRA in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section) to present a risk for a level of fatigue that violates the applicable fatigue threshold, but that the railroad has determined can be mitigated by the use of fatigue mitigation tools so as to present a risk for a level of fatigue that does not violate the applicable fatigue threshold. The fatigue mitigation tools that will be used to mitigate the fatigue risk presented by the schedule must also be submitted.


(ii) Work schedules that the railroad has found, using a validated model (as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or approved by FRA in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section), to present a risk for a level of fatigue that violates the applicable fatigue threshold, but that the railroad has determined cannot be mitigated so as to present a risk for a level of fatigue that does not violate the applicable fatigue threshold by the use of fatigue mitigation tools, and that the railroad has determined are operationally necessary. The basis for the determination must also be submitted.


(2) If a railroad performs the analysis of its schedules required by paragraph (a) of this section, and determines that none of them violates the applicable fatigue threshold, and therefore none of them presents a risk for fatigue that requires it to be submitted to the Associate Administrator pursuant to this paragraph, that railroad shall, no later than April 12, 2012, submit to the Associate Administrator a written declaration, signed by an officer of the railroad, that the railroad has performed the required analysis and determined that it has no schedule that is required to be submitted.


(3) FRA will review submitted work schedules, proposed fatigue mitigation tools, and determinations of operational necessity. If FRA identifies any exceptions to the submitted information, the agency will notify the railroad within 120 days of receipt of the railroad's submission. Railroads are required to correct any deficiencies identified by FRA within the time frame specified by FRA.


(4) FRA will audit railroad work schedules and fatigue mitigation tools every two years to ensure compliance with this section.


(c) *Submission of models for FRA approval; validated models already accepted by FRA.* (1) If a railroad subject to this subpart wishes to use a model of human performance and fatigue, not previously approved by FRA, for the purpose of making part or all of the analysis required by paragraph (a) or (d) of this section, the railroad shall submit the model and evidence in support of its scientific validation, for the approval of the Associate Administrator. Decisions of the Associate Administrator regarding the validity of a model are subject to review under § 211.55 of this chapter.


(2) A railroad may use a model that is already accepted by FRA. FRA has approved the Fatigue Avoidance Scheduling Tool 
TM (FAST) issued on July 15, 2009, by Fatigue Science, Inc. (with a fatigue threshold for the purpose of this regulation less than or equal to 70 for 20 percent or more of the time worked in a duty tour), and Fatigue Audit InterDyne 
TM (FAID) version 2, issued in September 2007 by InterDynamics Pty Ltd. (Australian Company Number (ACN) 057 037 635) (with a fatigue threshold for the purpose of this regulation greater than or equal to 72 for 20 percent or more of the time worked in a duty tour) as scientifically valid, biomathematical models of human performance and fatigue for the purpose of making the analysis required by paragraph (a) or (d) of this section. Other versions of the models identified in this paragraph must be submitted to FRA for approval prior to use as provided by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(3) If a new model is submitted to FRA for approval, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, FRA will publish notice of the submission in the _Federal Register,_ and will provide an opportunity for comment, prior to the Associate Administrator's making a final determination as to its disposition. If the Associate Administrator approves a new model as having been validated and calibrated, so that it can be used for schedule analysis in compliance with this regulation, FRA will also publish notice of this determination in the _Federal Register._

(d) *Analysis of certain later changes in work schedules.* (1) Additional follow-up analysis must be performed each time that the railroad changes one of its work schedules in a manner—


(i) That would differ from the FRA-approved parameters for hours of duty of any work schedule previously analyzed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or


(ii) That would alter the work schedule to the extent that train employees who work the schedule may be at risk of experiencing a level of fatigue that violates the FRA-approved fatigue threshold established by paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Such additional follow-up analysis must be submitted for FRA approval as provided under paragraph (b) of this section, as soon as practicable, prior to the use of the new schedule for an employee subject to this subpart. FRA approval is not necessary before a new schedule may be used; however, a schedule that has been disapproved by FRA may not be used.


(3) FRA will review submitted revised work schedules, and any accompanying fatigue mitigation tools, and determinations of operational necessity. If FRA identifies any exceptions to the submitted information, the agency will notify the railroad as soon as possible. Railroads are required to correct any deficiencies identified by FRA within the time frame specified by FRA.


(e) *Fatigue mitigation plans.* A written plan must be developed and adopted by the railroad to mitigate the potential for fatigue for any work schedule identified through the analysis required by paragraph (a) or (d) of this section as at risk, including potential fatigue caused by unscheduled work assignments. Compliance with the fatigue mitigation plan is mandatory. The railroad shall review and, if necessary, update the plan at least once every two years after adopting the plan.


(f) *Consultation.* (1) Each railroad subject to this subpart shall consult with, employ good faith, and use its best efforts to reach agreement with, all of its directly affected employees, including any nonprofit employee labor organization representing a class or craft of directly affected employees of the railroad, on the following subjects:


(i) The railroad's review of work schedules found to be at risk for a level of fatigue at which safety may be compromised (as described by paragraph (a) of this section;


(ii) The railroad's selection of appropriate fatigue mitigation tools; and


(iii) All submissions by the railroad to the Associate Administrator for approval that are required by this section.


(2) For purposes of this section, the term “directly affected employee” means an employee to whom one of the work schedules applies or would apply if approved.


(3) If the railroad and its directly affected employees, including any nonprofit employee labor organization representing a class or craft of directly affected employees of the railroad, cannot reach consensus on any area described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, then directly affected employees and any such organization may file a statement with the Associate Administrator explaining their views on any issue on which consensus was not reached. The Associate Administrator shall consider such views during review and approval of items required by this section.


(g) *Schedules not requiring analysis.* The types of schedules described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph do not require the analysis described in paragraphs (a) or (d) of this section.


(1) Schedules consisting solely of Type 1 assignments do not have to be analyzed.


(2) Schedules containing Type 2 assignments do not have be analyzed if—


(i) The Type 2 assignment is no longer in duration than, and fully contained within, the schedule of another Type 2 assignment that has already been determined to present an acceptable level of risk for fatigue that does not violate the fatigue threshold; and


(ii) If the longer Type 2 schedule within which another Type 2 schedule is contained requires mitigations to be applied in order to achieve an acceptable level of risk for fatigue that does not violate the fatigue threshold, the same or more effective mitigations must be applied to the shorter Type 2 schedule that is fully contained within the already acceptable Type 2 schedule.




