# § 166.30   Notice of Agency decision.

(a) *Notification of applicants.* The Agency shall notify an applicant of its decision to approve or deny an application request for an emergency exemption in a timely manner.


(1) *Incomplete applications.* The Agency may discontinue the processing of any application that does not address all of the requirements of § 166.20 until such time the additional information is submitted by the applicant. 


(2) *Complete applications*—(i) *Denials.* The Agency shall provide the specific reasons and rationale for denying the exemption request. If the denial is based on a specific information gap, the decision shall be reconsidered in a timely manner when the information gap is filled.


(ii) *Approvals.* The Agency *shall* provide the specific terms and conditions under which the exempted pesticide may be used.


(b) *Federal Register publication.* (1) At least quarterly, the Administrator shall issue a notice in the _Federal Register_ announcing all approvals of specific, quarantine, and public health exemptions. The notice shall contain all of the following:


(i) The name of the applicant;


(ii) The pesticide authorized for use;


(iii) The crop or site to be treated; and


(iv) The name, address, and telephone number of a person in the Agency who can provide further information.


(2) In addition, if EPA has issued a Notice of Receipt of an application for an exemption, it will issue a notice of its final decision and the reasons for that decision.



---

[N] [51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 4512, Jan. 27, 2006]




