# § 60.683   Monitoring of operations.

(a) An owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart who uses a wet scrubbing control device to comply with the mass emission standard shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices that measure the gas pressure drop across each scrubber and the scrubbing liquid flow rate to each scrubber. The pressure drop monitor is to be certified by its manufacturer to be accurate within ±250 pascals (±1 inch water gauge) over its operating range, and the flow rate monitor is to be certified by its manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent over its operating range.


(b) An owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart who uses a wet electrostatic precipitator control device to comply with the mass emission standard shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices that measure the primary and secondary current (amperes) and voltage in each electrical field and the inlet water flow rate. In addition, the owner or operator shall determine the total residue (total solids) content of the water entering the control device once per day using Method 209A, “Total Residue Dried at 103-105 °C,” in *Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,* 15th Edition, 1980 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17). Total residue shall be reported as percent by weight. All monitoring devices required under this paragraph are to be certified by their manufacturers to be accurate within ±5 percent over their operating range.


(c) All monitoring devices required under this section are to be recalibrated quarterly in accordance with procedures under § 60.13(b).




