# § 721.11474   Cashew, nutshell liq. polymer with formaldehyde, phenol and resorcinol.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as cashew nutshell liq. polymer with formaldehyde, phenol and resorcinol (PMN P-17-386, CAS No. 2044014-81-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (3) through (5), (6)(v) and (vi), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), particulate (including combination gas/vapor and particulate). For purposes of § 721.63(b), concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1)(i), (2)(i) and (ii), (iv) and (v), (4)(iii), and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1) skin and respiratory sensitization. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance for more than one year.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 57973, Sept. 17, 2020]




