# § 416.1144   If you live in a nonprofit retirement home or similar institution.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section the following definitions apply:


(1) *Nonprofit retirement home or similar institution* means a nongovernmental institution as defined under § 416.1101, which is, or is controlled by, a private nonprofit organization and which does not provide you with—


(i) Services which are (or could be) covered under Medicaid, or


(ii) Education or vocational training.


(2) *Nonprofit organization* means a private organization which is tax exempt under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and is of the kind described in section 501 (c) or (d) of that code.


(3) An *express obligation to provide your full support and maintenance* means there is either a legally enforceable written contract or set of membership rules providing that the home, institution, or organization—


(i) Will provide at least all of your food and shelter needs; and


(ii) Does not require any current or future payment for that food and shelter. (For purposes of this paragraph, a lump sum prepayment for lifetime care is not a current payment.)


(b) *How the presumed value rule applies.* The presumed value rule applies if you are living in a nonprofit retirement home or similar institution where there is an express obligation to provide your full support and maintenance or where someone else pays for your support and maintenance. The rule does not apply to the extent that—


(1) The home, institution, or nonprofit organization does not have an express obligation to provide your full support and maintenance; and


(2) The home, institution, or nonprofit organization receives no payment for your food or shelter, or receives payment from another nonprofit organization.



---

[N] [45 FR 65547, Oct. 3, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 34464, Sept. 29, 1986; 70 FR 6345, Feb. 7, 2005]




