# ยง 792.49   Definitions.

*Legal proceedings* means any matter before any federal, state or foreign administrative or judicial authority, including courts, agencies, commissions, boards or other tribunals, involving such proceedings as lawsuits, licensing matters, hearings, trials, discovery, investigations, mediation or arbitration. When the NCUA is a party to a legal proceeding, it will be subject to the applicable rules of civil procedure governing production of documents and witnesses, however, this subpart will still apply to the testimony of former NCUA employees. 


*NCUA employee* means current and former officials, members of the Board, officers, directors, employees and agents of the National Credit Union Administration, including contract employees and consultants and their employees. This definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the NCUA and are retained or hired as expert witnesses or agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment. 


*Nonpublic records* means any NCUA records that are exempt from disclosure under ยง 792.11, the NCUA regulations implementing the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. For example, this means records created in connection with NCUA's examination and supervision of insured credit unions, including examination reports, internal memoranda, and correspondence, and, also, records created in connection with NCUA's enforcement and investigatory responsibilities. 


*Subpoena* means any order, subpoena for records or other tangible things or for testimony, summons, notice or legal process issued in a legal proceeding. 


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding including personal appearances in court or at depositions, interviews in person or by telephone, responses to written interrogatories or other written statements such as reports, declarations, affidavits, or certifications or any response involving more than the delivery of records. 



---

[N] [62 FR 56054, Oct. 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 63789, Oct. 25, 2000]




