# § 3601.102   Designation of DoD components as separate agencies for purposes of gifts from outside sources, and teaching, speaking, and writing.

(a) Pursuant to 5 CFR 2635.203(a), each of the following DoD components is designated as a separate agency for purposes of the regulations in subpart B of 5 CFR part 2635 governing gifts from outside sources and 5 CFR 2635.807 governing teaching, speaking, and writing:


(1) Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals;


(2) Department of the Army;


(3) Department of the Navy;


(4) Department of the Air Force;


(5) Defense Commissary Agency;


(6) Defense Contract Audit Agency;


(7) Defense Finance and Accounting Service;


(8) Defense Information Systems Agency;


(9) Defense Intelligence Agency;


(10) Defense Logistics Agency;


(11) Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency;


(12) Defense Threat Reduction Agency;


(13) National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency;


(14) National Security Agency;


(15) Office of Inspector General;


(16) Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences;


(17) National Reconnaissance Office; and


(18) Office of the Secretary of Defense remainder agency.


*Example 1 to paragraph (a).* For paragraph (a)(1) of this section [Teaching, Speaking, or Writing]: An Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA) employee is asked to give a compensated speech on prisoners of war, a topic on which he has a personal interest. While the Department of Defense has ongoing policies, programs, or operations related to this topic, the ASBCA does not. The employee may give the speech in a personal capacity and receive compensation because the ASBCA is a designated separate agency, the speech is not related to an ongoing program or operation of the ASBCA, and the speech is not otherwise related to the employee's official duties.


*Example 2 to paragraph (a).* For paragraphs (a)(2) and (18) of this section [Separate component—gift]: An employee of the Department of the Army (Army) and an employee of the Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) are each offered a ticket to a football game by a company that contracts with OSD. As long as the contractor is not a prohibited source for the Army and the gift is not offered because of the employee's official position, the Army employee may accept the ticket because the Army is designated as a separate agency under paragraph (a)(2). The JCS employee may not accept the ticket because JCS is not designated as a separate agency and, therefore, is part of the “OSD remainder agency.” The OSD contractor is therefore a prohibited source for the JCS employee or for any employee of any of the other organizations that are part of the OSD remainder agency.


*Example 3 to paragraph (a).* For paragraph (a)(11) of this section [Agency designation]: An employee of the Department of the Air Force is offered a gift by a company that only does business with the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, which is designated as a separate agency. The company would be a prohibited source of gifts for employees of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency but not for employees of the Department of the Air Force or for any other component which has been designated as a separate agency.


(b) Employees of DoD components not designated as separate agencies, including employees of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, will be treated as employees of the “Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) remainder agency.” The OSD remainder agency shall itself be treated as a separate DoD agency for purposes of determining whether the donor of a gift is a prohibited source under 5 CFR 2635.203(d) and for identifying the employee's agency under 5 CFR 2635.807 governing teaching, speaking, and writing.


(1) The use of the term “agency” in this part does not carry with it the designation and responsibilities of a “defense agency” as set forth in 10 U.S.C. 191-197 (2019).


(2) For purposes of this part, “prohibited source” is defined at 5 CFR 2635.203(d), except that “agency” shall mean the employee's component.


(c) The designations in this section shall only apply for purposes of gifts under 5 CFR 2635.203(a) and teaching, speaking, and writing under 5 CFR 2635.807, and are distinct from the designations approved by the Office of Government Ethics for purposes of the post-Government employment restrictions in 18 U.S.C. 207(c). *See* 5 CFR 2641.302 and appendix B to part 2641.






