# ยง 1780.7   Eligibility.

Facilities financed by water and waste disposal loans or grants must serve rural areas.


(a) *Eligible applicant.* An applicant must be:


(1) A public body, such as a municipality, county, district, authority, or other political subdivision of a state, territory or commonwealth;


(2) An organization operated on a not-for-profit basis, such as an association, cooperative, or private corporation. The organization must be an association controlled by a local public body or bodies, or have a broadly based ownership by or membership of people of the local community; or


(3) Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other Federally recognized Indian tribes.


(b) *Eligible facilities.* Facilities financed by RUS may be located in non-rural areas. However, loan and grant funds may be used to finance only that portion of the facility serving rural areas, regardless of facility location.


(c) *Eligible projects.* (1) Projects must serve a rural area which, if such project is completed, is not likely to decline in population below that for which the project was designed.


(2) Projects must be designed and constructed so that adequate capacity will or can be made available to serve the present population of the area to the extent feasible and to serve the reasonably foreseeable growth needs of the area to the extent practicable.


(3) Projects must be necessary for orderly community development and consistent with a current comprehensive community water, waste disposal, or other current development plan for the rural area.


(d) *Credit elsewhere.* Applicants must certify in writing and the Agency shall determine and document that the applicant is unable to finance the proposed project from their own resources or through commercial credit at reasonable rates and terms.


(e) *Legal authority and responsibility.* Each applicant must have or will obtain the legal authority necessary for owning, constructing, operating, and maintaining the proposed facility or service and for obtaining, giving security for, and repaying the proposed loan. The applicant shall be responsible for operating, maintaining, and managing the facility, and providing for its continued availability and use at reasonable user rates and charges. This responsibility shall be exercised by the applicant even though the facility may be operated, maintained, or managed by a third party under contract or management agreement. Guidance for preparing a management agreement is available from the Agency. Such contracts, management agreements, or leases must not contain options or other provisions for transfer of ownership.


(f) *Economic feasibility.* All projects financed under the provisions of this section must be based on taxes, assessments, income, fees, or other satisfactory sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for facility operation and maintenance, reasonable reserves, and debt payment. If the primary use of the facility is by business and the success or failure of the facility is dependent on the business, then the economic viability of that business must be assessed.


(g) *Federal Debt Collection Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).* An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive a loan or grant until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied.



---

[N] [62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 29946, June 4, 1999]




