# ยง 1107.2   Definitions.

Unless otherwise stated, the definitions of the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 apply to this part. The following definitions apply for purposes of this part:


*CPSA* means the Consumer Product Safety Act.


*CPSC* means the Consumer Product Safety Commission.


*Due care* means the degree of care that a prudent and competent person engaged in the same line of business or endeavor would exercise under similar circumstances. Due care does not permit willful ignorance.


*High degree of assurance* means an evidence-based demonstration of consistent performance of a product regarding compliance based on knowledge of a product and its manufacture.


*Identical in all material respects* means there is no difference with respect to compliance to the applicable rules, bans, standards, or regulations between the samples to be tested for compliance and the finished product distributed in commerce.


*Manufacturer* means the parties responsible for certification of a consumer product pursuant to 16 CFR part 1110.


*Manufacturing process* means the techniques, fixtures, tools, materials, and personnel used to create the component parts and assemble a finished product.


*Material change* means any change in the product's design, manufacturing process, or sourcing of component parts that a manufacturer exercising due care knows, or should know, could affect the product's ability to comply with the applicable rules, bans, standards, or regulations.


*Third party conformity assessment body* means a testing laboratory whose accreditation has been accepted by the CPSC to conduct certification testing on children's products. Only third party conformity assessment bodies whose scope of accreditation includes the applicable required tests can be used for children's product certification or periodic testing purposes.




