# § 200.2   Procedural requirements.

(a) Any interested person may file with the Commission a written petition for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule implementing any of the following statutes:


(1) The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended, 52 U.S.C. 30101 *et seq.;*

(2) The Presidential Election Campaign Fund Act, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 9001 *et seq.;*

(3) The Presidential Primary Matching Payment Account Act, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 9031 *et seq.;*

(4) The Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; or


(5) Any other law that the Commission is required to implement and administer.


(b) The petition shall—


(1) Include the name and address of the petitioner or agent. An authorized agent of the petitioner may submit the petition, but the agent shall disclose the identity of his or her principal;


(2) Identify itself as a petition for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule;


(3) Identify the specific section(s) of the regulations to be affected;


(4) Set forth the factual and legal grounds on which the petitioner relies, in support of the proposed action; and


(5) Be addressed to the Office of General Counsel and filed pursuant to 11 CFR 100.19(g).


(c) The petition may include draft regulatory language that would effectuate the petitioner's proposal.


(d) The Commission may, in its discretion, treat a document that fails to conform to the format requirements of paragraph (b) of this section as a basis for a sua sponte rulemaking. For example, the Commission may consider whether to initiate a rulemaking project addressing issues raised in an advisory opinion request submitted under 11 CFR 112.1 or in a complaint filed under 11 CFR 111.4. However, the Commission need not follow the procedures of 11 CFR 200.3 in these instances.



---

[N] [57 FR 34510, Aug. 5, 1992, as amended at 79 FR 77849, Dec. 29, 2014; 82 FR 60854, Dec. 26, 2017; 89 FR 218, Jan. 2, 2024]




