# § 52.779   Freedom from pits.

(a) *General.* The factor of freedom from pits refers to the incidence of pits and pit fragments.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) A *pit,* for the purposes of the allowances in this section, is a whole cherry pit or portions of pits computed as follows:


(i) A single piece of pit shell, whether or not within or attached to a whole cherry, that is larger than one-half pit shell is considered as one pit;


(ii) A single piece of pit shell, whether or not within or attached to a whole cherry, that is not larger than one-half pit shell is considered as one-half pit;


(iii) Pieces of pit shell, within or attached to a whole cherry, when their combined size is larger than one-half pit shell are considered as one pit; and


(iv) Pieces of pit shell, within or attached to a whole cherry, when their combined size is not larger than one-half pit shell are considered as one-half pit.


(2) *Drained cherries* means pitted cherries that have been drained of packing medium by the method prescribed in this subpart.


(c) (*A*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that are practically free from pits may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Practically free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present in the drained cherries does not exceed the allowances for this classification as set forth in Table IV.


(d) (*B*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that are reasonably free from pits may be given a score of 16 or 17 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present does not exceed the allowances for this classification as set forth in Table IV.


(e) (*C*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that are fairly free from pits may be given a score of 14 or 15 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly free from pits” means that the number of pits that may be present in the drained cherries does not exceed the allowances for this classification as set forth in Table IV.


(f) (*SStd.*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 13 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).




