# § 9.29   Sonoma Valley.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Sonoma Valley.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The maps showing the boundaries of the Sonoma valley viticultural area are entitled:


(1) “Cuttings Wharf, Calif.”, 1949 (photorevised 1968 and photoinspected 1973), 7.5 minute quadrangle;


(2) “Petaluma Point, Calif.”, 1959 (photorevised 1968 and photoinspected 1973), 7.5 minute quadrangle;


(3) “Sears Point, Calif.”, 1951 (photorevised 1968), 7.5 minute quadrangle;


(4) “Petaluma River, Calif.”, 1954 (photorevised 1968 and 1973), 7.5 minute quadrangle;


(5) “Glen Ellen, Calif.”, 1954 (photorevised 1968 and photoinspected 1973), 7.5 minute quadrangle;


(6) “Cotati, Calif.”, 1954 (photorevised 1968 and 1973), 7.5 minute quadrangle;


(7) “Santa Rosa, Calif.”, 1954 (photorevised 1968 and 1973), 7.5 minute quadrangle;


(8) “Kenwood, Calif.”, 1954 (photorevised 1968 and photoinspected 1973), 7.5 minute quadrangle; and


(9) Appropriate Sonoma County tax assessor's maps showing the Sonoma County-Napa County line.


(c) *Boundaries.* The Sonoma Valley viticultural area is located within Sonoma County, California. From the beginning point at the junction of Tolay Creek and San Pablo Bay, the boundary runs:


(1) Northerly along Tolay Creek to Highway 37;


(2) Westerly along Highway 37 to its junction with Highway 121;


(3) Northwesterly in a straight line to the peak of Wildcat Mountain;


(4) Northwesterly in a straight line to Sonoma Mountain to the horizontal control station at elevation 2,271 feet;


(5) Northwesterly in a straight line to the peak of Taylor Mountain;


(6) Northeasterly in a straight line to the point at which Los Alamos Road joins Highway 12;


(7) Easterly in a straight line to the peak of Buzzard Peak;


(8) Easterly in a straight line to the peak of Mount Hood;


(9) Easterly in a straight line to an unnamed peak located on the Sonoma County-Napa County line and identified as having an elevation of 2,530 feet (This unnamed peak is located in the northeast quarter of Section 9, Township 7 North, Range 6 West, Mt. Diablo Base and Meridian);


(10) Southerly along the Sonoma County-Napa County line to the point at which Sonoma Creek enters San Pablo Bay; and


(11) Southwesterly along the shore of San Pablo Bay to the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-96, 46 FR 59238, Dec. 4, 1981, as amended by T.D. ATF-201, 50 FR 12533, Mar. 29, 1985; T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5956, Feb. 27, 1987] 




