# 14.201-9   Simplified contract format.

*Policy.* For firm-fixed-price or fixed-price with economic price adjustment acquisitions of supplies and services, the contracting officer may use the simplified contract format in lieu of the uniform contract format (see 14.201-1). The contracting officer has flexibility in preparation and organization of the simplified contract format. However, the following format should be used to the maximum practical extent:


(a) *Solicitation/contract form.* Standard Form (SF) 1447, Solicitation/Contract, shall be used as the first page of the solicitation.


(b) *Contract schedule.* Include the following for each line item:


(1) Line item number.


(2) Description of supplies or services, or data sufficient to identify the requirement.


(3) Quantity and unit of issue.


(4) Unit price and amount.


(5) Packaging and marking requirements.


(6) Inspection and acceptance, quality assurance, and reliability requirements.


(7) Place of delivery, performance and delivery dates, period of performance, and f.o.b. point.


(8) Other item-peculiar information as necessary (e.g., individual fund citations).


(c) *Clauses.* Include the clauses required by this regulation. Additional clauses shall be incorporated only when considered absolutely necessary to the particular acquisition.


(d) *List of documents and attachments.* Include if necessary.


(e) *Representations and instructions*—(1) *Representations and certifications.* Insert those solicitation provisions that require representations, certifications, or the submission of other information by offerors.


(2) *Instructions, conditions, and notices.* Include the solicitation provisions required by 14.201-6. Include any other information/instructions necessary to guide offerors.


(3) *Evaluation factors for award.* Insert all evaluation factors and any significant subfactors for award.


(4) Upon award, the contracting officer need not physically include the provisions in subparagraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this subsection in the resulting contract, but shall retain them in the contract file. Award by acceptance of a bid on the award portion of SF 1447 incorporates the representations, certifications, and other statements of bidders in the resultant contract even though not physically attached.



---

[N] [54 FR 48983, Nov. 28, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 41733, Aug. 22, 1991; 82 FR 4713, Jan. 13, 2017]




