# § 165.163   Safety Zones; Port of New York/New Jersey Fleet Week.

(a) The following areas are established as safety zones:


(1) *Safety Zone A*—(i) *Location.* A moving safety zone for the Parade of Ships including all waters 500 yards ahead and astern, and 200 yards of each side of the designated column of parade vessels as it transits the Port of New York and New Jersey from the Verrazano Narrows Bridge to Riverside State Park on the Hudson River between West 137th and West 144th Streets, Manhattan.


(ii) *Enforcement period.* Paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is enforced annually from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before Memorial Day.


(2) *Safety Zone B*—(i) *Location.* A safety zone including all waters of the Hudson River between Piers 83 and 90, Manhattan, from the parade column east to the Manhattan shoreline.


(ii) *Enforcement period.* Paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is enforced annually from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before Memorial Day.


(3) *Safety Zone C*—(i) *Location.* A moving safety zone including all waters of the Hudson River within a 200-yard radius of each parade vessel upon its leaving the parade of ships until it is safely berthed.


(ii) *Enforcement period.* Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is enforced annually from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before Memorial Day.


(4) *Safety Zone D*—(i) *Location.* A safety zone including all waters of the Hudson River bound by the following points: from the southeast corner of Pier 90, Manhattan, where it intersects the seawall, west to approximate position 40°46′10″ N 074°00′13″ W (NAD 1983), south to approximate position 40°45′54″ N 074°00′25″ W (NAD 1983), then east to the northeast corner of Pier 83 where it intersects the seawall.


(ii) *Enforcement period.* Paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section is enforced annually from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m., from Friday through Monday, Memorial Day weekend.


(5) *Safety Zone E*—(i) *Location.* A moving safety zone including all waters 500 yards ahead and astern, and 200 yards on each side of the departing U.S. Navy Aircraft or Helicopter Carrier as it transits the Port of New York and New Jersey from its mooring at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, Manhattan, to the COLREGS Demarcation line in the vicinity of Ambrose Channel Lighted Bell Buoy 6 (LLNR 34805).


(ii) *Enforcement period.* Paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section is enforced annually on the Wednesday following Memorial Day. Departure time is dependent on tide, weather, and granting of authority for departure by the Captain of the Port, New York.


(b) *Effective period.* This section is effective annually from 8 a.m. on the Wednesday before Memorial Day until 4 p.m. on the Wednesday following Memorial Day.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations contained in 33 CFR 165.23 apply.


(2) All persons and vessels shall comply with the instructions of the Coast Guard Captain of the Port or the designated on-scene-patrol personnel. these personnel comprise commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the Coast Guard. Upon being hailed by a U. S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.



---

[N] [CGD1-98-170, 64 FR 24946, May 10, 1999, as amended by USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44283, July 27, 2015]




