# ยง 5001.505   Collateral inspection and release.

(a) *Inspection of collateral.* The lender must inspect the collateral as often as necessary to properly service the guaranteed loan.


(b) *Release of collateral.* The lender must provide written justification for the release and obtain Agency approval before releasing any collateral. The lender is not required to provide justification for the release of collateral when the loan is not in default or liquidation and the collateral being released is a working asset, such as accounts receivable, inventory, and work-in-progress, that are routinely depleted or sold and proceeds used for the normal course of business operations.


(1) *Exceptions to prior approval.* Lenders are not required to obtain Agency approval prior to releasing collateral when the collateral sale proceeds are used to pay down debt in order of lien priority, pay down the guaranteed loan principal, or to acquire replacement collateral.


(2) *Appraisals.* Current appraisals are required on all transactions pursuant to the requirements of ยง 5001.203 of this part.


(3) *Sale or release transaction.* The sale or release of collateral must be based on an arm's length transaction, unless otherwise approved, in writing, by the Agency when the sale or release of collateral results in paying the guaranteed loan in full and termination of the loan note guarantee. There must be adequate consideration at market value for the release of collateral. Such consideration may include, but is not limited to:




(i) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's debts in order of their lien priority against the sold collateral;


(ii) Use of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to purchase other collateral of equal or greater value which the lender will obtain as security for the benefit of the guaranteed loan with a lien position equal or superior to the position previously held;


(iii) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's guaranteed loan or to its business operation in such a manner that a significant improvement to the borrower's debt service ability will be clearly demonstrated. The lender's written request must detail how the borrower's debt service ability will be improved; and




(4) *No adverse impact.* Any release of collateral must not materially cause an adverse effect to the project's operation or financial condition and the remaining collateral must be sufficient to provide for adequate collateral coverage. Such assurance must be supported by written documentation from the lender and be acceptable to the Agency. If the Agency determines that the project may be adversely affected by a release of collateral, the Agency may, at its discretion, require an appraisal on the remaining collateral in accordance with ยง 5001.203 of this part.





---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]












