# § 512.290   Timely error notice and reconsideration review process.

(a) *Timely error notice.* Subject to the limitations on review in § 512.170, an RO participant that identifies and wishes to contest a suspected error in the calculation of its reconciliation payment or repayment amount or AQS must provide written notice of the suspected calculation error to CMS within 45 days of the date of the reconciliation report. Such timely error notice must be in a form and manner specified by CMS. RO participants are not permitted to contest the RO Model pricing methodology or AQS methodology.


(1) Unless a timely error notice is received by CMS within 45 days of the date of issuance of a reconciliation report, the reconciliation payment or repayment amount determination specified in that reconciliation report is deemed binding and not subject to further review.


(2) If CMS receives a timely error notice, then CMS responds in writing within 30 days either to confirm that there was an error in the calculation or to verify that the calculation is correct. CMS may extend the deadline for its response upon written notice to the RO participant.


(3) Only the RO participant may use the timely error notice process described in this paragraph and the reconsideration review process described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Reconsideration review*—(1) *Reconsideration request by an RO participant.* (i) If the RO participant is dissatisfied with CMS' response to the timely error notice, then the RO participant may request a reconsideration review as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(ii) If CMS does not receive a request for reconsideration from the RO participant within 10 days of the issue date of CMS' response to the RO participant's timely error notice, then CMS' response to the timely error notice is deemed binding and not subject to further review.


(2) *Submission of a reconsideration request*—(i) *Information needed in the reconsideration request.* The reconsideration review request must—


(A) Provide a detailed explanation of the basis for the dispute; and


(B) Include supporting documentation for the RO participant's assertion that CMS or its representatives did not accurately calculate the reconciliation payment or repayment amount or AQS in accordance with the terms of this subpart.


(3) *Form, manner, and deadline for submission of the reconsideration request.* The information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section must be submitted—


(i) In a form and manner specified by CMS; and


(ii) Within 10 days of the date of the CMS response described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(4) *Designation of and notification from a CMS-designated reconsideration official.*

(i) *Designation of reconsideration official.* CMS designates a reconsideration official who—


(A) Is authorized to receive such requests; and


(B) Was not involved in the responding to the RO participant's timely error notice.


(ii) *Notification to the RO participant.* The CMS-designated reconsideration official makes reasonable efforts to notify the RO participant and CMS in writing within 15 days of receiving the RO participant's reconsideration review request of the following:


(A) The issue(s) in dispute;


(B) The briefing schedule; and


(C) The review procedures.


(5) *Resolution review.* The CMS reconsideration official makes all reasonable efforts to complete the on-the-record resolution review and issue a written determination no later than 60 days after the submission of the final position paper in accordance with the reconsideration official's briefing schedule.




