# ยง 721.11143   Alkanoic acid, alkyl-, substituted alkyl ester, polymer with alkyl alkenoate, substituted carbomonocycle, substituted alkyl alkenoate and alkyl substituted alkenoate, substituted alkanenitrile-initiated, polymers with substituted alkanenitrile-initiated, alkanoic acid-alkane substituted acrylates-substituted carbomonocycle polymer, compds. with alkylamino alkanol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkanoic acid, alkyl-, substituted alkyl ester, polymer with alkyl alkenoate, substituted carbomonocycle, substituted alkyl alkenoate and alkyl substituted alkenoate, substituted alkanenitrile-initiated, polymers with substituted alkanenitrile-initiated, alkanoic acid-alkane substituted acrylates-substituted carbomonocycle polymer, compds. with alkylamino alkanol (PMN P-17-265) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture the chemical substance with an acid concentration greater than 20%. It is a significant new use to manufacture the chemical substance with an amine concentration greater than 5%.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 55063, Oct. 15, 2019]




