# § 108.530   Stowage of survival craft.

(a) *General.* Each survival craft required to be served by a launching appliance or marine evacuation system must be stowed as follows:


(1) Each survival craft must be stowed as close to the accommodation and service spaces as possible.


(2) Each survival craft must be stowed in a way that neither the survival craft nor its stowage arrangements will interfere with the embarkation and operation of any other survival craft or rescue boat at any other launching station.


(3) Each survival craft must be stowed as near the water surface as is safe and practicable.


(4) Each survival craft must be stowed where the survival craft, in the embarkation position, is above the waterline with the unit—


(i) In the fully loaded condition; and


(ii) Listed up to 20 degrees either way, or to the angle where the unit's weatherdeck edge becomes submerged, whichever is less.


(5) Each survival craft must be sufficiently ready for use so that two crew members can complete preparations for embarkation and launching in less than 5 minutes.


(6) Each survival craft must be fully equipped as required under this subpart. 


(7) Each survival craft must be in a secure and sheltered position and protected from damage by fire and explosion, as far as practicable.


(8) Each survival craft must not require lifting from its stowed position in order to launch, except that a davit-launched liferaft may be lifted by a manually powered winch from its stowed position to its embarkation position.


(b) *Additional lifeboat-specific stowage requirements.* In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each lifeboat must be stowed as follows:


(1) The unit must be arranged so each lifeboat, in its stowed position, is protected from damage by heavy seas.


(2) Each lifeboat must be stowed attached to its launching appliance.


(3) Each lifeboat must be provided a means for recharging the lifeboat batteries from the unit's power supply at a supply voltage not exceeding 50 volts.


(c) *Additional liferaft-specific stowage requirements.* In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each liferaft must be stowed as follows:


(1) Each liferaft must be stowed to permit manual release from its securing arrangements.


(2) Each liferaft must be stowed at a height above the waterline in the lightest seagoing condition, not greater than the maximum stowage height indicated on the liferaft. Each liferaft without an indicated maximum stowage height must be stowed not more than 18 meters (59 feet) above the waterline in the unit's lightest seagoing condition.


(3) Each liferaft must be arranged to permit it to drop into the water from the deck on which it is stowed. A liferaft stowage arrangement meets this requirement if it—


(i) Is outboard of the rail or bulwark;


(ii) Is on stanchions or on a platform adjacent to the rail or bulwark; or


(iii) Has a gate or other suitable opening to allow the liferaft to be pushed directly overboard.


(4) Each davit-launched liferaft must be stowed within reach of its lifting hook, unless some means of transfer is provided that is not rendered inoperable—


(i) Within the list limits specified in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section;


(ii) By unit motion; or


(iii) By power failure.


(5) Each rigid container for an inflatable liferaft to be launched by a launching appliance must be secured in a way that the container or parts of it are prevented from falling into the water during and after inflation and launching of the contained liferaft.


(6) Each liferaft must have a painter system providing a connection between the unit and the liferaft.


(7) Each liferaft or group of liferafts must be arranged for float-free launching. The arrangement must ensure that the liferaft or liferafts when released and inflated, are not dragged under by the sinking unit. A hydrostatic release unit used in a float-free arrangement must be approved under approval series 160.162.




