# § 32.37   Louisiana.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Atchafalaya National Wildlife Refuge*— 

(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning dove, duck, goose, coot, snipe, rail, gallinule, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may hunt only as governed by State-issued Sherburne Wildlife Management Area regulations.


(ii) Feral hogs are incidental take species. You may take feral hog during any open hunting season, only with the weapon allowed for that season, and only if you are a hunter with proper licenses and State permits for that season. There is no bag limit on feral hog.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, and raccoon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of feral hog, white-tailed deer, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow recreational finfishing and shellfishing year-round as governed by Sherburne Wildlife Management Area regulations.


(b) *Bayou Cocodrie National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require that all hunters and anglers age 16 and older purchase an annual public use permit (electronic form). You must sign the permit, certifying that you understand and will comply with all regulations. You must carry this permit at all times while on the refuge.


(ii) We allow migratory game bird hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season. We do not open for the special teal season or the State youth waterfowl hunt.


(iii) We prohibit hunting within 150 feet (45 meters) of the maintained rights-of-way of roads, refuge roads or designated trails, buildings, residences, or designated public facilities.


(iv) You must remove harvested waterfowl, temporary blinds, and decoys used for duck hunting by 1 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) We allow the use of dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.


(vi) We prohibit any person or group to act as a hunting guide, outfitter, or in any other capacity that any other individual(s) pays or promises to pay directly or indirectly for services rendered to any other person or persons hunting on the refuge, regardless of whether the payment is for guiding, outfitting, lodging, or club membership.


(vii) We prohibit use or possession of any type of trail-marking material.


(viii) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, beaver, nutria, and coyote when hunting migratory birds, upland game, or big game species with firearms and archery equipment authorized for use.


(ix) We allow all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and utility vehicles as governed by State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) regulations and size specifications on designated trails (see § 27.31 of this chapter) from scouting season until February 28.


(x) You may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit the refuge by 2 hours after legal sunset, except that raccoon and opossum hunters during the month of February may use the refuge at night.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel and rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters may only hunt upland game during designated refuge seasons.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (iii), and (vi) through (x) of this section apply.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs to hunt squirrel and rabbit during that portion of the season designated as small game with dogs.


(iv) While engaged in upland game hunting, we prohibit possession of hunting firearms (see § 27.42 of this chapter) larger than .22 caliber rimfire, shotgun slugs, or buckshot.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (iii), and (vi) through (x) of this section apply.


(ii) The bag limit is one deer per day. The State tagging regulations apply.


(iii) You may possess only approved nontoxic shot while hunting deer on the refuge (see § 32.2(k)). The requirement in this paragraph (b)(3)(iii) only applies to the use of shotgun ammunition.


(iv) You must wear a minimum of 500 square inches (3,226 square centimeters) of unbroken hunter orange as the outermost layer of clothing on the chest and back, and a hat or cap of unbroken hunter orange. You must wear the solid-hunter-orange items while in the field.


(v) You may place stands up to 2 days prior to established hunting season dates. You must remove stands by 2 days after the hunting season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). You must mark your State license number on your stand. You are allowed one portable stand or blind on the refuge.


(vi) You must check all deer taken on the refuge before leaving the refuge at one of the self-clearing check stations indicated on the map in the refuge hunting and fishing regulations brochure.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(x) of this section applies.


(ii) We prohibit the taking of alligator snapping turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) We allow fishing only during daylight hours.


(iv) The refuge boat ramp is open for daylight use only, except during specified hunting seasons when the ramp is open from 4 a.m. until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(v) We prohibit wire traps, slat traps, wire nets, hoop nets, trotlines, yo-yos, and jug lines on the refuge.


(c) *Bayou Sauvage National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, gallinule, rail, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters and anglers must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge hunting and fishing brochure.


(ii) We only allow youth to hunt migratory game birds.


(iii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during hunts. The youth must be capable of and must actively participate in the hunt by possessing and/or firing a legal weapon during the hunt for the express purpose of harvesting game.


(iv) One adult may supervise up to two youths during upland game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times.


(v) Adults accompanying youth on any refuge hunts may participate by hunting (except during the State youth-only seasons), but are not allowed to harvest more than their own daily bag limit (see § 20.24 of this chapter). Youth must harvest their own bag limits.


(vi) We allow migratory bird hunting on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m.


(vii) We open the refuge to goose youth hunting during any segment of goose season that extends beyond the regular duck season.


(viii) Migratory bird hunters may not enter the refuge prior to 4 a.m. on the day of the hunt and must remove all portable blinds and decoys (see § 27.93 of this chapter) no later than 2 p.m.


(ix) We prohibit hunting within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or structure adjacent to the refuge, and we prohibit hunting within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.


(x) We prohibit mud boats or air cooled propulsion vessels, including “surface-drive” boats, except when traversing through the Intracoastal Waterway and the Irish Bayou Straight Canal only.


(xi) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open youth waterfowl season on the refuge.


(xii) We allow the incidental take of coyote, raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, and opossum with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.


(xiii) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of rabbit, and the incidental take of nutria, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow youth hunting of upland game.


(ii) When hunting, you must possess only shot size 4 or smaller or 0.22 caliber rimfire rifles or smaller. We allow the use of air rifles.


(iii) When hunting rabbit, we allow the use of dogs only after the close of the State archery deer season.


(iv) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (iii) through (v), and (ix) through (xiii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We only allow youth hunting of white-tailed deer, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We are open to youth hunting only during the State deer archery season.


(ii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(iii) We allow placement of temporary deer stands no earlier than 48 hours prior to the start of deer archery season. Hunters must remove all deer stands within 48 hours after the archery deer season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We allow only one deer stand per hunter on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand.


(v) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.


(vi) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (iii) through (v), and (ix) through (xiii) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow recreational finfishing and shellfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow daytime sport finfishing and shellfishing year-round on designated areas of the refuge. On portions of the refuge outside of the Hurricane Protection Levee, we allow daytime sport finfishing and shellfishing from November 1 through January 31 and during the State teal season, but only after 2 p.m.


(ii) We only allow sport finfishing with hand-held rod and reel or hand-held rod and line.


(iii) You may take bait shrimp with cast nets only.


(iv) You may take crawfish (up to 100 pounds (45 kilograms) per person, per day) with crawfish or dip nets only.


(v) We allow only recreational crabbing.


(vi) You must attend all fishing, crabbing, and crawfishing equipment at all times.


(vii) We prohibit the use of trotlines, limblines, slat traps, gar sets, nets, and alligator lines on the refuge.


(viii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (x), and (xiii) of this section apply.


(d) *Bayou Teche National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, gallinule, rail, snipe, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.


(ii) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms (see § 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.


(iii) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game and migratory game bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.


(iv) We require waterfowl and gallinule hunters to remove all portable blinds and decoys from the refuge by 2 p.m. each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(v) Migratory bird hunters are only allowed to enter the refuge after 4 a.m.


(vi) We allow waterfowl hunting daily until 2 p.m. during the State regular season, State teal season, and State youth and veteran waterfowl seasons. We allow gallinule, snipe, and rail hunting until 2 p.m.


(vii) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.


(viii) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.


(ix) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge. We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons during any open season on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel and rabbit, and the incidental take of nutria, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow hunting from the start of the State squirrel and rabbit seasons until the last day of State waterfowl season for the State Waterfowl Zone in which you are hunting.


(ii) We prohibit upland game hunting on days corresponding with refuge deer gun hunts.


(iii) Hunters must leave the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.


(iv) When hunting, you must possess only shot size 4 or smaller or 0.22 caliber rimfire rifles or smaller. We allow the use of air rifles.


(v) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii), (viii), and (ix) of this section apply.


(vi) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section do not apply to upland game hunting on the Mitigation Units.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting of deer only with firearms (see § 27.42 of this chapter) during 5 specific days during October and November. A youth gun hunt will occur during the last weekend of October, on both Saturday and Sunday. The general gun hunt will occur during the final full weekend in November over 3 days: the Friday immediately before the weekend, Saturday, and Sunday.


(ii) We allow archery deer hunting according to the State of Louisiana archery season. We close refuge archery hunting during refuge deer gun hunts.


(iii) We allow each hunter to possess only one deer per day; the deer may be a buck or a doe.


(iv) Hunters may use only portable deer stands. Hunters may erect deer stands no earlier than 48 hours before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 48 hours after the season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license/sportsman's identification number clearly printed on the stand.


(v) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii), (viii), and (ix), and (d)(2)(iii) of this section apply.


(vi) The condition set forth at paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section does not apply to big game hunting on the Mitigation Units.


(vii) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.


(viii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(ix) Deer hunters must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing in all refuge waters subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit the use of unattended nets, traps, or lines (trot, jug, bush, etc.).


(ii) The condition set forth at paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(iii) The refuge is only open to recreational finfishing and shellfishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(e) *Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge*—


(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, coot, light and dark goose, snipe, rail, gallinule, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.


(ii) We allow waterfowl, snipe, rail, gallinule, dove, and goose hunting on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m., including waterfowl hunting during the State teal season and State youth and veterans waterfowl seasons. We only allow hunting of woodcock until 2 p.m.


(iii) We allow light goose hunting for that part of the season that extends beyond the regular duck season from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m.


(iv) We allow only temporary blinds, and hunters must remove blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.


(vi) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms (see § 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence adjacent to the refuge or oil and gas infrastructure on the refuge, or within 200 feet (61 m) from the center of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use maintained trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.


(vii) We allow migratory bird hunters to enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and all hunters must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.


(viii) We allow only reflective tacks as trail markers on the refuge.


(ix) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.


(x) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl (duck, teal, merganser, light and dark goose, and coot) season on the refuge.


(xi) We prohibit hunters and anglers from utilizing air boats, air thrust boats, mud boats, aircraft, and air-cooled propulsion engines on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, and quail, and the incidental take of nutria, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) When hunting, you must possess only shot size 4 or smaller, or 0.22 caliber rim-fire rifles or smaller. We allow the use of air rifles.


(ii) When hunting squirrel and rabbit, and for the incidental take of raccoon, we allow the use of dogs only after the close of the State archery deer season. When hunting quail, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.


(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (v), (vi), and (viii) through (xi) of this section apply.


(iv) During the dog season for squirrel and rabbit, all hunters, including archers (while on the ground), except waterfowl hunters, must wear a minimum of a cap or hat that is hunter orange, blaze pink, or other such color as governed by State regulations.


(v) We only allow hunting of quail until 2 p.m.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We are open only during the State season for archery hunting of deer.


(ii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(iii) We allow placement of temporary deer stands no earlier than 48 hours prior to the start of deer archery season. Hunters must remove all deer stands within 48 hours after the archery deer season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). We allow only one deer stand per hunter on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand. We prohibit hunting stands on trees painted with white bands.


(iv) Deer hunters must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations) while on the ground.


(v) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (v), (vi), and (viii) through (xi) of this section apply.


(vi) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow recreational finfishing and shellfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may only fish from legal sunrise until legal sunset, except we allow night fishing from the bank and pier on Lake Road.


(ii) You must only use rod and reel or pole and line while finfishing.


(iii) You must attend to any fishing, crabbing, and crawfishing equipment at all times.


(iv) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (xi) of this section apply.




(f) *Black Bayou Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed public use regulations brochure) and must carry and fill out daily a Visitor Check-In Permit and Report (FWS Form 3-2405).


(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season.


(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must leave the refuge by 1:30 p.m.


(iv) We prohibit hunting within 100 feet (30 meters (m)) of the maintained right-of-way of roads and from or across all-terrain vehicle (ATV) trails. We prohibit hunting within 50 feet (15 m) of, or trespassing on, aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities.


(v) Hunters must remove boats, blinds, and decoys from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vi) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.


(vii) We only allow ATVs on trails designated for their use and marked by signs (see § 27.31 of this chapter). ATV trails are closed March 1 through August 31.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(i), (iv), and (vii) of this section apply.


(ii) Hunters may only hunt upland game during designated refuge seasons.


(iii) We prohibit taking small game with firearms larger than .22 caliber rimfire, shotgun slugs, and buckshot.


(iv) You may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 1 hour after legal shooting hours end.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(i), (iv), and (vii) and (f)(2)(iv) of this section apply.


(ii) Hunters may only hunt big game during designated refuge seasons.


(iii) An adult age 21 or older must supervise a youth hunter age 15 or younger during hunts. One adult may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The youth hunter must remain within normal voice contact of the supervising adult.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit trotlines, limb lines, yo-yos, traps, and nets.


(ii) We prohibit take of frog, turtle, and mollusk (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(g) *Bogue Chitto National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, gallinule, rail, snipe, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.


(ii) We only allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, and gallinule from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m. of the State seasons, including during the State teal season, State youth waterfowl season, State veterans season, and special light goose conservation season.


(iii) You must remove blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.


(v) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during upland game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.


(vi) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms (see § 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, building, designated camping area, designated parking area, or other designated public facility.


(vii) For the purpose of hunting, we prohibit possession of slugs, buckshot, and rifle and pistol ammunition, except during the deer gun and primitive firearm seasons (see § 32.2(k)).


(viii) You may use only reflective tacks as trail markers on the refuge.


(ix) We allow the incidental take of feral hog, raccoon, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.


(x) We only allow incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, and quail, and the incidental take of nutria, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs for rabbit and squirrel hunting, and the incidental take of raccoon, on specific dates listed in the refuge hunt brochure.


(ii) During any open deer firearm or primitive firearm season on the refuge, all hunters, except waterfowl hunters, must wear hunter orange, blaze pink, or other such color as governed by State regulations.


(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (v) through (x) of this section apply.


(iv) You may use .22-caliber rifles or smaller while hunting upland game and ammunition must be size 4 or smaller (see § 32.2(k)).


(v) We will close the refuge to hunting (except waterfowl) and camping when the Pearl River reaches 15.5 feet (4.72 meters) on the Pearl River Gauge at Pearl River, Louisiana.


(vi) During the dog season for squirrels, rabbits, and incidental take of raccoon, all hunters, including archery hunters (while on the ground), except waterfowl hunters, must wear a cap or hat that is hunter-orange, blaze pink, or other such color as governed by State regulations.


(vii) We prohibit upland game hunting on days corresponding with refuge deer gun and primitive firearm hunts.


(viii) We only allow quail hunting until 2 p.m.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (v) through (x), and (g)(2)(ii), (v), and (vi) of this section apply.


(ii) Hunters may erect deer stands no earlier than 48 hours before the deer archery season opens and must remove them from the refuge within 48 hours after this season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). We allow only one deer stand per hunter on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand.


(iii) Deer hunters hunting from concealed blinds must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations) above or around their blinds that is visible from 360 degrees.


(iv) We hold a special dog hog hunt in February. During this hunt, the following conditions apply, in addition to the other conditions set forth in this paragraph (g)(3):


(A) You must use trained hog-hunting dogs to aid in the take of hog.


(B) We allow take of hog from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(C) You must possess only approved nontoxic shot, or pistol or rifle ammunition not larger than .22 caliber rim-fire, to take the hog after it has been caught by dogs.


(v) You must kill all hogs prior to removal from the refuge.


(vi) We prohibit the use of deer and turkey gobbler decoys.


(vii) We prohibit using shot larger than BB-lead, or T-steel, while hunting during turkey season.


(viii) We describe the dates for turkey hunts and deer general gun hunts, youth hunts, and veterans hunts in the refuge user brochure.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow only recreational fishing year-round on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow cotton limb lines.


(ii) We close the fishing ponds at the Pearl River Turnaround to fishing from April through the first full week of June and to boating during the months of April, May, June, and July.


(iii) When the Pearl River Turnaround area is open, we allow boats that do not have gasoline-powered engines attached in the fishing ponds at the Pearl River Turnaround. Anglers must hand-launch these boats into the ponds. When the fishing ponds at the Pearl River Turnaround are open, hook and line is the only legal method of take in those ponds.


(iv) The Pearl River Turnaround area, when open to fishing, is open 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(v) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (viii), and (g)(2)(v) of this section apply.


(h) *Breton National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport finfishing and shellfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Crabbers must tend crabbing equipment at all times.


(ii) We prohibit trotlines, slat traps, and nets.


(i) *Cameron Prairie National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, gallinule, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters may only hunt during designated days and times.


(ii) We prohibit entrance to the waterfowl hunting area earlier than 4 a.m. Shooting hours for waterfowl hunts end at 2 p.m. each day.


(iii) We require every hunter to possess and carry a valid, signed refuge hunt permit and regulations brochure.


(iv) Every hunter must complete and turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) available from a self-clearing check station after each hunt.


(v) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters) of any public road, refuge road, trail, building, resident, or designated public facility.


(vi) When migratory bird hunting, you may only use dogs for the purpose of locating, pointing, and retrieving.


(vii) Hunters must remove all hunting-related equipment from the refuge immediately following each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only portable deer stands. Hunters may place deer stands on the refuge 1 day before the white-tail deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 1 day after the season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge, and deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly printed on the stand. Hunters must place stands in a nonhunting position at ground level when not in use.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (i)(1)(iii), (v), and (vii) of this section apply.


(iii) Each hunter must complete and turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) available from a self-clearing check station after each hunt.


(iv) We prohibit entrance to the hunting area earlier than 4 a.m. Hunters must leave no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, crabbing, and cast netting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing with a rod and reel or a pole and line. We prohibit possession of any other type of fishing gear, including limb lines, gill nets, jug lines, yo-yos, or trotlines.


(ii) We allow recreational fishing, crabbing, or cast netting in the East Cove Unit year-round from legal sunrise to legal sunset, except during the Louisiana west zone waterfowl season or when the Grand Bayou Boat Bay is closed.


(iii) We allow sport fishing, crabbing, and cast netting in the Gibbstown Unit's Outfall Canal from March 15 through October 15.


(iv) We allow only recreational crabbing with cotton hand lines or drop nets up to 24 inches (60 centimeters) outside diameter. We prohibit using floats on crab lines.


(v) Anglers must attend all lines, nets, and bait, and must remove same from the refuge at the end of each day's fishing activity (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vi) The daily limit of crabs is 5 dozen (60) per boat or vehicle, regardless of the number of people thereon.


(vii) The daily shrimp limit during the Louisiana inshore shrimp season is 5 gallons (19 liters (L)) of heads-on shrimp per day, per vehicle or boat.


(viii) We allow cast netting for bait on both the East Cove Unit and the Gibbstown Unit when the units are open for public fishing only. Anglers must empty cast nets directly into the container from the net. The daily bait shrimp limit is one gallon (3.8 L) per day, per boat, outside the Louisiana inshore shrimp season.


(ix) Shrimp must remain in your actual custody while on the refuge.


(x) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(j) *Cat Island National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, coot, snipe, rail, gallinule, dove, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.


(ii) We allow migratory bird hunters to enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and all hunters must exit the refuge within 2 hours after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow the incidental take of beaver, feral hog, raccoon, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.


(iv) We allow all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and utility-type vehicle (UTVs) as governed by State Wildlife Management Area regulations and size specifications on designated trails (see § 27.31 of this chapter) from the third Saturday in September until February 28.


(v) We prohibit hunting within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, building, designated parking area, or designated public use facility.


(vi) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game hunts and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. Adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that youth hunters do not violate refuge rules.


(vii) We allow waterfowl (duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, and coot) and gallinule hunting daily during the State regular season, including waterfowl hunting during the State teal season and State youth and veteran waterfowl seasons, from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m.


(viii) You must remove harvested waterfowl, temporary blinds, and decoys used for duck hunting by 2 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ix) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.


(x) We prohibit accessing refuge property by boat from the Mississippi River.


(xi) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.


(xii) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel and rabbit, and the incidental take of nutria, beaver, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (vi) and (x) through (xii) of this section apply.


(ii) While upland game hunting, we prohibit the possession of hunting firearms larger than 0.22 caliber rimfire, shotgun slugs, and buckshot (see § 27.42 of this chapter).


(iii) We allow the use of dogs during designated small game with dog seasons. We require the owner's contact information on the collars of all dogs. We only allow up to two dogs per hunting party for squirrel hunting.


(iv) We prohibit upland game hunting on days corresponding with refuge deer gun hunts.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (vi), (x), and (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow archery deer hunting, youth deer gun hunting during the first weekend of the State youth firearm season, and one weekend of primitive firearm season on the refuge. We list specific dates of these hunts in the refuge annual user brochure.


(iii) Hunters may erect deer stands no earlier than 48 hours before the deer archery season opens and must remove them from the refuge within 48 hours after this season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). We grant extensions to retrieve stands due to high water refuge closure. We allow only one deer stand or blind per hunter on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand.


(iv) You may only take one deer of either sex per day during the deer seasons listed. State season limits apply.


(v) Deer hunters must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations).


(vi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow recreational finfishing and shellfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i), (iv) (on the open portions of Wood Duck ATV trail for wildlife-dependent activities throughout the year), (x), and (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit slat traps or hoop nets on the refuge.


(iii) Anglers may only crawfish during designated days and times. The harvest limit is 50 pounds (22.5 kilograms) per person per day.


(iv) You must attend all crawfish traps and nets at all times. We allow up to, and no more than, 20 traps per angler on the refuge.


(k) *Catahoula National Wildlife Refuge*— 

(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow migratory hunting of duck, goose, and coot on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season.


(ii) We prohibit migratory game bird hunting during deer modern and primitive firearms hunts.


(iii) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.


(iv) We allow the use of only shotguns for hunting migratory birds.


(v) Hunters must check-in and check out as governed by refuge-specific terms.


(vi) We require hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed special refuge recreational activity permit (name/address/phone only).


(vii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day. Hunters must remove all decoys, blinds, and boats from the hunting area by 1 p.m. (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(viii) We prohibit hunting or discharge of firearms within 150 feet (45 meters (m)) from the edge of areas maintained for roads, trails, and utility rights-of-way.


(ix) We prohibit parking, walking, or hunting within 150 feet (45 m) of any active oil and gas facility or equipment.


(x) We only allow the use of bright eyes or reflective tape for flagging or trail markers.


(xi) We restrict the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) to designated trails. ATVs are allowed from September 1 through the last day of February. We allow ATVs only for hunting, fishing, and other wildlife-related activities.


(xii) We allow the incidental take of feral hog, raccoon, beaver, nutria, and coyote while hunting with firearms or archery equipment authorized for that hunt.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, raccoon, beaver, nutria, coyote, and rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (k)(1)(v) through (xii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit squirrel and rabbit hunting during deer modern and primitive firearms hunts.


(iii) At the Bushley Unit, we allow the use of dogs to hunt squirrels and rabbits only after the last primitive firearms season for deer on the refuge. Hunters must place their contact information on the collars of all their dogs.


(iv) We require hunters participating in the dog season for rabbits to wear a hunter-orange cap.


(v) We only allow the use of shotguns and rifles that are .22 magnum caliber rim fire or less for upland game hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (k)(1)(v) through (xii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow deer modern firearm hunting on the area south of the French Fork of the Little River for 2 days in December with these dates being set annually.


(iii) We allow hunting of deer with primitive firearms during the first segment of the State season for area 1, weekdays only (Monday through Friday) and 2 days in December with these dates set annually. We allow either-sex, deer gun hunting for the Friday, Saturday, and Sunday immediately following Thanksgiving Day and for 2 days in December with these dates to be set annually.


(iv) We allow the use of portable deer stands. Hunters may place deer stands on the refuge 1 day before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 1 day after this season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one stand on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly printed on the stand. Hunters must place stands in a nonhunting position when not in use.


(v) We allow the use and possession of lead shotgun slugs during deer modern and primitive firearm hunts. We prohibit the use and possession of toxic and nontoxic shot shells during these hunts.


(vi) All hunters must wear and display 400 square inches (2,581 square centimeters) of hunter orange and a hunter orange cap during deer modern and primitive firearm hunts.


(vii) You may take only one deer per day during modern and primitive firearm deer hunts.


(viii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(ix) We prohibit the use of dogs to hunt and trail wounded deer.


(x) We prohibit use of deer decoys.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (k)(1)(ix) through (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) We require anglers age 16 and older to possess and carry a signed special refuge recreational activity permit (name/address/phone only).


(iii) We allow fishing from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iv) At the Headquarters Unit, we allow year-round fishing on Cowpen Bayou and the Highway 28 borrow pits. We allow fishing on Duck Lake and its tail-waters, Muddy Bayou, Willow Lake, and the Highway 84 borrow pits from March 1 through October 31. We only allow use of a rod and reel or pole with a hook and line attached for fishing in these waters. We prohibit snagging.


(v) At the Bushley Bayou Unit, we allow fishing year-round. We allow trotlines, but anglers must tend them at least once every 24 hours and reset them when receding water levels expose them. Anglers must attach lines with a length of cotton line that extends into the water. We allow the use of yo-yos, but you must attend and only use them from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset. We prohibit the use of nets and traps.


(vi) At the Headquarters Unit, we allow the launching of only trailered boats at designated boat ramps. Anglers may launch small hand-carried boats from the bank in other areas. We prohibit dragging of boats or driving onto road shoulders to launch boats.


(vii) We prohibit bank fishing on Bushley Creek and fishing in Black Lake, Dempsey Lake, Long Lake, Rhinehart Lake, and Round Lake during deer modern and primitive firearms hunts.


(viii) We prohibit fishing in Black Lake, Dempsey Lake, Long Lake, Round Lake, and Rhinehart Lake during waterfowl hunts.


(ix) We prohibit taking or possessing frogs and turtles (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(x) We prohibit the possession of cleaned or processed fish on the refuge.


(l) *D'Arbonne National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed public use regulations brochure) and must carry and fill out daily a Visitor Check-In Permit and Report (FWS Form 3-2405).


(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season.


(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 1:30 p.m.


(iv) We prohibit hunting within 100 feet (30 meters (m)) of the maintained rights-of-way of roads. We prohibit hunting within 50 feet (15 m) or trespassing on aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities.


(v) Hunters must remove boats, blinds, and decoys from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vi) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) You may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal shooting hours.


(iii) When hunting upland game, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge as indicated subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (iv) and (l)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) You must check all deer taken during general gun deer hunts at a refuge check station on the same day taken.


(iii) We prohibit hunters from placing or hunting from stands on pine trees with white-painted bands or rings.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) For recreational fishing using commercial gear (slat traps, etc.), we require you to carry a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G), which is available at the refuge office.


(ii) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(m) *Delta National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, merganser, teal, light and dark goose, dove, snipe, rail, gallinule, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.


(ii) We allow migratory bird hunting on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 2 p.m. during the State seasons, including the regular waterfowl season, the State teal season, State youth waterfowl season, State veterans waterfowl season, and State light goose special conservation season.


(iii) We only allow temporary blinds. You must remove both blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve game.


(v) We prohibit discharge of firearms (see § 27.42 of this chapter) within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facilities.


(vi) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during upland game and migratory game bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times.


(vii) Migratory bird hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and all hunters must exit the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.


(viii) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.


(ix) We only allow the incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.


(x) We allow only the use of reflective tacks as marking devices.


(xi) We close all refuge lands between Raphael Pass and Main Pass to public entry, including hunting and fishing, from November 1 through the end of February; year-round access is only allowed in Main, Raphael, Octave, Women, and Flatboat passes.


(xii) We prohibit hunters and anglers from utilizing air boats, air thrust boats, mud boats, aircraft, and air-cooled propulsion engines on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of rabbit, and the incidental take of nutria, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The refuge rabbit season opens the day after the State duck season closes and continues through the remainder of the State rabbit season.


(ii) We restrict hunting to shotgun only.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when rabbit hunting.


(iv) We prohibit upland game hunting on days corresponding with refuge deer gun hunts.


(v) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (m)(1)(i), (v) through (viii), (xi), and (xii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (m)(1)(i) and (v) through (xii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow archery deer hunting, bucks only, from October 1 through 15. We allow either-sex archery deer hunting from October 16 through 31, and from the day after the close of the State duck season through the end of the State deer archery season.


(iii) We allow placement of temporary deer stands up to 48 hours prior to the start of deer archery season. Hunters must remove all deer stands within 48 hours after the archery deer season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). We allow only one deer stand per hunter on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand.


(iv) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(v) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.


(vi) We allow shotgun hunting of deer on the Saturday and Sunday during the first split of the regular waterfowl season.


(vii) Deer hunters must display State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) hunter-orange or blaze-pink (as governed by State WMA regulations).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow recreational finfishing and shellfishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow sport finfishing and shellfishing from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset. During the State waterfowl hunting seasons, we only allow sport finfishing and shellfishing from 2 p.m. until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(ii) We prohibit the use of trotlines, limblines, slat traps, jug lines, nets, or alligator lines.


(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (m)(1)(i), (xi), and (xii) of this section apply.




(n) *Grand Cote National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow waterfowl (duck, goose, coot) hunting on Wednesdays and Saturdays from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season.


(ii) We prohibit teal hunting during the State September season.


(iii) Hunters selected for lottery waterfowl hunts must be present and in possession of written documentation confirming their selection on the day of the hunt.


(iv) We allow no more than three persons to hunt in each of the lottery waterfowl blinds, and hunters must confine all hunting activity to the direct vicinity of the blinds.


(v) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.


(vi) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day.


(vii) We allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, beaver, nutria, and coyote only when hunting for migratory bird, upland game, and big game species with firearms or archery equipment authorized for use.


(viii) We require hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed refuge special recreational activity permit (electronic form).


(ix) We prohibit hunting or the discharge of firearms within 150 feet (45 meters) from the edge of areas maintained for roads, trails, and utility rights-of-way.


(x) Hunters must check-in and check out as governed by refuge-specific terms (see refuge hunting brochure for details).


(xi) Refuge users must enter and exit the refuge only at designated parking areas occurring on the refuge. We prohibit accessing adjacent lands from refuge parking areas or any other part of the refuge.


(xii) We restrict the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) to designated ATV trails. ATVs are allowed from September 1 through the last day of February. We allow ATVs only for hunting, fishing, and other wildlife-related activities.


(xiii) Hunters must remove all decoys, blinds, and boats from the hunt area by 1 p.m. (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(xiv) We only allow the use of bright eyes or reflective tape for flagging or trail markers.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of rabbit, raccoon, beaver, nutria, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (n)(1)(vi) through (xiv) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow the use of only shotguns and rifles that are .22 magnum caliber rimfire or less for upland game hunting


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting rabbit only after the close of the State deer rifle season. Dog owners must place their contact information on the collars of all their dogs.


(iv) We require hunters participating in the special dog season for rabbits to wear a hunter-orange cap.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (n)(1)(vi) through (xiv) of this section apply.


(ii) We only allow the use of archery equipment for big game hunting.


(iii) You may use only portable deer stands. Hunters must place deer stands on the refuge 1 day before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 1 day after the season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge, and deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license/sportsmen's identification number clearly printed on the stand. Hunters must place the stand in a nonhunting position and at ground level when not in use.


(iv) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.


(v) We prohibit the use of dogs to trail wounded deer.


(vi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (n)(1)(xi) through (xiv) of this section apply.


(ii) We only allow fishing within the Coulee Des Grues Bayou from the bank adjacent to Little California Road.


(iii) Except as provided under paragraph (n)(4)(ii) of this section, we allow fishing from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to legal sunset. Anglers may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day.


(iv) We require anglers age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed refuge special recreational activity permit.


(v) We prohibit the use of nets, traps, set lines, and trot lines. Anglers may only use a rod and reel or pole with a hook and line attached to fish.


(vi) We prohibit the possession of cleaned or processed fish on the refuge.


(vii) We prohibit the harvest of frog, turtle, snake, or mollusk (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(viii) We prohibit crawfishing.


(o) *Lacassine National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, gallinule, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters may only hunt migratory game birds during designated refuge seasons.


(ii) We require every hunter to possess and carry a valid signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) and regulations brochure.


(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. Shooting hours end at 2 p.m. each day.


(iv) Each hunter must complete and turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542), available from a self-clearing check station, after each hunt.


(v) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of refuge canals; waterways; public roads; buildings; aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities; or designated public facilities. Hunting parties must remain a distance of no fewer than 150 yards (135 m) away from another hunter.


(vi) You must remove all hunting-related equipment from the refuge immediately following each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vii) When migratory bird hunting, you may only use dogs for the purpose of locating, pointing, and retrieving.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting for white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters may only hunt big game during designated refuge seasons with archery equipment.


(ii) We allow only portable deer stands. Hunters may place deer stands on the refuge 1 day before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 1 day after the season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge, and deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly printed on the stand. Hunters must place stands in a nonhunting position at ground level when not in use.


(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (o)(1)(ii), (v), and (vi) of this section apply.


(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge at 4 a.m. Hunters must leave no later than 1 hour after legal sunset.


(v) Each hunter must complete and turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) available from a self-clearing check station, after each hunt.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from March 15 through October 15.


(ii) We prohibit fishing activities before legal sunrise and after legal sunset.


(iii) Anglers may enter the refuge 1 hour before legal sunrise, and you must leave 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iv) Anglers can travel the refuge by boat from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset in order to access fishing areas.


(v) We prohibit bank fishing from the Lacassine Pool Wildlife Drive.


(vi) We prohibit boat and bank fishing in Lacassine Pool Unit D and refuge waters from October 16 through March 14.


(vii) We allow fishing only with rod and reel or pole and line in refuge waters. We prohibit possession of any other type of fishing gear, including limb lines, gill nets, jug lines, yo-yos, or trotlines.


(viii) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(p) *Lake Ophelia National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow waterfowl (duck, goose, coot) hunting on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) during the Statewide duck season.


(ii) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.


(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day. Hunters must remove all decoys, blinds, and boats from the hunt area by 1 p.m. (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We prohibit migratory game bird hunting during refuge deer primitive firearm hunts.


(v) Except as restricted under paragraph (p)(3)(ix) of this section, we allow the incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, beaver, nutria, and coyote when hunting for migratory bird, upland game, and big game species with firearms and archery equipment authorized for use.


(vi) We restrict the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) to designated ATV trails. ATVs are allowed from September 1 to the last day of the spring turkey season. We allow ATVs only for hunting, fishing, and other wildlife-related activities.


(vii) We restrict the use of the ATV trails that are designated for physically challenged persons to individuals who possess a State-issued physically challenged program hunter permit or are age 60 or older.


(viii) We require hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed refuge special recreational activity permit (electronic form).


(ix) We prohibit hunting or the discharge of firearms within 150 feet (45 meters) from the edge of areas maintained for roads, trails, and utility rights-of-way.


(x) Hunters must check-in and check out as governed by refuge-specific terms (see refuge hunting brochure for details).


(xi) Hunters and anglers must enter and exit the refuge only at designated parking areas occurring on the refuge. We prohibit accessing adjacent lands from refuge parking areas or any other part of the refuge.


(xii) We only allow the use of bright eyes or reflective tape for flagging or trail markers.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, beaver, nutria, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (p)(1)(v) through (xii) of this section apply.


(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal sunset for that day.


(iii) We only allow the use of shotguns and rifles that are .22 magnum caliber rimfire or less for upland game hunting.


(iv) We prohibit upland game hunting during refuge deer primitive firearm hunts.


(v) We allow the use of dogs when squirrel and rabbit hunting only after the close of the State deer rifle season. Dog owners must place their contact information on the collars of all their dogs.


(vi) We require hunters participating in the special dog season for rabbits to wear a hunter-orange cap.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (p)(1)(v) through (xii) and (p)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) You may harvest only one antlered and one antlerless deer during each of the lottery primitive firearm hunts.


(iii) You may use only portable deer stands. Hunters may place deer stands on the refuge 1 day before the deer archery season and must remove them from the refuge within 1 day after the season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge, and deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license number clearly printed on the stand. Hunters must place stands in a nonhunting position and at ground level when not in use.


(iv) All deer gun hunters must wear and display 400 square inches (2,600 square centimeters) of hunter orange and a hunter-orange cap during the deer gun seasons and lottery deer hunts.


(v) Only hunters that have been selected for lottery primitive firearm deer hunts may be present during these hunts.


(vi) We allow the use and possession of lead shotgun slugs during lottery primitive firearm deer hunts. We prohibit the use and possession of toxic and nontoxic shot shells during these hunts.


(vii) We prohibit all other hunting during refuge deer primitive firearm hunts as described in the refuge hunting brochure.


(viii) We prohibit the use of deer or turkey gobbler decoys.


(ix) We allow turkey hunting only during the first 16 days of the State season until 12 p.m. (noon). We prohibit incidental hunting of feral hog while turkey hunting.


(x) We prohibit the use of dogs to trail wounded deer.


(xi) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (p)(1)(xi) and (xii) of this section apply.


(ii) We require anglers age 16 and older to purchase and carry a signed refuge special recreational activity permit (name/address/phone number only).


(iii) We allow fishing from March 1 through October 15 from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iv) We allow anglers to operate ATVs on the designated trails to the Duck Lake, Westcut Lake, and Possum Bayou boat ramps.


(v) We prohibit the use of nets, traps, set lines, and trot lines. Anglers may only use a rod and reel or pole with a hook and line attached to fish.


(vi) We prohibit the possession of cleaned or processed fish on the refuge.


(vii) We prohibit the harvest of frog, turtle, snake, or mollusk (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(viii) We prohibit crawfishing.


(q) *Mandalay National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, teal, merganser, light and dark goose, gallinule (including moorhen), coot, rail, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Each person age 18 and older must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge user brochure while on the refuge.


(ii) We allow only youth hunting of migratory game birds and only in the Hanson Unit on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 2 p.m. of the State teal, youth, and regular waterfowl seasons.


(iii) We open the Hanson Unit only to youth goose hunting during any segment of the goose season that extends beyond the regular duck season on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 2 p.m.


(iv) Migratory bird hunters are only allowed to enter the refuge after 4 a.m.


(v) All youth hunters age 15 and younger must be supervised by an adult during all hunts. One adult may supervise up to two youths during small game and migratory game bird hunts. An adult may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. The supervising adult must maintain visual and voice contact with the youth at all times. The youth must be capable of and must actively participate in the hunt by possessing and/or firing a legal weapon during the hunt for the express purpose of harvesting game. Parents or adult guardians are responsible for ensuring that hunters age 15 and younger do not violate refuge rules.


(vi) Adults accompanying youth on refuge hunts may participate by hunting, but are not allowed to harvest more than their own daily bag limit.


(vii) We only allow incidental take of nutria with approved shot and weapons during any open waterfowl season on the refuge.


(viii) We allow incidental take of raccoon, feral hog, armadillo, opossum, and coyote with approved shot and weapons allowed during any open season on the refuge.


(ix) We prohibit hunting within 500 feet (152 meters (m)) of any residence or oil and gas infrastructure, or within 200 feet (61 m) of any road, railroad, levee, water control structure, designated public use trail, designated parking area, or other designated public use facility.


(x) We allow only temporary blinds, and hunters must remove blinds and decoys by 2 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland Game Hunting.* We allow youth hunting of squirrel and rabbit, and the incidental take of nutria, coyote, raccoon, armadillo, and opossum, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) When hunting, you must possess only shot size 4 or smaller, or 0.22 caliber rim-fire rifles or smaller. We allow the use of air rifles.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (q)(1)(i) and (v) through (ix) apply.


(iii) The Hanson Unit is closed to youth hunting prior to 2 p.m. on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays during waterfowl hunt season.


(iv) Hunters must leave the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We open the refuge to hunting of white-tailed deer only during the State archery season. We close the Hanson Unit to big game hunting prior to 2 p.m. on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays during State waterfowl seasons.


(ii) You may take only one deer of either sex per day.


(iii) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.


(iv) We only allow portable stands. Hunters may erect temporary deer stands no earlier than 48 hours prior to the start of deer archery season. Hunters must remove all deer stands within 48 hours after the archery deer season closes (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters may place only one deer stand on the refuge. Deer stands must have the owner's State hunting license/sportsman's identification number clearly printed on the stand.


(v) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(vi) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (q)(1)(i), (v), (vi), (viii), and (ix), and (q)(2)(iv) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow recreational finfishing and shellfishing in all refuge waters subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit the use of unattended nets, traps, or lines (trot, jog, bush, etc.).


(ii) The refuge is open from legal sunrise until legal sunset.


(iii) The condition set forth at paragraph (q)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(r) *Red River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, woodcock, snipe, rail, gallinule, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must possess and carry a signed refuge brochure.


(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season. Waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge no later than 1:30 p.m.


(iii) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m.


(iv) Hunters may only hunt during designated times and seasons within specified State seasons as listed in refuge brochure.


(v) We prohibit hunting within 100 feet (30 meters) of any public road, refuge road, trail or ATV trail, residence, building, aboveground oil or gas or electrical transmission facility, or designated public facility.


(vi) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.


(vii) We allow the incidental take of coyote, beaver, and feral hogs in designated areas during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum, and incidental take of coyote and beaver, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (r)(1)(i), (iii) through (v), and (vii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunting of raccoon and opossum during the daylight hours of rabbit and squirrel season. We allow night hunting during December and January, and you may use dogs for night hunting.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs to hunt squirrel and rabbit after December 31.


(iv) Hunters must exit the refuge no later than 1 hour after legal shooting hours, unless participating in authorized hunting after legal sunset.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (r)(1)(i), (iii) through (v), and (vii), and (r)(2)(iv) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow use of only electric trolling motors on all refuge waters while fishing.


(ii) Recreational fishing using commercial gear (slat traps, etc.) requires a special refuge permit (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)), which is available at the refuge office. You must possess and carry the special refuge permit while fishing using commercial gear.


(iii) We prohibit the taking of alligator snapping turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(s) *Sabine National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, gallinule, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters may only hunt migratory game birds during designated refuge seasons.


(ii) We require all hunters to possess and carry a valid signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) and regulations brochure.


(iii) We prohibit entrance to the waterfowl hunting area earlier than 4 a.m. Shooting hours end at 2 p.m. each day.


(iv) Each hunter must complete and turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) from a self-clearing check station after each hunt.


(v) We allow only portable blinds and those made of native vegetation. Hunters must remove portable blinds, decoys, spent shells, and all other personal equipment after each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(vi) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of refuge canals; waterways; public roads; buildings; aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities; or designated public facilities. Hunting parties must maintain a distance of no less than 150 yards (135 m) away from another hunter.


(vii) When migratory bird hunting, you may only use dogs for the purpose of locating, pointing, and retrieving.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing, crabbing, and cast netting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Bank and wharf access for fishing are available year-round at the public use areas along State Highway 27. Anglers may access the refuge for fishing by boat only during the March 15 to October 15 open period. You may launch boats at designated boat ramps only.


(ii) We allow fishing with a rod and reel, pole and line, or jug and line. We prohibit possession of any other type of fishing gear, including limb lines, gill nets, or trot lines. Jug line limit is up to 10 per boat, and you must attend them at all times. The angler must mark all jugs with their fishing license number (State requirement) and remove the jugs from the refuge at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) We prohibit fishing from October 16 through March 14 in Units 1A and 1B.


(iv) Anglers can travel the refuge by boat from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset in order to access fishing areas; however, we prohibit fishing activities before legal sunrise and after legal sunset.


(v) We allow recreational crabbing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(A) We allow only recreational crabbing with cotton hand lines or drop nets up to 24 inches (60 centimeters) outside diameter. We prohibit using floats on crab lines.


(B) Anglers must remove all hand lines, drop nets, and bait from the refuge upon leaving (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(C) We allow a daily limit of 5 dozen (60) crabs per vehicle or boat.


(vi) We allow recreational cast netting in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(A) We allow recreational cast netting from boats only from legal sunrise to legal sunset during the Louisiana inshore shrimp season.


(B) Anglers must immediately return all incidental take (bycatch) to the water before continuing to cast.


(C) The daily shrimp limit during the Louisiana inshore shrimp season is 5 gallons (19 liters (L)) of heads-on shrimp per day, per vehicle or boat.


(D) The daily bait shrimp limit is 1 gallon (3.8 L) per day, per boat, outside the Louisiana inshore shrimp season.


(E) Shrimp must remain in your actual custody while on the refuge.


(vii) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(t) *Tensas River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) All hunters and anglers age 16 and older must purchase an Annual Public Use Permit (FWS Form 3-2439). This permit allows individuals to participate in open (non-quota) hunting and fishing seasons.


(ii) All hunters and anglers must obtain a Self-Clearing Permit (FWS Form 3-2405), available at refuge entry points and at the Visitor Center, and complete the self-clearing process when exiting the refuge at the end of each day.


(iii) We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, gallinule, coot, and snipe on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays until 2 p.m. during the State season. We prohibit migratory bird hunting during refuge gun hunts for deer.


(iv) We allow refuge hunters to enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and they must leave no later than 2 hours after legal sunset unless they are participating in the refuge nighttime raccoon hunt.


(v) We allow all-terrain vehicle (ATV) travel on designated trails for access typically from October 1 to the last day of the refuge squirrel season.


(vi) We prohibit field dressing of game within 150 feet (45 meters) of parking areas, maintained roads, and trails.


(vii) An adult age 18 or older must supervise youth hunters age 17 and younger during all hunts. One adult may supervise two youths during small game and migratory bird hunts, but may supervise only one youth during big game hunts. Youth must remain within normal voice contact of the adult who is supervising them.


(viii) We allow the incidental take of coyote, beaver, raccoon, opossum, feral hog, armadillo, and nutria during authorized hunts with firearms and archery equipment legal for use during the hunt.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of raccoon, squirrel, and rabbit, and the incidental take of coyote, beaver, raccoon, opossum, armadillo, and nutria, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (t)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv) through (viii) of this section apply.


(ii) A nighttime raccoon hunt will be conducted during December, January, and/or February, usually in conjunction with the adjacent State Wildlife Management Area (WMA) raccoon hunting season.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs when squirrel and rabbit hunting subject to the following conditions:


(A) We allow hunting without dogs from the beginning of the State season to December 31.


(B) From the beginning of the State season to December 31, we do not require hunters to wear hunter orange.


(C) We allow squirrel and rabbit hunting with or without dogs from January 1 to the last day of February.


(D) From January 1 to the last day of February, squirrel and rabbit hunters are required to wear a minimum solid hunter orange cap.


(E) We allow no more than three dogs per hunting party.


(iv) We close squirrel and rabbit hunting during the following gun hunts for deer: Refuge-wide youth hunt, primitive firearms hunt, and modern firearms hunts.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hogs, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (t)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv) through (viii) of this section apply.


(ii) We require a valid Quota Modern Firearm Permit (FWS Form 3-2439) to hunt during a Deer Quota Modern Firearm Hunt. You must complete and submit an application for all Deer Quota Hunts, and hunters will be notified of their drawing status. If selected, hunters are required to purchase the Annual Public Use Permit (FWS Form 3-2439) to claim their Quota Modern Firearm Permit for the selected hunt. Hunters must carry a signed paper copy or electronic version of the permit with them on their person while hunting.


(iii) Deer archery season will begin the first Saturday in November and will conclude on January 31, except for during the youth gun hunt and modern firearms hunts, when archery is prohibited.


(iv) The deer primitive firearms season will occur between November 1 and January 31. We allow all legal primitive firearms as governed by State regulations.


(v) During the deer primitive firearms season, hunters may fit any legal primitive firearms with magnified scopes.


(vi) We allow hunters using primitive weapons to hunt reforested areas.


(vii) We prohibit youth hunters from using modern firearms during the primitive weapon hunt.


(viii) During modern firearm hunts, all firearm hunting, even hunting with primitive weapons or muzzleloaders, is governed by applicable Federal and State regulations. We require a quota hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for these hunts.


(ix) During modern firearm hunts, we prohibit hunting in reforested areas. We prohibit hunting and/or shooting into or across any reforested area during the quota hunt for deer.


(x) For the guided quota youth hunts, we consider youth to be ages 8 through 15.


(xi) We will conduct a refuge-wide youth deer hunt that will coincide with the State youth hunt weekend.


(xii) Hunters may take only one deer (one buck or one doe) per day during refuge deer hunts, except that during guided youth and wheelchair-bound hunts, the limit will be one antlerless and one antlered deer per day.


(xiii) We allow turkey hunting in designated areas during the State turkey hunt season not to exceed 16 days.


(xiv) We allow a youth turkey hunt weekend in conjunction with the State youth turkey hunt weekend.


(xv) We allow muzzleloader hunters to discharge their primitive firearms at the end of each hunt safely into the ground at least 150 feet (45 meters (m)) from any designated public road, maintained road, trail, fire break, dwelling, or aboveground oil and gas production facility. We define a “maintained road or trail” as one that has been mowed, disked, or plowed, or one that is free of trees.


(xvi) We prohibit deer hunters leaving deer stands unattended before the opening day of the refuge archery season. Hunters must remove stands from the refuge by the end of the last day of the refuge archery season (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Hunters must remove portable stands from trees at the end of each day's hunt and place freestanding stands in a nonhunting position when unattended. Hunters must clearly mark stands left unattended on the refuge with the hunter's last name, Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries license number, and I-Sportsman Permit Number.


(xvii) We allow hunting with slugs, rifle, or pistol ammunition larger than .22 caliber rimfire only during the quota hunts for deer. We prohibit use of buckshot when hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (t)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow anglers to enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m., and they must depart no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iv) We prohibit fish cleaning within 150 feet (45 m) of parking areas, maintained roads, and trails.


(u) *Upper Ouachita National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, dove, rail, gallinule, snipe, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must carry a signed refuge public use brochure and must carry and fill out daily a Visitor Check-In Permit and Report (FWS Form 3-2405).


(ii) Hunters may only hunt during designated refuge seasons as listed in the signed refuge public use brochure.


(iii) We allow waterfowl hunting until 12 p.m. (noon) during the State season. Waterfowl hunters must exit the refuge no later than 1:30 p.m.


(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m.


(v) We prohibit hunting within 100 feet (30 meters (m)) of the maintained rights-of-way of roads and from or across all-terrain vehicle (ATV) trails. We prohibit hunting within 50 feet (15 meters (m)) of, or trespassing on, aboveground oil, gas, or electrical transmission facilities.


(vi) When hunting migratory game birds, you may only use dogs to locate, point, and retrieve.


(vii) We allow ATVs only on trails designated for their use and marked by signs (see § 27.31 of this chapter). ATV trails are closed March 1 through August 31.


(viii) We allow the incidental take of coyote, beaver, and feral hog during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum, and the incidental take of coyote and beaver, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (u)(1)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vii), and (viii) of this section apply.


(ii) You must exit no later than 2 hours after legal shooting hours, unless participating in authorized hunting after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow the nighttime hunting of raccoon and opossum from December 1 to January 31 with the aid of dogs. We allow hunting of raccoon and opossum during the daylight hours of rabbit and squirrel season.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (u)(1)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vii), and (viii), and (u)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) Deer hunters must wear hunter orange as governed by State deer hunting regulations in wildlife management areas.


(iii) We prohibit hunters from placing stands or hunting from stands on pine trees with white-painted bands and/or rings.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit leaving boats and other personal property on the refuge overnight (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) You must tend trotlines daily. You must attach ends of trotlines by a length of cotton line that extends into the water.


(iii) Recreational fishing using commercial gear (slat traps, etc.) requires a special refuge permit (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)), which is available at the refuge office. You must possess and carry the special refuge permit while fishing using commercial gear.


(iv) We prohibit the taking of turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54113, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48860, Aug. 31, 2021; 89 FR 88164, Nov. 7, 2024]




