# § 541.6   Requirements for replacement parts.

(a) Each replacement part for a part specified in § 541.5(a) must have the registered trademark of the manufacturer of the replacement part, or some other unique identifier if the manufacturer does not have a registered trademark, and the letter “R” affixed or inscribed on such replacement part by means that comply with § 541.5(d), except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. In the case of replacement parts subject to the marking requirements of this section, which were not originally manufactured for sale in the United States, the importer of the part shall inscribe its registered trademark, or some other unique identifier if the importer does not have a registered trademark, and the letter “R” on the part by means that comply with § 541.5(d)(2), except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) A replacement part subject to paragraph (a) of this section shall not be marked pursuant to § 541.5.


(c) The trademark and the letter “R” required by paragraph (a) of this section must be at least one centimeter high.


(d) The trademark and the letter “R” required by paragraph (a) of this section must be placed entirely within the target area specified by the vehicle manufacturer, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Target areas.* (1) Each manufacturer that is the original producer or assembler of the vehicle for which the replacement part is designed shall designate a target area for the identifying symbols to be marked on each replacement part subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. Such target areas shall not exceed 25 percent of the surface area of the surface on which the replacement part marking will appear.


(2) The boundaries of the target area designated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be at least 10 centimeters at all points from the nearest boundaries of the target area designated for that part under § 541.5(e) of this part.


(3) Each manufacturer subject to paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall inform NHTSA in writing of the target areas designated for each replacement part subject to paragraph (a) of this section, at the same time as it informs the agency of the target area designated for the original equipment parts of the line, pursuant to § 541.5(e)(2) of this part. In those instances where a manufacturer has submitted this target area information to NHTSA with a request for confidential treatment under 49 CFR part 512, the manufacturer shall also submit a complete copy of the target area information within seven (7) days after the information has become public or the new line has been released for sale to the public, whichever comes first. The information should be submitted to: Docket Management, Room W12-140, Ground Floor, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 by any of the following methods. In all cases, the docket number for the submission, (Docket No. NHTSA-2009-0069) must be cited.


(i) *Electronic submission to the Federal eRulemaking Portal: http://www.regulations.gov.* Follow the instructions for submitting information.


(ii) *By U.S. Mail:* Docket Management Facility: U.S. Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., West Building, Ground Floor, Room W12-140, Washington, DC 20590.


(iii) *Hand delivery or by courier:* 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E., West Building, Ground Floor, Room W12-140, Washington, DC 20590, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. *Telephone:* 1-800-647-5527.


(iv) *By Fax transmission:* (202) 493-2251.


(4) The target area designated by the original vehicle manufacturer for the parts subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be maintained for the duration of the production of such replacement part, unless a restyling of the part makes it no longer practicable to mark the part within the original target area. If there is such a restyling, the original vehicle manufacturer shall inform NHTSA of that fact and the new target area, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(f) Each replacement part must bear the symbol “DOT” in letters at least one centimeter high within 5 centimeters of the trademark and of the letter “R”, and entirely within the target area specified under paragraph (d) of this section. The symbol “DOT” constitutes the manufacturer's certification that the replacement part conforms to the applicable theft prevention standard, and shall be inscribed or affixed by means that comply with paragraph (a) of this section. In the case of replacement parts subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, which were not originally manufactured for sale in the United States, the importer shall inscribe the “DOT” symbol before the part is imported into the United States.



---

[N] [50 FR 43190, Oct. 24, 1985, as amended at 76 FR 24403, May 2, 2011]




