# § 21.5812   Reports of withdrawals and terminations of attendance and changes in training time.

(a) *Reports of withdrawals and terminations of attendance.* (1) An individual shall report to VA facility of jurisdiction whenever he or she withdraws from school or terminates his or her attendance. He or she shall report the last day of attendance. The individual may request that the school verify this information.


(2) The report shall include—


(i) The date of withdrawal or last date of attendance, as appropriate; and


(ii) The amount of educational expenses actually incurred by the individual during the period of enrollment before the date of withdrawal, or if the individual does not formally withdraw when he or she stops attending the amount of educational expenses actually incurred by the individual during the period of enrollment before the last date of attendance.


(b) *Reports of changes in training.* (1) An individual shall report to the VA field station of jurisdiction each time the individual increases or decreases the number of credit hours or clock hours of training in which he or she is enrolled or otherwise alters the duration of the enrollment.


(2) The report shall include—


(i) The new number of credit hours or clock hours in which the individual is enrolled;


(ii) The amount of educational expenses, enumerated in § 21.5810(b)(2), which the individual will incur during the revised period of enrollment; and


(iii) The effective date of the change in the number of credit hours or clock hours, including any revision in the term of the enrollment.


(3) The individual or VA may ask the school to verify the individual's reports of changes in training.


