# § 146.154   Concentrated orange juice with preservative.

(a) Concentrated orange juice with preservative complies with the requirements for composition and labeling of optional ingredients prescribed for concentrated orange juice for manufacturing by § 146.153, except that a preservative is added to inhibit spoilage.


(b) The preservatives referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are any safe and suitable preservatives or combinations thereof.


(c) The name of the food is “Concentrated orange juice with preservative, ______”, the blank being filled in with the figure showing the concentration of orange juice soluble solids in degrees Brix.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. In addition, the name of each preservative shall be preceded by a statement of the percent by weight of the preservative used. If the food is packed in container sizes that are less than 19 liters (5 gallons), the label shall bear a statement indicating that the food is for further manufacturing use only.


(e) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statement specified in paragraph (d) of this section for naming the preservative ingredient used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow the name of the food, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14414, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 36378, June 22, 1979; 58 FR 2882, Jan. 6, 1993]




