# ยง 1955.104   Authorities and responsibilities.

(a) *Redelegation of authority.* Rural Development officials will redelegate authorities to the maximum extent possible, consistent with program objectives and available resources.


(1) Any authority in this subpart which is specifically provided to the Administrator or to an Assistant Administrator may only be delegated to a State Director. The State Director cannot redelegate such authority.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the State Director may redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the State Director in this subpart, unless specifically excluded, to a Program Chief, Program Specialist, or Property Management Specialist on the State Office staff.


(3) The District Director may redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the District Director in this subpart to an Assistant District Director or District Loan Specialist. Authority of District Directors in this subpart applies to Area Loan Specialists in Alaska and the Director for the Western Pacific Territories.


(4) The County Supervisor may redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to the County Supervisor in this subpart to an Assistant County Supervisor, GS-7 or above, who is determined by the County Supervisor to be qualified. Authority of County Supervisors in this subpart applies to Area Loan Specialists in Alaska, Island Directors in Hawaii, the Director for the Western Pacific Territories, and Area Supervisors in the Western Pacific Territories and American Samoa.


(b) *Responsibility.* (1) National Office program directors are responsible for reviewing and providing guidance to State, District and County Offices in disposing of inventory property.


(2) The State Director is responsible for establishing an effective program and insuring compliance with Rural Development regulations.


(3) District Directors are responsible for disposal actions for programs under their supervision and for monitoring County Office compliance with Rural Development regulations and State Supplements.


(4) County Supervisors are responsible for timely disposal of inventory property for programs under their supervision.



---

[N] [53 FR 27830, July 25, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 7568, Jan. 24, 2001]




