# § 12.7   Certification of compliance.

(a) *Self-certification.* In order for a person to be determined to be eligible for any of the benefits specified in § 12.4:


(1) It must be determined by USDA whether any field in which the person applying for the benefits has an interest and intends to produce an agricultural commodity contains highly erodible land;


(2) The person applying for or receiving the benefits must certify in writing on Form AD-1026 that such person will not produce an agricultural commodity on highly erodible land, or designate such land for conservation use; or plant an agricultural commodity on a converted wetland; or convert a wetland to make possible the production of an agricultural commodity during the crop year in which the person is seeking such benefits, unless such actions are exempt, under §§ 12.5 or 12.13 from the provisions of § 12.4 of this part;


(3) A person may certify application of practices required by the person's conservation plan. NRCS shall permit a person who makes such a certification with respect to a conservation plan to revise the conservation plan in any manner, if the same level of conservation treatment provided for by the conservation system under the person's conservation plan is maintained. NRCS may not revise the person's conservation plan without the concurrence of the person;


(4) The person applying for a FSA direct or guaranteed farm credit program loan must certify that such person shall not use the proceeds of the loan for a purpose that will contribute to excessive erosion on highly erodible land or to conversion of wetlands for the purpose, or to have the effect, of making the production of an agricultural commodity possible; and


(5) The person applying for the benefits must authorize and provide representatives of USDA access to all land in which such person has an interest for the purpose of verifying any such certification.


(b) *Availability to other agencies.* Each agency of USDA shall make all certifications of compliance received by such agency and the results of investigations concerning such certifications of compliance available to other agencies.


(c) *Compliance.* A certification made in accordance with this section does not relieve any person from compliance with provisions of this part.


(d) *Timely filing.* In order for a person to be determined eligible for Federal crop insurance premium subsidies for a policy or plan of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524), the person must have Form AD-1026 or successor form on file with FSA, as specified in § 12.13.



---

[N] [61 FR 47025, Sept. 6, 1996, as amended at 80 FR 22880, Apr. 24, 2015]




