# ยง 1074.5   Definitions.

The definitions in this section apply to this part. As used in this part, all undefined terms have the meaning the Act gives to them. The definitions follow:


*Act* means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.


*Commercial* means an activity engaged in as a vocation.


*Construction equipment or vehicle* means any internal combustion engine-powered machine primarily used in construction and located on commercial construction sites.


*Engine used in a locomotive* means either an engine placed in a locomotive to move other equipment, freight, or passenger traffic, or an engine mounted on a locomotive to provide auxiliary power.


*Farm equipment or vehicle* means any internal combustion engine-powered machine primarily used in the commercial production and/or commercial harvesting of food, fiber, wood, or commercial organic products or for the processing of such products for further use on the farm.


*Locomotive* means a piece of equipment meeting the definition of locomotive in 40 CFR 1033.901 that is propelled by a nonroad engine.


*New* has the following meanings:


(1) For locomotives, new has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1033.901.


(2) For engines used in locomotives, new means an engine incorporated in (or intended to be incorporated in) in a new locomotive.


(3) For other nonroad engines and equipment, new means a domestic or imported nonroad engine or nonroad vehicle the equitable or legal title to which has never been transferred to an ultimate purchaser. Where the equitable or legal title to an engine or vehicle is not transferred to an ultimate purchaser until after the engine or vehicle is placed into service, then the engine or vehicle will no longer be new once it is placed into service. A nonroad engine or vehicle is placed into service when it is used for its functional purposes. This paragraph (3) does not apply to locomotives or engines used in locomotives.


*Nonroad engine* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30


*Primarily used* means used 51 percent or more.


*States and localities* means any or all of the states, commonwealths, and territories in the United States including the District of Columbia and any or all of their political subdivisions.


*Ultimate purchaser* means the first person who in good faith purchases a new nonroad engine or new nonroad vehicle or equipment for purposes other than resale.


*United States* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. 




