# § 682.705   Suspension proceedings.

(a) *Scope.* (1) A suspension by the Secretary removes a lender's eligibility under the FFEL programs or a third-party servicer's ability to enter into contracts with eligible lenders, and the Secretary does not guarantee or reinsure a new loan serviced by the servicer during a period not to exceed 60 days from the date the suspension becomes effective, unless—


(i) The lender or servicer and the Secretary agree to an extension of the suspension period, if the lender or third-party servicer has not requested a hearing; or


(ii) The Secretary begins a limitation or a termination proceeding.


(2) If the Secretary begins a limitation or a termination proceeding before the suspension period ends, the Secretary may extend the suspension period until the completion of that proceeding, including any appeal to the Secretary.


(b) *Notice.* (1) The Secretary, or a designated Departmental official, begins a suspension proceeding by sending the lender or servicer a notice by certified mail with return receipt requested.


(2) The notice—


(i) Informs the lender or servicer of the Secretary's intent to suspend the lender's or servicer's eligibility for a period not to exceed 60 days;


(ii) Describes the consequences of a suspension;


(iii) Identifies the alleged violations on which the proposed suspension is based;


(iv) States the proposed date the suspension becomes effective, which is at least 20 days after the date of mailing of the notice;


(v) Informs the lender or servicer that the suspension will not take effect on the proposed date if the Secretary receives at least five days prior to that date a request for an oral hearing or written material showing why the suspension should not take effect; and


(vi) Asks the lender or servicer to correct voluntarily any alleged violations.



---

[N] [59 FR 22457, Apr. 29, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 33058, June 26, 1995; 66 FR 34764, June 29, 2001; 68 FR 66615, Nov. 26, 2003; 72 FR 62009, Nov. 1, 2007; 78 FR 65822, Nov. 1, 2013]




