# ยง 79.2   General definitions.

(a) *Act* means the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, Public Law 101-426, as amended by sections 3139 and 3140 of Public Law 101-510, the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act Amendments of 2000, Public Law 106-245 (*see* 42 U.S.C. 2210 note), and the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Public Law 107-273. 


(b) *Child* means a recognized natural child of the claimant, a stepchild who lived with the claimant in a regular parent-child relationship, or an adopted child of the claimant. 


(c) *Claim* means a petition for compensation under the Act filed with the Radiation Exposure Compensation Program by a claimant or by his or her eligible surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries. 


(d) *Claimant* means the individual, living or deceased, who is alleged to satisfy the criteria for compensation set forth either in section 4 or in section 5 of the Act. 


(e) *Contemporaneous record* means any document created at or around the time of the event that is recorded in the document. 


(f) *Eligible surviving beneficiary* means a spouse, child, parent, grandchild or grandparent who is entitled under section 6(c)(4)(A) or (B) of the Act to file a claim or receive a payment on behalf of a deceased claimant. 


(g) *Grandchild* means a child of a child of the claimant. 


(h) *Grandparent* means a parent of a parent of the claimant. 


(i) *Immediate family member* of a person means a spouse or child if the person is an adult; but if the person is a minor, *immediate family member* means a parent. 


(j) *Indian Tribe* means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, or other organized group or community that is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indian Tribes. 


(k) *Medical document, documentation, or record* means any contemporaneous record of any physician, hospital, clinic, or other certified or licensed health care provider, or any other records routinely and reasonably relied on by physicians in making a diagnosis. 


(l) *Onset* or *incidence* of a specified compensable disease means the date a physician first diagnosed the disease. 


(m) *Parent* means the natural or adoptive father or mother of the claimant. 


(n) *Program* or *Radiation Exposure Compensation Program* means the component of the Constitutional and Specialized Torts Litigation Section of the Torts Branch of the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice designated by the Attorney General to execute the powers, duties, and responsibilities assigned to the Attorney General pursuant to pertinent provisions of the Act. 


(o) *Spouse* means a wife or husband who was married to the claimant for a period of at least one (1) year immediately before the death of the claimant. 


(p) *Tribal organization* means any formally organized group or other entity that is chartered, registered or sponsored by an Indian Tribe to perform duties for an Indian Tribe and is accountable for its actions to the tribal government. 


(q) *Trust Fund* or *Fund* means the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund in the Department of the Treasury, administered by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 3 of the Act. 




