# § 35.39   Affiliate restrictions.

(a) *General affiliate provisions.* As a condition of obtaining and retaining market-based rate authority, the conditions provided in this section, including the restriction on affiliate sales of electric energy and all other affiliate provisions, must be satisfied on an ongoing basis, unless otherwise authorized by Commission rule or order. Failure to satisfy these conditions will constitute a violation of the Seller's market-based rate tariff.


(b) *Restriction on affiliate sales of electric energy or capacity.* As a condition of obtaining and retaining market-based rate authority, no wholesale sale of electric energy or capacity may be made between a franchised public utility with captive customers and a market-regulated power sales affiliate without first receiving Commission authorization for the transaction under section 205 of the Federal Power Act. All authorizations to engage in affiliate wholesale sales of electric energy or capacity must be listed in a Seller's market-based rate tariff.


(c) *Separation of functions.* (1) For the purpose of this paragraph, entities acting on behalf of and for the benefit of a franchised public utility with captive customers (such as entities controlling or marketing power from the electrical generation assets of the franchised public utility) are considered part of the franchised public utility. Entities acting on behalf of and for the benefit of the market-regulated power sales affiliates of a franchised public utility with captive customers are considered part of the market-regulated power sales affiliates.


(2) (i) To the maximum extent practical, the employees of a market-regulated power sales affiliate must operate separately from the employees of any affiliated franchised public utility with captive customers.


(ii) Franchised public utilities with captive customers are permitted to share support employees, and field and maintenance employees with their market-regulated power sales affiliates. Franchised public utilities with captive customers are also permitted to share senior officers and boards of directors with their market-regulated power sales affiliates; provided, however, that the shared officers and boards of directors must not participate in directing, organizing or executing generation or market functions.


(iii) Notwithstanding any other restrictions in this section, in emergency circumstances affecting system reliability, a market-regulated power sales affiliate and a franchised public utility with captive customers may take steps necessary to keep the bulk power system in operation. A franchised public utility with captive customers or the market-regulated power sales affiliate must report to the Commission and disclose to the public on its Web site, each emergency that resulted in any deviation from the restrictions of section 35.39, within 24 hours of such deviation.


(d) *Information sharing.* (1) A franchised public utility with captive customers may not share market information with a market-regulated power sales affiliate if the sharing could be used to the detriment of captive customers, unless simultaneously disclosed to the public.


(2) Permissibly shared support employees, field and maintenance employees and senior officers and board of directors under §§ 35.39(c)(2)(ii) may have access to information covered by the prohibition of § 35.39(d)(1), subject to the no-conduit provision in § 35.39(g).


(e) *Non-power goods or services.* (1) Unless otherwise permitted by Commission rule or order, sales of any non-power goods or services by a franchised public utility with captive customers, to a market-regulated power sales affiliate must be at the higher of cost or market price.


(2) Unless otherwise permitted by Commission rule or order, sales of any non-power goods or services by a market-regulated power sales affiliate to an affiliated franchised public utility with captive customers may not be at a price above market.


(f) *Brokering of power.* (1) Unless otherwise permitted by Commission rule or order, to the extent a market-regulated power sales affiliate seeks to broker power for an affiliated franchised public utility with captive customers:


(i) The market-regulated power sales affiliate must offer the franchised public utility's power first;


(ii) The arrangement between the market-regulated power sales affiliate and the franchised public utility must be non-exclusive; and


(iii) The market-regulated power sales affiliate may not accept any fees in conjunction with any brokering services it performs for an affiliated franchised public utility.


(2) Unless otherwise permitted by Commission rule or order, to the extent a franchised public utility with captive customers seeks to broker power for a market-regulated power sales affiliate:


(i) The franchised public utility must charge the higher of its costs for the service or the market price for such services;


(ii) The franchised public utility must market its own power first, and simultaneously make public (on the Internet) any market information shared with its affiliate during the brokering; and


(iii) The franchised public utility must post on the Internet the actual brokering charges imposed.


(g) *No conduit provision.* A franchised public utility with captive customers and a market-regulated power sales affiliate are prohibited from using anyone, including asset managers, as a conduit to circumvent the affiliate restrictions in §§ 35.39(a) through (g).


(h) *Franchised utilities without captive customers.* If necessary, any affiliate restrictions regarding separation of functions, power sales or non-power goods and services transactions, or brokering involving two or more franchised public utilities, one or more of whom has captive customers and one or more of whom does not have captive customers, will be imposed on a case-by-case basis.



---

[N] [Order 697, 72 FR 40038, July 20, 2007, as amended by Order 697-A, 73 FR 25912, May 7, 2008]




