# § 12.106   Final decision and order.

(a) *When a final decision is required.* After all submissions of proof have been received, the Administrative Judge shall make the final decision. Upon its issuance, the final decision shall forthwith be filed with the Proceedings Clerk, and immediately served on the parties. The Proceedings Clerk shall also serve a notice, to accompany the final decision, of the effect of a failure by a party ordered to pay a reparation award to file the documents required by § 12.407(c).


(b) *Content of final decision.* The final decision shall contain:


(1) A briefly stated conclusion, not accompanied by findings of fact, as to whether the respondent violated any provision of the Act, Commission's regulations or orders, resulting in damages to the complainant; and


(2) If one or more counterclaims have been permitted in the proceeding, a brief conclusion, not accompanied by findings of fact, as to whether the complainant is liable to the respondent for such counterclaims; and


(3) A determination of the amount of damages, if any, sustained by complainant or respondent in connection with reparation claims or counterclaims, and an order against a party found liable for damages directing that party to pay an award. An award in favor of the complainant shall not exceed the amount of damages in the complaint (including any amendment thereto), and an award in favor of a respondent shall not exceed the amount of damages claimed in a counterclaim (including any amendment thereto).


(c) *No assessment of prejudgment interest or costs; assessment of post-judgment interest.* A party found liable for damages in a voluntary decisional proceeding shall not be assessed prejudgment interest, attorney's fees, or costs (other than the filing fee and costs assessed as a sanction for abuse of discovery). Post-judgment interest shall be awarded at a rate determined in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1961(a).


(d) *Effect of final decision and order: No appeal.* A party may not appeal to the Commission a final decision issued pursuant to subpart C of these rules. In accordance with the election and waivers described in § 12.100(b), a final decision may not be appealed to a U.S. Court of Appeals pursuant to section 14(e) of the Commodity Exchange Act, but a final decision shall be recognized as a final order of the Commission for all other purposes including the judicial enforcement of an award made in connection with the final decision pursuant to section 14(d) of the Commodity Exchange Act.


(e) *Effective date of final decision.* A final decision and order shall become effective thirty (30) days after service, unless the Commission pursuant to § 12.403 takes review of the decision on its own motion on or before the thirtieth day. Any reparation award ordered in a final decision pursuant to this rule shall be satisfied in full within forty-five (45) days after service thereof, unless the Commission pursuant to § 12.403(b) stays the duty of satisfaction. Any party who fails timely to satisfy such an award is subject to the automatic suspension provisions of § 12.407(c).



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 9637, Mar. 1, 1994; 73 FR 70275, Nov. 20, 2008; 86 FR 64356, Nov. 18, 2021]




