# § 108.497   Fireman's outfits.

Each unit must have at least 2 fireman's outfits. Each fireman's outfit on a unit must consist of— 


(a) A pressure-demand, open-circuit, self-contained breathing apparatus, approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and having at a minimum a 30-minute air supply, a full facepiece, and a spare charge; but a self-contained compressed-air breathing apparatus previously approved by MSHA and NIOSH under part 160, subpart 160.011, of this chapter may continue in use as required equipment if it was part of the vessel's equipment on November 23, 1992, and as long as it is maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection;


(b) A Type II or Type III flashlight constructed and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1014 (incorporated by reference, see § 108.101).


(c) An oxygen and explosive meter with the Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc. label or the Factory Mutual label; 


(d) A lifeline that— 


(1) Is attached to a belt or a suitable harness;


(2) Is made of bronze wire rope, inherently corrosion resistant steel wire rope, or galvanized or tinned steel wire rope; 


(3) Is made up of enough 15.2 meters (50 foot) or greater lengths of wire rope to permit use of the outfit in any location on the unit; 


(4) Has each end fitted with a hook with a 16 millimeters (
5/8 inch) throat opening for the keeper; and 


(5) Has a minimum breaking strength of 680 kilograms (1,500 pounds). 


(e) Boots and gloves that are made of rubber or other electrically non-conductive material; 


(f) A helmet that meets the requirements in ANSI standard Z-89.1-1969; and 


(g) Clothing that protects the skin from scalding steam and the heat of fire and that has a water resistant outer surface.



---

[N] [CGD 73-251, 43 FR 56808, Dec. 4, 1978, as amended by CGD 82-042, 53 FR 17705, May 18, 1988; CGD 86-036, 57 FR 48326, Oct. 23, 1992; USCG-1999-5151, 64 FR 67182, Dec. 1, 1999; USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76700, Sept. 18, 2024]




