# ยง 721.7260   Polymer of polyethylenepolyamine and alkanediol diglycidyl ether.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymer of polyethylenepolyamine and alkanediol diglycidyl ether (PMN P-89-810) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* A significant new use of this substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing associated with any use of this substance without providing risk notification as follows.


(A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) which includes a written listing of safety data for this substance within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to an SDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.


(B) The employer must ensure that persons who have received, or will receive, this substance from the employer are provided an SDS containing a written listing of safety data for this chemical and the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. 


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.80(p) (2,000,000 kg).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in ยง 721.125 (a), (c), and (h) (In addition, each manufacturer, importer and processor of this substance shall maintain for five years from the date of their creation, copies of safety data sheets required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.



---

[N] [55 FR 46774, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




