# § 721.1725   Benzoic acid, 3,3′-methylenebis [6 amino-, di-2-propenyl ester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The following chemical substance, referred to by its CAS Number and chemical name, is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: 61386-02-5, Benzoic acid, 3,3′-methylenebis [6 amino-, di-2-propenyl ester. 


(2) The significant new uses are: (i) Any use other than the use described in Premanufacture Notice P-82-438. 


(ii) Any manner or method of manufacturing or processing the substance for the use described in Premanufacture Notice P-82-438 different than the manner or method described in Premanufacture Notice P-82-438. 


(b) *Special provisions.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this rule.* (i) A person who intends to manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may ask EPA whether the use for which the person intends to manufacture, import, or process the substance is a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. EPA will answer such an inquiry only if EPA determines that the person has a *bona fide* intent to manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance. 


(ii) To establish a *bona fide* intent to manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance, the person must submit to EPA: 


(A) All materials and statements required under § 721.6. 


(B) The specific use for which the person intends to manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance. 


(iii) EPA will review the information submitted by the person under this paragraph to determine whether the person has a *bona fide* intent to manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance. 


(iv) If EPA determines that the person has a *bona fide* intent to manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance, EPA will tell the person whether the use for which the person intends to manufacture, import, or process the substance is a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. If EPA tells the person that the intended use is not a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, EPA will tell the person what activities would constitute a significant new use under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(v) A disclosure to a person with a *bona fide* intent to manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance of the significant new uses subject to this section will not be considered public disclosure of confidential business information under section 14 of the Act. 


(vi) EPA will answer an inquiry on whether a particular use is subject to this section within 30 days after receipt of a complete submission under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(2) [Reserved] 



---

[N] [51 FR 16687, May 6, 1986. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Further redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




