# ยง 202.9   Conducting RAB meetings.

(a) *Public participation.* RAB meetings shall be open to the public.


(1) The installation co-chair shall prepare and publish a timely public notice in a local newspaper of general circulation announcing each RAB meeting. If applicable, it is recommended that the meeting also be announced on the installation's Web site.


(2) Each RAB meeting shall be held at a reasonable time and in a manner or place reasonably accessible to and usable by all participants, including persons with disabilities.


(3) Presentation materials and readable maps should be provided to all meeting participants as appropriate.


(4) Interested persons shall be permitted to attend, appear before, or file statements with any RAB, subject to such reasonable rules or regulations as may be prescribed. Open solicitation of public comments shall be permitted and members of the public will have a designated time on the agenda to speak to the RAB committee as a whole.


(b) *Nature of discussions.* The installation shall give careful consideration to all comments provided by individual RAB members. Group consensus is not a prerequisite for RAB input. Each member of the RAB may provide advice as an individual; however, when a RAB decides to vote or poll for consensus, only community members should participate.


(c) *Meeting minutes.* The installation co-chair, in coordination with the community co-chair, shall prepare the minutes of each RAB meeting.


(1) The RAB meeting minutes shall contain a record of the persons present; a complete and accurate description of matters discussed and comments received; and copies of all reports received, issued, or approved by the RAB. The accuracy of all minutes shall be certified by the RAB co-chairs. RAB minutes should be kept in the information repository; however, if the RAB minutes reflect decision-making, copies should also be documented in the Administrative Record.


(2) The records, reports, minutes, appendixes, working papers, drafts, studies, agenda, or other documents that were made available to or prepared for or by each RAB shall be available for public inspection and copying at a publicly accessible location, such as the information repositories established under the installation's Community Relations Plan, a public library, or in the offices of the installation to which the RAB reports, until the RAB ceases to exist.



---

[N] [71 FR 27617, May 12, 2006; 71 FR 30719, May 30, 2006]




