# § 422.403   When may we use administrative wage garnishment?

(a) *General.* Subject to the exceptions described in paragraph (b) of this section and the conditions described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, we may use administrative wage garnishment to collect any debt that is past due. We may use administrative wage garnishment while we are taking other action regarding the debt, such as, using tax refund offset under §§ 404.520-404.526 and 416.580-416.586 of this chapter and taking action under subpart D of this part. 


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt from salary or wages paid by the United States Government. 


(2) If you have been separated involuntarily from employment, we will not order your employer to withhold amounts from your disposable pay until you have been reemployed continuously for at least 12 months. You have the burden of informing us about an involuntary separation from employment. 


(3) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt while your disability benefits are stopped during the reentitlement period, under § 404.1592a(a)(2) of this chapter, because you are engaging in substantial gainful activity. 


(4) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt while your Medicare entitlement is continued because you are deemed to be entitled to disability benefits under section 226(b) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 426(b)). 


(5) We will not use this subpart to collect a debt if you have decided to participate in the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program and your ticket is in use as described in §§ 411.170 through 411.225 of this chapter. 


(c) *Overpayments under title II of the Social Security Act.* This subpart applies to overpayments under title II of the Social Security Act if all of the following conditions are met: 


(1) You are not receiving title II benefits. 


(2) We have completed our billing system sequence (*i.e.,* we have sent you an initial notice of the overpayment, a reminder notice, and a past-due notice) or we have suspended or terminated collection activity in accordance with applicable rules, such as, the Federal Claims Collection Standards in 31 CFR 903.2 or 31 CFR 903.3. 


(3) We have not made an installment payment arrangement with you or, if we have made such an arrangement, you have failed to make any payment for two consecutive months. 


(4) You have not requested waiver pursuant to § 404.506 or § 404.522 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to those sections, we have determined that we will not waive collection of the overpayment. 


(5) You have not requested reconsideration of the initial overpayment determination pursuant to §§ 404.907 and 404.909 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to § 404.913 of this chapter, we have affirmed all or part of the initial overpayment determination. 


(6) We cannot recover your overpayment pursuant to § 404.502 of this chapter by adjustment of benefits payable to any individual other than you. For purposes of this paragraph, an overpayment will be deemed to be unrecoverable from any individual who was living in a separate household from yours at the time of the overpayment and who did not receive the overpayment. 


(d) *Overpayments under title XVI of the Social Security Act.* This subpart applies to overpayments under title XVI of the Social Security Act if all of the following conditions are met: 


(1) You are not receiving benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act. 


(2) We are not collecting your title XVI overpayment by reducing title II benefits payable to you. 


(3) We have completed our billing system sequence (*i.e.,* we have sent you an initial notice of the overpayment, a reminder notice, and a past-due notice) or we have suspended or terminated collection activity under applicable rules, such as, the Federal Claims Collection Standards in 31 CFR 903.2 or 31 CFR 903.3. 


(4) We have not made an installment payment arrangement with you or, if we have made such an arrangement, you have failed to make any payment for two consecutive months. 


(5) You have not requested waiver pursuant to § 416.550 or § 416.582 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to those sections, we have determined that we will not waive collection of the overpayment. 


(6) You have not requested reconsideration of the initial overpayment determination pursuant to §§ 416.1407 and 416.1409 of this chapter or, after a review conducted pursuant to § 416.1413 of this chapter, we have affirmed all or part of the initial overpayment determination. 


(7) We cannot recover your overpayment pursuant to § 416.570 of this chapter by adjustment of benefits payable to any individual other than you. For purposes of this paragraph, if you are a member of an eligible couple that is legally separated and/or living apart, we will deem unrecoverable from the other person that part of your overpayment which he or she did not receive. 




