# § 200.157   Provisions and characteristics of debentures.

(a) *Series and fund.* Debentures are issued in appropriate series and are the obligation of and issued in the name of the particular mortgage insurance fund under which the mortgage is insured. 


(b) *Registration and denominations.* Debentures in certificated form are issued in denominations of $50, $100, $500, $1,000 and $10,000 with the name of the owner inscribed on the face of the certificate. Debentures in book entry form are issued in a minimum amount of one dollar and in increments of one cent with the name of the owner recorded in an account master record on the books of the Treasury. 


(c) *Rate of interest and interchangeability.* Debentures carry a rate of interest prescribed by the Commissioner but not in excess of an annual rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with prescribed statutory formula involving yields or prices of outstanding marketable obligations of the United States. Debentures in certificated form of the same series bearing the same interest rate and having the same maturity date shall be freely interchangeable between the various authorized denominations and may be exchanged for similar debentures in book entry form. Debentures in book entry form cannot be exchanged for debentures in certificated form. 


(d) *Negotiability and Redemption.* Debentures in certificated form are negotiable and, if in book entry form, are transferable in the manner described in applicable Treasury regulations. Debentures are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States. Debentures are redeemable on call issued by the Commissioner. 


(e) *Payment of principal and interest.* Principal and interest on debentures shall be payable when due at the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC, or any Government agency or agencies in the United States which the Secretary of the Treasury may from time to time designate for that purpose. The principal and interest shall be payable to the owner whose name shall be inscribed on the debenture in certificated form, to the owner designated as assignee as shown by executed assignments for maturing or called certificated debentures, or to the owner whose name shall be recorded in the account master record of the book entry debentures. 


(f) *Transfer and use*—(1) *In general.* Debentures in certificated form are negotiable and, if in book entry form, are transferable in the manner described in applicable Treasury regulations. They may be used by approved mortgagees in lieu of cash for payment of FHA mortgage insurance premiums. 


(2) *Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund debentures.* Debentures of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund may be used to pay mortgage insurance premiums on mortgages insured under sections 203(b), 203(h), and 203(i), of the National Housing Act. 


(3) *Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund debentures.* Debentures which are the obligation of the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund may be used to pay premiums on mortgages and loans which are insured under that Fund. Where the insurance of a mortgage or loan is transferred from the General Insurance Fund to the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund, or where a mortgage or loan is endorsed for insurance pursuant to a commitment transferred to the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund, debentures issued in connection with such mortgage or loan may be used to pay insurance premiums of either the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund or the General Insurance Fund. 


(4) *General Insurance Fund and debentures of other funds.* Debentures of the General Insurance Fund and those debentures issued as obligations of mortgage insurance funds and accounts in existence prior to the enactment of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (other than the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund) which are transferred by the 1965 Act to the General Insurance Fund may be used to pay mortgage insurance premiums only on the following mortgages and loans: 


(i) Those which are the obligation of the General Insurance Fund. 


(ii) Those transferred from the General Insurance Fund to the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund. 


(iii) Those endorsed for insurance pursuant to commitments transferred to the Cooperative Management Housing Insurance Fund. 



---

[N] [36 FR 24467, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 59 FR 49815, Sept. 30, 1994]




