# § 17.701   Definitions.

For the purposes of §§ 17.700-17.730 and any Notice of Fund Availability issued pursuant to such sections:


*Applicant* means an eligible entity that submits an application for a grant announced in a Notice of Fund Availability.


*Eligible entity* means:


(1) A Veterans Service Organization, or


(2) A State veterans service agency.


*Grantee* means an applicant that is awarded a grant under this section.


*Highly rural area* means an area consisting of a county or counties having a population of less than seven persons per square mile.


*Notice of Fund Availability* means a Notice of Fund Availability published in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with § 17.710.


*Participant* means a veteran in a highly rural area who is receiving transportation services from a grantee.


*Provision of VA medical care* means the provision of hospital or medical services authorized under sections 1710, 1703, and 8153 of title 38, United States Code.


*State veterans service agency* means the element of a State government that has responsibility for programs and activities of that government relating to veterans benefits.


*Subrecipient* means an entity that receives grant funds from a grantee to perform work for the grantee in the administration of all or part of the grantee's program.


*Transportation services* means the direct provision of transportation, or assistance with providing transportation, to travel to VA medical centers and other VA or non-VA facilities in connection with the provision of VA medical care.


*Veteran* means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable.


*Veterans Service Organization* means an organization recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.


