# § 20.1   Incorporation by reference; Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, International Mail Manual.

(a) *Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, International Mail Manual* (IMM) is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.


(1) *Subscriptions.* Subscriptions to the IMM can be purchased by the public from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC 20402-9375.


(2) *Inspection—USPS.* (i) Copies of the IMM, both current and previous issues, are available during regular business hours for reference and public inspection at the U.S. Postal Service Library, National Headquarters in Washington, DC. For access contact 202-268-2906.


(ii) Copies of only the current issue are available during regular business hours for public inspection at area and district offices of the Postal Service and at all post offices, classified stations, and classified branches. The IMM is available for examination on the internet at *https://pe.usps.gov.*

(3) *Inspection—NARA.* You may view this material at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.*

(b) The Director of the Federal Register approved the IMM, updated January 21, 2024, for incorporation by reference as of March 4, 2024.





---

[N] [87 FR 63424, Oct. 19, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 15474, Mar. 4, 2024]




