# § 866.3309   Herpes virus nucleic acid-based cutaneous and mucocutaneous lesion panel.

(a) *Identification.* A herpes virus nucleic acid-based cutaneous and mucocutaneous lesion panel is a qualitative in vitro diagnostic device intended for the simultaneous detection and differentiation of different herpes viruses in cutaneous and mucocutaneous lesion samples from symptomatic patients suspected of Herpetic infections. Negative results do not preclude infection and should not be used as the sole basis for treatment or other patient management decisions. The assay is not intended for use in cerebrospinal fluid samples.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation for the device description, including the device components, ancillary reagents required but not provided, and a detailed explanation of the methodology including primer design and selection.


(2) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation from the following analytical and clinical performance studies: Analytical sensitivity (Limit of Detection), reactivity, inclusivity, precision, reproducibility, interference, cross reactivity, carry-over, and cross contamination.


(3) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation of a clinical study using lesion samples in which Herpes Simplex Virus 1, Herpes Simplex Virus 2, or Varicella Zoster Virus DNA detection was requested. The study must compare the device performance to an appropriate well established reference method.


(4) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of results and acceptance criteria must be included in the device's 21 CFR 809.10(b)(9) compliant labeling.


(5) The device labeling must include a limitation statement that reads: “The device is not intended for use with cerebrospinal fluid or to aid in the diagnosis of HSV or VZV infections of the central nervous system (CNS).”


(6) Premarket notification submissions must include quality assurance protocols and a detailed documentation for device software, including, but not limited to, standalone software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software.


(7) The risk management activities performed as part of the manufacturer's 21 CFR 820.30 design controls must document an appropriate end user device training program that will be offered as part of efforts to mitigate the risk of failure to correctly operate the instrument.



---

[N] [83 FR 52314, Oct. 17, 2018]




