# § 56.6000   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this subpart.


*Blasting agent.* Any substance classified as a blasting agent by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.114a(a). This document is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.


*Detonating cord.* A flexible cord containing a center core of high explosives which may be used to initiate other explosives.


*Detonator.* Any device containing a detonating charge used to initiate an explosive. These devices include electronic detonators, electric or nonelectric instantaneous or delay blasting caps, and delay connectors. The term “detonator” does not include detonating cord. Detonators may be either “Class A” detonators or “Class C” detonators, as classified by the Department of Transportation in 49 CFR 173.53 and 173.100, which is available at any MSHA Metal and Nonmetal Safety and Health district office.


*Flash point.* The minimum temperature at which sufficient vapor is released by a liquid to form a flammable vapor-air mixture near the surface of the liquid.


*Igniter cord.* A fuse that burns progressively along its length with an external flame at the zone of burning, used for lighting a series of safety fuses in a desired sequence.


*Magazine.* A bullet-resistant, theft-resistant, fire-resistant, weather-resistant, ventilated facility for the storage of explosives and detonators (BATF Type 1 or Type 2 facility). 


*Misfire.* The complete or partial failure of explosive material to detonate as planned. The term also is used to describe the explosive material itself that has failed to detonate. 


*Primer.* A unit, package, or cartridge of explosives which contains a detonator and is used to initiate other explosives or blasting agents. 


*Safety switch.* A switch that provides shunt protection in blasting circuits between the blast site and the switch used to connect a power source to the blasting circuit. 


*Slurry.* An explosive material containing substantial portions of a liquid, oxidizers, and fuel, plus a thickener. 


*Water gel.* An explosive material containing substantial portions of water, oxidizers, and fuel, plus a cross-linking agent. 



---

[N] [50 FR 4054, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 67 FR 38385, June 4, 2002; 68 FR 32361, May 30, 2003; 69 FR 38840, June 29, 2004; 85 FR 2027, Jan. 14, 2020]




