# § 165.123   Cruise Ships, Sector Southeastern New England Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone.

(a) *Location.* The following areas are security zones: All navigable waters within the Southeastern New England Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone, extending from the surface to the sea floor:


(1) Within a 200-yard radius of any cruise ship that is underway and is under escort of U.S. Coast Guard law enforcement personnel or designated representative, or


(2) Within a 100-yard radius of any cruise ship that is anchored, at any berth or moored.


(b) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section—


*Cruise ship* means a passenger vessel as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(22), that is authorized to carry more than 400 passengers and is 200 or more feet in length. A *cruise ship* under this section will also include ferries as defined in 46 CFR 2.10-25 that are authorized to carry more than 400 passengers and are 200 feet or more in length.


*Designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been designated by the COTP to act on the COTP's behalf. The designated representative may be on a Coast Guard vessel, or onboard Federal, state, or a local agency vessel that is authorized to act in support of the Coast Guard.


*Southeastern New England COTP Zone* is as defined in 33 CFR 3.05-20.


(c) *Enforcement.* The security zones described in this section will be activated and enforced upon entry of any cruise ship into the navigable waters of the United States (see 33 CFR 2.36(a) to include the 12 NM territorial sea) in the Southeastern New England COTP zone. This zone will remain activated at all times while a cruise ship is within the navigable waters of the United States in the Sector Southeastern New England COTP Zone. In addition, the Coast Guard may broadcast the area designated as a security zone for the duration of the enforcement period via Broadcast Notice to Mariners.


(d) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR part 165, subpart D, no person or vessel may enter or move within the security zones created by this section unless granted permission to do so by the COTP Southeastern New England or the designated representative.


(2) All persons and vessels granted permission to enter a security zone must comply with the instructions of the COTP or the designated representative. Emergency response vessels are authorized to move within the zone, but must abide by the restrictions imposed by the COTP or the designated representative.


(3) No person may swim upon or below the surface of the water within the boundaries of these security zones unless previously authorized by the COTP or his designated representative.


(4) Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel or the designated representative, by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of the vessel shall proceed as directed.


(5) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the security zone shall contact the COTP or the designated representative via VHF channel 16 or 508-457-3211 (Sector Southeastern New England command center) to obtain permission to do so.



---

[N] [USCG-2010-0803, 76 FR 41075, July 13, 2011]




