# ยง 1902.34   Certification of completion of developmental steps.

(a) Upon the completion of all of the developmental steps in a State's plan, which is to be accomplished not later than three years following commencement of plan operations after approval of the plan by the Assistant Secretary under section 18(c), the Assistant Regional Director shall certify, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, that all developmental steps in the plan have been met and that the State's program is to be evaluated on the basis of its eligibility for an 18(e) determination after at least one year of evaluations of the plan.


(b) Upon determining that a State has completed all of its developmental steps, the Assistant Regional Director shall prepare a certification which he shall promptly forward to the Assistant Secretary. The certification shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following;


(1) A list of all developmental steps or revisions thereof, plan amendments or changes which result in the completion of the steps or revisions thereof, and the dates the Assistant Secretary's or the Assistant Regional Director's approval of each change was published in the _Federal Register_;


(2) Substantive changes, if any, in the State program which were approved by the Assistant Secretary and their dates of publication in the _Federal Register_;


(3) Documentation that the legal basis for the applicable State merit system has been approved by the U.S. Civil Service Commission and that the actual operations of the State merit system has been found acceptable by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration with the advice of the U.S. Civil Service Commission; and


(4) A description of the issues which are covered by the State plan. Where applicable, the certification shall include a description of those separable portions of the plan which have been certified for 18(e) evaluation purposes as well as those portions of the plan which were not certified by the Assistant Regional Director.


(c) After a review of the certification and the State's plan, if the Assistant Secretary finds that the State has completed all the developmental steps specified in the plan, he shall publish the certification in the _Federal Register_.



---

[N] [40 FR 54782, Nov. 26, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 49904, Aug. 18, 2015]




