# § 1.669(a)-2   Rules applicable to section 669 computations.

(a) *In general.* (1) Section 668(a) provides that the total of the amounts treated under section 666 as having been distributed by the foreign trust created by a U.S. person on the last day of a preceding taxable year of such trust shall be included in the gross income of the beneficiary or the beneficiaries who are U.S. persons receiving them. The total of such amounts is includible in the gross income of each beneficiary to the extent the amount would have been included in his gross income under section 662 (a)(2) and (b) if the total had actually been paid by the trust on the last day of such preceding taxable year. The total is included in the gross income of the beneficiary for the taxable year of the beneficiary in which such amounts are in fact paid, credited, or required to be distributed unless the taxable year of the beneficiary differs from the taxable year of the trust (see section 662(c) and § 1.662(c)-1). The character of the amounts treated as received by a beneficiary in prior taxable years, including taxes deemed distributed, in the hands of the beneficiary is determined by the rules contained in section 662(b) and §§ 1.662(b)-1 and 1.662(b)-2.


(2) The total of the amounts treated under section 666 as having been distributed by the trust on the last day of a preceding taxable year of the trust are included as prescribed in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph in the gross income of the beneficiary even though as of that day the beneficiary would not have been entitled to receive them had they actually been distributed on that day.


(3) Any deduction allowed to the trust in computing distributable net income for a preceding taxable year (such as depreciation, depletion, etc.) is not deemed allocable to a beneficiary because of the amounts included in a beneficiary's gross income under this section since the deduction has already been utilized in reducing the amount included in the beneficiary's income.


(b) *Allocation among beneficiaries of a foreign trust.* Where there is more than one beneficiary the portion of the total amount includible in gross income under paragraph (a) of this section which is includible in the gross income of a beneficiary who is a U.S. person is based upon the ratio determined under the second sentence of section 662(a)(2) for the taxable year in which distributed (and not for the preceding taxable year). This paragraph may be illustrated by the example in § 1.668(a)-2.


(c) *Treatment of income taxes paid by the trust*—(1) *Current distributions.* The income taxes imposed by the provisions of section 871 on the income of a foreign trust created by a U.S. person shall be included in the gross income of the beneficiary, who is a U.S. person, for the taxable year in which such income is paid, credited, or required to be distributed to the beneficiary.


(2) *Accumulation distribution.* (i) If an accumulation distribution is deemed under § 1.666(a)-1 to be distributed on the last day of a preceding taxable year and the amount is not less than the undistributed net income for such preceding taxable year, then an additional amount equal to the taxes imposed on the trust pursuant to the provisions of section 871 for such preceding taxable year is likewise deemed distributed under section 661(a)(2).


(ii) If an accumulation distribution is deemed under § 1.666(a)-1 to be distributed on the last day of a preceding taxable year and the amount is less than the undistributed net income for such preceding taxable year, then an additional amount (representing taxes) is likewise deemed distributed under section 661(a)(2). The additional amount is equal to the taxes imposed on the trust pursuant to the provisions of section 871 for such preceding taxable year, multiplied by the fraction the numerator of which is the amount of the accumulation distribution attributable to such preceding taxable year and the denominator of which is the undistributed net income for such preceding taxable year.


(3) *Credits under sections 32 and 668(b).* Credit under section 32 is allowable to the beneficiary for income taxes withheld at source under subchapters A and B of chapter 3 and which are deemed distributed to him. Credit under section 668(b) is allowable to the beneficiary for income taxes imposed upon the foreign trust by section 871(b). These credits shall be allowed against the tax of the beneficiary for the taxable year of the beneficiary in which the income is paid, credited, or required to be distributed to him, or in which the accumulation distribution to which such taxes relate is made to him.


(d) *Credit for foreign income taxes paid by the trust.* To the extent provided in section 901, credit under section 33 is allowable to the beneficiary for the foreign taxes paid or accrued by the trust to a foreign country.



---

[N] [T.D. 6989, 34 FR 738, Jan. 17, 1969]




