# ยง 426.465   Appealing part or all of an ALJ's decision.

(a) *Circumstances under which an aggrieved party may appeal part or all of an ALJ's decision.* An aggrieved party (including one or more aggrieved parties named in a joint complaint and an aggrieved party who is part of a consolidated LCD review) may appeal to the Board any part of an ALJ's decision that does the following: 


(1) States that a provision of an LCD is valid under the reasonableness standard; or 


(2) Dismisses a complaint regarding an LCD (except as prohibited in paragraph (b) of this section). 


(b) *Circumstance under which a contractor or CMS may appeal part or all of an ALJ's decision.* A contractor or CMS may appeal to the Board any part of an ALJ's decision that states that a provision (or provisions) of an LCD is (are) unreasonable. 


(c) *Stay of an implementation pending appeal.* (1) If an ALJ's decision finds a provision or provisions of an LCD unreasonable, an appeal by a contractor or CMS stays implementation as described under ยง 426.460(b) until the Board issues a final decision. 


(2) The appeal request must be submitted to the Board in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. 


(d) *Circumstances under which an ALJ's decision may not be appealed.* An ALJ's decision dismissing a complaint is not subject to appeal in either of the following circumstances: 


(1) The contractor has retired the LCD provision(s) under review. 


(2) The aggrieved party who filed the complaint has withdrawn the complaint. 


(e) *Receipt of the appeal by the Board.* Unless there is good cause shown, an appeal described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must be filed with the Board within 30 days of the date the ALJ's decision was issued. 


(f) *Filing an appeal.* (1) To file an appeal described in paragraph (a) of this section, an aggrieved party, who sought LCD review, a contractor, or CMS must send the following to the Board: 


(i) The full names and addresses of the parties, including the name of the LCD. 


(ii) The date of issuance of the ALJ's decision. 


(iii) The docket number that appears on the ALJ's decision. 


(iv) A statement identifying the part(s) of the ALJ's decision that are being appealed. 


(2) If an appeal described in paragraph (a) of this section is filed with the Board later than the date described in paragraph (c) of this section, it must include a rationale stating why the Board must accept the late appeal. 


(3) An appeal described in paragraph (a) of this section must include a statement explaining why the ALJ's decision should be reversed. 




