# § 12.308   Motions.

(a) *In general.* An application for a form of relief not otherwise specifically provided for in this subpart E shall be made by a motion, which shall be in writing (unless made on the record during an oral hearing). The motion shall state the relief sought and the basis for the relief and may set forth the authority relied upon. All motions, unless otherwise provided in these rules, shall be directed to the Administrative Law Judge before the initial decision is filed, and to the Commission after the initial decision is filed.


(b) *Answer to motions.* Any party may serve and file a written response to a motion within ten (10) days after service of the motion upon that party, or within such longer or shorter period as established by this part, or as the Administrative Law Judge or the Commission may direct.


(c) *Dismissal*—(1) *By the Administrative Law Judge.* The Administrative Law Judge, acting on their own motion, may, at any time after they have been assigned the case:


(i) Dismiss the entire proceeding, without prejudice to counterclaims, if they find that none of the matters alleged in the complaint state a claim that is cognizable in reparations; or


(ii) Order dismissal of any claim, counterclaim, or party from the proceeding if they find that such claim or counterclaim (by itself, or as applied to a party) is not cognizable in reparations.


(2) *Motion for dismissal by a party.* Any party who believes that grounds exist for dismissal of the entire complaint, of any claim therein, of any counterclaim, or of a party from the proceeding, may file a motion for dismissal specifying the claims, counterclaims, or parties to be dismissed and the reasons therefor. Upon consideration of the whole record, the Administrative Law Judge may grant or deny such motion, in whole or in part.


(3) *Content and effect of order of dismissal.* Any order of dismissal entered pursuant to this rule shall contain a brief statement of the findings and conclusions which serve as the basis for the order. An order of dismissal of the entire proceeding pursuant to this rule shall have the effect of an initial decision which may be appealed to the Commission in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 12.401 of these rules.


(d) *Motions for procedural orders.* Motions for procedural orders, including motions for extensions of time, may be acted on at any time, without awaiting a response thereto. Any party adversely affected by such action may request reconsideration, vacation or modification of such action.


(e) *Dilatory motions.* Repetitive or numerous motions dealing with the same subject matter shall not be permitted.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 86 FR 64359, Nov. 18, 2021]




