# ยง 97.20   General.

(a) This subpart prescribes standard instrument approach procedures and takeoff minimums and obstacle departure procedures (ODPs) based on the criteria contained in FAA Order 8260.3, U.S. Standard for Terminal Instrument Procedures (TERPs), and other related Orders in the 8260 series that also address instrument procedure design criteria.


(b) Standard instrument approach procedures and associated supporting data adopted by the FAA are documented on FAA Forms 8260-3, 8260-4, 8260-5. Takeoff minimums and obstacle departure procedures (ODPs) are documented on FAA Form 8260-15A. These forms are incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approved this incorporation by reference pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The standard instrument approach procedures and takeoff minimums and obstacle departure procedures (ODPs) are available for examination at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, Washington, DC 20590, and at Aeronautical Information Services, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email: *fedreg.legal@nara.gov*, or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) Standard instrument approach procedures and takeoff minimums and obstacle departure procedures (ODPs) are depicted on aeronautical charts published by the FAA. These charts are available from the FAA at *https://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/flight_info/aeronav/digital_products/.*


---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2002-14002, 72 FR 31680, June 7, 2007, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 97-1338, 83 FR 9172, Mar. 5, 2018; Docket No. FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. No. 97-1339, 87 FR 75846, Dec. 9, 2022]




