# ยง 1630.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Corrective action* means action taken by a recipient that:


(1) Corrects identified deficiencies;


(2) Produces recommended improvements; or


(3) Demonstrates that audit or other findings are either invalid or do not warrant recipient action.


(b) *Derivative income* means income earned by a recipient from LSC-supported activities during the term of an LSC grant or contract, and includes, but is not limited to, income from fees for services (including attorney fee awards and reimbursed costs), sales and rentals of real or personal property, and interest earned on LSC grant or contract advances.


(c) *Disallowed cost* means those charges to an LSC award that LSC determines to be unallowable, in accordance with the applicable statutes, regulations, or terms and conditions of the grant award.


(d) *Final written decision* means either:


(1) The decision issued by the Vice President for Grants Management after reviewing all information provided by a recipient in response to a notice of questioned costs; or


(2) The notice of questioned costs if a recipient does not respond to the notice within 30 days of receipt.


(e) *Membership fees or dues* means payments to an organization on behalf of a program or individual to be a member thereof, or to acquire voting or participatory rights therein. *Membership fees or dues* include, but are not limited to, fees or dues paid to a state supreme court or to a bar organization acting as an administrative arm of the court or in some other governmental capacity if such fees or dues are required for an attorney to practice law in that jurisdiction.


(f) *Questioned cost* means a cost that LSC has questioned because of an audit or other finding that:


(1) There may have been a violation of a provision of a law, regulation, contract, grant, or other agreement or document governing the use of LSC funds;


(2) The cost is not supported by adequate documentation; or


(3) The cost incurred appears unnecessary or unreasonable and does not reflect the actions a prudent person would take in the circumstances.


(g) *Real estate* means land and buildings (including capital improvements), excluding moveable personal property.


(h) *Single purchase, single lease,* and *single contract* mean a single order or lease of goods or a single contract for services from a single vendor.




