# § 725.6   Authority to determine and respond.

(a) *Matters proprietary to DON.* If a litigation request or demand is made of DON personnel for official DON or DOD information or for testimony concerning such information, the individual to whom the request or demand is made will immediately notify the cognizant DON official designated in § 725.6(c) and (d), who will determine availability and respond to the request or demand.


(b) *Matters proprietary to another DOD component.* If a DON activity receives a litigation request or demand for official information originated by another DOD component or for non-DON personnel presently or formerly assigned to another DOD component, the DON activity will forward appropriate portions of the request or demand to the DOD component originating the information, to the components where the personnel are assigned, or to the components where the personnel were formerly assigned, for action under 32 CFR part 97. The forwarding DON activity will also notify the requester and court (if appropriate) or other authority of its transfer of the request or demand.


(c) *Litigation matters to which the United States is, or might reasonably become, a party.* Examples of such instances include suits under the Federal Tort Claims Act, Freedom of Information Act, Medical Care Recovery Act, Tucker Act, and suits against Government contractors where the contractor may interplead the United States or seek indemnification from the United States for any judgment paid, e.g., aviation contractors or asbestos matters. Generally, a suit in which the plaintiff is representing the interests of the United States under the Medical Care Recovery Act is not a litigation matter to which the United States is, or might reasonably become, a party. Determining authorities, if in doubt whether the United States is likely to become a party to the litigation, should seek guidance from representatives of the Offices of the Judge Advocate General or General Counsel. The Judge Advocate General and the General Counsel have the authority to determine whether a litigation request should be forwarded to them, or retained by a determining authority, for resolution.


(1) Litigation requests regarding matters assigned to the Judge Advocate General of the Navy under Navy Regulations, article 0331 (1990), shall be referred to the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General for General Litigation, Office of the Navy Judge Advocate General (Washington Navy Yard), 1322 Patterson Avenue, SE., Suite 3000, Washington, DC, 20374-5066, who will respond for the Judge Advocate General or transmit the request to the appropriate Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General for response.


(2) Litigation requests regarding matters assigned to the General Counsel of the Navy under Navy Regs., art. 0327 (1990) 
5, shall be referred to the cognizant Command Counsel under, and subject to, limitations set forth in § 725.6(d)(2). That Command Counsel may either respond or refer the matter for action to another office. Requests involving asbestos litigation shall be referred to the Office of Counsel, Naval Sea Systems Command Headquarters, Personnel and Labor Law Section (Code 00LD), Washington, DC 20362-5101. Matters not clearly within the purview of a particular command counsel shall be referred to Associate General Counsel (Litigation), who may either respond or refer the matter for action to another office.


(3) Matters involving the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals shall be forwarded to these respective counsel except where the determination may involve the assertion of the deliberative process privilege before that Board. In such an event, the matter shall be forwarded for determination to the Associate General Counsel (Litigation).


(d) *Litigation matters in which the United States is not, and is reasonably not expected to become, a party*—(1) *Matters within the cognizance of the Judge Advocate General*—(i) *Fact witnesses.* Requests to interview, depose, or obtain testimony of any present or former DON personnel as defined in § 725.4(b) about purely factual matters shall be forwarded to the Navy or Marine Corps officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction (OEGCMJ) in whose chain of command the prospective witness or requested documents lie. That determining authority will respond for the Judge Advocate General under criteria set forth in § 725.8.


(A) If the request pertains to personnel assigned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, the Office of the Vice Chief of Naval Operations, or an Echelon 2 command located in the Washington, DC, area, it shall be forwarded to that office which will likewise respond for the Judge Advocate General under the criteria set forth in § 725.8.


(B) If a request pertains to Marine Corps personnel assigned to Headquarters Battalion, Headquarters Marine Corps, or to other Marine Corps commands located in the Washington, DC, area, it shall be forwarded to the Commandant of the Marine Corps (JAR), Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, Washington, DC 20380-0001, which will respond for the Judge Advocate General under criteria set forth in § 725.8.


(C) Nothing here shall prevent a determining authority from referring requests or demands to another determining authority better suited under the circumstances to determine the matter and respond, but the requester shall be notified of the referral. Further, each determining authority specified in this paragraph may further delegate his or her decisional authority to a principal staff member, staff judge advocate, or legal advisor.


(D) In the alternative, the requester may forward the request to the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General (General Litigation), who may refer the matter to another determining authority for response, and so notify the requester.


(ii) *Visits and views.* A request to visit a DON activity, ship, or unit, or to inspect material or spaces located there will be forwarded to one of the authorities stated in § 725.6(d)(1)(i), who will respond on behalf of the Judge Advocate General. Action taken by that authority will be coordinated with the commanding officer of the activity, ship, or unit at issue, or with his or her staff judge advocate (if applicable). The military mission of the unit shall normally take precedence over any visit or view. The commanding officer may independently prescribe reasonable conditions as to time, place, and circumstances to protect against compromise of classified or privileged material, intrusion into restricted spaces, and unauthorized photography.


(iii) *Documents.* 10 U.S.C. 7861 provides that the Secretary of the Navy has custody and charge of all DON books, records, and property. Under DOD Directive 5530.1, 
6 the Secretary of the Navy's sole delegate for service of process is the General Counsel of the Navy. See CFR 257.5(c). All process for such documents shall be served upon the General Counsel at the Department of the Navy, Office of the General Counsel, Navy Litigation Office, 720 Kennon Street SE, Bldg 36 Room 233, Washington Navy Yard, DC 20374-5013, 202-685-7039, who will refer the matter to the proper delegate for action.


(iv) *Expert or opinion requests.* Any request for expert or opinion consultations, interviews, depositions, or testimony will be referred to the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General (General Litigation) who will respond for the Judge Advocate General, or transmit the request to the appropriate DAJAG for response. Matters not clearly within the purview of a particular Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General will be retained by the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General (General Litigation), who may either respond or refer the matter to another determining authority for response.


(2) *Matters within the cognizance of the General Counsel of the Navy*—(i) *Matters not involving issues of Navy policy.* Such matters shall be forwarded for determination to the respective counsel for Naval Sea Systems Command, Naval Air Systems Command, Naval Supply Systems Command, Naval Facilities Engineering Command, Space and Naval Warfare Command, Office of the Navy Comptroller, Commandant of the Marine Corps, Office of the Chief of Naval Research, Military Sealift Command, Office of Civilian Personnel Policy, or to the Assistant General Counsel (Acquisition), depending upon who has cognizance over the information or personnel at issue.


(ii) *Matters involving issues of Navy policy.* Such matters shall be forwarded for determination to the General Counsel of the Navy via the Associate General Counsel (Litigation).


(iii) *Matters involving asbestos litigation.* Such matters shall be forwarded to the Office of Counsel, Naval Sea Systems Command Headquarters, Personnel and Labor Law Section (Code 00LD), Washington, DC 20362-5101.


(3) *Matters not clearly within the cognizance of either the Judge Advocate General or the General Counsel.* Such matters may be sent to the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General (General Litigation) or the Associate General Counsel (Litigation), who will, in consultation with the other, determine the appropriate authority to respond to the request.



---

[N] [57 FR 2463, Jan. 22, 1992, as amended at 69 FR 20541, Apr. 16, 2004; 70 FR 12966, Mar. 17, 2005]




