# § 334.1175   Pacific Ocean, at Camp Rilea, Clatsop County, Oregon; danger zone.

(a) *The danger zone.* The danger zone shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States, as defined at 33 CFR part 329, within an area bounded as follows: Beginning at latitude 46°09′00.32″ N, longitude 123°57′52.57″ W; thence to latitude 46°09′00.32″ N, longitude 124°01′03.92″ W; thence to latitude 46°05′25.38″ N, longitude 124°01′03.92″ W; thence to latitude 46°05′25.38″ N, longitude 123°56′23.19″ W. The datum for these coordinates is WGS84.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) No person or vessel shall enter or remain in the danger zone when restrictions are in force during weapons range training activities. At all other times, nothing in this regulation prohibits any lawful uses of this area.


(2) A schedule for proposed closures of the danger zone will be furnished to the Coast Guard, Astoria Command Center one week in advance of range training activities to provide local notice to mariners. Changes to the schedule made less than one week in advance of the event will be transmitted to the Command Center on the day the change is made.


(3) At least 30 minutes prior to restricting navigation in the danger zone, red flags will be raised on wooden poles immediately next to the beach at the north and south boundaries of Camp Rilea. The red flags will remain flying while the ranges are in use. During night weapons training activities, red lights will be substituted for the flags. Closure announcements will be broadcast over marine VHF Channel 16/19. When range training activities are completed, the red flags will be removed and an announcement made over marine VHF Channel 16/19 that restrictions are lifted.


(4) When restrictions are in force, Camp Rilea will visually monitor the danger zone using radar and guards, equipped with binoculars and two-way radios, posted on the beach near the north and south boundaries of the Camp. If a vessel is detected in the danger zone, a cease fire will be called on all active weapons ranges and Camp Rilea will attempt to contact the vessel using marine VHF radio. Cease fire will be maintained until the vessel leaves the danger zone.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Camp Rilea, Oregon and such agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [80 FR 9385, Feb. 23, 2015]




