# § 107.211   Original Certificate of Inspection.

(a) The owner or builder of a unit applies for an inspection for an original Certificate of Inspection by submitting before construction is started:


(1) A completed Application for Inspection of U.S. Vessel, Form CG-3752, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, of the marine inspection zone in which the unit is to be constructed; and


(2) Plans and information indicating the proposed arrangement and construction of the unit to the Coast Guard in accordance with Subpart C of this part.


(b) An original Certificate of Inspection is issued if the Coast Guard finds, during the inspections conducted while the unit is being constructed, that a unit contracted for on or after January 3, 1979 meets § 107.231.


(c) An original Certificate of Inspection is issued if the Coast Guard finds that an uncertificated unit contracted for before January 3, 1979 meets the applicable requirements of this Subchapter as specified in the Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular, *“Inspection and Certification of Existing Mobile Offshore Drilling Units”* (Appendix A). Existing structure, arrangements, materials, equipment, and facilities will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Repairs and minor alterations may be made to the same standards as originally used. Major alterations and conversions shall be in compliance with the provisions of each subpart of this part to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.


(d) A Certificate of Inspection is valid for 5 years. 



---

[N] [CGD 73-251, 43 FR 56802, Dec. 4, 1978, as amended by USCG-1999-4976, 65 FR 6503, Feb. 9, 2000]




