# § 325.4   Claim for unemployment benefits.

(a) *Requirement.* After an unemployed employee has applied for unemployment benefits in accordance with § 325.3, he or she shall claim a day as a day of unemployment by registering with respect to such day. Registration shall be made on the claim form provided by the Board to the employee.


(b) *Claim.* A claim for unemployment benefits shall cover a period of 14 consecutive calendar days. Each such 14-day period shall be a registration period. An employee shall provide the information called for by the claim form and shall file his or her claim in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Time for filing.* A claim for unemployment benefits shall be filed at any Board office no later than 15 calendar days after the last day of the claim period, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, or 15 calendar days after the date on which the claim form was mailed to the employee, whichever is later. In determining whether the time for filing the claim may be extended, the standards set forth in § 325.3(d) shall be applied. None of the days included in a claim that is not timely filed shall be considered a day of unemployment.


(d) *Claim for new period of unemployment.* An employee who has complied with the application requirement under § 325.3 with respect to a period of unemployment in a benefit year, and who again becomes unemployed in the same benefit year, need not file a new application but may initiate a claim for benefits for days in such subsequent period by calling or visiting the nearest district office of the Board to request a claim form. Such request shall be made no later than 30 calendar days after the first day for which the employee wishes to claim benefits. Upon receipt of a request under this paragraph, the district office shall provide the employee with a claim form which shall show the beginning and ending dates of the registration period covered by the claim form, with the first day shown on the claim form being no earlier than the 30th day before the date on which the employee requested the claim form, unless the delay may be excused by applying the standards set forth in § 325.3(d).


(e) *Delayed claims.* If an employee makes an initial application and claim for benefits in accordance with this part but does not continue to file ongoing claims because he or she receives an initial determination denying his or her application or claim for benefits and if, upon review, the denial is reversed by an appeals referee or other authorized reviewing official, the employee shall have 30 days from the date of the notice of the reversal in which to file a claim or claims for benefits for the days that he or she would have claimed as days of unemployment but for the initial determination denying benefits. The appeals referee or other reviewing official, as appropriate, shall notify the employee of the 30-day time limit imposed by this paragraph. An employee whose claim for benefits has been denied may continue to claim any additional day or days for which he or she believes that he or she is eligible for benefits.


(f) *Claim required for waiting period.* The requirement to file a claim for unemployment benefits includes a requirement to file a claim for the non-compensable waiting period described in § 325.1(d), except that the Director of Unemployment and Sickness Insurance may waive such requirement in connection with unemployment resulting from a work stoppage or other labor dispute.


(g) *Withdrawal of claim.* An employee may withdraw his or her claim for unemployment benefits by submitting a written statement to that effect and by repaying any benefits paid on the claim, unless the employee's claim was intentionally false or fraudulent.



---

[N] [54 FR 24551, June 8, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 45841, Aug. 31, 1993]




