# § 162.060-14   Information requirements for the ballast water management system (BWMS) application.

(a) A complete BWMS application must contain all of the following information:


(1) The name and location of the independent laboratory conducting approval tests and evaluations.


(2) Two sets of plans describing the BWMS, as specified in 46 CFR 159.005-12.


(3) An Operation, Maintenance, and Safety Manual for the BWMS that meets the requirements in § 162.060-38 of this subpart.


(4) A bill of materials showing all components and specifications of the BWMS.


(5) A list of any systems or components of the BWMS that may require certification as marine portable tanks.


(6) A list of any pressure vessels used as a part of the BWMS, along with a description of the pressure vessel building standard, or code, or why the pressure vessel should be considered exempt from any requirements. Manufacturers must also submit detailed pressure vessel plans if they intend to fabricate pressure vessels, heat exchangers, evaporators, and similar appurtenances.


(7) Documentation of all necessary approvals, registrations, and other documents or certifications required for any active substances, preparations, or relevant chemicals used by the BWMS. The documentation must include the following:


(i) A list of any active substances, preparations, or relevant chemicals that are used, produced, generated as a byproduct, and/or discharged in association with the operation of the BWMS.


(ii) A list of all limitations or restrictions that must be complied with during the approval testing and evaluations, including any water quality limits established by the Environmental Protection Agency, States, or tribes, under the Clean Water Act.


(8) A detailed description of Quality Control procedures, in-process and final inspections, tests followed in manufacturing the item, and construction and sales record keeping systems.


(9) The completed Test Report required by § 162.060-34 of this subpart prepared and submitted by the IL.


(b) The completed application must be sent by the manufacturer to the Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, or by email to *msc@uscg.mil”.*.


(c) If examination of the application reveals that it is incomplete, the Coast Guard will return it to the applicant with an explanation.


(d) Additional information, including electronic submission criteria, is available at *http://homeport.uscg.mil/msc.*


---

[N] [USCG-2001-10486, 77 FR 17311, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended by USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60161, Sept. 30, 2013; USCG-2016-0498, 82 FR 35093, July 28, 2017; USCG-2018-0874, 84 FR 30883, June 28, 2019]




