# § 60.5398c   What alternative GHG standards apply to fugitive emissions components designated facilities and what inspection and monitoring requirements apply to covers and closed vent systems when using an alternative technology?

This section provides alternative GHG standards for fugitive emissions components designated facilities in § 60.5397c and alternative continuous inspection and monitoring requirements for covers and closed vent systems in § 60.5416c(a)(1)(ii) and (iii), (2)(ii) through (iv), and (3)(iii) and (iv). If you choose to use an alternative standard under this section, you must submit the notification under paragraph (a) of this section. If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the alternative GHG standards through periodic screening, you are subject to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. If you choose to demonstrate compliance through a continuous monitoring system, you are subject to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. The technology used for periodic screenings under paragraph (b) of this section or continuous monitoring under paragraph (c) of this section must be approved in accordance with § 60.5398b(d).


(a) *Notification.* If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the alternative GHG standards in either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, you must notify the Administrator of adoption of the alternative standards in the first annual report following implementation of the alternative standards, as specified in § 60.5424c(a). Once you have implemented the alternative standards, you must continue to comply with the alternative standards.


(b) *Periodic screening.* You may choose to demonstrate compliance for your fugitive emissions components designated facility and compliance with continuous inspection and monitoring requirements for your covers and closed vent systems through periodic screenings using any methane measurement technology approved in accordance with § 60.5398b(d). If you choose to demonstrate compliance using periodic screenings, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section and comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.5424c.


(1) You must use one or more alternative test method(s) approved per § 60.5398b(d) to conduct periodic screenings.


(i) The required frequencies for conducting periodic screenings are listed in tables 2 and 3 to this subpart. You must choose the appropriate frequency for conducting periodic screenings based on the minimum aggregate detection threshold of the method used to conduct the periodic screenings. You must also use tables 2 and 3 to this subpart to determine whether you must conduct an annual fugitive emissions survey using OGI, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(ii) Use of table 2 or 3 to this subpart is based on the required frequency for conducting monitoring surveys in § 60.5397c(g)(1)(i) through (v).


(iii) You may replace one or more individual periodic screening events required by table 2 or 3 to this subpart with an OGI survey. The OGI survey must be conducted according to the requirements outlined in § 60.5397c.


(iv) If you use multiple methods to conduct periodic screenings, you must conduct all periodic screenings, regardless of the method used for the individual periodic screening event, at the frequency required for the alternative test method with the highest aggregate detection threshold (*e.g.,* if you use methods with aggregate detection thresholds of 15 kg/hr, your periodic screenings must be conducted monthly). You must also conduct an annual OGI survey if an annual OGI survey is required for the alternative test method with the highest aggregate detection threshold.


(2) You must develop a monitoring plan that covers the collection of fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems at each site where you will use periodic screenings to demonstrate compliance. You may develop a site-specific monitoring plan, or you may include multiple sites that you own or operate in one plan. At a minimum, the monitoring plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section.


(i) Identification of each site that will be monitored through periodic screening, including latitude and longitude coordinates of the site in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(ii) Identification of the alternative test method(s) approved per § 60.5398b(d) that will be used for periodic screenings and the spatial resolution (*i.e.,* component-level, area-level, or facility-level) of the technology used for each method.


(iii) Identification of and contact information for the entities that will be performing the periodic screenings.


(iv) Required frequency for conducting periodic screenings, based on the criteria outlined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(v) If you are required to conduct an annual OGI survey by paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (iii) of this section or you choose to replace any individual screening event with an OGI survey, your monitoring plan must also include the information required by § 60.5397c(b).


(vi) Procedures for conducting monitoring surveys required by paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(A), (b)(5)(iii)(A), and (b)(5)(iv)(A) of this section. At a minimum, your monitoring plan must include the information required by § 60.5397c(c)(2), (3), (7), and (8) and § 60.5397c(d), as applicable. The provisions of § 60.5397c(d)(3) do not apply for purposes of conducting monitoring surveys required by paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) through (iv) of this section.


(vii) Procedures and timeframes for identifying and repairing fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems from which emissions are detected.


(viii) Procedures and timeframes for verifying repairs for fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems.


(ix) Records that will be kept and the length of time records will be kept.


(3) You must conduct the initial screening of your site according to the timeframes specified in (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Within 90 days of the effective date of your state or Tribal plan for each fugitive emissions components designated facility and storage vessel designated facility located at a well site.


(ii) No later than the final date by which the next monitoring survey required by § 60.5397c(g)(1)(i) through (v) would have been required to be conducted if you were previously complying with the requirements in § 60.5397c and § 60.5416c.


(4) If you are required to conduct an annual OGI survey by paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (iii) of this section, you must conduct OGI surveys according to the schedule in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) You must conduct the initial OGI survey no later than 12 calendar months after conducting the initial screening survey in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(ii) Each subsequent OGI survey must be conducted no later than 12 calendar months after the previous OGI survey was conducted. Each identified source of fugitive emissions during the OGI survey shall be repaired in accordance with § 60.5397c(h).


(iii) If you replace a periodic screening event with an OGI survey or you are required to conduct a monitoring survey in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) of this section prior to the date that your next OGI survey under paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section is due, the OGI survey conducted in lieu of the periodic screening event or the monitoring survey under paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) of this section can be used to fulfill the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. The next OGI survey is required to be conducted no later than 12 calendar months after the date of the survey conducted under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) or (b)(5)(ii)(A) of this section.


(iv) You cannot use a monitoring survey conducted under paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(A) or (b)(5)(iv)(A) of this section to fulfill the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section unless the monitoring survey included all fugitive emission components at the site.


(5) You must investigate confirmed detections of emissions from periodic screening events and repair each identified source of emissions in accordance with paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) You must receive the results of the periodic screening no later than 5 calendar days after the screening event occurs.


(ii) If you use an alternative test method with a facility-level spatial resolution to conduct a periodic screening event and the results of the periodic screening event indicate a confirmed detection of emissions from a designated facility, you must take the actions listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) You must conduct a monitoring survey of all the fugitive emissions components in a designated facility using either OGI or EPA Method 21 to appendix A-7 of this part. You must follow the procedures in your monitoring plan when conducting the survey.


(B) You must inspect all covers and closed vent system(s) with OGI or Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part in accordance with the requirements in § 60.5416c(b)(1) through (4), as applicable.


(C) You must conduct a visual inspection of all covers and closed vent systems to identify if there are any defects, as defined in § 60.5416c(a)(1)(ii), § 60.5416c(a)(2)(iii), or § 60.5416c(a)(3)(i), as applicable.


(iii) If you use an alternative test method with an area-level spatial resolution to conduct a periodic screening event and the results of the periodic screening event indicate a confirmed detection of emissions from a designated facility, you must take the actions listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable.


(A) You must conduct a monitoring survey of all the fugitive emissions components located within a 4-meter radius of the location of the periodic screening's confirmed detection using either OGI or EPA Method 21 to appendix A-7 of this part. You must follow the procedures in your monitoring plan when conducting the survey.


(B) If the confirmed detection occurred in the portion of a site that contains a storage vessel or a closed vent system, you must inspect all covers and all closed vent systems that are connected to all storage vessels and closed vent systems that are within a 2-meter radius of the location of the periodic screening's confirmed detection (*i.e.,* you must inspect the whole system that is connected to the portion of the system in the radius of the detected event, not just the portion of the system that falls within the radius of the detected event).


(*1*) You must inspect the cover(s) and closed vent system(s) with OGI or Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part in accordance with the requirements in § 60.5416c(b)(1) through (4), as applicable.


(*2*) You must conduct a visual inspection of the closed vent system(s) and cover(s) to identify if there are any defects, as defined in § 60.5416c(a)(1)(ii), § 60.5416c(a)(2)(iii), or § 60.5416c(a)(3)(i), as applicable.


(iv) If you use an alternative test method with a component-level spatial resolution to conduct a periodic screening event and the results of the periodic screening event indicate a confirmed detection of emissions from a designated facility, you must take the actions listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable.


(A) You must conduct a monitoring survey of all the fugitive emissions components located within a 1-meter radius of the location of the periodic screening's confirmed detection using either OGI or EPA Method 21 to appendix A-7 of this part. You must follow the procedures in your monitoring plan when conducting the survey.


(B) If the confirmed detection occurred in the portion of a site that contains a storage vessel or a closed vent system, you must inspect all covers and all closed vent systems that are connected to all storage vessels and closed vent systems that are within a 0.5-meter radius of the location of the periodic screening's confirmed detection (*i.e.,* you must inspect the whole system that is connected to the portion of the system in the radius of the detected event, not just the portion of the system that falls within the radius of the detected event).


(*1*) You must inspect the cover(s) and closed vent system(s) with OGI or Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part in accordance with the requirements in § 60.5416c(b)(1) through (4), as applicable.


(*2*) You must conduct a visual inspection of the closed vent system(s) and cover(s) to identify if there are any defects, as defined in § 60.5416c(a)(1)(ii), § 60.5416c(a)(2)(iii), or § 60.5416c(a)(3)(i), as applicable.


(v) You must repair all sources of fugitive emissions in accordance with § 60.5397c(h) and all emissions or defects of covers and closed vent systems in accordance with § 60.5416c(b)(4), except as specified in this paragraph (b)(5)(v). Except as allowed by §§ 60.5397c(h)(3) and 60.5416c(b)(5), all repairs must be completed, including the resurvey verifying the repair, within 30 days of receiving the results of the periodic screening in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section.


(vi) If the results of the periodic screening event in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section indicate a confirmed detection at a designated facility, and the ground-based monitoring survey and inspections required by paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) through (iv) of this section demonstrate the confirmed detection was caused by a failure of a control device used to demonstrate continuous compliance under this subpart, you must initiate an investigative analysis to determine the underlying primary and other contributing cause(s) of such failure within 24 hours of receiving the results of the monitoring survey and/or inspection. As part of the investigation, you must determine if the control device is operating in compliance with the applicable requirements of §§ 60.5415c and 60.5417c, and if not, what actions are necessary to bring the control device into compliance with those requirements as soon as possible and prevent future failures of the control device from the same underlying cause(s).


(vii) If the results of the inspections required in paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) through (iv) of this section indicate that there is an emission or defect in your cover or closed vent system, you must perform an investigative analysis to determine the underlying primary and other contributing cause(s) of emissions from your cover or closed vent system within 5 days of completing the inspection required by paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) through (iv) of this section. The investigative analysis must include a determination as to whether the system was operated outside of the engineering design analysis and whether updates are necessary for the cover or closed vent system to prevent future emissions from the cover and closed vent system.


(6) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420c(c)(3) through (c)(6), (c)(13) and (c)(14) and § 60.5424c(c).


(7) You must submit reports as specified in § 60.5424c.


(c) *Continuous Monitoring.* You may choose to demonstrate compliance for your fugitive emissions components designated facility and compliance with continuous inspection and monitoring requirements for your covers and closed vent systems through continuous monitoring using a technology approved in accordance with § 60.5398b(d). If you choose to demonstrate compliance using continuous monitoring, you must comply and develop a monitoring plan consistent with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section and comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.5424c.


(1) For the purpose of this section, continuous monitoring means the ability of a methane monitoring system to determine and record a valid methane mass emissions rate or equivalent of designated facilities at least once for every 12-hour block.


(i) The detection threshold of the system must be such that it can detect at least 0.40 kg/hr (0.88 lb/hr) of methane.


(ii) The health of the devices used within the continuous monitoring system must be confirmed for power and function at least twice every six-hour block.


(iii) The continuous monitoring system must transmit all applicable valid data at least once every 24-hours. The continuous monitoring system must transmit all valid data collected, including health checks required in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(iv) The continuous monitoring system must continuously collect data as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section:


(A) The rolling 12-month average operational downtime of the continuous monitoring system must be less than or equal to 10 percent.


(B) Operational downtime of the continuous monitoring system is defined as a period of time for which any monitor fails to collect or transmit data as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or any monitor is out-of-control as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C) of this section.


(C) A monitor is out-of-control if it fails ongoing quality assurance checks, as specified in the alternative test method approved under § 60.5398b(d), or if the monitor output is outside of range. The beginning of the out-of-control period is defined as the time of the failure of the quality assurance check. The end of the out-of-control period is defined as the time when either the monitor passes a subsequent quality assurance check, or a new monitor is installed. The out-of-control period for a monitor outside of range starts at the time when the monitor first reads outside of range and ends when the monitor reads within range again.


(D) The downtime for the continuous monitoring system must be calculated each calendar month. Once 12 months of data are available, at the end of each calendar month, you must calculate the 12-month average by averaging that month with the previous 11 calendar months. You must determine the rolling 12-month average by recalculating the 12-month average at the end of each month.


(2) You must develop a monitoring plan that covers the collection of fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems for each site where continuous monitoring will be used to demonstrate compliance. At a minimum, the monitoring plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (xii) of this section.


(i) Identification of each site to be monitored through continuous monitoring, including latitude and longitude coordinates of the site in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of at least four decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(ii) Identification of the approved alternative test method(s) approved under § 60.5398b(d) used for the continuous monitoring, including the detection principle; the manufacturer, make, and model; instrument manual, if applicable; and the manufacturer's recommended maintenance schedule.


(iii) If the continuous monitoring system is administered through a third-party provider, contact information where the provider can be reached 24 hours a day.


(iv) Number and location of monitors. If the continuous monitoring system uses open path technology, you must identify the location of any reflectors used. These locations should be identified by latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of at least five decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(v) Discussion of system calibration requirements, including but not limited to, the calibration procedures and calibration schedule for the detection systems and meteorology systems.


(vi) Identification of critical components and infrastructure (*e.g.,* power, data systems) and procedures for their repairs.


(vii) Procedures for out-of-control periods.


(viii) Procedures for establishing baseline emissions, including the identification of any sources with methane emissions not subject to this subpart. The procedures for establishing the baseline emissions must account for variability in the operation of the site. Operation of the site during the development of the baseline emissions must represent the site's expected annual production or throughput.


(ix) Procedures for determining when a fugitive emissions event is detected by the continuous monitoring technology.


(x) Procedures and timeframes for identifying and repairing fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems from which emissions are detected.


(xi) Procedures and timeframes for verifying repairs for fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems.


(xii) Records that will be kept and the length of time records will be kept.


(3) You must install and begin conducting monitoring with your continuous monitoring system according to the timeframes specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Within 120 days of the effective date of your state or Tribal plan for each fugitive emissions components designated facility and storage vessel designated facility located at a well site.


(ii) No later than the final date by which the next monitoring survey required by § 60.5397c(g)(1)(i) through (v) would have been required to be conducted if you were previously complying with the requirements in § 60.5397c and § 60.5416c.


(4) You are subject to the following action-levels as specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section for any designated facilities located at a well site, centralized production facility, or compressor station.


(i) For designated facilities located at a wellhead only well site, the action levels are as follows.


(A) The 90-day rolling average action-level is 1.2 kg/hr (2.6 lbs/hr) of methane over the site-specific baseline emissions.


(B) The 7-day rolling average action level is 15 kg/hr (34 lbs/hr) of methane over site-specific baseline emissions.


(ii) For designated facilities located at well sites with major production and processing equipment (including small well sites), centralized production facilities, and compressor stations, the action levels are as follows.


(A) The 90-day rolling average action-level is 1.6 kg/hr (3.6 lbs/hr) of methane over the site-specific baseline emissions.


(B) The rolling 7-day average action level is 21 kg/hr (46 lbs/hr) of methane over the site-specific baseline emissions.


(5) You must establish site-specific baseline emissions upon initial installation and activation of a continuous monitoring system. You must establish the baseline emissions under the conditions outlined in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must determine the baseline emission rates according to paragraphs (c)(5)(iv) and (v) of this section. The baseline must be established initially and any time there is a major change to the processing equipment at a well site (including small well sites), centralized production facility, or compressor station.


(i) Inspect all fugitive emissions components according to the requirements in § 60.5397c and covers and closed vent systems according to the requirements in § 60.5416c. This includes all fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems, regardless of whether they are regulated by this subpart. Repairs of any fugitive emissions, leaks, or defects found during the inspection must be completed prior to beginning the period in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.


(ii) Verify control devices (*e.g.,* flares) on all affected sources are operating in compliance with the applicable requirements of §§ 60.5415c and 60.5417c. You must ensure that all control devices are operating in compliance with the applicable regulations prior to beginning the period in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section. Verify that all other methane emission sources (*e.g.,* reciprocating engines) located at the site are operating consistent with any applicable regulations. You must ensure that these sources are operating in compliance with the applicable regulations prior to beginning the period in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.


(iii) Using the alternative test method approved per § 60.5398b(d), record the site-level emission rate from your continuous monitoring system for 30 operating days. You must minimize any activities that are not normal, day-to-day activities during this 30 operating day period. Document any maintenance activities and the period (including the start date and time and end date and time) such activities occurred during the 30 operating day period.


(iv) Determine the site-specific baseline by calculating the mean emission rate (kg/hr of methane) for the 30 operating day period, less any time periods when maintenance activities were conducted.


(v) The site-specific baseline emission rate must be no more than 10 times the applicable 90-day action-level defined in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (c)(4)(ii) of this section.


(6) Calculate the emission rate from your site according to paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section. Compare the emission rate calculated in this paragraph (c)(6) to the appropriate action levels in paragraph (c)(4) of this section to determine whether you have exceeded an action level.


(i) Each calendar day, calculate the daily average mass emission rate in kg/hr of methane from your continuous monitoring system.


(ii) Once the system has been operating for 7 calendar days, at the end of each calendar day calculate the 7-day average mass emission rate by averaging the mass emission rate from that day with the mass emission rate from the previous 6 calendar days. Subtract the site-specific baseline mass emission rate from the 7-day average mass emission rate when comparing the mass emission rate to the applicable action level. Determine the 7-day rolling average by recalculating the 7-day average each calendar day, less the site-specific baseline.


(iii) Once the system has been operating for 90 calendar days, at the end of each calendar day calculate the 90-day average mass emission rate by averaging the mass emission rate from that day with the mass emission rate from the previous 89 calendar days. Subtract the site-specific baseline emission rate from the 90-day average mass emission rate when comparing the mass emission rate to the applicable action level. Determine the 90-day rolling average by recalculating the 90-day average each calendar day, less the site-specific baseline.


(7) Within 5 days of determining that either of your action levels in paragraph (c)(4) of this section has been exceeded, you must initiate an investigative analysis to determine the underlying primary and contributing cause(s) of such exceedance and actions to be taken to reduce the mass emission rate below the applicable action level.


(i) You must complete the investigative analysis and take initial steps to bring the mass emission rate below the action level no later than 5 days after determining there is an exceedance of the action level in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) or (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.


(ii) You must complete the investigative analysis and take initial steps to bring the mass emission rate below the action level no later than 30 days after determining there is an exceedance of the action level in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) or (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.


(8) You must develop a mass emission rate reduction plan if you meet any of the criteria in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section. The plan must describe the action(s) completed to date to reduce the mass emission rate below the action level, additional measures that you propose to employ to reduce methane emissions below the action level, and a schedule for completion of these measures. You must submit the plan to the Administrator within 60 days of initially determining there is an exceedance of an action level in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(i) If, upon completion of the initial actions required under paragraph (c)(7) of this section, the average mass emission rate for the following 30-day period is not below the applicable action level in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) or (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section. The beginning of the 30-day period starts on the calendar day following completion of the initial actions in paragraph (c)(7) of this section.


(ii) If, upon completion of the initial actions required under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, the average mass emission rate for the following 24-hour period is not below the applicable action level in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) or (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. The average mass emission rate will be the mass emission rate calculated according to paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section for the calendar day following completion of the initial corrective actions in paragraph (c)(7) of this section.


(iii) All actions needed to reduce the average mass emission rate below the action level require more than 30 days to implement.


(9) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420c(c)(3) through (c)(6), (c)(13) and (c)(14), and § 60.5424c(e). You must submit the reports as specified in § 60.5420c(b)(1), (b)(3) through (9) and § 60.5424c.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62921, Aug. 1, 2024]




