# § 721.10937   Plastics, wastes, pyrolyzed, bulk pyrolysate (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as plastics, wastes, pyrolyzed, bulk pyrolysate (PMN P-14-712) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor of at least 10), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (a)(6)(particulate or a combination gas/vapor and particulate), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the exposure limit (EL) provision listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The EL is both 0.1 ppm for benzene and 10 ppm for naphthalene as an 8-hour time weighted average.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(i), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k). It is a significant new use to manufacture this substance other than as described in the PMN. It is a significant new use to manufacture this substance without testing the substance for polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin and dibenzofuran impurities using EPA Method 8290A at each facility of manufacture, conducting the testing every quarter that the PMN substance is manufactured, submitting the results of any testing conducted, or providing test results more than 45 days after receiving them.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 81267, Nov. 17, 2016]




