# § 423.638   How a Part D plan sponsor must effectuate expedited redeterminations or reconsiderations.

(a) *Reversals by the Part D plan sponsor*—(1) *Requests for benefits.* If, on an expedited redetermination of a request for benefits, the Part D plan sponsor reverses its coverage determination, the Part D plan sponsor must authorize or provide the benefit under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours after the date the Part D plan sponsor receives the request for redetermination.


(2) *Review of an at-risk determination.* If, on an expedited redetermination of an at-risk determination made under a drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f), the Part D plan sponsor reverses its at-risk determination, the Part D plan sponsor must implement the change to the at-risk determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 72 hours after the date the Part D plan sponsor receives the request for redetermination.


(b) *Reversals other than by the Part D plan sponsor*—(1) *Requests for benefits.* If the expedited determination or expedited redetermination for benefits by the Part D plan sponsor is reversed in whole or in part by the independent review entity, or at a higher level of appeal, the Part D plan sponsor must authorize or provide the benefit under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires but no later than 24 hours from the date it receives notice reversing the determination. The Part D plan sponsor must inform the independent review entity that the Part D plan sponsor has effectuated the decision.


(2) *Review of an at-risk determination.* If the expedited redetermination of an at-risk determination made under a drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f) by the Part D plan sponsor is reversed in whole or in part by the independent review entity, or at a higher level of appeal, the Part D plan sponsor must implement the change to the at-risk determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires but no later than 24 hours from the date it receives notice reversing the determination. The Part D plan sponsor must inform the independent review entity that the Part D plan sponsor has effectuated the decision.



---

[N] [83 FR 16753, Apr. 16, 2013]




