# § 1.76   Medical devices.

In addition to the data required to be submitted in § 1.72, an ACE filer must submit the following information at the time of filing entry in ACE for medical devices regulated by the FDA Center for Devices and Radiological Health.


(a) *Registration and listing.* For a medical device, the Registration Number for Foreign Manufacturers, Foreign Exporters, and/or Domestic Manufacturers, and the Device Listing Number, required under section 510 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and part 807 of this chapter.


(b) *Investigational devices.* For an investigational medical device that has an investigational device exemption granted under section 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Investigational Device Exemption Number. For an investigational medical device being imported or offered for import for use in a nonsignificant risk or exempt study, “NSR” to be entered in the Affirmation of Compliance for the “investigational device exemption” that identifies the device as being used in a nonsignificant risk or exempt study.


(c) *Premarket number.* For a medical device that has one, the Premarket Number. This is the Premarket Approval Number for those medical devices that have received premarket approval under section 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Product Development Protocol Number for those medical devices for which FDA has declared the product development protocol complete under section 515(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the De Novo number for those medical devices granted marketing authorization under section 513(f)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Premarket Notification Number for those medical devices that received premarket clearance under section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or the Humanitarian Device Exemption Number for those medical devices for which an exemption has been granted under section 520(m) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


(d) *Component.* If applicable for a medical device, an affirmation identifying that the article being imported or offered for import is a component that requires further processing or inclusion into a finished medical device.


(e) *Lead wire/patient cable.* For electrode lead wires and patient cables intended for use with a medical device, an Affirmation of Compliance with the applicable performance standard under § 898.12 of this chapter.


(f) *Impact resistant lens.* For impact resistant lenses in eyeglasses and sunglasses, an Affirmation of Compliance with the applicable requirements of § 801.410 of this chapter.


(g) *Convenience kit.* If applicable for a medical device, an Affirmation of Compliance that the article imported or offered for import is a convenience kit or part of a convenience kit.




