# § 73.735-902   Reporting requirements for certain employees not covered by the Ethics in Government Act of 1978.

(a) *Applicability.* The following employees and special Government employees shall submit confidential statements of employment and financial interests in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, provided they are not required to submit financial disclosure reports under § 73.735-901. A list of the positions in this Department whose incumbents are required to file financial interest statements as prescribed by this subpart is available for review in all of the Departments servicing personnel offices.


(1) Officers and employees in positions classified at GS-13 or above (or comparable pay level) who have decision-making responsibility for the following matters:


(i) Contracting or procurement,


(ii) Administering or monitoring grants or subsidies, 


(iii) Regulating or auditing private or other non-Federal enterprises, or


(iv) Other activities where the decision or action would have an economic impact on the interest of any non-Federal enterprise.


(2) Incumbents of any other positions designated by the head of the principal operating component, or by the Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget for the Office of the Secretary, to report employment and financial interests in order to protect the integrity of the Government and to avoid possible conflicts of interest. The designation of any such positions below the GS-13 grade must be approved by the Office of Personnel Management.


(3) All experts, consultants, or advisory committee members who are not required to submit a public financial disclosure report in accordance with the Ethics in Government Act except:


(i) Doctors, dentists and allied medical specialists performing services for, or consulted as to the diagnosis or treatment of, individual patients; or


(ii) Veterinarians performing services for or consulted as to care and service to animals.


(b) *Filing dates.* (1) Experts, consultants, and advisory committee members shall file a confidential Statement of Employment and Financial Interest no later than the date employment commences and shall file supplemental statements as necessary to keep all information submitted current and accurate.


(2) Other individuals covered by § 73.735-902 (a) of this subpart shall:


(i) File a confidential statement no later than 30 days after assuming a covered position unless the employee, within 30 days before assuming the position, left another covered position in HHS that is included in § 73.735-901(a) or § 73.735-902(a) of this subpart; and


(ii) Report changes in or additions to the information in the statement as of June 30 of each calendar year, or a different date set by employee's component with authorization by the Office of Personnel Management. 


(c) *Submission and review of financial statements.* (1) Heads of principal operating components, the Assistant Secretary for Management and Budget, and principal regional officials for employees under their appointing authority shall establish procedures to ensure that financial statements from covered employees are received and updated on a timely basis and are referred to the appropriate reviewing officials for review and certification. (See § 73.735-202 (e)(1)).


(2) The reviewing official shall review statements to determine whether conflicts of interest or apparent conflicts might arise from the activities reported thereon. If the review discloses no conflict or apparent conflict, the reviewing official shall certify the statement with his or her signature. Action to take if the individual is not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is discussed in §§ 73.735-903 and 73.735-904.




