# § 414.509   Reconsideration of basis for and amount of payment for a new clinical diagnostic laboratory test.

For a new CDLT, the following reconsideration procedures apply:


(a) *Reconsideration of basis for payment.* (1) CMS will receive reconsideration requests in written format for 60 days after making a determination of the basis for payment under § 414.506(d)(2) regarding whether CMS should reconsider the basis for payment and why a different basis for payment would be more appropriate. If a requestor recommends that the basis for payment should be changed from gapfilling to crosswalking, the requestor may also recommend the code or codes to which to crosswalk the new test.


(2)(i) A requestor that submitted a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may also present its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under § 414.506(c), provided that the requestor requests an opportunity to present at the public meeting as part of its written submission under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(ii) If the requestor presents its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under § 414.506(c), members of the public may comment on the reconsideration request verbally at the public meeting and may submit written comments after the public meeting (within the timeframe for public comments established by CMS).


(3) Considering reconsideration requests and other comments received, CMS may reconsider its determination of the basis for payment. As the result of such a reconsideration, CMS may change the basis for payment from crosswalking to gapfilling or from gapfilling to crosswalking.


(4) If the basis for payment is revised as the result of a reconsideration, the new basis for payment is final and is not subject to further reconsideration.


(b) *Reconsideration of amount of payment*—(1) *Crosswalking.* (i) For 60 days after making a determination under § 414.506(d)(2) of the code or codes to which a new test will be crosswalked, CMS receives reconsideration requests in written format regarding whether CMS should reconsider its determination and the recommended code or codes to which to crosswalk the new test.


(ii)(A) A requestor that submitted a request under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section may also present its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under § 414.506(c), provided that the requestor requests an opportunity to present at the public meeting as part of its written submission under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(B) If a requestor presents its reconsideration request at the public meeting convened under § 414.506(c), members of the public may comment on the reconsideration request verbally at the public meeting and may submit written comments after the public meeting (within the timeframe for public comments established by CMS).


(iii) Considering comments received, CMS may reconsider its determination of the amount of payment. As the result of such a reconsideration, CMS may change the code or codes to which the new test is crosswalked.


(iv) If CMS changes the basis for payment from gapfilling to crosswalking as a result of a reconsideration, the crosswalked amount of payment is not subject to reconsideration.


(2) *Gapfilling.* (i) By April 30 of the year after CMS makes a determination under § 414.506(d)(2) or paragraph (a)(3) of this section that the basis for payment for a CDLT will be gapfilling, CMS posts interim Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts on the CMS Web site.


(ii) For 60 days after CMS posts interim Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts on the CMS Web site, CMS will receive public comments in written format regarding the interim Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts.


(iii) After considering the public comments, CMS will post final Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts on the CMS Web site.


(iv) For 30 days after CMS posts final Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amounts on the CMS Web site, CMS will receive reconsideration requests in written format regarding whether CMS should reconsider the final Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amount and median of the Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amount for the CDLT.


(v) Considering reconsideration requests received, CMS may reconsider its determination of the amount of payment. As the result of a reconsideration, CMS may revise the median of the Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific payment amount for the CDLT.


(3) For both gapfilled and crosswalked new tests, if CMS revises the amount of payment as the result of a reconsideration, the new amount of payment is final and is not subject to further reconsideration.


(c) *Effective date.* If CMS changes a determination as the result of a reconsideration, the new determination regarding the basis for or amount of payment is effective January 1 of the year following reconsideration. Claims for services with dates of service prior to the effective date will not be reopened or otherwise reprocessed.


(d) *Jurisdiction for reconsideration decisions.* Jurisdiction for reconsidering a determination rests exclusively with the Secretary. A decision whether to reconsider a determination is committed to the discretion of the Secretary. A decision not to reconsider an initial determination is not subject to administrative or judicial review.



---

[N] [72 FR 66401, Nov. 27, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 2432, Jan. 15, 2008; 81 FR 41100, June 23, 2016]




