# § 231.12   Passenger-train cars with wide vestibules.

(a) *Hand brakes*—(1) *Number.* Each passenger-train car shall be equipped with an efficient hand brake, which shall operate in harmony with the power brake thereon.


(2) *Location.* Each hand brake shall be so located that it can be safely operated while car is in motion.


(b) *Side handholds*—(1) *Number.* Eight.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eighths of an inch, metal. Minimum clear length, 16 inches. Minimum clearance, 1
1/4, preferably 1
1/2 inches.


(3) *Location.* Vertical, one on each vestibule door post.


(4) *Manner of application.* Side handholds shall be securely fastened with bolts, rivets, or screws.


(c) *End handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* (i) Minimum diameters, five-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clear length, 16 inches. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2 inches.


(ii) Handholds shall be flush with or project not more than 1 inch beyond vestibule face.


(3) *Location.* Horizontal, one near each side on each end projecting downward from face of vestibule end sill. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 16 inches from side of car.


(4) *Manner of application.* End handholds shall be securely fastened with bolts or rivets. When marker sockets or brackets are located so that they can not be conveniently reached from platforms, suitable steps and handholds shall be provided for men to reach such sockets or brackets.


(d) *Uncoupling levers.* (1) Uncoupling attachments shall be applied so they can be operated by a person standing on the ground.


(2) Minimum length of ground uncoupling attachment, 42 inches, measured from center line of end of car to handle of attachment.


(3) On passenger-train cars used in freight or mixed-train service, the uncoupling attachment shall be so applied that the coupler can be operated from left side of car.




