# § 520.2240b   Sulfaethoxypyridazine tablets.

(a) *Specifications.* (1) Each tablet contains 2.5 or 15 grams sulfaethoxypyridazine.


(2) Each extended-release tablet contains 5 grams sulfaethoxypyridazine.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.650 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use in cattle*—(1) *2.5- or 15-gram tablets*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 25 milligrams per pound of body weight per day for 4 days. Use as the sole source of sulfonamide.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of respiratory infections (pneumonia, shipping fever), foot rot, calf scours; as adjunctive therapy in septicemia accompanying mastitis and metritis.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not treat within 16 days of slaughter. Milk that has been taken from animals during treatment and for 72 hours (6 milkings) after latest treatment must not be used for food. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *15-gram extended-release tablets*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 100 milligrams per pound of body weight. Use as the sole source of sulfonamide.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of foot rot and respiratory infections (shipping fever and pneumonia) caused by sulfonamide-susceptible pathogens (*E. coli, Streptococci,**Staphylococci, Sphaerophorus necrophorus* and Gram-negative rods including *Pasteurella*); and for use prophylactically during periods of stress for reducing losses due to sulfonamide sensitive disease conditions.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not treat within 16 days of slaughter. Not for use in lactating dairy cows. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [79 FR 28830, May 20, 2014]




