# § 721.11318   Propanoic acid, 3-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-, polymer with dimethyl carbonate, 1,6-hexanediol, diamine and 1,1′-methylenebis[4-isocyanatocyclohexane], pentaerythritol triacrylate-blocked, compds. with triethylamine (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as propanoic acid, 3-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-, polymer with dimethyl carbonate, 1,6-hexanediol, diamine and 1,1′-methylenebis[4-isocyanatocyclohexane], pentaerythritol triacrylate-blocked, compds. with triethylamine (PMN P-18-169) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(2)(i) and (a)(3) through (5). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50, or at least 1000 if the substance is spray-applied.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture (including import) the PMN substance with a triethylamine concentration greater than the confidential concentration stated in the PMN.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46131, Aug. 18, 2021]




