# ยง 301-11.18   What M&IE rate will I receive if a meal(s) is furnished by the Government or is included in the registration fee?

(a) Except as provided in ยง 301-11.17 or in paragraph (b) of this section, your M&IE allowance must be adjusted for meals furnished to you by the Government (including meals furnished under the authority of chapter 304 of this title) by deducting the appropriate amount shown at *https://www.gsa.gov/mie*. For meals provided on the day of departure and the last day of travel, you must deduct the entire allocated meal cost from the decreased M&IE rate (see ยง 301-11.101). The total amount of deductions made will not cause you to receive less than the amount allowed for incidental expenses.


(b) Your agency, at its discretion, may allow you to claim the full M&IE allowance if:


(1) You are unable to consume the furnished meal(s) because of medical requirements or religious beliefs;


(2) In accordance with administrative procedures prescribed by your agency, you requested specific approval to claim the full M&IE allowance prior to your travel;


(3) In accordance with administrative procedures prescribed by your agency, you have made a reasonable effort to make alternative meal arrangements, but were unable to do so; and


(4) You purchase substitute meals in order to satisfy your medical requirements or religious beliefs.


(c) In your agency's discretion, and in accordance with administrative procedures prescribed by your agency, you may also claim the full M&IE allowance if you were unable to take part in a Government-furnished meal due to the conduct of official business.



---

[N] [FTR Amdt. 2009-03, 74 FR 16328, Apr. 10, 2009; 74 FR 17437, Apr. 15, 2009, as amended by FTR Amdt. 2009-07, 74 FR 54912, Oct. 26, 2009; FTR Amdt. 2011-03, 76 FR 55275, Sept. 7, 2011; FTR Amdt. 2015-05, 80 FR 45086, July 29, 2015; FTR Amdt. 2018-01, 83 FR 30078, June 27, 2018; 85 FR 39848, July 2, 2020]




