# ยง 401.240   Renewal of Certificates of Registration.

(a) An application for renewal of a Certificate of Registration must be submitted to the Director, on a Form CG-4509, together with two full-face passport style photographs, signed on the photo, vertically, as close to the head as possible, at least 15 days before the expiration date of the existing Certificate. The form for renewal of Certificates of Registration may be obtained from the Director. A renewal fee of five dollars ($5) by check or money order, drawn to the order of the U.S. Coast Guard, must accompany an application for renewal of registration, which will be refunded if registration is not renewed. Failure of a U.S. Registered Pilot to comply with these requirements or file a complete and sufficient application may constitute cause for denying renewal of the Certificate of Registration.


(b) No Certificate of Registration will be renewed unless the applicant for renewal meets the requirements and qualifications set forth in ยง 401.210 for issuance of an original Certificate of Registration, excepting that compliance with ยง 401.210(a)(4) is not required if the examination was satisfactorily passed on a previous application for registration within six (6) months next preceding the date of application for renewal.


(c) If the Director determines that there is good cause for denying renewal of a Certificate of Registration, the applicant must be notified in writing of such determination and the cause thereof. The applicant may thereupon apply within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of such notice for a hearing in regard to the cause for the denying of a renewal of the Certificate, which hearing must be granted.


(d) In any case in which the applicant has made timely and sufficient application for renewal of their registration, no such registration will expire until such application has been finally determined by the Director unless the public health, interest, or safety requires otherwise.


(e) Upon receipt of a renewal Certificate of Registration, the expired Certificate must be surrendered to the Director.



---

[N] [USCG-2022-0025, 89 FR 76350, Sept. 17, 2024]






