# ยง 1017.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of these regulations, the following definitions will apply:


(a) *Agency.* An executive agency as defined at 5 U.S.C. 105, including the U.S. Postal Service; the U.S. Postal Rate Board; a military department as defined at 5 U.S.C. 102; an agency or court in the Judicial Branch; an agency of the Legislative Branch, including the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives; and other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.


(b) *Creditor agency.* The agency to which the debt is owed.


(c) *Debt.* An amount of money or property which has been determined by an appropriate agency official to be owed to the United States from any person.


(d) *Disposable pay.* The amount that remains from an employee's Federal pay after required deductions for social security; Federal, State, or local income taxes; health insurance premiums; retirement contributions; life insurance premiums; Federal employment taxes; and any other deductions that are required to be withheld by law.


(e) *FCCS.* The Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Justice Department and the General Accounting Office at 4 CFR 101.1 *et seq.*

(f) *Hearing official.* The official responsible for conducting a hearing which is properly and timely requested by the debtor. An Administrative Law Judge shall be responsible for conducting the hearing and the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall determine which judicial official will be assigned the hearing.


(g) *Paying agency.* The agency that employs the individual who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his/her current pay.


(h) *Administrative offset.* The withholding of monies payable by the United States to or held by the United States on behalf of an employee to satisfy a debt owed the United States by that employee.


(i) *Waiver.* A cancellation, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee or former employee to the agency as permitted or required by law. 




