# § 230.257   Periodic and current reporting; exit report.

(a) *Tier 1: Exit report.* Each issuer that has filed an offering statement for a Tier 1 offering that has been qualified pursuant to this Regulation A must file an exit report on Form 1-Z (§ 239.94 of this chapter) not later than 30 calendar days after the termination or completion of the offering.


(b) *Tier 2: Periodic and current reporting.* Each issuer that has filed an offering statement for a Tier 2 offering that has been qualified pursuant to this Regulation A must file with the Commission the following periodic and current reports:


(1) *Annual reports.* An annual report on Form 1-K (§ 239.91 of this chapter) for the fiscal year in which the offering statement became qualified and for any fiscal year thereafter, unless the issuer's obligation to file such annual report is suspended under paragraph (d) of this section. Annual reports must be filed within the period specified in Form 1-K.


(2) *Special financial report.* (i) A special financial report on Form 1-K or Form 1-SA if the offering statement did not contain the following:


(A) Audited financial statements for the issuer's most recent fiscal year (or for the life of the issuer if less than a full fiscal year) preceding the fiscal year in which the issuer's offering statement became qualified; or


(B) unaudited financial statements covering the first six months of the issuer's current fiscal year if the offering statement was qualified during the last six months of that fiscal year.


(ii) The special financial report described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section must be filed under cover of Form 1-K within 120 calendar days after the qualification date of the offering statement and must include audited financial statements for such fiscal year or other period specified in that paragraph, as the case may be. The special financial report described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section must be filed under cover of Form 1-SA within 90 calendar days after the qualification date of the offering statement and must include the semiannual financial statements for the first six months of the issuer's fiscal year, which may be unaudited.


(iii) A special financial report must be signed in accordance with the requirements of the form on which it is filed.


(3) *Semiannual report.* A semiannual report on Form 1-SA (§ 239.92 of this chapter) within the period specified in Form 1-SA. Semiannual reports must cover the first six months of each fiscal year of the issuer, commencing with the first six months of the fiscal year immediately following the most recent fiscal year for which full financial statements were included in the offering statement, or, if the offering statement included financial statements for the first six months of the fiscal year following the most recent full fiscal year, for the first six months of the following fiscal year.


(4) *Current reports.* Current reports on Form 1-U (§ 239.93 of this chapter) with respect to the matters and within the period specified in that form, unless substantially the same information has been previously reported to the Commission by the issuer under cover of Form 1-K or Form 1-SA.


(5) *Reporting by successor issuers.* Where in connection with a succession by merger, consolidation, exchange of securities, acquisition of assets or otherwise, securities of any issuer that is not required to file reports pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section are issued to the holders of any class of securities of another issuer that is required to file such reports, the duty to file reports pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be deemed to have been assumed by the issuer of the class of securities so issued. The successor issuer must, after the consummation of the succession, file reports in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, unless that issuer is exempt from filing such reports or the duty to file such reports is terminated or suspended under paragraph (d) of this section.


(6) *Exchange Act reporting requirements.* The duty to file reports under this rule shall be deemed to have been met if the issuer is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 15 U.S.C. 78o) and, as of each Form 1-K and Form 1-SA due date, has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 15 U.S.C. 78o) during the 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) preceding such due date.


(7) *Exemption for subsidiary issuers of guaranteed securities and subsidiary guarantors.* Any issuer of a guaranteed security, or guarantor of a security, that is permitted to omit financial statements by Item (b)(7)(i) of Part F/S of Form 1-A (referenced in § 239.90), Item 7(g)(1) of Part II of Form 1-K (referenced in § 239.91), and Item 3(e) of Form 1-SA (referenced in § 239.92), is exempt from the requirements of this paragraph (b).


(c) *Amendments.* All amendments to the reports described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be filed under cover of the form amended, marked with the letter *A* to designate the document as an amendment, e.g., “1-K/A,” and in compliance with pertinent requirements applicable to such reports. Amendments filed pursuant to this paragraph (c) must set forth the complete text of each item as amended, but need not include any items that were not amended. Amendments must be numbered sequentially and be filed separately for each report amended. Amendments must be signed on behalf of the issuer by a duly authorized representative of the issuer. An amendment to any report required to include certifications as specified in the applicable form must include new certifications by the appropriate persons.


(d) *Suspension of duty to file reports.*

(1) [Reserved] 


(2) The duty to file reports under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a class of securities held of record (as defined in Rule 12g5-1 (§ 240.12g5-1 of this chapter)) by less than 300 persons, or less than 1,200 persons for a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(6) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)), or a bank holding company (as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841)), shall be suspended for such class of securities immediately upon filing with the Commission an exit report on Form 1-Z (§ 239.94 of this chapter) if the issuer of such class has filed all reports due pursuant to this rule before the date of such Form 1-Z filing for the shorter of:


(i) The period since the issuer became subject to such reporting obligation; or


(ii) Its most recent three fiscal years and the portion of the current year preceding the date of filing Form 1-Z.


(3) For the purposes of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the term *class* shall be construed to include all securities of an issuer that are of substantially similar character and the holders of which enjoy substantially similar rights and privileges. If the Form 1-Z is subsequently withdrawn or if it is denied because the issuer was ineligible to use the form, the issuer must, within 60 calendar days, file with the Commission all reports which would have been required if such exit report had not been filed. If the suspension resulted from the issuer's merger into, or consolidation with, another issuer or issuers, the notice must be filed by the successor issuer.


(4) The ability to suspend reporting, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, is not available for any class of securities if:


(i) During that fiscal year a Tier 2 offering statement was qualified;


(ii) The issuer has not filed an annual report under this rule or the Exchange Act for the fiscal year in which a Tier 2 offering statement was qualified; or


(iii) Offers or sales of securities of that class are being made pursuant to a Tier 2 Regulation A offering.


(e) *Termination of duty to file reports.* If the duty to file reports is deemed to have been met pursuant to paragraph (b)(6) of this section and such status ends because the issuer terminates or suspends its duty to file reports under the Exchange Act, the issuer's obligation to file reports under paragraph (b) of this section shall:


(1) Automatically terminate if the issuer is eligible to suspend its duty to file reports under paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section; or


(2) Recommence with the report covering the most recent financial period after that included in any effective registration statement or filed Exchange Act report.



---

[N] [80 FR 21895, Apr. 20, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 45725, Oct. 2, 2017; 83 FR 47836, Sept. 21, 2018; 83 FR 52964, Oct. 19, 2018; 84 FR 529, Jan. 31, 2019; 85 FR 17751, Mar. 31, 2020; 85 FR 22004, Apr. 20, 2020]




