# ยง 153.2   Definitions.

(a) *DOE/FE* means the Department of Energy/Office of Fossil Energy or its successor office. 


(b) *Person* means an individual or entity as defined in 10 CFR 590.102(m). 


(c) LNG Terminal means all natural gas facilities located onshore or in state waters that are used to receive, unload, load, store, transport, gasify, liquefy, or process natural gas that is imported to the United States from a foreign country, exported to a foreign country from the United States, or transported in interstate commerce by a waterborne vessel, but does not include:


(1) Waterborne vessels used to deliver natural gas to or from any such facility; or


(2) Any pipeline or storage facility subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act.


(d) For purposes of this part and ยง 157.21, *related jurisdictional natural gas facilities* means any pipeline or other natural gas facilities which are subject to section 7 of the NGA; will directly interconnect with the facilities of an LNG terminal, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section; and which are necessary to transport gas to or regasified LNG from:


(1) A planned but not yet authorized LNG terminal; or


(2) An existing or authorized LNG terminal for which prospective modifications are subject pursuant to section 157.21(e)(2) to a mandatory pre-filing process.


(e) Waterway Suitability Assessment (WSA) means a document used by the U.S. Coast Guard in assessing the suitability of a waterway for LNG marine traffic pursuant to 33 CFR 127.007. The Preliminary WSA initiates the process of analyzing the safety and security risks posed by proposed LNG tanker operations to a port and waterways, and the Follow-On WSA provides a detailed analysis of the same issues.



---

[N] [Order 595, 62 FR 30446, June 4, 1997, as amended by Order 665, 70 FR 60440, Oct. 18, 2005; Order 900, 88 FR 74041, Oct. 30, 2023]




