# § 1212.14   Parole determinations for alien witnesses and informants for whom a law enforcement authority (“LEA”) will request S classification.

(a) *Parole authority.* Parole authorization under section 212(d)(5) of the Act for aliens whom LEAs seek to bring to the United States as witnesses or informants in criminal/counter terrorism matters and to apply for S classification shall be exercised as follows:


(1) *Grounds of eligibility.* The Commissioner may, in the exercise of discretion, grant parole to an alien (and the alien's family members) needed for law enforcement purposes provided that a state or federal LEA:


(i) Establishes its intention to file, within 30 days after the alien's arrival in the United States, a completed Form I-854, Inter-Agency Alien Witness and Informant Record, with the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, in accordance with the instructions on or attached to the form, which will include the names of qualified family members for whom parole is sought;


(ii) Specifies the particular operational reasons and basis for the request, and agrees to assume responsibility for the alien during the period of the alien's temporary stay in the United States, including maintaining control and supervision of the alien and the alien's whereabouts and activities, and further specifies any other terms and conditions specified by the Service during the period for which the parole is authorized;


(iii) Agrees to advise the Service of the alien's failure to report quarterly any criminal conduct by the alien, or any other activity or behavior on the alien's part that may constitute a ground of excludability or deportability;


(iv) Assumes responsibility for ensuring the alien's departure on the date of termination of the authorized parole (unless the alien has been admitted in S nonimmigrant classification pursuant to the terms of paragraph (a)(2) of this section), provides any and all assistance needed by the Service, if necessary, to ensure departure, and verifies departure in a manner acceptable to the Service;


(v) Provide LEA seat-of-government certification that parole of the alien is essential to an investigation or prosecution, is in the national interest, and is requested pursuant to the terms and authority of section 212(d)(5) of the Act;


(vi) Agrees that no promises may be, have been, or will be made by the LEA to the alien that the alien will or may:


(A) Remain in the United States in parole status or any other nonimmigrant classification;


(B) Adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident; or


(C) Otherwise attempt to remain beyond the authorized parole. The alien (and any family member of the alien who is 18 years of age or older) shall sign a statement acknowledging an awareness that parole only authorizes a temporary stay in the United States and does not convey the benefits of S nonimmigrant classification, any other nonimmigrant classification, or any entitlement to further benefits under the Act; and


(vii) Provides, in the case of a request for the release of an alien from Service custody, certification that the alien is eligible for parole pursuant to § 235.3 of chapter I.


(2) *Authorization.* (i) Upon approval of the request for parole, the Commissioner shall notify the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, of the approval.


(ii) Upon notification of approval of a request for parole, the LEA will advise the Commissioner of the date, time, and place of the arrival of the alien. The Commissioner will coordinate the arrival of the alien in parole status with the port director prior to the time of arrival.


(iii) Parole will be authorized for a period of thirty (30) days to commence upon the alien's arrival in the United States in order for the LEA to submit a completed Form I-854 to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division. Upon the submission to the Assistant Attorney General of the Form I-854 requesting S classification, the period of parole will be automatically extended while the request is being reviewed. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, will notify the Commissioner of the submission of a Form I-854.


(b) *Termination of parole*—(1) *General.* The Commissioner may terminate parole for any alien (including a member of the alien's family) in parole status under this section where termination is in the public interest. A district director may also terminate parole when, in the district director's opinion, termination is in the public interest and circumstances do not reasonably permit referral of the case to the Commissioner. In such a case, the Commissioner shall be notified immediately. In the event the Commissioner, or in the appropriate case, a district director, decides to terminate the parole of an alien witness or informant authorized under the terms of this paragraph, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to terminate parole.


(2) *Termination of parole and admission in S classification.* When an LEA has filed a request for an alien in authorized parole status to be admitted in S nonimmigrant classification and that request has been approved by the Commissioner pursuant to the procedures outlines in 8 CFR 214.2(t), the Commissioner may, in the exercise of discretion:


(i) Terminate the alien's parole status;


(ii) Determine eligibility for waivers; and


(iii) Admit the alien in S nonimmigrant classification pursuant to the terms and conditions of section 101(a)(15(S) of the Act and 8 CFR 214.2(t).


(c) *Departure.* If the alien's parole has been terminated and the alien has been ordered excluded from the United States, the LEA shall ensure departure from the United States and so inform the district director in whose jurisdiction the alien has last resided. The district director, if necessary, shall oversee the alien's departure from the United States and, in any event, shall notify the Commissioner of the alien's departure. The Commissioner shall be notified in writing of the failure of any alien authorized parole under this paragraph to depart in accordance with an order of exclusion and deportation entered after parole authorized under this paragraph has been terminated.


(d) *Failure to comply with procedures.* Any failure to adhere to the parole procedures contained in this section shall immediately be brought to the attention of the Commissioner, who will notify the Attorney General.



---

[N] [60 FR 44265, Aug. 25, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 80400, Dec. 11, 2020]




