# ยง 750.12   Permit applications.

(a) Each application for a permit to conduct surface coal mining operations on lands subject to this part shall be accompanied by fees in accordance with ยง 750.25 of this part. 


(b) Unless specified otherwise by the regulatory authority, each person submitting a permit application shall file no less than seven copies of the complete permit application package with OSM. OSM will ensure that the affected tribes, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and when applicable, the Bureau of Land Management receive copies of the application.


(c)(1) The following requirements of subchapter G of this chapter shall govern the processing of permit applications on Indian lands except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section.


(i) Part 773;


(ii) Part 774;


(iii) Part 775;


(iv) Part 777;


(v) Part 778;


(vi) Part 779;


(vii) Part 780;


(viii) Part 783;


(ix) Part 784; and


(x) Part 785;


(2) The following provisions of subchapter G are not applicable to permitting on Indian lands:


(i) Part 772;


(ii) Sections 773.4, 773.15(c), 777.17;


(iii) Section 778.16 (a) and (b); and 


(iv) Sections 785.11, 785.12;


(3) *Special requirements.* (i) Approval of a transfer, assignment, or sale of rights granted under a permit shall not be construed as approval of a transfer or assignment of a leasehold interest. Leasehold interests may be transferred or assigned only in accordance with 25 CFR parts 211 and 212.


(ii) The following additional requirements are applicable to permit revisions:


(A) Applications for revisions pursuant to ยง 774.13(b) of this chapter shall contain the same information on the proposed revised operation as if the revised operation had been proposed as part of the initial operation permitted under this part.


(B) OSM shall determine if the application for revision is complete and if the proposed revision is significant. OSM shall consider the following factors as well as other relevant factors in determining the significance of a proposed revision: (*1*) Changes in production or recoverability of the coal resource; (*2*) the environmental effects; (*3*) the public interest in the operation, or likely interest in the proposed revision; and (*4*) possible adverse impacts from the proposed revision on fish or wildlife, endangered species, bald or golden eagles or cultural resources.


(C) Significant revisions shall be processed as if they are new applications in accordance with parts 773 and 775 of this chapter. Other revisions shall be reviewed to determine if the findings which were made in issuing the original permit are still valid.


(iii) Any section in this chapter which provides for consultation with, or notification to, State and local governments shall be interpreted as requiring in like manner consultation with, or notification to, tribal governments.


(d) The permit application package shall also contain:


(1) The mining plan required to be submitted by 25 CFR 216.7 or 43 CFR part 3480, as applicable.


(2) The following information to assure compliance with Federal laws other than the Act:


(i) The description of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation with respect to: (A) Increases in employment, population, and revenues to public and private entities; and (B) the ability of public and private entities to provide goods and services necessary to support surface coal mining and reclamation operations.


(ii) An evaluation of impacts to the scenic and aesthetic resources, including noise on the surrounding area, due to the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.


(iii) A statement, including maps and ownership data as appropriate, of any cultural or historical site listed on the National Register of Historic Places within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.


(iv) A statement of the classes of properties of potential significance within the disturbed area, and a plan for the identification and treatment, in accordance with 36 CFR part 800, of properties significant and listed, or eligible for listing, on the National Register of Historic Places within the permit area of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.


(v) A description of compliance with Federal laws aimed at protecting cultural resources on Indian lands. 


(vi) A description of the probable changes in air quality resulting from the surface coal mining operation and any necessary measures to comply with prevention of significant deterioration limitations, or other Federal laws for air quality protection.


(vii) A description of the location, acreage and condition of important habitats of selected indicator species located within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operation.


(viii) A description of active and inactive nests and prey areas of any bald or golden eagles located within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operations.


(ix) A description and special studies, if required, of all threatened and endangered species and their critical habitats located within the permit and adjacent areas of the proposed surface coal mining and reclamation operations.



---

[N] [49 FR 38477, Sept. 28, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 22188, May 22, 1989; 55 FR 29548, July 19, 1990; 65 FR 79663, Dec. 19, 2000]




