# § 334.1390   Pacific Ocean off the Pacific Missile Range Facility at Barking Sands, Island of Kauai, Hawaii; danger zone.

(a) *The danger zone.* All navigable waters within an area beginning at a point on the shore at latitude 22°04′13.65″ N, longitude 159°46′30.76″ W; and continue south along the shoreline to latitude 21°58′42.77″ N, and longitude 159°45′26.35″ W. Thence extending southwest to latitude 21°56′6.00″ N, and longitude 159°46′55.91″ W extending northwest to latitude 21°58′59.81″ N and longitude 159°50′51.42″ W, continuing north to latitude 22°02′28.09″ N, and longitude 159°51′28.15″ W, and continuing northeast to latitude 22°06′ 30.71″ N, longitude 159°49′20.43″ W; and thence to point of beginning. All coordinates reference 1983 North American Datum (NAD 83).


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Dredging, dragging, seining, and other similar operations within the danger zone are prohibited.


(2) All persons, boats, vessels, or other craft are prohibited from entering, transiting, or remaining within the danger zone during range operations, test and training activities, or increases in force protection that pose a hazard to the general public, as determined by the enforcing agency. The enforcing agency's determination of the necessity of closing the danger zone due to increases in force protection will be based on the Department of Defense Force Protection Condition (FPCON) System. From the lowest security level to the highest, FPCON levels are titled Normal, Alpha, Bravo, Charlie and Delta.


(3) Closure of the danger zone will be indicated by Notice to Mariners, the presence of Pacific Missile Range Facility range boats, beach markings including beach signs along the north and south beach borders alerting shoreline foot traffic, security patrols, and radio transmissions on common ocean frequencies to include Marine band channel 6 (156.300 Mhz), Marine band channel 16 (156.800 Mhz), and CB channel 22. The enforcing agency will post the danger zone closure schedule on its official Navy Web site,* http://www.cnic.navy.mil/PMRF/,* and Facebook page, *http://www.facebook.com/PacificMissileRangeFacility.* The danger zone closure schedule may also be obtained by calling the following phone numbers: 808-335-4301, 808-335-4388, and 808-335-4523.


(4) Consistent with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the enforcing agency is authorized to prohibit access into the danger zone by anyone, and all willful violations of the enforcing agency's prohibitions are punishable under 33 U.S.C. 3.


(c) *The enforcing agency.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Pacific Missile Range Facility, Hawaii and such agencies or persons as he or she may designate.



---

[N] [78 FR 76061, Dec. 16, 2013]




