# § 63.1319   PET and polystyrene affected sources—recordkeeping provisions.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, owners or operators using a control or recovery device to comply with § 63.1316 shall comply with the applicable recordkeeping provisions specified in § 63.1315(a), except that, for the purposes of this paragraph (a), references to group determinations (i.e., total resource effectiveness) do not apply, and owners or operators are not required to comply with § 63.113. 


(b) *Records demonstrating compliance with the applicability determination procedure for PET affected sources using a dimethyl terephthalate process.* Owners or operators complying with § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) by demonstrating that mass emissions per mass product are less than or equal to the level specified in § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) (i.e., 0.12 kg organic HAP per Mg of product) shall keep the following records. 


(1) Results of the mass emissions per mass product calculation specified in § 63.1318(b).


(2) Records of any change in process operation that increases the mass emissions per mass product. 


(c) *Records demonstrating compliance with temperature limits for final condensers.* Owners or operators of continuous process vents complying with § 63.1316(b)(1)(i)(B) or § 63.1316(c)(1)(ii) shall keep records of the daily averages required by § 63.1318, per the recordkeeping provisions specified in § 63.1335(d). 



---

[N] [61 FR 48229, Sept. 12, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38111, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36938, July 16, 2001; 79 FR 17366, Mar. 27, 2014]




