# § 522.161   Betamethasone.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of suspension contains:


(1) Betamethasone acetate equivalent to 10.8 milligrams (mg) betamethasone and betamethasone disodium phosphate equivalent to 3 mg of betamethasone.


(2) Betamethasone dipropionate equivalent to 5 mg betamethasone and betamethasone sodium phosphate equivalent to 2 mg of betamethasone.


(b) *Sponsor.* See sponsor numbers in § 510.600(c) of this chapter:


(1) No. 000061 for product described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for use as in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii)(A), and (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(2) No. 000061 for product described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for use as in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii)(B), and (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* Administer by intramuscular injection 0.25 to 0.5 milliliter (mL) per 20 pounds of body weight, depending on the severity of the condition. Frequency of dosage depends on recurrence of pruritic symptoms. Dosage may be repeated every 3 weeks or when symptoms recur, not to exceed a total of four injections.


(ii) *Indications for use.* As an aid in the control of pruritus associated with dermatoses.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Horses*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 2.5 to 5 mL by intra-articular injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* (A) For the treatment of various inflammatory joint conditions; for example, acute and traumatic lameness involving the carpel and fetlock joints.


(B) As an aid in the control of inflammation associated with various arthropathies.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [79 FR 16184, Mar. 25, 2014]




