# § 2610.4   Requests for service.

(a) Heads of USDA agencies will direct requests for audit or investigative service to the AIG/A, AIG/I, Audit Director, SAC, or to other OIG audit or investigation officials responsible for providing service of the type desired in the geographical area where service is desired.


(b) Agency officials or other employees may, at any time, direct to the personal attention of the IG any audit or investigation matter that warrants such attention.


(c) Other persons (*i.e.,* non-USDA personnel) may address their communications regarding audit or investigative matters to: The Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, USDA Stop 2301, Washington, DC 20250.


(d) OIG has established several channels for USDA employees and the general public to report fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement in USDA programs, or misconduct by a USDA employee. These include a general OIG Hotline, a Bribery/Assault Line, and (for USDA employees) a Whistleblower Ombudsman.


(1) General fraud, waste, and abuse hotline:


(i) File complaint online: *http://www.usda.gov/oig/hotline.htm* (click on “Submit a Complaint” button);


(ii) Telephone: (800) 424-9121, (202) 690-1622, or (202) 690-1202 (Telecommunication Device for the Deaf);


(iii) Facsimile: (202) 690-2474; or


(iv) Write a letter to United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, P.O. Box 23399, Washington, DC 20026.


(2) Bribery/Assault Line: (202) 720-7257 (24 hours a day).


(3) Whistleblower Protection Ombudsman. USDA employees may contact the Ombudsman via email at: *OIGombudsman@oig.usda.gov*. Additional information about the Ombudsman is available online at *https://www.usda.gov/oig/ombudsman.htm*.




