# § 19.9   When will Commerce entities transfer a Commerce debt to the Treasury Department's Bureau of the Fiscal Service for collection?

(a) Commerce entities will transfer any Commerce debt that is more than 120 days delinquent to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for debt collection services, a process known as “cross-servicing.” *See* 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), 31 CFR 285.12, and 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6). Commerce entities may transfer Commerce debts delinquent 120 days or less to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service in accordance with the procedures described in 31 CFR 285.12. The Bureau of the Fiscal Service takes appropriate action to collect or compromise the transferred Commerce debt, or to suspend or terminate collection action thereon, in accordance with the statutory and regulatory requirements and authorities applicable to the Commerce debt and the collection action to be taken. *See* 31 CFR 285.12(b) and 285.12(c)(2). Appropriate action can include, but is not limited to, contact with the debtor, referral of the Commerce debt to the Treasury Offset Program, private collection agencies or the Department of Justice, reporting of the Commerce debt to credit bureaus, and administrative wage garnishment.


(b) At least sixty (60) days prior to transferring a Commerce debt to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Commerce entities will send notice to the debtor as required by § 19.4 of this part. Commerce entities will certify to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, in writing, that the Commerce debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection. In addition, Commerce entities will certify their compliance with all applicable due process and other requirements as described in this part and other Federal laws. *See* 31 CFR 285.12(i) regarding the certification requirement.


(c) As part of its debt collection process, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Commerce debts by administrative and tax refund offset. *See* 31 CFR 285.12(g). The Treasury Offset Program is a centralized offset program administered by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to collect delinquent debts owed to Federal agencies and states (including past-due child support). Under the Treasury Offset Program, before a Federal payment is disbursed, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service compares the name and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the payee with the names and TINs of debtors that have been submitted by Federal agencies and states to the Treasury Offset Program database. If there is a match, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service (or, in some cases, another Federal disbursing agency) offsets all or a portion of the Federal payment, disburses any remaining payment to the payee, and pays the offset amount to the creditor agency. Federal payments eligible for offset include, but are not limited to, income tax refunds, salary, travel advances and reimbursements, retirement and vendor payments, and Social Security and other benefit payments.




