# ยง 1570.115   Amendments required by TSA.

(a) *Notification of requirement to amend.* TSA may require amendments to a security program in the interest of the public and transportation security, including any new information about emerging threats, or methods for addressing emerging threats, as follows:


(1) TSA will notify the owner/operator of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 30 calendar days within which the owner/operator may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment.


(2) After TSA considers all relevant material received, TSA will notify the owner/operator of any amendment adopted or rescind the notice.


(b) *Effective date of amendment.* If TSA adopts the amendment, it becomes effective not less than 30 calendar days after the owner/operator receives the notice of amendment, unless the owner/operator disagrees with the proposed amendment and files a petition for reconsideration under ยง 1570.119 of this part no later than 15 calendar days before the effective date of the amendment. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment.


(c) *Emergency amendments.* If TSA determines that there is an emergency requiring immediate action in the interest of the public or transportation security, TSA may issue an amendment, without the prior notice and comment procedures in paragraph (a) of this section, effective without stay on the date the covered owner/operator receives notice of it. In such a case, TSA will incorporate in the notice a brief statement of the reasons and findings for the amendment to be adopted. The owner/operator may file a petition for reconsideration under ยง 1570.119 of this part; however, this does not stay the effective date of the emergency amendment.




