# § 265.1030   Applicability.

(a) The regulations in this subpart apply to owners and operators of facilities that treat, store, or dispose of hazardous wastes (except as provided in § 265.1). 


(b) Except for §§ 265.1034, paragraphs (d) and (e), this subpart applies to process vents associated with distillation, fractionation, thin-film evaporation, solvent extraction, or air or steam stripping operations that manage hazardous wastes with organic concentrations of at least 10 ppmw, if these operations are conducted in one of the following: 


(1) A unit that is subject to the permitting requirements of 40 CFR part 270, or 


(2) A unit (including a hazardous waste recycling unit) that is not exempt from permitting under the provisions of 40 CFR 262.17 (*i.e.,* a hazardous waste recycling unit that is not a 90-day tank or container) and that is located at a hazardous waste management facility otherwise subject to the permitting requirements of 40 CFR part 270, or


(3) A unit that is exempt from permitting under the provisions of 40 CFR 262.17 (*i.e.,* a “90-day” tank or container) and is not a recycling unit under the requirements of 40 CFR 261.6.


(c) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to the pharmaceutical manufacturing facility, commonly referred to as the Stonewall Plant, located at Route 340 South, Elkton, Virginia, provided that facility is operated in compliance with the requirements contained in a Clean Air Act permit issued pursuant to 40 CFR 52.2454. The requirements of this subpart shall apply to the facility upon termination of the Clean Air Act permit issued pursuant to 40 CFR 52.2454.


(d) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to the process vents at a facility where the facility owner or operator certifies that all of the process vents that would otherwise be subject to this subpart are equipped with and operating air emission controls in accordance with the process vent requirements of an applicable Clean Air Act regulation codified under 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63. The documentation of compliance under regulations at 40 CFR part 60, part 61, or part 63 shall be kept with, or made readily available with, the facility operating record. 



---

[N] [55 FR 25507, June 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 19290, Apr. 26, 1991; 61 FR 59968, Nov. 25, 1996; 62 FR 52642, Oct. 8, 1997; 62 FR 64661, Dec. 8, 1997; 81 FR 85827, Nov. 28, 2016]




