# § 158.43   Abandonment or destruction of merchandise in bond.

Allowance in duties for merchandise entered under bond destroyed under section 557(c), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1557(c)), or for merchandise in bonded warehouse abandoned to the Government under section 563(b), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1563(b)), shall be subject to the following conditions: 


(a) *Application by importer.* The importer shall file an application for abandonment or destruction of merchandise in bond with the port director on Customs From 3499, with the title modified to read “Application and Permit to Abandon (or Destroy) Goods in Bond.” When an application is for permission to destroy, the proposed method of destruction shall be stated in the application and be subject to the approval of the port director. 


(b) *Concurrence of warehouse proprietor.* An application to abandon or destroy warehoused merchandise shall not be approved unless concurred in by the warehouse proprietor. 


(c) *Abandonment*—(1) *Costs.* When in the opinion of the port director the abandonment of merchandise under section 563(b), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1563(b)), will involve any expense or cost to the Government, or if the merchandise is worthless or unsalable, or cannot be sold for a sum sufficient to pay the expenses of sale, such abandonment shall not be permitted unless the importer deposits a sum which in the opinion of the port director will be sufficient to save the Government harmless from any expense or cost resulting from such abandonment. The sum so advanced shall be placed in a special deposit account and expended to cover the cost of destruction or to meet any deficit should the merchandise be sold and the proceeds of sale be less than the expenses of such sale. After meeting such expenses or deficit, any balance remaining shall be refunded to the importer. However, the applicant may elect to destroy such merchandise under Customs supervision pursuant to the provisions of section 557(c), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1557(c)). 


(2) *Time period.* The importer may abandon his warehoused merchandise voluntarily to the Government within 3 years from the date of importation. 


(d) *Destruction*—(1) *Costs.* Destruction of merchandise under section 557(c), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1557(c)), shall be at the expense of the importer. 


(2) *Time period.* The importer may request destruction of his warehoused merchandise within 5 years from the date of importation. 


(e) *Action by port director.* When the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are met, the port director may grant applications and make an allowance in duties for the merchandise abandoned or destroyed. In any case where doubt exists, the matter shall be referred to the Commissioner of Customs. 



---

[N] [T.D. 72-258, 37 FR 20171, Sept. 27, 1972, as amended by T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46829, Aug. 9, 1979] 




