# § 2606.201   Requests for access.

(a) *Records in an OGE Governmentwide system of records.* An individual requesting access to records pertaining to him in an OGE Governmentwide system of records should submit a written request, which includes the words “Privacy Act Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter, to the appropriate system manager as follows:


(1) *Records filed directly with OGE by non-OGE employees:* The Deputy Director, Office of Agency Programs, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917;


(2) *Records filed with a Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) or the head of a department or agency:* The DAEO at the department or agency concerned; or


(3) *Records filed with the Federal Election Commission by candidates for President or Vice President:* The General Counsel, Office of General Counsel, Federal Election Commission, 999 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20463.


(b) *Records in an OGE Internal System of Records.* An individual requesting access to records pertaining to him in an OGE internal system of records should submit a written request, which includes the words “Privacy Act Request” on both the envelope and at the top of the request letter, to the Deputy Director, Office of Administration and Information Management, Office of Government Ethics, Suite 500, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-3917.


(c) *Content of request.* (1) A request should contain a specific reference to the OGE system of records from which access to the records is sought. Notices of OGE systems of records subject to the Privacy Act are published in the _Federal Register,_ and copies of the notices are available on OGE's Web site at *http://www.usoge.gov,* or upon request from OGE's Office of General Counsel and Legal Policy. A biennial compilation of such notices also is made available online and published by the Office of Federal Register at the GPO Access Web site (*http://www.access.gpo.gov/su_docs/aces/PrivacyAct.shtml*) in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) of the Act.


(2) If the written inquiry does not refer to a specific system of records, it should include other information that will assist in the identification of the records for which access is being requested. Such information may include, for example, the individual's full name (including her maiden name, if pertinent), dates of employment, social security number (if any records in the system include this identifier), current or last place and date of Federal employment. If the request for access follows a prior request to determine if an individual is the subject of a record, the same identifying information need not be included in the request for access if a reference is made to that prior correspondence, or a copy of the response to that request is attached.


(3) The request should state whether the requester wants a copy of the record, or wants to examine the record in person.




