# ยง 658.707   Requests for hearings.

(a) Any SWA which received a Notice of Decertification under ยง 658.706 or a notice of disallowance under ยง 658.702(g) may request a hearing on the issue by filing a written request for hearing with the Secretary within 10 business days of receipt of the notice. Additionally, any SWA that has received a Notice of Remedial Action under ยง 658.704(c) may request a hearing by filing a written request with the Regional Administrator within 20 business days of the SWA's receipt of the notice. This request must state the reasons the SWA believes the basis of the decision to be wrong, and it must be signed by the State Administrator (electronic signatures may be accepted).




(b) When the Secretary or Regional Administrator receives a request for a hearing from a SWA, they must send copies of a file containing all materials and correspondence relevant to the case to the Assistant Secretary, the Regional Administrator, the Solicitor of Labor, and the Department of Labor Chief Administrative Law Judge. When the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy must be sent to the NMA.




(c) The Secretary must publish notice of hearing in the _Federal Register._ This notice must invite all interested parties to attend and to present evidence at the hearing. All interested parties who make written request to participate must thereafter receive copies (hard copy and/or electronic) of all documents filed in said proceedings.





---

[N] [81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82737, Nov. 24, 2023]




