# § 5301.105   Restrictions applicable to Members of the National Science Board.

(a) *Participation in proposals and awards.* (1) For the purpose of determining whether a Member of the National Science Board (Board) should participate as part of his official duties in a proposal or award coming before the Board or any of its committees, the affiliations and relationships listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be considered “covered relationships” for purposes of applying 5 CFR 2635.502. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, they shall be treated as disqualifying to the same extent as the covered relationships listed in 5 CFR 2635.502(b)(1).


(2) Where an affiliation or relationship is listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section as “automatically disqualifying,” a Member of the National Science Board shall not participate in a proposal or award in which the institution or other person with whom the Member has a covered relationship is or represents a party, unless participation is authorized in accordance with 5 CFR 2635.502(d) by the Chairman of the National Science Board or by the Designated Agency Ethics Official.


(3) A Member of the National Science Board has a covered relationship, within the meaning of 5 CFR 2635.502(b)(1), with:


(i) An institution or other person with which the Member is affiliated through:


(A) Membership on a visiting committee or similar body at the institution. The relationship is automatically disqualifying where the particular department, school, or faculty that the visiting committee or similar body advises originated the proposal or where a proposal from the department, school, or faculty formed the basis for the award; or 


(B) Current enrollment of the Member or a member of his household as a student; and


(ii) A person who is an investigator or project director or who is otherwise identified in a proposal as a party to the proposal or award and with whom the Member has a family relationship as sibling, parent, spouse, or child. Any such relationship is automatically disqualifying.


(b) *Outside employment and activities.* (1) A Member of the National Science Board shall not represent himself, herself, or any other person in negotiations or other dealings with an NSF official on any proposal, award, or other particular matter, as defined in 5 CFR 2635.402(b)(3).


(2) A Member of the National Science Board may not receive compensation from any award made while serving on the Board. However, unless prohibited by law, an award may be charged, and a Member may be reimbursed, for actual expenses incurred by the Member in doing work supported by the award. If a Member was an investigator or consultant under an award before appointment to the Board, the award may be charged and the Member may continue to receive compensation to the extent established before the Member's nomination.




