# § 9701.103   Definitions.

In this part:


*Authorized agency official* means the Secretary or an official who is authorized to act for the Secretary in the matter concerned.


*Coordination* means the process by which DHS, after appropriate staff-level consultation, officially provides OPM with notice of a proposed action and intended effective date. If OPM concurs, or does not respond to that notice within 30 calendar days, DHS may proceed with the proposed action. However, if OPM indicates the matter has Governmentwide implications or consequences, DHS will not proceed until the matter is resolved. The coordination process is intended to give due deference to the flexibilities afforded DHS by the Homeland Security Act and the regulations in this part, without compromising OPM's institutional responsibility, as codified in 5 U.S.C. chapter 11 and Executive Order 13197 of January 18, 2001, to provide Governmentwide oversight in human resources management programs and practices.


*Department* or *DHS* means the Department of Homeland Security.


*Director* means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.


*Employee* means an employee within the meaning of that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.


*General Schedule* or *GS* means the General Schedule classification and pay system established under chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, U.S. Code.


*Implementing directives* means directives issued at the Departmental level by the Secretary or designee to carry out any policy or procedure established in accordance with this part. These directives may apply Departmentwide or to any part of the Department as determined by the Secretary at his or her sole and exclusive discretion.


*OPM* means the Office of Personnel Management.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Homeland Security or, as authorized, the Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security.


*Secretary* or *designee* means the Secretary or a DHS official authorized to act for the Secretary in the matter concerned who serves as—


(1) The Undersecretary for Management; or


(2) The Chief Human Capital Officer for DHS.




