# ยง 220.2   Statutory obligation of third party payer to pay.

(a) *Basic rule.* Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1095(a)(1), a third party payer has an obligation to pay the United States the reasonable charges for healthcare services provided in or through any facility of the Uniformed Services to a covered beneficiary who is also a beneficiary under the third party payer's plan. The obligation to pay is to the extent that the beneficiary would be eligible to receive reimbursement or indemnification from the third party payer if the beneficiary were to incur the costs on the beneficiary's own behalf.


(b) *Application of cost shares.* If the third party payer's plan includes a requirement for a deductible or copayment by the beneficiary of the plan, then the amount the United States may collect from the third party payer is the reasonable charge for the care provided less the appropriate deductible or copayment amount.


(c) *Claim from United States exclusive.* The only way for a third party payer to satisfy its obligation under 10 U.S.C. 1095 is to pay the facility of the uniformed service or other authorized representative of the United States. Payment by a third party payer to the beneficiary does not satisfy 10 U.S.C. 1095.


(d) *Assignment of benefits or other submission by beneficiary not necessary.* The obligation of the third party payer to pay is not dependent upon the beneficiary executing an assignment of benefits to the United States. Nor is the obligation to pay dependent upon any other submission by the beneficiary to the third party payer, including any claim or appeal. In any case in which a facility of the Uniformed Services makes a claim, appeal, representation, or other filing under the authority of this part, any procedural requirement in any third party payer plan for the beneficiary of such plan to make the claim, appeal, representation, or other filing must be deemed to be satisfied. A copy of the completed and signed DoD insurance declaration form will be provided to payers upon request, in lieu of a claimant's statement or coordination of benefits form. 


(e) *Preemption of conflicting State laws.* Any provision of a law or regulation of a State or political subdivision thereof that purports to establish any requirement on a third party payer that would have the effect of excluding from coverage or limiting payment, for any health care services for which payment by the third party payer under 10 U.S.C. 1095 or this part is required, is preempted by 10 U.S.C. 1095 and shall have no force or effect in connection with the third party payer's obligations under 10 U.S.C. 1095 or this part. 



---

[N] [55 FR 21748, May 29, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 41101, Sept. 9, 1992; 65 FR 7727, Feb. 16, 2000; 67 FR 57740, Sept. 12, 2002]




