# § 70.203   Discharge of liens; scope and application; judicial proceedings.

(a) *In general.* A tax lien of the United States, or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien of the United States, may be discharged or divested under local law only in the manner prescribed in 28 U.S.C. 2410 or in the manner prescribed in 26 U.S.C. 7425. Title 26 U.S.C. 7425(a) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien when the United States is not joined as a party in the judicial proceedings described in subsection (a) of 28 U.S.C. 2410. These judicial proceedings are plenary in nature and proceed on formal pleadings. Title 26 U.S.C. 7425(b) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien or a title derived from the enforcement of a lien in the event of a nonjudicial sale with respect to the property involved. Title 26 U.S.C. 7425(c) contains special rules relating to the notice of sale requirements contained in 26 U.S.C. 7425(b).


(b) *Judicial proceedings*—(1) *In general.* Title 26 U.S.C. 7425(a) provides rules, where the United States is not joined as a party, to determine the effect of a judgment in any civil action or suit described in subsection (a) of 28 U.S.C. 2410 (relating to joinder of the United States in certain proceedings), or a judicial sale pursuant to such a judgment, with respect to property on which the United States has or claims a lien under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. If the United States is improperly named as a party to a judicial proceeding, the effect is the same as if the United States were not joined.


(2) *Notice of lien filed when the proceeding is commenced.* Where the United States is not properly joined as a party in the court proceeding and a notice of lien has been filed in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6323(f) or (g) in the place provided by law for such filing at the time the action or suit is commenced, a judgment or judicial sale pursuant to such a judgment shall be made subject to and without disturbing the lien of the United States.


(3) *Notice of lien not filed when the proceeding is commenced.* Where the United States is not joined as a party in the court proceeding and either a notice of lien has not been filed in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 6323(f) or (g) in the place provided by law for such filing at the time the action or suit is commenced, or the law makes no provision for that filing, a judgment or judicial sale pursuant to such a judgment shall have the same effect with respect to the discharge or divestment of the lien of the United States as may be provided with respect to these matters by the local law of the place where the property is situated.


(4) *Proceeds of a judicial sale.* If a judicial sale of property pursuant to a judgment in any civil action or suit to which the United States is not a party discharges a lien of the United States arising under the provisions of 26 U.S.C., the United States may claim the proceeds of the sale (exclusive of costs) prior to the time that distribution of the proceeds is ordered. The claim of the United States in such a case is treated as having the same priority with respect to the proceeds as the lien had with respect to the property which was discharged from the lien by the judicial sale.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-6, 38 FR 32445, Nov. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87951, Nov. 6, 2024]






