# § 351.502   Specificity of domestic subsidies.

(a) *Sequential analysis.* In determining whether a subsidy is *de facto* specific, the Secretary will examine the factors contained in section 771(5A)(D)(iii) of the Act sequentially in order of their appearance. If a single factor warrants a finding of specificity, the Secretary will not undertake further analysis.


(b) *Characteristics of a “group.”* In determining whether a subsidy is being provided to a “group” of enterprises or industries within the meaning of section 751(5A)(D) of the Act, the Secretary is not required to determine whether there are shared characteristics among the enterprises or industries that are eligible for, or actually receive, a subsidy.


(c) *Traded goods sector.* In determining whether a subsidy is being provided to a “group” of enterprises or industries within the meaning of section 771(5A)(D) of the Act, the Secretary normally will consider enterprises that buy or sell goods internationally to comprise such a group.




(d) *Disaster relief.* The Secretary will not regard disaster relief including pandemic relief as being specific under section 771(5A)(D) of the Act if such relief constitutes general assistance available to anyone in the area affected by the disaster.


(e) *Employment assistance.* The Secretary will not regard employment assistance programs as being specific under section 771(5A)(D) if such assistance is provided solely with respect to employment of general categories of workers such as those based on age, gender, disability, long-term unemployment, veteran, rural or urban status and is available to everyone hired within those categories without any industry or enterprise restrictions.



---

[N] [63 FR 65407, Nov. 25, 1998, as amended at 85 FR 6043, Feb. 4, 2020; 89 FR 101765, Dec. 16, 2024]






