# § 195.573   What must I do to monitor external corrosion control?

(a) *Protected pipelines.* You must do the following to determine whether cathodic protection required by this subpart complies with § 195.571: 


(1) Conduct tests on the protected pipeline at least once each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding 15 months. However, if tests at those intervals are impractical for separately protected short sections of bare or ineffectively coated pipelines, testing may be done at least once every 3 calendar years, but with intervals not exceeding 39 months. 


(2) Identify not more than 2 years after cathodic protection is installed, the circumstances in which a close-interval survey or comparable technology is practicable and necessary to accomplish the objectives of paragraph 10.1.1.3 of NACE SP 0169 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(b) *Unprotected pipe.* You must reevaluate your unprotected buried or submerged pipe and cathodically protect the pipe in areas in which active corrosion is found, as follows: 


(1) Determine the areas of active corrosion by electrical survey, or where an electrical survey is impractical, by other means that include review and analysis of leak repair and inspection records, corrosion monitoring records, exposed pipe inspection records, and the pipeline environment. 


(2) For the period in the first column, the second column prescribes the frequency of evaluation. 


(c) *Rectifiers and other devices.* You must electrically check for proper performance each device in the first column at the frequency stated in the second column. 


(d) *Breakout tanks.* You must inspect each cathodic protection system used to control corrosion on the bottom of an aboveground breakout tank to ensure that operation and maintenance of the system are in accordance with API RP 651 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3). However, this inspection is not required if you note in the corrosion control procedures established under § 195.402(c)(3) why complying with all or certain operation and maintenance provisions of API RP 651 is not necessary for the safety of the tank.


(e) *Corrective action.* You must correct any identified deficiency in corrosion control as required by § 195.401(b). However, if the deficiency involves a pipeline in an integrity management program under § 195.452, you must correct the deficiency as required by § 195.452(h). 



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-73, 66 FR 67004, Dec. 27, 2001; 67 FR 70118, Nov. 20, 2002, as amended by Amdt. 195-86, 71 FR 33411, June 9, 2006; Amdt. 195-94, 75 FR 48607, Aug. 11, 2010; Amdt. 195-99, 80 FR 188, Jan. 5, 2015]




