# § 60.5388c   What standards apply to super-emitter events?

This section applies to super-emitter events. For purposes of this section, a super-emitter event is defined as any emissions event that is located at an oil and natural gas facility (*e.g.,* individual well site, centralized production facility, natural gas processing plant, or compressor station) and that is detected using remote detection methods and has a quantified emission rate of 100 kg/hr of methane or greater. Upon receiving a notification of a super emitter event issued by the EPA under § 60.5371b(c) in subpart OOOOb of this part, owners or operators must take the actions listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Within 5 calendar days of receiving a notification from the EPA of a super-emitter event, the owner or operator of an oil and natural gas facility (*e.g.,* a well site, centralized production facility, natural gas processing plant, or compressor station) must initiate a super-emitter event investigation.


(a) *Identification of super-emitter events.* (1) If you do not own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the notification subject to the regulation under this subpart, report this result to the EPA under paragraph (b) of this section. Your super-emitter event investigation is deemed complete under this subpart.


(2) If you own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the notification, and there is a designated facility or associated equipment subject to this subpart onsite, you must investigate to determine the source of the super-emitter event in accordance with this paragraph (a) and report the results in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The investigation required by this paragraph (a)(2) of this section may include but is not limited to the actions specified below in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Review any maintenance activities (*e.g.,* liquids unloading) or process activities from the designated facilities subject to regulation under this subpart, starting from the date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification, until the date of investigation, to determine if the activities indicate any potential source(s) of the super-emitter event emissions.


(ii) Review all monitoring data from control devices (*e.g.,* flares) from the designated facilities subject to regulation under this subpart from the initial date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification, until the date of receiving the notification from the EPA to identify malfunctions of control devices or periods when the control devices were not in compliance with applicable requirements and that indicate a potential source of the super-emitter event emissions.


(iii) If you conducted a fugitive emissions survey or periodic screening event in accordance with § 60.5397c or § 60.5398c(b) between the initial date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification and the date the notification from the EPA was received, review the results of the survey to identify any potential source(s) of the super-emitter event emissions.


(iv) If you use conduct continuous monitoring with advanced methane detection technology in accordance with § 60.5398c(c), review the monitoring data collected on or after the initial date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification, until the date of receiving the notification from the EPA.


(v) Screen the entire well site, centralized production facility, or compressor station with OGI, Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, or an alternative test method(s) approved per § 60.5398c(d), to determine if a super-emitter event is present


(3) If the source of the super-emitter event was found to be from fugitive emission components at a well site, centralized production facility, or compressor station subject to this subpart, you must comply with the repair requirements under § 60.5397c and the associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements under § 60.5420c(b)(8) and § 60.5420c(c)(13).


(b) *Super-emitter event report.* You must submit the results of the super-emitter event investigation conducted under paragraph (a) of this section to the EPA in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the super-emitter event (*i.e.,* emission at 100 kg/hr of methane or more) is ongoing at the time of the initial report, submit the additional information in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. You must attest to the information included in the report as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(1) Within 15 days of receiving a notification from the EPA under § 60.5371b(c), you must submit a report of the super-emitter event investigation conducted under paragraph (a) of this section through the Super-Emitter Program Portal, at *www.epa.gov/super-emitter.* You must include the applicable information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section in the report. If you have identified a demonstrable error in the notification, the report may include a statement of the demonstrable error.


(i) Notification Report ID of the super-emitter event notification.


(ii) Identification of whether you are the owner or operator of an oil and natural gas facility that is located within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the EPA notification. If you do not own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the EPA notification, you are not required to report the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) through (viii) of this section.


(iii) General identification information for the facility, including, facility name, the physical address, applicable ID Number (*e.g.,* EPA ID Number, API Well ID Number), the owner or operator or responsible official (where applicable) and their email address.


(iv) Identification of whether there is a designated facility or associated equipment subject to regulation under this subpart at this oil and natural gas facility.


(v) Indication of whether you were able to identify the source of the super-emitter event. If you indicate you were unable to identify the source of the super-emitter event, you must certify that all applicable investigations specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section have been conducted for all designated facilities and associated equipment subject to regulation under this subpart that are at this oil and natural gas facility, and you have determined that the designated facilities and associated equipment are not the source of the super-emitter event. If you indicate that you were not able to identify the source of the super-emitter event, you are not required to report the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi) through (viii) of this section.


(vi) The source(s) of the super-emitter event.


(vii) Identification of whether the source of the super-emitter event is a designated facility or associated equipment subject to regulation under of this subpart. If the source of the super-emitter event is a designated facility or associated equipment subject to regulation under this subpart, identify the applicable regulation(s) under this subpart.


(viii) Indication of whether the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal (*i.e.,* emission at 100 kg/hr of methane or more).


(A) If the super-emitter event is not ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, provide the actual (or if not known, estimated) date and time the super-emitter event ended.


(B) If the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, provide a short narrative of your plan to end the super-emitter event, including the targeted end date for the efforts to be completed and the super-emitter event ended.


(2) If the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, within 5 business days of the date the super-emitter event ends you must update your initial report through the Super-Emitter Program Portal to provide the end date and time of the super-emitter event.


(3) You must sign the following attestation when submitting data into the Super-Emitter Program Portal: “I certify that the information provided in this report regarding the specified super-emitter event was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the investigations were conducted, and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of § 60.5371c (a) and (b). Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that knowingly false statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.”



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62918, Aug. 1, 2024]




