# ยง 679.360   What is a standing committee, and what is its relationship to the Local Workforce Development Board?

(a) Standing committees may be established by the Local WDB to provide information and assist the Local WDB in carrying out its responsibilities under WIOA sec. 107. Standing committees must be chaired by a member of the Local WDB, may include other members of the Local WDB, and must include other individuals appointed by the Local WDB who are not members of the Local WDB and who have demonstrated experience and expertise in accordance with ยง 679.340(b) and as determined by the Local WDB. Standing committees may include each of the following:


(1) A standing committee to provide information and assist with operational and other issues relating to the one-stop delivery system, which may include representatives of the one-stop partners.


(2) A standing committee to provide information and to assist with planning, operational, and other issues relating to the provision of services to youth, which must include community-based organizations with a demonstrated record of success in serving eligible youth.


(3) A standing committee to provide information and to assist with operational and other issues relating to the provision of services to individuals with disabilities, including issues relating to compliance with WIOA sec. 188, if applicable, and applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*) regarding providing programmatic and physical access to the services, programs, and activities of the one-stop delivery system, as well as appropriate training for staff on providing supports for or accommodations to, and finding employment opportunities for, individuals with disabilities.


(b) The Local WDB may designate other standing committees in addition to those specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) Local WDBs may designate an entity in existence as of the date of the enactment of WIOA, such as an effective youth council, to serve as a standing committee as long as the entity meets the requirements of WIOA sec. 107(b)(4).




