# § 601.506   Notices to be given to recognized representative; direct contact with taxpayer; delivery of a check drawn on the United States Treasury to recognized representative.

(a) *General.* Any notice or other written communication (or a copy thereof) required or permitted to be given to a taxpayer in any matter before the Internal Revenue Service must be given to the taxpayer and, unless restricted by the taxpayer, to the representative according to the following procedures—


(1) If the taxpayer designates more than one recognized representative to receive notices and other written communications, it will be the practice of the Internal Revenue Service to give copies of such to two (but not more than two) individuals so designated.


(2) In a case in which the taxpayer does not designate which recognized representative is to receive notices, it will be the practice of the Internal Revenue Service to give notices and other communications to the first recognized representative appointed on the power of attorney.


(3) Failure to give notice or other written communication to the recognized representative of a taxpayer will not affect the validity of any notice or other written communication delivered to a taxpayer.


(b) *Cases where taxpayer may be contacted directly.* Where a recognized representative has unreasonably delayed or hindered an examination, collection or investigation by failing to furnish, after repeated request, nonprivileged information necessary to the examination, collection or investigation, the Internal Revenue Service employee conducting the examination, collection or investigation may request the permission of his/her immediate supervisor to contact the taxpayer directly for such information.


(1) *Procedure.* If such permission is granted, the case file will be documented with sufficient facts to show how the examination, collection or investigation was being delayed or hindered. Written notice of such permission, briefly stating the reason why it was granted, will be given to both the recognized representative and the taxpayer together with a request of the taxpayer to supply such nonprivileged information. (See 7521(c) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.)


(2) *Effect of direct notification.* Permission to by-pass a recognized representative and contact a taxpayer directly does not automatically disqualify an individual to act as the recognized representative of a taxpayer in a matter. However, such information may be referred to the Director of Practice for possible disciplinary proceedings under Circular No. 230, 31 CFR part 10.


(c) *Delivery of a check drawn on the United States Treasury*—(1) *General.* A check drawn on the United States Treasury (e.g., a check in payment of refund of internal revenue taxes, penalties, or interest, see § 601.504(a)(5)) will be mailed to the recognized representative of a taxpayer provided that a power of attorney is filed containing specific authorization for this to be done.


(2) *Address of recognized representative.* The check will be mailed to the address of the recognized representative listed on the power of attorney unless such recognized representative notifies the Internal Revenue Service in writing that his/her mailing address has been changed.


(3) *Authorization of more than one recognized representative.* In the event a power of attorney authorizes more than one recognized representative to receive a check on the taxpayer's behalf, and such representatives have different addresses, the Internal Revenue Service will mail the check directly to the taxpayer, unless a statement (signed by all of the recognized representatives so authorized) is submitted which indicates the address to which the check is to be mailed.


(4) *Cases in litigation.* The provisions of § 601.506(c) concerning the issuance of a tax refund do not apply to the issuance of a check in payment of claims which have been either reduced to judgment or settled in the course (or as a result) of litigation.


(d) *Centralized Authorization File (CAF) system*—(1) *Information recorded onto the CAF system.* Information from both powers of attorney and tax information authorizations is recorded onto the CAF system. Such information enables Internal Revenue Service personnel who do not have access to the actual power of attorney or tax information authorizations to—


(i) Determine whether a recognized representative or an appointee is authorized by a taxpayer to receive and/or inspect confidential tax information;


(ii) Determine, in the case of a recognized representative, whether that representative is authorized to perform the acts set forth in § 601,504(a); and


(iii) Send copies of computer generated notices and communications to an appointee or recognized representative so authorized by the taxpayer.


(2) *CAF number.* A Centralized Authorization File (CAF) number generally will be issued to—


(i) A recognized representative who files a power of attorney and a written declaration of representative; or


(ii) An appointee authorized under a tax information authorization.


(3) *Tax matters recorded on CAF.* Although a power of attorney or tax information authorization may be filed in all matters under the jurisdiction of the Internal Revenue Service, only those documents which meet each of the following criteria will be recorded onto the CAF system—


(i) *Specific tax period.* Only documents which concern a matter(s) relating to a specific tax period will be recorded onto the CAF system. A power of attorney or tax information authorization filed in a matter unrelated to a specific period (e.g., the 100% penalty for failure to pay over withholding taxes imposed by section 6672 of the Internal Revenue Code, applications for an employer identification number, and requests for a private letter ruling request pertaining to a proposed transaction) cannot be recorded onto the CAF system.


(ii) *Future three-year limitation.* Only documents which concern a tax period that ends no later than three years after the date on a power of attorney is received by the Internal Revenue Service will be recorded onto the CAF system. For example, a power of attorney received by the Internal Revenue Service on August 1, 1990, which indicates that the authorization applies to form 941 for the quarters ended December 31, 1990 through December 31, 2000, will be recorded onto the CAF system for the applicable tax periods which end no later than July 31, 1993 (i.e., three years after the date of receipt by the Internal Revenue Service).


(iii) *Documents for prior tax periods.* Documents which concern any tax period which has ended prior to the date on which a power of attorney is received by the Internal Revenue Service will be recorded onto the CAF system provided that matters concerning such years are under consideration by the Internal Revenue Service.


(iv) *Limitation on representatives recorded onto the CAF system.* No more than three representatives appointed under a power of attorney or three persons designated under a tax information authorization will be recorded onto the CAF system. If more than three representatives are appointed under a power of attorney or more than three persons designated under a tax information authorization, only the first three names will be recorded onto the CAF system.



---

[N] [56 FR 24008, May 28, 1991]




