# § 1956.70   Cancellation.

Nonjudgment debts may be canceled in the following instances:


(a) *With application.* The debt or any extension thereof on Farmer Programs debts *do not* have to be due and payable under the terms of the note or other instrument, or because of acceleration by written notice prior to the date of application. Debts due the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 may be canceled upon application of the debtor, or if a debtor is unable to act, upon application of a guardian, executor, or administrator, subject to the following conditions:


(1) The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employee in charge of the account furnishes a report and favorable recommendation concerning the cancellation.


(2) There is no known security for the debt and the debtor has no other assets from which the debt could be collected.


(3) The debtor is unable to pay any part of the debt and has no reasonable prospect of being able to do so.


(b) *Without application.* Debts due the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 may be canceled upon a report and the favorable recommendation of the employee in charge of the account in the following instances:


(1) *Deceased debtors.* The following conditions must exist:


(i) There is no known security; and


(ii) An administrator or executor has not been appointed to settle the debtor's estate and the financial condition of the estate has been investigated and it has been established that there is no reasonable prospect of recovery; or


(iii) An administrator or executor has been appointed to settle the estate of the debtor; and


(A) A final settlement has been made and confirmed by the probate court and the Government's claim was recognized properly and the Government has received all funds it was entitled to, or


(B) A final settlement has not been made and confirmed by the probate court but there are no assets in the estate from which there is any reasonable prospect of recovery, or


(C) Regardless of whether a final settlement has been made, there were assets in the estate from which recovery might have been affected but such assets have been disposed of or lost in a manner which OGC advises will preclude any reasonable prospect of recovery by the Government.


(2) *Disappeared debtors.* The debt may be canceled without application where the debtor has no known assets or future debt-paying ability, has disappeared and cannot be found without undue expense, and there is no existing security for the debt. Reasonable efforts will be made to locate the debtor. These efforts will generally include contacts, either in person or in writing, with postmasters, motor vehicle licensing and title authorities, telephone directories, city directories, utility companies, State and local governmental agencies, other Federal agencies, employees, friends, and credit agency skip locate reports, known relatives, neighbors and County Committee members. Also, the debtor's loan file should be reviewed carefully for possible leads that may be of assistance in locating the debtor. The efforts made to locate the debtor, including the names and dates of contacts, and the information furnished by each person, will be fully documented in the appropriate space on Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1956-1 or Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1956-2 for housing loans.


(3) *Debtors discharged in bankruptcy.* If there is no security for the debt, debts discharged in bankruptcy shall be cancelled by use of the appropriate Agency form with the attachments noted below. No attempt will be made to obtain the debtor's signature. If the debtor has executed a new promise to pay prior to discharge and has otherwise accomplished a valid reaffirmation of the debt in accordance with advice from OGC, the debt is not discharged.


(i) Chapter 7 Bankruptcy cases will be documented with a copy of the “Discharge of Debtor” order(s) by the court for all obligors.


(ii) For debts identified as being part of an unsecured claim under Chapter 11, the cancellation will be documented with a copy of the organization plan, copy of the order by the court confirming the plan, a copy of the order completing the plan (a similar order), and an opinion by OGC that the confirming order has discharged the obligor(s) of liability to that part of the debt.


(iii) For debts identified as being part of an unsecured claim under chapters 12 or 13, the cancellation will be documented with a copy of the reorganization plan and confirmation order, as above, a copy of the order completing the plan and closing the case, and an opinion by OGC that the completion order has discharged the obligor(s) of liability to that portion of the debt.


(c) *Signature of debtor cannot be obtained.* Debts of a living debtor may be canceled if it is impossible or impracticable to obtain a signed application and the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section concerning cancellation with application have been met or if the debt has been discharged in bankruptcy and there is no security. Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1956-1 will state:


(1) The sources of information obtained.


(2) That a current effort was made to obtain the debtor's application and the date of such effort.


(3) The specific reasons why it was impossible or impracticable to obtain the signature of the debtor and, if the debtor refused to sign, the reason(s) given.



---

[N] [56 FR 10147, Mar. 11, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 7700, Feb. 18, 2003]




