# ยง 40.184   Record of removals subject to tax.

(a) *Requirement.* Every manufacturer of tobacco products must keep a record of tobacco products removed from the factory subject to tax. The manufacturer must make entries in this record at the time of removal. The record for each removal must show:


(1) The date of removal,


(2) The name and address of the person to whom shipped or delivered,


(3) The kind and quantity of tobacco products removed, and


(4) For large cigars, show the sale price (if the sale price is more than $235.294 per thousand before April 1, 2009, or more than $763.222 per thousand on and after April 1, 2009, you may place a note to that effect in the record instead of the actual price).


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) The record of removal may consist of the manufacturer's commercial documents, such as copies of invoices, rather than records prepared expressly to meet the requirements of this section. If commercial documents are used, they must be kept at the factory, contain all the details required by this section, and be clear and accurate. Commercial documents that do not show specifically the tax classification of tobacco products (including sale price of large cigars) are still acceptable if they contain adequate information for an appropriate TTB officer to readily ascertain the applicable tax.


(2) Where tobacco products are delivered within the factory directly to the consumer, the record need not show the name and address of the consumer.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-420, 64 FR 71941, Dec. 22, 1999, as amended by T.D. TTB-75, 74 FR 14483, Mar. 31, 2009]




