# ยง 414.1340   Data completeness criteria for the quality performance category.

(a) MIPS eligible clinicians, groups, virtual groups, subgroups, and APM Entities submitting quality measures data on QCDR measures, MIPS CQMs, or eCQMs must submit data on:


(1) At least 50 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician or group's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment year 2019.


(2) At least 60 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician, group, and virtual group's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment years 2020 and 2021.


(3) At least 70 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician, group, and virtual group's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025.


(i) Applicable to an APM Entity for MIPS payment years 2023, 2024, and 2025.


(ii) Applicable to a subgroup for MIPS payment year 2025.


(4) At least 75 percent of the MIPS eligible clinician, group, virtual group, subgroup, and APM Entity's patients that meet the measure's denominator criteria, regardless of payer for MIPS payment years 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029, and 2030.


(b) MIPS eligible clinicians, groups, virtual groups, subgroups, and APM Entities submitting quality measure data on Medicare Part B claims measures must submit data on:


(1) At least 50 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2019.


(2) At least 60 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2020 and 2021.


(i) Applicable to virtual groups starting with MIPS payment year 2020.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) At least 70 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025.


(i) Applicable to APM Entities starting with MIPS payment year 2023 and subgroups starting with MIPS payment year 2025.


(ii) [Reserved].


(4) At least 75 percent of the applicable Medicare Part B patients seen during the performance period to which the measure applies for MIPS payment years 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029, and 2030.


(c) Groups submitting quality measures data on CMS Web Interface measures or the CAHPS for MIPS survey must submit data on the sample of the Medicare Part B patients CMS provides, as applicable.


(1) *For CMS Web Interface measures.* (i) The group must report on the first 248 consecutively ranked beneficiaries in the sample for each measure or module. If the sample of eligible assigned beneficiaries is less than 248, then the group must report on 100 percent of assigned beneficiaries.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) [Reserved]


(d) APM Entities, specifically Medicare Shared Savings Program Accountable Care Organizations that meet reporting requirements under the APP, submitting quality measure data on Medicare CQMs must submit data on:


(1) At least 75 percent of the applicable beneficiaries eligible for the Medicare CQM, as defined at ยง 425.20 of this chapter, who meet the measure's denominator criteria for MIPS payment years 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029, and 2030.


(2) [Reserved]


(e) If quality data are submitted selectively such that the submitted data are unrepresentative of a MIPS eligible clinician, group, virtual group, subgroup, or APM Entity's performance, any such data would not be true, accurate, or complete for purposes of ยง 414.1390(b) or ยง 414.1400(a)(5).



---

[N] [81 FR 77537, Nov. 4, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 53953, Nov. 16, 2017; 83 FR 60079, Nov. 23, 2018; 84 FR 63195, Nov. 15, 2019; 86 FR 65671, Nov. 19, 2021; 87 FR 70227, Nov. 18, 2022; 88 FR 79534, Nov. 16, 2023; 89 FR 98561, Dec. 9, 2024]




