# § 164.70   Definitions.

For purposes of §§ 164.72 through 164.82, the term—


*Current edition* means the most recent published version of a publication, chart, or map required by § 164.72.


*Currently corrected edition* means a current or previous edition of a publication required by § 164.72, corrected with changes that come from Notices to Mariners (NTMs) or Notices to Navigation reasonably available and that apply to the vessel's transit. Hand-annotated river maps from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) are currently corrected editions if issued within the previous 5 years.


*Great Lakes* means the Great Lakes and their connecting and tributary waters including the Calumet River as far as the Thomas J. O'Brien Lock and Controlling Works (between miles 326 and 327), the Chicago River as far as the east side of the Ashland Avenue Bridge (between miles 321 and 322), and the Saint Lawrence River as far east as the lower exit of Saint Lambert Lock.


*Merchant mariner credential or MMC* means the credential issued by the Coast Guard under 46 CFR part 10. It combines the individual merchant mariner's document, license, and certificate of registry enumerated in 46 U.S.C. subtitle II part E as well as the STCW endorsement into a single credential that serves as the mariner's qualification document, certificate of identification, and certificate of service.


*Swing-meter* means an electronic or electric device that indicates the rate of turn of the vessel on board which it is installed.


*Towing vessel* means a commercial vessel engaged in or intending to engage in pulling, pushing or hauling alongside, or any combination of pulling, pushing, or hauling alongside.


*Western Rivers* means the Mississippi River, its tributaries, South Pass, and Southwest Pass, to the navigational-demarcation lines dividing the high seas from harbors, rivers, and other inland waters of the United States, and the Port Allen-Morgan City Alternative Route, and that part of the Atchafalaya River above its junction with the Port Allen-Morgan City Alternative Route including the Old River and the Red River and those waters specified by §§ 89.25 and 89.27 of this chapter, and such other, similar waters as are designated by the COTP.



---

[N] [CGD 94-020, 61 FR 35072, July 3, 1996, as amended by USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11213, Mar. 16, 2009]




