# ยง 214.205   Bona fide determination.

(a) *Bona fide determinations for principal applicants for T nonimmigrant status.* If an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is submitted on or after August 28, 2024, USCIS will conduct an initial review to determine if the application is bona fide.


(1) *Request for evidence.* If an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status was pending as of August 28, 2024, and additional evidence is required to establish eligibility for principal T nonimmigrant status, USCIS will issue a request for evidence, and conduct a bona fide review based on available evidence.


(2) *Initial review criteria.* After initial review, USCIS will deem an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status bona fide if:


(i) The applicant has submitted a properly filed and complete Application for T Nonimmigrant Status;


(ii) The applicant has submitted a signed personal statement; and


(iii) The results of initial background checks are complete, have been reviewed, and do not present national security concerns.


(3) *Secondary review criteria.* If initial review does not establish an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status is bona fide, USCIS will conduct a full T nonimmigrant status eligibility review. An Application for T Nonimmigrant Status that meets all eligibility requirements will be approved, or if the statutory cap has been reached, will receive a bona fide determination.


(b) *Bona fide determinations for eligible family members in the United States.* Once a principal applicant's application has been deemed bona fide, USCIS will conduct an initial review for any eligible family members in the United States who have filed an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status to determine whether their applications are bona fide.


(1) If an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status was pending as of August 28, 2024, and additional evidence is required to establish eligibility for derivative T nonimmigrant status, USCIS will issue a request for evidence and conduct a bona fide review based on available evidence.


(2) After initial review, USCIS will determine an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is bona fide if:


(i) The eligible family member is in the United States at the time of the bona fide determination;


(ii) The principal applicant or T-1 nonimmigrant has submitted a properly filed and complete Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status;


(iii) The Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is supported by credible evidence that the derivative applicant qualifies as an eligible family member; and


(iv) Initial background checks are complete, have been reviewed, and do not present national security concerns.


(3) If initial review does not establish an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is bona fide, USCIS will conduct a full T nonimmigrant status eligibility review. An Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status that meets all eligibility requirements during this secondary review will be approved, or if the statutory cap has been reached, will receive a bona fide determination.


(c) *Notice of USCIS determination.* If USCIS determines that the Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status is bona fide under this section, USCIS will issue written notice of that determination, and inform the applicant that they may be considered for deferred action and may file an Application for Employment Authorization if they have not already filed one. The notice will also inform the applicant that any final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion is automatically stayed as set forth in paragraph (g) of this section. An application will be treated as a bona fide application as of the date of the notice.


(d) *Not considered bona fide.* If an application is incomplete or presents national security concerns, it will not be considered bona fide. There are no motion or appeal rights for a bona fide determination upon initial review under this section.


(1) For applications found not to be bona fide upon initial review, USCIS will proceed to full T nonimmigrant status eligibility review as described in paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(3) of this section, generally in order of application receipt date.


(2) If an application is found through this review not to establish eligibility for T nonimmigrant status, the application will be denied in accordance with ยง 214.204(q).


(e) *Exercise of discretion.* (1) Once USCIS deems an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status bona fide, USCIS may consider the applicant for deferred action.


(2) If, after review of the available information including background checks, USCIS determines that deferred action is warranted in a particular case as an exercise of enforcement discretion, USCIS will then proceed to adjudication of the Application for Employment Authorization, if one has been filed.


(3) There are no motion or appeal rights for the exercise of enforcement discretion under this section.


(f) *Bona fide determinations for applicants in removal proceedings.* This section applies to applicants whose Applications for T Nonimmigrant Status or Applications for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status have been deemed bona fide and who are in removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act, or in exclusion or deportation proceedings under former sections 236 or 242 of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997). In such cases, ICE may exercise prosecutorial discretion, as appropriate, while USCIS adjudicates an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or an Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status.


(g) *Stay of final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion.* (1) If USCIS determines that an application is bona fide it automatically stays the execution of any final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion.


(2) This administrative stay will remain in effect until any adverse decision becomes final.


(3) Neither an immigration judge nor the Board has jurisdiction to adjudicate an application for a stay of removal, deportation, or exclusion on the basis of the filing of an Application for T Nonimmigrant Status or Application for Derivative T Nonimmigrant Status.



---

[N] [89 FR 34931, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 68083, Aug. 23, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 2921, Jan. 14, 2025]






