# § 84.308   Additional testing.

(a) NIOSH will conduct additional tests, as indicated below, on one or more of the units submitted for approval. Each unit tested must meet the conditions specified in these tests for the CCER to receive approval.


(b) NIOSH will perform safety hazard tests on any CCER that stores more than 200 liters of oxygen or that stores compressed oxygen at pressures exceeding 3,000 psi. The applicant must submit 15 units in addition to the 21-23 units required for testing under §§ 84.304 through 84.307. These units will be evaluated for fire and explosion hazards using the tests specified in RI 9333, pages 4-18; RI 8890, pages 6-62; and PRC Report No. 4294, pages 18-62.


(c) NIOSH will perform the following tests on the eye protection (gas-tight goggles or escape hood lens) of one or more units of every CCER submitted for approval:


(1) NIOSH will test the effectiveness of the eye protection against dust using the method specified in ISO 4855-1981(E) Clause 13, Test for protection against dust. The result will be satisfactory if the reflectance after the test is equal to or greater than 80 percent of its value before testing.


(2) NIOSH will test the effectiveness of the eye protection against gas using the method specified in ISO 4855-1981(E), Clause 14, Test for protection against gas. The test must not result in staining of the area enclosed by the eye protection.


(3) NIOSH will test the durability of the eye protection using the method specified in International Standard ISO 4855-1981(E), Sub-clause 3.1, Unmounted oculars. The lens shall not crack or fracture as a result of the test.


(4) NIOSH will test the eye protection's resistance to fogging in accordance with the method specified in BS EN 168:2002, Clause 16, Test for resistance to fogging of oculars. The lens shall remain free from fogging for a minimum of 8 seconds, pursuant to Clause 16.


(d) The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR Part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at NIOSH, National Personal Protection Technology Laboratory (NPPTL), Bruceton Research Center, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236. To arrange for an inspection at NIOSH, call 412-386-6111. Copies are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) British Standards Institute, 389 Chiswick High Road, London W4 4AL, UK, *http://www.bsigroup.com/en/Standards-and-Publications:*

(i) BS EN 168:2002, Personal Eye Protectors—Non-Optical Test Methods, November 2001.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) International Organization for Standardization, 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, Case postale 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland, *http://www.iso.org/iso/store.htm:*

(i) ISO 4855-1981(E), Personal Eye Protectors—Non-Optical Test Methods, First edition April 1, 1981.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines, 2401 E Street, NW., MS #9800, Washington, DC 20241-0001. These reports are also available from NIOSH upon request 1-800-CDC-INFO (232-4636).


(i) Pittsburgh Research Center (PRC) Report No. 4294, Evaluation of the Safety of One-Hour Chemical Self Rescuers, July 1980;


(ii) Report of Investigations (RI) 8890, Evaluation of the Safety of One-Hour Compressed Oxygen Self-Rescuers—Results of Destructive Testing, 1984;


(iii) RI 9333 Evaluation of the Safety of the CSE SR-100 Self-Contained Self-Rescuer, 1991.




