# ยง 3570.61   Eligibility for grant assistance

The essential community facility must primarily serve rural areas, be located in a rural area, and the median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility must be below the higher of the poverty line or the eligible percentage (60, 70, 80, or 90) of the State nonmetropolitan median household income (see ยง 3570.63(b)).


(a) *Eligible applicant.* An applicant must be a:


(1) Public body, such as a municipality, county, district, authority, or other political subdivision of a State;


(2) Nonprofit corporation or association. Applicants, other than nonprofit utility applicants, must have significant ties with the local rural community. Such ties are necessary to ensure to the greatest extent possible that a facility under private control will carry out a public purpose and continue to primarily serve rural areas. Ties may be evidenced by items such as:


(i) Association with, or controlled by, a local public body or bodies, or broadly based ownership and control by members of the community; or


(ii) Substantial public funding through taxes, revenue bonds, or other local government sources or substantial voluntary community funding, such as would be obtained through a community-wide funding campaign.


(3) Federally recognized Indian tribe in a rural area.


(b) *Eligible facilities.* Essential community facilities must be:


(1) Located in rural areas, except for utility-type services, such as telecommunications or hydroelectric, serving both rural and non-rural areas. In such cases, RHS funds may be used to finance only that portion serving rural areas, regardless of facility location.


(2) Necessary for orderly community development and consistent with the State Strategic Plan.


(c) *Credit elsewhere.* The approval official must determine that the applicant is unable to finance the proposed project from its own resources, or through commercial credit at reasonable rates and terms, or other funding sources without grant assistance under this subpart. The applicant must certify to such status in writing.


(d) *Economic feasibility.* All projects financed under the provisions of this section must be based on satisfactory sources of revenues as outlined in 7 CFR 1942.17(h) and 1942.116. The amount of CFG assistance must be the minimum amount sufficient for feasibility which will provide for facility operation and maintenance, reasonable reserves, and debt repayment. The applicant's available excess funds must be used to supplement eligible project costs.


(e) *Legal authority and responsibility.* Each applicant must have, or will obtain, prior to the grant award, the legal authority necessary to own, construct, operate, and maintain the proposed facility. The applicant shall be responsible for operating, maintaining, and managing the facility and providing for its continued availability and use at reasonable rates and terms. This responsibility shall be the applicant's even though the facility may be operated, maintained, or managed by a third party under contract or management agreement. If an applicant does not have the authority to borrow funds, but owns, operates, and maintains the facility, the applicant is eligible for CFG funds.


(f) *Facilities for public use.* All facilities shall be for the benefit of the public at large without discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, and marital or familial status.




