# ยง 62.2350   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Florida Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d) Plan).


(b) *The plan was officially submitted as follows.* (1) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from existing sulfuric acid production units, submitted on December 14, 1978.


(2) Control of total reduced sulfur (TRS) emissions from existing kraft pulp mills and tall oil plants (both new and existing) submitted on May 24, 1985, and revision submitted on June 10, 1986, by the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation (FDER). No action is taken on sections 17-2.600(4)(c)7 and 8. 


(3) The final compliance date to achieve the TRS emission limits for the black liquor evaporation system, the batch digester system and the continuous digester system for St. Joe Paper Company in Port St. Joe is September 14, 1989.


(4) The final compliance date to achieve TRS emission limits for the No. 5 Multiple Effect Evaporation System, batch digester system and Kamyr digester system for Container Corporation of America in Fernandina Beach, Florida is June 1, 1990.


(5) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing municipal waste combustors was submitted by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection on November 18, 1996.


(6) State of Florida Department of Environmental Protection Section 111(d) State Plan For Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, submitted on October 28, 1998, by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.


(7) State of Florida Department of Environmental Protection Section 111(d) State Plan for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators, submitted on September 16, 1999, by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. 


(c) *Designated facilities.* The plan applies to existing facilities in the following categories of sources:


(1) Sulfuric acid plants.


(2) Kraft pulp mills. 


(3) Existing municipal waste combusters.


(4) Existing municipal solid waste landfills.


(5) Existing hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerators.



---

[N] [48 FR 31402, July 8, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 30053, Aug. 10, 1988; 54 FR 40003, Sept. 29, 1989; 54 FR 48102, Nov. 21, 1989; 62 FR 60787, Nov. 13, 1997; 64 FR 29964, June 4, 1999; 65 FR 68908, Nov. 15, 2000]




