# § 774.17   Definitions.

The definitions contained in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are applicable to this part. In addition, the following definitions apply:


*Administration.* The FHWA, FRA, or FTA, whichever is approving the transportation program or project at issue. A reference herein to the Administration means the State when the State is functioning as the FHWA, FRA, or FTA in carrying out responsibilities delegated or assigned to the State in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 325, 326, 327, or other applicable law.


*All possible planning.* All possible planning means that all reasonable measures identified in the Section 4(f) evaluation to minimize harm or mitigate for adverse impacts and effects must be included in the project.


(1) With regard to public parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, the measures may include (but are not limited to): design modifications or design goals; replacement of land or facilities of comparable value and function; or monetary compensation to enhance the remaining property or to mitigate the adverse impacts of the project in other ways.


(2) With regard to historic sites, the measures normally serve to preserve the historic activities, features, or attributes of the site as agreed by the Administration and the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) resource in accordance with the consultation process under 36 CFR part 800.


(3) In evaluating the reasonableness of measures to minimize harm under § 774.3(a)(2), the Administration will consider the preservation purpose of the statute and:


(i) The views of the official(s) with jurisdiction over the Section 4(f) property;


(ii) Whether the cost of the measures is a reasonable public expenditure in light of the adverse impacts of the project on the Section 4(f) property and the benefits of the measure to the property, in accordance with § 771.105(d) of this chapter; and


(iii) Any impacts or benefits of the measures to communities or environmental resources outside of the Section 4(f) property.


(4) All possible planning does not require analysis of feasible and prudent avoidance alternatives, since such analysis will have already occurred in the context of searching for feasible and prudent alternatives that avoid Section 4(f) properties altogether under § 774.3(a)(1), or is not necessary in the case of a *de minimis* impact determination under § 774.3(b).


(5) A *de minimis* impact determination under § 774.3(b) subsumes the requirement for all possible planning to minimize harm by reducing the impacts on the Section 4(f) property to a *de minimis* level.


*Applicant.* The Federal, State, or local government authority, proposing a transportation project, that the Administration works with to conduct environmental studies and prepare environmental documents. For transportation actions implemented by the Federal government on Federal lands, the Administration or the Federal land management agency may take on the responsibilities of the applicant described herein.


*CE.* Refers to a categorical exclusion, which is an action with no individual or cumulative significant environmental effect pursuant to 40 CFR 1508.4 and § 771.116, § 771.117, or § 771.118 of this chapter; unusual circumstances are taken into account in making categorical exclusion determinations.


*De minimis impact.* (1) For historic sites, *de minimis* impact means that the Administration has determined, in accordance with 36 CFR part 800 that no historic property is affected by the project or that the project will have “no adverse effect” on the historic property in question.


(2) For parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, a *de minimis* impact is one that will not adversely affect the features, attributes, or activities qualifying the property for protection under Section 4(f).


*EA.* Refers to an Environmental Assessment, which is a document prepared pursuant to 40 CFR parts 1500-1508 and § 771.119 of this title for a proposed project that is not categorically excluded but for which an EIS is not clearly required.


*EIS.* Refers to an Environmental Impact Statement, which is a document prepared pursuant to NEPA, 40 CFR parts 1500-1508, and §§ 771.123 and 771.125 of this chapter for a proposed project that is likely to cause significant impacts on the environment.


*Feasible and prudent avoidance alternative.* (1) A feasible and prudent avoidance alternative avoids using Section 4(f) property and does not cause other severe problems of a magnitude that substantially outweighs the importance of protecting the Section 4(f) property. In assessing the importance of protecting the Section 4(f) property, it is appropriate to consider the relative value of the resource to the preservation purpose of the statute.


(2) An alternative is not feasible if it cannot be built as a matter of sound engineering judgment.


(3) An alternative is not prudent if:


(i) It compromises the project to a degree that it is unreasonable to proceed with the project in light of its stated purpose and need;


(ii) It results in unacceptable safety or operational problems;


(iii) After reasonable mitigation, it still causes:


(A) Severe social, economic, or environmental impacts;


(B) Severe disruption to established communities;


(C) Severe disproportionate impacts to minority or low income populations; or


(D) Severe impacts to environmental resources protected under other Federal statutes;


(iv) It results in additional construction, maintenance, or operational costs of an extraordinary magnitude;


(v) It causes other unique problems or unusual factors; or


(vi) It involves multiple factors in paragraphs (3)(i) through (3)(v) of this definition, that while individually minor, cumulatively cause unique problems or impacts of extraordinary magnitude.


*FONSI.* Refers to a Finding of No Significant Impact prepared pursuant to 40 CFR 1508.13 and § 771.121 of this chapter.


*Historic site.* For purposes of this part, the term “historic site” includes any prehistoric or historic district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register. The term includes properties of traditional religious and cultural importance to an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that are included in, or are eligible for inclusion in, the National Register.


*Official(s) with jurisdiction.* (1) In the case of historic properties, the official with jurisdiction is the SHPO for the State wherein the property is located or, if the property is located on tribal land, the THPO. If the property is located on tribal land but the Indian tribe has not assumed the responsibilities of the SHPO as provided for in the National Historic Preservation Act, then a representative designated by such Indian tribe shall be recognized as an official with jurisdiction in addition to the SHPO. When the ACHP is involved in a consultation concerning a property under Section 106 of the NHPA, the ACHP is also an official with jurisdiction over that resource for purposes of this part. When the Section 4(f) property is a National Historic Landmark, the National Park Service is also an official with jurisdiction over that resource for purposes of this part.


(2) In the case of public parks, recreation areas, and wildlife and waterfowl refuges, the official(s) with jurisdiction are the official(s) of the agency or agencies that own or administer the property in question and who are empowered to represent the agency on matters related to the property.


(3) In the case of portions of Wild and Scenic Rivers to which Section 4(f) applies, the official(s) with jurisdiction are the official(s) of the Federal agency or agencies that own or administer the affected portion of the river corridor in question. For State administered, federally designated rivers (section 2(a)(ii) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, 16 U.S.C. 1273(a)(ii)), the officials with jurisdiction include both the State agency designated by the respective Governor and the Secretary of the Interior.


*Railroad or rail transit line elements.* Railroad or rail transit line elements include the elements related to the operation of the railroad or rail transit line, such as the railbed, rails, and track; tunnels; elevated support structures and bridges; substations; signal and communication devices; maintenance facilities; and railway-highway crossings.


*ROD.* Refers to a record of decision prepared pursuant to 40 CFR 1505.2 and §§ 771.124 or 771.127 of this chapter.


*Section 4(f) evaluation.* Refers to the documentation prepared to support the granting of a Section 4(f) approval under § 774.3(a), unless preceded by the word “programmatic.” A “programmatic Section 4(f) evaluation” is the documentation prepared pursuant to § 774.3(d) that authorizes subsequent project-level Section 4(f) approvals as described therein.


*Section 4(f) Property.* Section 4(f) property means publicly owned land of a public park, recreation area, or wildlife and waterfowl refuge of national, State, or local significance, or land of an historic site of national, State, or local significance.


*Station.* A station is a platform and the associated building or structure such as a depot, shelter, or canopy used by intercity or commuter rail transportation passengers for the purpose of boarding and alighting a train. A station does not include tracks, railyards, or electrification, communications or signal systems, or equipment. A platform alone is not considered a station.


*Use.* Except as set forth in §§ 774.11 and 774.13, a “use” of Section 4(f) property occurs:


(1) When land is permanently incorporated into a transportation facility;


(2) When there is a temporary occupancy of land that is adverse in terms of the statute's preservation purpose as determined by the criteria in § 774.13(d); or


(3) When there is a constructive use of a Section 4(f) property as determined by the criteria in § 774.15.



---

[N] [73 FR 13395, Mar. 12, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 54507, Oct. 29, 2018]




