# § 304.3   Requirements for making requests.

(a) *How made and addressed.* You may make a request for records by using the FOIA Request form on the ACUS Web site at *https://www.acus.gov/foia.* You may also send a written request letter to the agency either by mail addressed to FOIA Public Liaison, Administrative Conference of the United States, 1120 20th Street NW., Suite 706 South, Washington, DC 20036, or by fax delivery to (202) 386-7190. For the quickest possible handling of a mail request, you should mark both your request letter and the envelope “Freedom of Information Act Request.” (You may find the agency's “Freedom of Information Act Reference Guide”—which is available in electronic format on its Web site and in paper form—helpful in making your request.) If you are making a request for records about yourself, see § 304.21(d) for additional requirements. If you are making a request for records about another individual, then either a written authorization signed by that individual permitting disclosure of those records to you or proof that that individual is deceased (for example, a copy of a death certificate or an obituary notice) will help the processing of your request. Your request will be considered received as of the date upon which it is logged in as received by the agency's FOIA Public Liaison.


(b) *Description of records sought.* (1) You must describe the records that you seek in enough detail to enable agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, your request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record. If known, you should include any file designations or similar descriptions for the records that you want. As a general rule, the more specific you are about the records or type of records that you want, the more likely that the agency will be able to locate those records in response to your request. Before submitting your request, you may contact the agency's FOIA Public Liaison at (202) 480-2080 for assistance in describing the records.


(2) If the agency determines that your request does not reasonably describe records, then it will tell you either what additional information is needed or why your request is otherwise insufficient. It also will give you an opportunity to discuss your request by telephone so that you may modify it to meet the requirements of this section. Additionally, if your request does not reasonably describe the records you seek, the agency's response to it may be delayed as an initial matter.


(c) *Format of records sought.* Requests may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records you seek. The agency will accommodate your request if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.


(d) *Agreement to pay fees.* When you make a FOIA request, it will be considered to be an agreement by you to pay all applicable fees charged under § 304.9, up to $50.00, unless you specifically request a waiver of fees. The agency ordinarily will confirm this agreement in an acknowledgment letter. When making a request, you may specify a willingness to pay a greater or lesser amount. Your agreement will not prejudice your ability to seek a waiver or reduction of any applicable fee at a later time.



---

[N] [82 FR 7632, Jan. 23, 2017]




