# § 155.205   Consumer assistance tools and programs of an Exchange.

(a) *Call center.* If the Exchange is not an Exchange described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the Exchange must provide for operation of a toll-free call center that addresses the needs of consumers requesting assistance and meets the requirements outlined in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2)(i), and (c)(3) of this section and at § 155.405(c)(2)(ii). At a minimum, the Exchange call center must provide consumers with access to a live call center representative during an Exchange's published hours of operation and a live call center representative who must be able to assist consumers with filing their Exchange application, including providing consumers with information on their eligibility for advance premium tax credits and cost-sharing reductions, facilitating a consumer's comparison of QHPs, and helping consumers complete their Exchange applications for submission to the Exchange. If the Exchange is an Exchange described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the Exchange must provide at a minimum a toll-free telephone hotline that includes the capability to provide information to consumers about eligibility and enrollment processes, and to appropriately direct consumers to the applicable Exchange website and other applicable resources.






(b) *Internet Web site.* The Exchange must maintain an up-to-date Internet Web site that meets the requirements outlined in paragraph (c) of this section and:


(1) Provides standardized comparative information on each available QHP, which may include differential display of standardized options on consumer-facing plan comparison and shopping tools, and at a minimum includes:


(i) Premium and cost-sharing information;


(ii) The summary of benefits and coverage established under section 2715 of the PHS Act;


(iii) Identification of whether the QHP is a bronze, silver, gold, or platinum level plan as defined by section 1302(d) of the Affordable Care Act, or a catastrophic plan as defined by section 1302(e) of the Affordable Care Act;


(iv) The results of the enrollee satisfaction survey, as described in section 1311(c)(4) of the Affordable Care Act;


(v) Quality ratings assigned in accordance with section 1311(c)(3) of the Affordable Care Act;


(vi) Medical loss ratio information as reported to HHS in accordance with 45 CFR part 158;


(vii) Transparency of coverage measures reported to the Exchange during certification in accordance with § 155.1040; and


(viii) The provider directory made available to the Exchange in accordance with § 156.230.


(2) Publishes the following financial information:


(i) The average costs of licensing required by the Exchange;


(ii) Any regulatory fees required by the Exchange;


(iii) Any payments required by the Exchange in addition to fees under paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section;


(iv) Administrative costs of such Exchange; and


(v) Monies lost to waste, fraud, and abuse.


(3) Provides applicants with information about Navigators as described in § 155.210 and other consumer assistance services, including the toll-free telephone number of the Exchange call center required in paragraph (a) of this section.


(4) Allows for an individual to submit a single streamlined eligibility application to the Exchange in accordance with § 155.405 and for the Exchange to make all determinations of eligibility for enrollment in a QHP and insurance affordability programs, in accordance with subpart D of this part, through the operation of a centralized eligibility and enrollment platform on the Exchange's website; or, if the Exchange is a State-based Exchange on the Federal platform, through the Federal eligibility and enrollment platform.






(5) Allows a qualified individual to select a QHP and allows the Exchange to maintain records of all QHP enrollments, in accordance with subpart E of this part, through the operation of a centralized eligibility and enrollment platform on the Exchange's website; or, if the Exchange is a State-based Exchange on the Federal platform, through the Federal eligibility and enrollment platform.




(6) Makes available by electronic means a calculator to facilitate the comparison of available QHPs after the application of any advance payments of the premium tax credit and any cost-sharing reductions.


(7) A State-based Exchange on the Federal platform must at a minimum maintain an informational Internet Web site that includes the capability to direct consumers to Federal platform services to apply for, and enroll in, Exchange coverage.


(c) *Accessibility.* Information must be provided to applicants and enrollees in plain language and in a manner that is accessible and timely to—


(1) Individuals living with disabilities including accessible Web sites and the provision of auxiliary aids and services at no cost to the individual in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.


(2) Individuals who are limited English proficient through the provision of language services at no cost to the individual, including


(i) For all entities subject to this standard, oral interpretation.


(A) For Exchanges and QHP issuers, this standard also includes telephonic interpreter services in at least 150 languages.


(B) For a web-broker, beginning November 1, 2015, or when such entity has been registered with the Exchange for at least 1 year, whichever is later, this standard also includes telephonic interpreter services in at least 150 languages.


(ii) Written translations; and


(iii) For all entities subject to this standard, taglines in non-English languages indicating the availability of language services.


(A) For Exchanges and QHP issuers, this standard also includes taglines on Web site content and any document that is critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees. A document is deemed to be critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP if it is required to be provided by law or regulation to a qualified individual, applicant, qualified employer, qualified employee, or enrollee. Such taglines must indicate the availability of language services in at least the top 15 languages spoken by the limited English proficient population of the relevant State or States, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary. If an Exchange is operated by an entity that operates multiple Exchanges, or if an Exchange relies on an entity to conduct its eligibility or enrollment functions and that entity conducts such functions for multiple Exchanges, the Exchange may aggregate the limited English proficient populations across all the States served by the entity that operates the Exchange or conducts its eligibility or enrollment functions to determine the top 15 languages required for taglines. A QHP issuer may aggregate the limited English proficient populations across all States served by the health insurance issuers within the issuer's controlled group (defined for purposes of this section as a group of two or more persons that is treated as a single employer under sections 52(a), 52(b), 414(m), or 414(o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), whether or not those health insurance issuers offer plans through the Exchange in each of those States, to determine the top 15 languages required for taglines. Exchanges and QHP issuers may satisfy tagline requirements with respect to Web site content if they post a Web link prominently on their home page that directs individuals to the full text of the taglines indicating how individuals may obtain language assistance services, and if they also include taglines on any critical stand-alone document linked to or embedded in the Web site. Exchanges, and QHP issuers that are also subject to § 92.8 of this subtitle, will be deemed in compliance with paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section if they are in compliance with § 92.8 of this subtitle.


(B) For a web-broker, beginning when such entity has been registered with the Exchange for at least 1 year, this standard also includes taglines on website content and any document that is critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees. Website content or documents are deemed to be critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP if they are required to be provided by law or regulation to a qualified individual, applicant, qualified employer, qualified employee, or enrollee. Such taglines must indicate the availability of language services in at least the top 15 languages spoken by the limited English proficient population of the relevant State or States, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary. A web-broker that is licensed in and serving multiple States may aggregate the limited English populations in the States it serves to determine the top 15 languages required for taglines. A web-broker may satisfy tagline requirements with respect to website content if it posts a Web link prominently on its home page that directs individuals to the full text of the taglines indicating how individuals may obtain language assistance services, and if it also includes taglines on any critical stand-alone document linked to or embedded in the website.


(iv) For Exchanges, QHP issuers, and web-brokers, website translations.


(A) For an Exchange, beginning no later than the first day of the individual market open enrollment period for the 2017 benefit year, content that is intended for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees on a Web site that is maintained by the Exchange must be translated into any non-English language that is spoken by a limited English proficient population that reaches 10 percent or more of the population of the relevant State, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary.


(B) For a QHP issuer, beginning no later than the first day of the individual market open enrollment period for the 2017 benefit year, if the content of a Web site maintained by the QHP issuer is critical for obtaining health insurance coverage or access to health care services through a QHP, within the meaning of § 156.250 of this subchapter, it must be translated into any non-English language that is spoken by a limited English proficient population that reaches 10 percent or more of the population of the relevant State, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary.


(C) For a web-broker, beginning on the first day of the individual market open enrollment period for the 2017 benefit year, or when such entity has been registered with the Exchange for at least 1 year, whichever is later, content that is intended for qualified individuals, applicants, qualified employers, qualified employees, or enrollees on a website that is maintained by the web-broker must be translated into any non-English language that is spoken by a limited English proficient population that comprises 10 percent or more of the population of the relevant State, as determined in guidance published by the Secretary.


(3) Inform individuals of the availability of the services described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section and how to access such services.


(d) *Consumer assistance.* (1) The Exchange must have a consumer assistance function that meets the standards in paragraph (c) of this section, including the Navigator program described in § 155.210. Any individual providing such consumer assistance must be trained regarding QHP options, insurance affordability programs, eligibility, and benefits rules and regulations governing all insurance affordability programs operated in the State, as implemented in the State, prior to providing such assistance or the outreach and education activities specified in paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) The Exchange must provide referrals to any applicable office of health insurance consumer assistance or health insurance ombudsman established under section 2793 of the Public Health Service Act, or any other appropriate State agency or agencies, for any enrollee with a grievance, complaint, or question regarding their health plan, coverage, or a determination under such plan or coverage.


(e) *Outreach and education.* The Exchange must conduct outreach and education activities that meet the standards in paragraph (c) of this section to educate consumers about the Exchange and insurance affordability programs to encourage participation.



---

[N] [77 FR 18444, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 42859, July 17, 2013; 80 FR 10864, Feb. 27, 2015; 81 FR 12337, Mar. 8, 2016; 81 FR 94175, Dec. 22, 2016; 84 FR 17563, Apr. 25, 2019; 86 FR 24288, May 5, 2021; 89 FR 26419, Apr. 15, 2024]




