# § 745.92   Fees for the accreditation of renovation and dust sampling technician training and the certification of renovation firms.

(a) *Persons who must pay fees.* Fees in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section must be paid by:


(1) *Training programs*—(i) *Non-exempt training programs.* All non-exempt training programs applying to EPA for the accreditation and re-accreditation of training programs in one or more of the following disciplines: Renovator, dust sampling technician.


(ii) *Exemption.* No fee shall be imposed on any training program operated by a State, federally recognized Indian Tribe, local government, or non-profit organization. This exemption does not apply to the certification of firms or individuals.


(2) *Firms.* All firms applying to EPA for certification and re-certification to conduct renovations.


(b) *Fee amounts*—(1) *Certification and accreditation fees.* Initial and renewal certification and accreditation fees are specified in the following table:


(2) *Lost certificate.* A $15 fee will be charged for the replacement of a firm certificate.


(c) *Certificate replacement.* Firms seeking certificate replacement must:


(1) Complete the applicable portions of the “Application for Firms” in accordance with the instructions provided.


(2) Submit the application and a payment of $15 electronically in accordance with the instructions provided with the application package.




(3) *Accreditation or certification amendments.* No fee will be charged for accreditation or certification amendments.


(d) *Failure to remit fees.* (1) EPA will not provide certification, re-certification, accreditation, or re-accreditation for any firm or training program that does not remit fees described in paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the procedures specified in 40 CFR 745.89.


(2) EPA will not replace a certificate for any firm that does not remit the $15 fee in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [74 FR 11869, Mar. 20, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 47939, Aug. 5, 2011; 89 FR 89457, Nov. 12, 2024]




