# ยง 1036.120   Emission-related warranty requirements.

(a) *General requirements.* You must warrant to the ultimate purchaser and each subsequent purchaser that the new engine, including all parts of its emission control system, meets two conditions:


(1) It is designed, built, and equipped so it conforms at the time of sale to the ultimate purchaser with the requirements of this part.


(2) It is free from defects in materials and workmanship that may keep it from meeting these requirements.


(b) *Warranty period.* Your emission-related warranty must be valid for at least as long as the minimum warranty periods listed in this paragraph (b) in vehicle miles, or hours of engine operation, or years in service, whichever comes first. You may offer an emission-related warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the engine may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for the engine. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for that component. If an extended warranty requires owners to pay for a portion of repairs, those terms apply in the same manner to the emission-related warranty. The warranty period begins when the vehicle is placed into service. The following minimum warranty periods apply:


(c) *Components covered.* The emission-related warranty covers all components listed in 40 CFR part 1068, appendix A, and components from any other system you develop to control emissions. Note that this includes hybrid system components that you specify in a certified configuration. The emission-related warranty covers any components, regardless of the company that produced them, that are the original components or the same design as components from the certified configuration.


(d) *Limited applicability.* You may deny warranty claims under this section if the operator caused the problem through improper maintenance or use, subject to the provisions in ยง 1036.125 and 40 CFR 1068.115.


(e) *Owners manual.* Describe in the owners manual the emission-related warranty provisions from this section that apply to the engine.



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 29740, Apr. 22, 2024]




