# § 75.6   Civilian employees on overseas assignment.

(a) *Vocabulary.* Section 75.3 provides definitions of “family member” that apply only to this section.


(b) *Employee rights.* (1) The DoD Components must select civilian employees for specific positions based on job requirement and merit factors in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 2302, and 29 U.S.C. 791 through 794d. Selection for an overseas position must not be influenced by the special needs of a civilian employee's family member(s), or any other prohibited factor.


(2) The civilian employee or selectee will be given comprehensive medical, dental, and educational information about the overseas community where the position is located to help the employee make an informed choice about accepting the position.


(3) Refer to the Joint Travel Regulations (available at *https://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/Docs/perdiem/JTR.pdf*) for PCS travel and transportation allowances for eligible civilian employees and their family members.


(4) Civilian employees or selectees assigned to positions overseas are generally responsible for obtaining medical and dental services and paying for such services, except services provided pursuant to 32 CFR part 57. Their family members may have access to the MHS on a space-available, reimbursable basis only, except for services pursuant to 32 CFR part 57.


(i) DoDEA and the Military Medical Department responsible for the provision of related services to support DoDEA at the duty station are required to evaluate school-aged children (ages 3 through 21 years, inclusive) eligible for enrollment in a DoDEA school on a space- required basis and provide them with the special education and related services included in their IEPs in accordance with 32 CFR part 57.


(ii) The Military Departments are required to provide infants and toddlers (from birth up to 3 years of age, inclusive) eligible for enrollment in a DoDEA school on a space-required basis with the EIS identified in the IFSPs in accordance with 32 CFR part 57.


(c) *Processing a civilian employee for an overseas position.* (1) When recruiting for an overseas position, DoD human resources representatives will:


(i) Provide information on the requirements of this part related to civilian employees or applicants for employment, including employee rights provided in DoD Instruction 1315.19.


(ii) Provide information on the availability of medical and educational services, including a point of contact for the applicant to ask about specific special needs. This information must be contained in any document used for recruitment for overseas positions.


(iii) Include the following statements in recruitment information:


(A) If an employee brings a child to an overseas location and that child is entitled to attend a DoD school on a space-required basis in accordance with DoDEA Regulation 1342.13 (available at *http://www.dodea.edu/aboutDoDEA/upload/1342_13.pdf*), DoDEA and the Military Department responsible for providing related services will ensure that the child, if eligible for special education, receives a free appropriate public education, including special education and related services pursuant to 32 CFR part 57.


(B) If an employee brings an infant or toddler (up to 3 years of age) to an overseas location, and that infant or toddler, but for the child's age, is entitled to attend the DoDEA on a space-required basis in accordance with DoDEA Regulation 1342.13, then the Military Department responsible for EIS will provide the infant or toddler with the required EIS in accordance with the eligibility criteria consistent with 32 CFR part 57.


(C) If an employee brings a family member to an overseas location who requires medical or dental care, then the employee will be responsible for obtaining and paying for such care. Access for civilian employees and their families to military medical and dental treatment facilities is on a space-available and reimbursable basis only.


(2) When the gaining human resources representatives process a civilian for an overseas position where family member travel is authorized at government expense, then they must ask the selectee to determine whether a family member has special needs, using the criteria provided in § 75.5 of this part. All selectees must be asked only after they have been notified of their selection in accordance with 29 U.S.C. 791 through 794d, and 29 CFR 1630.14. If the selectee indicates that a family member has special needs:


(i) The DoD civilian human resources representatives may not coerce or pressure the selectee to decline the job offer in light of that information.


(ii) The selectee may voluntarily forward to the civilian human resources representative completed DD Forms 2792 or 2792-1 for each family member with special needs to provide information on the availability of medical and educational services. DD Form 2792-1 must be submitted if the selectee intends to enroll his or her child in a school funded by the DoD or a school in which DoD is responsible for paying the tuition for a space-required family member.


(3) The gaining human resources activity will coordinate with the appropriate military medical and educational personnel on availability of services and inform the selectee in writing of the availability of medical, educational, and early intervention resources and services to allow the civilian employee to make an informed choice whether to accept the position. The notice will include:


(i) Comprehensive medical, dental, and educational information on the overseas community where the position is located.


(ii) A description of the local DoDEA facility and programs, specifying the programs for children with special education needs.


(iii) A description of the local EIS available for infants and toddlers with disabilities.


(iv) A statement indicating that the lack of EIS or special education resources (including related services assigned to the military medical departments) cannot serve as a basis for the denial of family travel at government expense and required services will be provided even if a local program is not currently established in accordance with 32 CFR part 57.


(d) *Use of EFMP Family Support Services.* Civilian employees may utilize EFMP family support services on a space-available basis.




