# ยง 63.11180   What definitions do I need to know?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Additive* means a material that is added to a coating after purchase from a supplier (e.g., catalysts, activators, accelerators).


*Administrator* means, for the purposes of this rulemaking, the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the State or local agency that is granted delegation for implementation of this subpart.


*Aerospace vehicle or component* means any fabricated part, processed part, assembly of parts, or completed unit, with the exception of electronic components, of any aircraft including but not limited to airplanes, helicopters, missiles, rockets, and space vehicles.


*Airless and air-assisted airless spray* mean any paint spray technology that relies solely on the fluid pressure of the paint to create an atomized paint spray pattern and does not apply any atomizing compressed air to the paint before it leaves the paint nozzle. Air-assisted airless spray uses compressed air to shape and distribute the fan of atomized paint, but still uses fluid pressure to create the atomized paint.


*Appurtenance* means any accessory to a stationary structure coated at the site of installation, whether installed or detached, including but not limited to: bathroom and kitchen fixtures; cabinets; concrete forms; doors; elevators; fences; hand railings; heating equipment, air conditioning equipment, and other fixed mechanical equipment or stationary tools; lamp posts; partitions; pipes and piping systems; rain gutters and downspouts; stairways, fixed ladders, catwalks, and fire escapes; and window screens.


*Architectural coating* means a coating to be applied to stationary structures or their appurtenances at the site of installation, to portable buildings at the site of installation, to pavements, or to curbs.


*Cleaning material* means a solvent used to remove contaminants and other materials, such as dirt, grease, or oil, from a substrate before or after coating application or from equipment associated with a coating operation, such as spray booths, spray guns, racks, tanks, and hangers. Thus, it includes any cleaning material used on substrates or equipment or both.


*Coating* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a material spray-applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. For the purposes of this subpart, coating does not include the following materials:


(1) Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances.


(2) Paper film or plastic film that may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the film manufacturer.


(3) Adhesives, sealants, maskants, or caulking materials.


(4) Temporary protective coatings, lubricants, or surface preparation materials.


(5) In-mold coatings that are spray-applied in the manufacture of reinforced plastic composite parts.


*Compliance date* means the date by which you must comply with this subpart.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source, subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart.


*Dry media blasting* means abrasive blasting using dry media. Dry media blasting relies on impact and abrasion to remove paint from a substrate. Typically, a compressed air stream is used to propel the media against the coated surface.


*Electrostatic application* means any method of coating application where an electrostatic attraction is created between the part to be coated and the atomized paint particles.


*Equipment cleaning* means the use of an organic solvent to remove coating residue from the surfaces of paint spray guns and other painting related equipment, including, but not limited to stir sticks, paint cups, brushes, and spray booths.


*Facility maintenance* means, for the purposes of this subpart, surface coating performed as part of the routine repair or renovation of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity. *Facility maintenance* also includes surface coating associated with the installation of new equipment or structures, and the application of any surface coating as part of janitorial activities. *Facility maintenance* includes the application of coatings to stationary structures or their appurtenances at the site of installation, to portable buildings at the site of installation, to pavements, or to curbs. *Facility maintenance* also includes the refinishing of mobile equipment in the field or at the site where they are used in service and at which they are intended to remain indefinitely after refinishing. Such mobile equipment includes, but is not limited to, farm equipment and mining equipment for which it is not practical or feasible to move to a dedicated mobile equipment refinishing facility. Such mobile equipment also includes items, such as fork trucks, that are used in a manufacturing facility and which are refinished in that same facility. *Facility maintenance* does not include surface coating of motor vehicles, mobile equipment, or items that routinely leave and return to the facility, such as delivery trucks, rental equipment, or containers used to transport, deliver, distribute, or dispense commercial products to customers, such as compressed gas canisters.


*High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray equipment* means spray equipment that is permanently labeled as such and used to apply any coating by means of a spray gun which is designed and operated between 0.1 and 10 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) air atomizing pressure measured dynamically at the center of the air cap and at the air horns.


*Initial startup* means the first time equipment is brought online in a paint stripping or surface coating operation, and paint stripping or surface coating is first performed.


*Materials that contain HAP* or *HAP-containing materials* mean, for the purposes of this subpart, materials that contain any individual target HAP that is a carcinogen at a concentration greater than 0.1 percent by mass, or greater than 1.0 percent by mass for any other individual target HAP.


*Military munitions* means all ammunition products and components produced or used by or for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) or for the U.S. Armed Services for national defense and security, including military munitions under the control of the Department of Defense, the U.S. Coast Guard, the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), and National Guard personnel. The term military munitions includes: confined gaseous, liquid, and solid propellants, explosives, pyrotechnics, chemical and riot control agents, smokes, and incendiaries used by DoD components, including bulk explosives and chemical warfare agents, chemical munitions, biological weapons, rockets, guided and ballistic missiles, bombs, warheads, mortar rounds, artillery ammunition, small arms ammunition, grenades, mines, torpedoes, depth charges, cluster munitions and dispensers, demolition charges, nonnuclear components of nuclear weapons, wholly inert ammunition products, and all devices and components of any items listed in this definition.


*Miscellaneous parts and/or products* means any part or product made of metal or plastic, or combinations of metal and plastic. Miscellaneous parts and/or products include, but are not limited to, metal and plastic components of the following types of products as well as the products themselves: motor vehicle parts and accessories for automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles; automobiles and light duty trucks at automobile and light duty truck assembly plants; boats; sporting and recreational goods; toys; business machines; laboratory and medical equipment; and household and other consumer products.


*Miscellaneous surface coating operation* means the collection of equipment used to apply surface coating to miscellaneous parts and/or products made of metal or plastic, including applying cleaning solvents to prepare the surface before coating application, mixing coatings before application, applying coating to a surface, drying or curing the coating after application, and cleaning coating application equipment, but not plating. A single surface coating operation may include any combination of these types of equipment, but always includes at least the point at which a coating material is applied to a given part. A surface coating operation includes all other steps (such as surface preparation with solvent and equipment cleaning) in the affected source where HAP are emitted from the coating of a part. The use of solvent to clean parts (for example, to remove grease during a mechanical repair) does not constitute a miscellaneous surface coating operation if no coatings are applied. A single affected source may have multiple surface coating operations. Surface coatings applied to wood, leather, rubber, ceramics, stone, masonry, or substrates other than metal and plastic are not considered miscellaneous surface coating operations for the purposes of this subpart.


*Mobile equipment* means any device that may be drawn and/or driven on a roadway including, but not limited to, heavy-duty trucks, truck trailers, fleet delivery trucks, buses, mobile cranes, bulldozers, street cleaners, agriculture equipment, motor homes, and other recreational vehicles (including camping trailers and fifth wheels).


*Motor vehicle* means any self-propelled vehicle, including, but not limited to, automobiles, light duty trucks, golf carts, vans, and motorcycles.


*Motor vehicle and mobile equipment surface coating* means the spray application of coatings to assembled motor vehicles or mobile equipment. For the purposes of this subpart, it does not include the surface coating of motor vehicle or mobile equipment parts or subassemblies at a vehicle assembly plant or parts manufacturing plant.


*Paint stripping and/or miscellaneous surface coating source or facility* means any shop, business, location, or parcel of land where paint stripping or miscellaneous surface coating operations are conducted.


*Paint stripping* means the removal of dried coatings from wood, metal, plastic, and other substrates. A single affected source may have multiple paint stripping operations.


*Painter* means any person who spray applies coating.


*Plastic* refers to substrates containing one or more resins and may be solid, porous, flexible, or rigid. Plastics include fiber reinforced plastic composites.


*Protective oil* means organic material that is applied to metal for the purpose of providing lubrication or protection from corrosion without forming a solid film. This definition of protective oil includes, but is not limited to, lubricating oils, evaporative oils (including those that evaporate completely), and extrusion oils.


*Quality control activities* means surface coating or paint stripping activities that meet all of the following criteria:


(1) The activities associated with a surface coating or paint stripping operation are intended to detect and correct defects in the final product by selecting a limited number of samples from the operation, and comparing the samples against specific performance criteria.


(2) The activities do not include the production of an intermediate or final product for sale or exchange for commercial profit; for example, parts that are surface coated or stripped are not sold and do not leave the facility.


(3) The activities are not a normal part of the surface coating or paint stripping operation; for example, they do not include color matching activities performed during a motor vehicle collision repair.


(4) The activities do not involve surface coating or stripping of the tools, equipment, machinery, and structures that comprise the infrastructure of the affected facility and that are necessary for the facility to function in its intended capacity; that is, the activities are not facility maintenance.


*Research and laboratory activities* means surface coating or paint stripping activities that meet one of the following criteria:


(1) Conducted at a laboratory to analyze air, soil, water, waste, or product samples for contaminants, or environmental impact.


(2) Activities conducted to test more efficient production processes, including alternative paint stripping or surface coating materials or application methods, or methods for preventing or reducing adverse environmental impacts, provided that the activities do not include the production of an intermediate or final product for sale or exchange for commercial profit.


(3) Activities conducted at a research or laboratory facility that is operated under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, the primary purpose of which is to conduct research and development into new processes and products and that is not engaged in the manufacture of products for sale or exchange for commercial profit.


*Solvent* means a fluid containing organic compounds used to perform paint stripping, surface prep, or cleaning of surface coating equipment.


*Space Vehicle* means vehicles designed to travel beyond the limit of the earth's atmosphere, including but not limited to satellites, space stations, and the Space Shuttle System (including orbiter, external tanks, and solid rocket boosters).


*Spray-applied coating operations* means coatings that are applied using a hand-held device that creates an atomized mist of coating and deposits the coating on a substrate. For the purposes of this subpart, spray-applied coatings do not include the following materials or activities:


(1) Coatings applied from a hand-held device with a paint cup capacity that is equal to or less than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cubic centimeters) for devices that do not use a paint cup liner, or with a paint cup liner capacity that is equal to or less than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cubic centimeters) for devices that use a paint cup liner. Repeatedly refilling and reusing a 3.0 fluid ounce cup or cup liner or using multiple 3.0 fluid ounce cup liners to complete a single spray applied coating operation as a means of avoiding rule applicability will be considered an attempt to circumvent the requirements of this subpart.


(2) Surface coating application using powder coating, hand-held, non-refillable aerosol containers, or non-atomizing application technology, including, but not limited to, paint brushes, rollers, hand wiping, flow coating, dip coating, electrodeposition coating, web coating, coil coating, touch-up markers, or marking pens.


(3) Thermal spray operations (also known as metallizing, flame spray, plasma arc spray, and electric arc spray, among other names) in which solid metallic or non-metallic material is heated to a molten or semi-molten state and propelled to the work piece or substrate by compressed air or other gas, where a bond is produced upon impact.


*Surface preparation* or *Surface prep* means use of a cleaning material on a portion of or all of a substrate prior to the application of a coating.


*Target HAP* are compounds of chromium (Cr), lead (Pb), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), or cadmium (Cd).


*Target HAP containing coating* means a spray-applied coating that contains any individual target HAP that is a carcinogen at a concentration greater than 0.1 percent by mass, or greater than 1.0 percent by mass for any other individual target HAP compound. For the target HAP, this corresponds to coatings that contain cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by mass (of the metal), and materials that contain manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by mass (of the metal). For the purpose of determining whether materials you use contain the target HAP compounds, you may rely on formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the material safety data sheet (MSDS), as long as it represents each target HAP compound in the material that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more for carcinogens and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other target HAP compounds. The target HAP content of coatings is based on the HAP content of the coating as applied, not on the HAP content of the coating components as purchased from the coating supplier. However, coatings that do not contain the target HAP based on the HAP content as purchased will also meet the definition based on the HAP content as applied.


*Transfer efficiency* means the amount of coating solids adhering to the object being coated divided by the total amount of coating solids sprayed, expressed as a percentage. Coating solids means the nonvolatile portion of the coating that makes up the dry film.


*Truck bed liner coating* means any coating, excluding color coats, labeled and formulated for application to a truck bed to protect it from surface abrasion.




---

[N] [73 FR 1759, Jan. 9, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 67805, Nov. 10, 2022]






