# ยง 2.86   Release on parole; rescission for misconduct.

(a) When a parole effective date has been set, actual release on parole on that date shall be conditioned upon the individual maintaining a good conduct record in the institution or prerelease program to which the prisoner has been assigned. 








(b) The Commission may reconsider any grant of parole prior to the prisoner's actual release on parole, and may advance or retard a parole effective date or rescind a parole date previously granted based upon the receipt of any new and significant information concerning the prisoner including disciplinary infractions. A Commissioner may retard a parole date for disciplinary infractions (*e.g.,* to permit the use of graduated sanctions) for up to 120 days without a hearing, in addition to any retardation ordered under ยง 2.83(d).




(c) If a parole effective date is rescinded for disciplinary infractions, an appropriate sanction shall be determined by reference to ยง 2.36.


(d) After a prisoner has been granted a parole effective date, the institution shall notify the Commission of any serious disciplinary infractions committed by the prisoner prior to the date of actual release. In such case, the prisoner shall not be released until the institution has been advised that no change has been made in the Commission's order granting parole. 


(e) A grant of parole becomes operative upon the authorized delivery of a certificate of parole to the prisoner, and the signing of that certificate by the prisoner, who thereafter becomes a parolee.



---

[N] [65 FR 70669, Nov. 27, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 57946, Sept. 13, 2002; 86 FR 45861, Aug. 17, 2021]




