# § 11.456   Requirements for Limited Master of Great Lakes and inland self-propelled vessels of less than 100 GRT.

(a) An endorsement as Limited Master for vessels of less than 100 GRT upon Great Lakes and inland waters may be issued to an applicant to be employed by organizations such as formal camps, educational institutions, yacht clubs, and marinas with reduced service requirements. An endorsement issued under this paragraph is limited to the specific activity and the locality of the camp, yacht club, or marina. To obtain this restricted endorsement, an applicant must—


(1) Have 4 months of service in the operation of the type of vessel for which the endorsement is requested;


(2) Satisfactorily complete a safe boating course approved by the National Association of State Boating Law Administrators, a public education course conducted by the U.S. Power Squadron or the American Red Cross, or a Coast Guard-approved course. This course must have been completed within 5 years before the date of application; and


(3) Pass a limited examination appropriate for the activity to be conducted and the route authorized.


(b) The first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) course certificates required by § 11.201(i) of this part will only be required when, in the opinion of the Coast Guard, the geographic area over which service is authorized precludes obtaining medical services within a reasonable time.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77909, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93084, Nov. 25, 2024]






