# § 62.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Act* means the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99-240). 


*Agreement State* means a State that— 


(1) Has entered into an agreement with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2021); and 


(2) Has authority to regulate the disposal of low-level radioactive waste under such agreement. 


*Commission* means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives. 


*Compact* means a Compact entered into by two or more States pursuant to the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985. 


*Compact Commission* means the regional commission, committee, or board established in a Compact to administer such Compact. 


*Disposal* means the permanent isolation of low-level radioactive waste pursuant to the requirements established by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under applicable laws, or by an Agreement State if such isolation occurs in this Agreement State. 


*Emergency access* means access to an operating non-Federal or regional low-level radioactive waste disposal facility or facilities for a period not to exceed 180 days, which is granted by NRC to a generator of low-level radioactive waste who has been denied the use of those facilities. 


*Extension of emergency access* means an extension of the access that had been previously granted by NRC to an operating non-Federal or regional low-level radioactive waste disposal facility or facilities for a period not to exceed 180 days. 


*Low-level radioactive waste (LLW)* means radioactive material that—


(1) Is not high-level radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel, or byproduct material (as defined in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of the definition of *Byproduct Material* set forth in § 20.1003 of this chapter); and


(2) The NRC, consistent with existing law and in accordance with paragraph (1) of this definition, classifies as low-level radioactive waste.


*Non-Federal disposal facility* means a low-level radioactive waste disposal facility that is commercially operated or is operated by a State. 


*Person* means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, State, public or private institution, group or agency who is an NRC or NRC Agreement State licensed generator of low-level radioactive waste within the scope of § 62.1(c) of this part; any Governor (or for any *State* without a Governor, the chief executive officer of the *State*) on behalf of any NRC or NRC Agreement State licensed generator or generators of low-level radioactive waste within the scope of § 62.1(c) of this part located in his or her *State*; or their duly authorized representative, legal successor, or agent. 


*Regional disposal facility* means a non-Federal low-level radioactive waste disposal facility in operation on January 1, 1985, or subsequently established and operated under a compact.


*State* means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 


*Temporary emergency access* means access that is granted at NRC's discretion under § 62.23 of this part upon determining that access is necessary to eliminate an immediate and serious threat to the public health and safety or the common defense and security. Such access expires 45 days after the granting and cannot be extended. 



---

[N] [54 FR 5420, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 72 FR 55933, Oct. 1, 2007]




