# § 173.73   Sodium polyacrylate.

Sodium polyacrylate (CAS Reg. No. 9003-04-7) may be safely used in food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) The additive is produced by the polymerization of acrylic acid and subsequent hydrolysis of the polyacrylic acid with an aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. As determined by a method entitled “Determination of Weight Average and Number Average Molecular Weight of Sodium Polyacrylate,” which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a), the additive has—


(1) A weight average molecular weight of 2,000 to 2,300; and


(2) A weight average molecular weight to number average molecular weight ratio of not more than 1.3. Copies of the method are available from the Office of Food Additive Safety (HFS-200), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 240-402-1200, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) The additive is used to control mineral scale during the evaporation of beet sugar juice or cane sugar juice in the production of sugar in an amount not to exceed 3.6 parts per million by weight of the raw juice.



---

[N] [53 FR 39456, Oct. 7, 1988; 53 FR 49823, Dec. 9, 1988, as amended at 88 FR 17722, Mar. 24, 2023]




