# § 61.133   Commercial pilot privileges and limitations.

(a) *Privileges*—(1) *General.* A person who holds a commercial pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft— 


(i) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire, provided the person is qualified in accordance with this part and with the applicable parts of this chapter that apply to the operation; and 


(ii) For compensation or hire, provided the person is qualified in accordance with this part and with the applicable parts of this chapter that apply to the operation. 


(2) *Commercial pilots with lighter-than-air category ratings.* A person with a commercial pilot certificate with a lighter-than-air category rating may— 


(i) *For an airship*—(A) Give flight and ground training in an airship for the issuance of a certificate or rating; 


(B) Give an endorsement for a pilot certificate with an airship rating; 


(C) Endorse a pilot's logbook for solo operating privileges in an airship;


(D) Act as pilot in command of an airship under IFR or in weather conditions less than the minimum prescribed for VFR flight; and 


(E) Give flight and ground training and endorsements that are required for a flight review, an operating privilege or recency-of-experience requirements of this part.


(ii) *For a balloon*—(A) Give flight and ground training in a balloon for the issuance of a certificate or rating; 


(B) Give an endorsement for a pilot certificate with a balloon rating; 


(C) Endorse a pilot's logbook for solo operating privileges in a balloon; and


(D) Give ground and flight training and endorsements that are required for a flight review, an operating privilege, or recency-of-experience requirements of this part.


(b) *Limitations.* (1) A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with an airplane category or powered-lift category rating and does not hold an instrument rating in the same category and class will be issued a commercial pilot certificate that contains the limitation, “The carriage of passengers for hire in (airplanes) (powered-lifts) on cross-country flights in excess of 50 nautical miles or at night is prohibited.” The limitation may be removed when the person satisfactorily accomplishes the requirements listed in § 61.65 of this part for an instrument rating in the same category and class of aircraft listed on the person's commercial pilot certificate. 


(2) If a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a balloon rating takes a practical test in a balloon with an airborne heater— 


(i) The pilot certificate will contain a limitation restricting the exercise of the privileges of that certificate to a balloon with an airborne heater. 


(ii) The limitation specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section may be removed when the person obtains the required aeronautical experience in a gas balloon and receives a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who attests to the person's accomplishment of the required aeronautical experience and ability to satisfactorily operate a gas balloon. 


(3) If a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a balloon rating takes a practical test in a gas balloon— 


(i) The pilot certificate will contain a limitation restricting the exercise of the privileges of that certificate to a gas balloon. 


(ii) The limitation specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section may be removed when the person obtains the required aeronautical experience in a balloon with an airborne heater and receives a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who attests to the person's accomplishment of the required aeronautical experience and ability to satisfactorily operate a balloon with an airborne heater. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40905, July 30, 1997; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016]




