# § 128.2   Manner of reporting.

(a) *Methods of reporting*—(1) *Prescribed forms.* (i) Except as provided in § 128.2(a)(2), reports required by this part shall be made on forms prescribed by the Secretary. The forms and accompanying instructions will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).


(ii) Copies of forms and instructions prescribed by the Secretary for reporting under this Part may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank, or from the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220.


(2) *Alternative methods of reporting.* In lieu of reporting on forms prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to this part, reports may be filed on magnetic tape or other media acceptable to, and approved in writing by, the Federal Reserve district bank with which the report is filed, or by the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy) in the case of a special exception filing pursuant to § 128.2(b)(3). The Secretary may require that magnetic tape or other machine-readable media, or other rapid means of communication be used for filing special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part.


(b) *Filing of periodic reports*—(1) *Banks and other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, and bank holding companies.* Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), each bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility, and bank holding company in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve bank of the district in which such bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility or bank holding company has its principal place of business in the United States.


(2) *Nonbanking enterprises and other persons.* Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), nonbanking enterprises and other persons in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


(3) *Special exceptions.* If a respondent described in § 128.2(b)(1) or (2) is unable to file with a Federal Reserve district bank, such respondent shall file periodic reports with the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220, or as otherwise provided in the instructions to the periodic report forms.


(c) *Filing of special survey reports.* All respondents required to file special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part file such reports as provided in § 128.2(b) unless otherwise provided in the instructions to the special survey reports.




