# ยง 52.1161   Incentives for reduction in single-passenger commuter vehicle use.

(a) Definitions:


(1) *Employer* means any person or entity which employs 50 or more employees at any time during a calendar year at an employment facility located in the Boston Intrastate Region.


(2) *Educational institution* means any person or entity which has 250 or more employees and students at any time during the academic year at an educational facility offering secondary level or higher training including vocational training located in the Boston Intrastate Region.


(3) *Employee* means any person who performs work for an employer thirty-five or more hours per week and for more than twenty weeks per year for compensation and who travels to and from work by any mode of travel.


(4) *Student* means any full-time day student who does not live at the educational institution and who travels to and from classes by any mode of travel.


(5) *Affected facility* means any employment facility at which 50 or more persons are employees or any educational facility at which 250 or more persons are students and employees.


(6) *Commuter* means both an *employee* and a *student.*

(7) *Single-passenger commuter vehicle* means a motor-driven vehicle with four or more wheels with capacity for a driver plus one or more passengers which is used by a commuter traveling alone to work or classes and is not customarily required to be used in the course of his employment or studies.


(8) *Base date* means the date set forth in paragraph (d) of this section as of which the base number of single-passenger commuter vehicles at a particular employment facility or educational institution must be determined.


(9) *The Secretary* means the Secretary of Transportation and Construction of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.


(b) Commencing with the effective date of this section, each employer and educational institution (except as provided below) shall diligently and expeditiously implement and thereafter continuously maintain the following mandatory measures which are designed to achieve a goal of reducing the number of single-passenger commuter vehicles customarily commuting daily to each affected facility as of its base date by 25 percent (or as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section):


(1) Making available to commuters any pass program offered by the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, if any commuter to the facility uses the mass transit facilities of such Authority as part of his daily commuting trip, including making all administrative arrangements for commuters to purchase the pass and thereby participate in the pass program and encouraging commuters to participate by such means as publicizing the availability of the pass program and the cost advantages thereof.


(2)-(8) [Reserved]



---

[N] [40 FR 25166, June 12, 1975, as amended at 47 FR 28373, June 30, 1982; 41 FR 10223, Mar. 10, 1976]




