# ยง 243.2   What terms do I need to know?

*Act* means the Reindeer Act of September 1, 1937 (50 Stat. 900; 25 U.S.C. 500 *et seq.*), as amended.


*Alaska Native* means Eskimos, Indians, and Aleuts inhabiting Alaska at the time of the Treaty of Cession of Alaska to the United States and their descendants currently living in Alaska.


*Alaskan reindeer* means:


(1) All reindeer descended from those present in Alaska at the time of passage of the Act; and


(2) Any caribou introduced into animal husbandry or that has joined a reindeer herd.


*BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the United States Department of the Interior.


*Designee* means the person assigned by the Alaska Regional Director to administer the reindeer program.


*Imported reindeer* means reindeer brought into Alaska from any region outside of Alaska since passage of the Act.


*Native reindeer organization* means any corporation, association, or other organization, whether incorporated or not, composed solely of Alaska Natives, for the purpose of engaging in or promoting the reindeer industry.


*Non-Native* means a person who is not an Alaska Native.


*Regional Director* means the officer in charge of the Alaska Regional Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.


*Reindeer products* mean the meat, hide, antlers, or any other products derived from reindeer.


*Transfer* means the conveyance of ownership of reindeer or reindeer products, or any interest in them or interest in an Alaska Native reindeer organization, by any method.


*We, us* and *our* mean the Regional Director or the Director's designee. 




