# § 490.307   Process for granting exemptions.

(a)(1) To obtain an exemption from the vehicle acquisition mandate in this subpart, a covered person, or its affiliate, division, or business unit which is subject to section 490.302 of this part, shall submit a written request for exemption to the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, EE-33, 1000 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20585, or such other address as DOE may publish in the _Federal Register,_ along with the supporting documentation required by this section. 


(2) Requests for exemption must be accompanied by supporting documentation, must be submitted no earlier than September 1 following the model year for which the exemption is sought and no later than January 31 following the model year for which the exemption is sought, and will only be considered following submission of the annual report under § 490.308.


(b) A covered person requesting an exemption must demonstrate that—


(1) Alternative fuels that meet the normal requirements and practices of the principal business of the covered person are not available from fueling sites that would permit central fueling of that person's vehicles in the area in which the vehicles are to be operated; or 


(2) Alternative fueled vehicles that meet the normal requirements and practices of the principal business of the covered person are not available for purchase or lease commercially on reasonable terms and conditions in any State included in a MSA/CMSA that the vehicles are operated in. 


(c) *Documentation.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) (2) of this section, if a covered person is seeking an exemption under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the types of documentation that are to accompany the request include, but are not limited to, maps of vehicle operation zones and maps of locations providing alternative fuel. 


(2) If a covered person seeking an exemption under paragraph (b)(1) of this section operates light duty vehicles outside of the areas listed in appendix A of subpart A, and central fueling of those vehicles does not meet the normal requirements and practices of that person's business, then that covered person shall only be required to justify in a written request why central fueling is incompatible with its business. 


(3) If a covered person is seeking an exemption under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the types of documentation that are to accompany the request include, but are not limited to, alternative fueled vehicle purchase or lease requests, a listing of vehicles that meet the normal practices and requirements of the covered person and any other documentation that exhibits good faith efforts to acquire alternative fueled vehicles. 


(4) If DOE, in response to a request for exemption, seeks clarification or additional information from the covered person, such clarification or additional information must be submitted to DOE in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days of DOE's inquiry. In the event a covered person does not comply with this timeframe, DOE will proceed under paragraph (f) of this section based on the documentation provided to date.


(d) Exemptions are granted for one model year only and may be renewed annually, if supporting documentation is provided. 


(e) Exemptions may be granted in whole or in part. When granting an exemption in part, DOE may, depending upon the circumstances, completely relieve a covered person from complying with a portion of the vehicle acquisition requirements for a model year, or it may require a covered person to acquire all or some of the exempted vehicles in future model years. 


(f) The Assistant Secretary shall provide to the covered person within 45 days after receipt of a request that complies with this section, a written determination as to whether the covered person's request has been granted or denied. 


(g) If a covered person is denied an exemption, that covered person may file an appeal within 30 days of the date of determination, pursuant to 10 CFR part 1003, subpart C, with the Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Ave, SW, Washington, DC 20585. The Assistant Secretary's determination shall be stayed during the pendency of an appeal under this paragraph. 



---

[N] [61 FR 10653, Mar. 14, 1996. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 15904, Mar. 21, 2014]




