# § 86.1867-12   CO

Manufacturers may generate credits applicable to the CO_2_ fleet average program described in § 86.1865-12 by implementing specific air conditioning system technologies designed to reduce air conditioning refrigerant leakage over the useful life of their passenger automobiles and/or light trucks (including MDPV); only the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles. Credits shall be calculated according to this section for each air conditioning system that the manufacturer is using to generate CO_2_ credits.


(a) Calculate an annual rate of refrigerant leakage from an air conditioning system as follows, expressed to the nearest 0.1 grams per year:


(1) Through model year 2026, calculate leakage rates according to the procedures specified in SAE J2727 FEB2012 (incorporated by reference, see § 86.1). In doing so, the refrigerant permeation rates for hoses shall be determined using the procedures specified in SAE J2064 (incorporated by reference, § 86.1). The procedures of SAE J2727 may be used to determine leakage rates for HFC-134a and HFO-1234yf; manufacturers should contact EPA regarding procedures for other refrigerants.


(2) For model years 2027 through 2030, calculate leakage rates according to the procedures specified in SAE J2727 SEP2023 (incorporated by reference, § 86.1).


(b) The CO_2_-equivalent gram per mile leakage reduction used to calculate the total leakage credits generated by an air conditioning system shall be determined according to this paragraph (b), separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks, and rounded to the nearest tenth of a gram per mile:


(1) Passenger automobile leakage credit for an air conditioning system:


(2) Light truck leakage credit for an air conditioning system:


(c) Calculate the total leakage credits generated by the air conditioning system as follows:


(1) Calculate a total leakage credit in megagrams separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks using the following equation:


(2) Total leakage credits may not exceed the following maximum per-vehicle values in model years 2027 through 2030:


(d) The results of paragraph (c) of this section, rounded to the nearest whole number, shall be included in the manufacturer's credit/debit totals calculated in § 86.1865-12(k)(5).


(e) The following values for refrigerant global warming potential (*GWP*_REF_), or alternative values as determined by the Administrator, shall be used in the calculations of this section. The Administrator will determine values for refrigerants not included in this paragraph (e) upon request by a manufacturer.


(1) For HFC-134a, *GWP*_REF_ = 1430;


(2) For HFC-152a, *GWP*_REF_ = 124;


(3) For HFO-1234yf, *GWP*_REF_ 1; and


(4) For CO_2_, *GWP*_REF_ = 1.





---

[N] [89 FR 28196, Apr. 18, 2024]




