# § 263.10   What are the requirements for payback deferral?

(a) *Education deferral.* If a participant completes or exits the Professional Development program, but plans to continue his or her education as a full-time student without interruption, in a program leading to a degree at an accredited institution of higher education, the Secretary may defer the payback requirement until the participant has completed his or her educational program.


(1) A request for a deferral must be submitted to the Secretary within 30 days of completing or exiting the Professional Development program and must provide the following information—


(i) The name of the accredited institution the student will be attending;


(ii) A copy of the letter of admission from the institution;


(iii) The degree being sought; and


(iv) The projected date of completion.


(2) If the Secretary approves the deferral of the payback requirement on the basis that a participant is continuing as a full-time student, the participant must submit to the Secretary a status report from an academic advisor or other authorized representative of the institution of higher education, showing verification of enrollment and status, after every grading period.


(b) *Military deferral.* If a participant exits the Professional Development program because he or she is called or ordered to active duty status in connection with a war, military operation, or national emergency for more than 30 days as a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces named in 10 U.S.C. 10101, or as a member of the National Guard on full-time National Guard duty, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(5), the Secretary may defer the payback requirement until the participant has completed his or her military service, for a period not to exceed 36 months. Requests for deferral must be submitted to the Secretary within 30 days of the earlier of receiving the call to military service or completing or exiting the Professional Development program, and must provide—


(1) A written statement from the participant's commanding or personnel officer certifying—


(i) That the participant is on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States;


(ii) The date on which the participant's service began; and


(iii) The date on which the participant's service is expected to end; or


(2)(i) A true certified copy of the participant's official military orders; and


(ii) A copy of the participant's military identification.



---

[N] [80 FR 22412, Apr. 22, 2015. Redesignated at 85 FR 41378, July 10, 2020]




