# ยง 61.155   Aeronautical knowledge.

(a) *General.* The knowledge test for an airline transport pilot certificate is based on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in paragraph (c) of this section that are appropriate to the aircraft category and class rating sought. 


(b) *Aircraft type rating.* A person who is applying for an additional aircraft type rating to be added to an airline transport pilot certificate is not required to pass a knowledge test if that person's airline transport pilot certificate lists the aircraft category and class rating that is appropriate to the type rating sought. 


(c) *Aeronautical knowledge areas.* (1) Applicable Federal Aviation Regulations of this chapter that relate to airline transport pilot privileges, limitations, and flight operations; 


(2) Meteorology, including knowledge of and effects of fronts, frontal characteristics, cloud formations, icing, and upper-air data; 


(3) General system of weather and NOTAM collection, dissemination, interpretation, and use; 


(4) Interpretation and use of weather charts, maps, forecasts, sequence reports, abbreviations, and symbols; 


(5) National Weather Service functions as they pertain to operations in the National Airspace System; 


(6) Windshear and microburst awareness, identification, and avoidance; 


(7) Principles of air navigation under instrument meteorological conditions in the National Airspace System; 


(8) Air traffic control procedures and pilot responsibilities as they relate to en route operations, terminal area and radar operations, and instrument departure and approach procedures; 


(9) Aircraft loading, weight and balance, use of charts, graphs, tables, formulas, and computations, and their effect on aircraft performance; 


(10) Aerodynamics relating to an aircraft's flight characteristics and performance in normal and abnormal flight regimes; 


(11) Human factors; 


(12) Aeronautical decision making and judgment; 


(13) Crew resource management to include crew communication and coordination; and 


(14) For an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate obtained concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating, the content of the airline transport pilot certification training program in ยง 61.156.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42374, July 15, 2013; Amdt. 61-130C, 81 FR 2, Jan. 4, 2016; Amdt. 61-149, 86 FR 62087, Nov. 9, 2021]






