# § 124.503   How does SBA accept a procurement for award through the 8(a) BD program?

(a) Acceptance of the requirement. Upon receipt of the procuring activity's offer of a procurement requirement, SBA will determine whether it will accept the requirement for the 8(a) BD program. SBA's decision whether to accept the requirement will be sent to the procuring activity in writing within 10 business days of receipt of the written offering letter if the contract is valued at more than the simplified acquisition threshold, and within two business days of receipt of the offering letter if the contract is valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, unless SBA requests, and the procuring activity grants, an extension. SBA and the procuring activity may agree to a shorter timeframe for SBA's review under a Partnership Agreement delegating 8(a) contract execution functions to the agency. SBA is not required to accept any particular procurement offered to the 8(a) BD program.


(1) Where SBA decides to accept an offering of a sole source 8(a) procurement, SBA will accept the offer both on behalf of the 8(a) BD program and in support of a specific Participant. As part of its acceptance of a sole source requirement, SBA will determine the eligibility of the Participant identified in the offering letter, using the same analysis set forth in § 124.501(g). Where a procuring agency offers a sole source 8(a) procurement on behalf of a joint venture, SBA will conduct an eligibility review of the lead 8(a) party to the joint venture as part of its acceptance, and will approve the joint venture prior to award pursuant to § 124.513(e).


(2) Where SBA decides to accept an offering of a competitive 8(a) procurement, SBA will accept the offer on behalf of the 8(a) BD program. For a competitive 8(a) procurement, SBA will determine the eligibility of the apparent successful offeror pursuant to § 124.507(b).


(3) Where SBA has delegated its contract execution functions to a procuring activity, the procuring activity may assume that SBA accepts its offer for the 8(a) program if the procuring activity does not receive a reply to its offer within five days.


(4) In the case of procurement requirements valued at or below the Simplified Acquisition Procedures threshold:


(i) Where a procuring activity makes an offer to the 8(a) program on behalf of a specific Program Participant and does not receive a reply to its offer within two days, the procuring activity may assume the offer is accepted and proceed with award of an 8(a) contract;




(ii) Where SBA has delegated its 8(a) contract execution functions to an agency through a signed Partnership Agreement, SBA may authorize the procuring activity to award an 8(a) contract below the simplified acquisition threshold without requiring an offer and acceptance of the requirement for the 8(a) BD program. However, the procuring activity must request SBA to determine the eligibility of the intended awardee prior to award. SBA shall review the 8(a) Participant's eligibility and issue an eligibility determination within two business days after a request from the procuring activity. If SBA does not respond within this timeframe, the procuring activity may assume the 8(a) Participant is eligible and proceed with award. The procuring activity shall provide a copy of the executed contract to the SBA servicing district office within fifteen business days of award.




(5) Where SBA does not respond to an offering letter within the normal 10 business-day time period, the procuring activity may seek SBA's acceptance through the AA/BD. The procuring activity may assume that SBA accepts its offer for the 8(a) program if it does not receive a reply from the AA/BD within 5 business days of his or her receipt of the procuring activity request.


(b) *Verification of NAICS code.* As part of the acceptance process, SBA will verify the appropriateness of the NAICS code designation assigned to the requirement by the procuring activity contracting officer.


(1) SBA will accept the NAICS code assigned to the requirement by the procuring activity contracting officer as long as it is reasonable, even though other NAICS codes may also be reasonable.


(2) If SBA and the procuring activity are unable to agree as to the proper NAICS code designation for the requirement, SBA may either refuse to accept the requirement for the 8(a) BD program, appeal the contracting officer's determination to the head of the agency pursuant to § 124.505, or appeal the NAICS code designation to OHA under part 134 of this title.


(c) *Sole source award where procuring activity nominates a specific Participant.* SBA will determine whether an appropriate match exists where the procuring activity identifies a particular Participant for a sole source award.


(1) Once SBA determines that a procurement is suitable to be accepted as an 8(a) sole source contract, SBA will normally accept it on behalf of the Participant recommended by the procuring activity, provided that:


(i) The procurement is consistent with the Participant's business plan;


(ii) The Participant complies with its applicable non-8(a) business activity target imposed by § 124.509(d);


(iii) The Participant is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the requirement by the procuring activity contracting officer;


(iv) The Participant has submitted required financial statements to SBA; and


(v) The Participant can demonstrate that it, together with any similarly situated entity, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 124.510.


(2) If an appropriate match exists, SBA will advise the procuring activity whether SBA will participate in contract negotiations or whether SBA will authorize the procuring activity to negotiate directly with the identified Participant. Where SBA has delegated its contract execution functions to a procuring activity, SBA will also identify that delegation in its acceptance letter.


(3) If an appropriate match does not exist, SBA will notify the Participant and the procuring activity, and may then nominate an alternate Participant.


(d) *Open requirements.* When a procuring activity does not nominate a particular concern for performance of a sole source 8(a) contract (open requirement), the following additional procedures will apply:


(1) If the procurement is a construction requirement, SBA will examine the portfolio of Participants that have a bona fide place of business within the geographical boundaries served by the SBA district office where the work is to be performed to select a qualified Participant. If none is found to be qualified or a match for a concern in that district is determined to be impossible or inappropriate, SBA may nominate a Participant with a bona fide place of business within the geographical boundaries served by another district office within the same state, or may nominate a Participant having a bona fide place of business out of state but within a reasonable proximity to the work site. SBA's decision will ensure that the nominated Participant is close enough to the work site to keep costs of performance reasonable.


(2) If the procurement is not a construction requirement, SBA may select any eligible, responsible Participant nationally to perform the contract.


(3) In cases in which SBA selects a Participant for possible award from among two or more eligible and qualified Participants, the selection will be based upon relevant factors, including business development needs, compliance with competitive business mix requirements (if applicable), financial condition, management ability, technical capability, and whether award will promote the equitable distribution of 8(a) contracts.


(e) *Withdrawal/substitution of offered requirement or Participant.* After SBA has accepted a requirement for award as a sole source 8(a) contract on behalf of a specific Participant (whether nominated by the procuring agency or identified by SBA for an open requirement), if the procuring agency believes that the identified Participant is not a good match for the procurement—including for such reasons as the procuring agency finding the Participant non-responsible or the negotiations between the procuring agency and the Participant otherwise failing—the procuring agency may seek to substitute another Participant for the originally identified Participant. The procuring agency must inform SBA of its concerns regarding the originally identified Participant and identify whether it believes another Participant could fulfill its needs.


(1) If the procuring agency and SBA agree that another Participant can fulfill its needs, the procuring agency will withdraw the original offering and reoffer the requirement on behalf of another 8(a) Participant. SBA will then accept the requirement on behalf of the newly identified Participant and authorize the procuring agency to negotiate directly with that Participant.


(2) If the procuring agency and SBA agree that another Participant cannot fulfill its needs, the procuring agency will withdraw the original offering letter and fulfill its needs outside the 8(a) BD program.


(3) If the procuring agency believes that another Participant cannot fulfill its needs, but SBA does not agree, SBA may appeal that decision to the head of the procuring agency pursuant to § 124.505(a)(2).


(f) *Formal technical evaluations.* Except for requirements for architectural and engineering services, SBA will not authorize formal technical evaluations for sole source 8(a) requirements. A procuring activity:


(1) Must request that a procurement be a competitive 8(a) award if it requires formal technical evaluations of more than one Participant for a requirement below the applicable competitive threshold amount; and


(2) May conduct informal assessments of several Participants' capabilities to perform a specific requirement, so long as the statement of work for the requirement is not released to any of the Participants being assessed.


(g) *Repetitive acquisitions.* A procuring activity contracting officer must submit a new offering letter to SBA where he or she intends to award a follow-on or repetitive contract as an 8(a) award.


(1) This enables SBA to determine:


(i) Whether the requirement should be a competitive 8(a) award;


(ii) A nominated firm's eligibility, whether or not it is the same firm that performed the previous contract;


(iii) For open requirements, the effect that contract would have on the equitable distribution of 8(a) contracts; and


(iv) Whether the requirement should continue under the 8(a) BD program.


(2) Where a procuring agency seeks to reprocure a follow-on requirement through an 8(a) contracting vehicle which is not available to all 8(a) BD Program Participants (*e.g.,* a multiple award or Governmentwide acquisition contract that is itself an 8(a) contract), and the previous/current 8(a) award was not so limited, SBA will consider the business development purposes of the program in determining how to accept the requirement.


(h) *Basic Ordering Agreements (BOAs) and Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs).* Neither a Basic Ordering Agreement (BOA) nor a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) is a contract under the FAR. *See* 48 CFR 13.303 and 48 CFR 16.703(a). Each order to be issued under a BOA or BPA is an individual contract. As such, the procuring activity must offer, and SBA must accept, each order under a BOA or BPA in addition to offering and accepting the BOA or BPA itself.


(1) SBA will not accept for award on a sole source basis any task order under a BOA or BPA that would cause the total dollar amount of task orders issued to exceed the applicable competitive threshold amount set forth in § 124.506(a).


(2) Where a procuring activity believes that task orders to be issued under a proposed BOA or BPA will exceed the applicable competitive threshold amount set forth in § 124.506(a), the procuring activity must offer the requirement to the program to be competed among eligible Participants.


(3) Once a concern's program term expires, the concern otherwise exits the 8(a) BD program, or becomes other than small for the NAICS code assigned under the BOA or BPA, new orders will not be accepted for the concern.


(4) A procuring agency may offer, and SBA may accept, an order issued under a BOA or BPA to be awarded through the 8(a) BD program where the BOA or BPA itself was not accepted for the 8(a) BD program, but rather was awarded on an unrestricted basis.


(i) *Task or Delivery Order Contracts, including Multiple Award Contracts*—(1) *Contracts set-aside for exclusive competition among 8(a) Participants.* (i) A task or delivery order contract, Multiple Award Contract, or order issued against a Multiple Award Contract that is set-aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants must follow the established 8(a) competitive procedures. This includes an offering to and acceptance into the 8(a) program, SBA eligibility verification of the apparent successful offerors prior to contract award, compliance with the performance of work requirements set forth in § 124.510, and compliance with the nonmanufacturer rule (*see* § 121.406(b)), if applicable.


(ii) An agency is not required to offer or receive acceptance of individual orders into the 8(a) BD program if the task or delivery order contract or Multiple Award Contract was set-aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants, and the individual order is to be competed among all 8(a) contract holders. However, where the order includes work that was previously performed through another 8(a) contract, the procuring agency must notify and consult with SBA prior to issuing the order that it intends to procure such specified work through an order under an 8(a) Multiple Award Contract. Consultation with SBA does not require SBA concurrence or approval. Where that work is critical to the business development of a current Participant that previously performed the work through another 8(a) contract and that Participant is not a contract holder of the 8(a) Multiple Award Contract, SBA may request that the procuring agency fulfill the requirement through a competition available to all 8(a) BD Program Participants. SBA will provide any feedback in response to the procuring agency's notification within 10 business days.


(iii) A concern awarded a task or delivery order contract or Multiple Award Contract that was set-aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants may generally continue to receive new orders even if it has grown to be other than small or has exited the 8(a) BD program, and agencies may continue to take SDB credit toward their prime contracting goals for orders awarded to 8(a) Participants. A procuring agency may seek to award an order only to a concern that is a current Participant in the 8(a) program at the time of the order. In such a case, the procuring agency will announce its intent to limit the award of the order to current 8(a) Participants and verify a contract holder's 8(a) BD status prior to issuing the order. Where a procuring agency seeks to award an order to a concern that is a current 8(a) Participant, a concern must be an eligible Participant in accordance with § 124.501(g) as of the initial date specified for the receipt of offers contained in the order solicitation, or at the date of award of the order if there is no solicitation.




(iv) An agency may issue a sole source award against a Multiple Award Contract that has been set aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) BD Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants if the required dollar thresholds for sole source awards are met. Where an agency seeks to award an order on a sole source basis (*i.e.,* to one particular 8(a) contract holder without competition among all 8(a) contract holders), the agency must offer, and SBA must accept, the order into the 8(a) program on behalf of the identified 8(a) contract holder.


(A) To be eligible for the award of a sole source order, a concern must be a current Participant in the 8(a) BD program at the time of award of the order, qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the order on the date the order is offered to the 8(a) BD program, and be in compliance with any applicable competitive business mix target established or remedial measure imposed by § 124.509. Where the intended sole source recipient is a joint venture, the 8(a) managing partner to the joint venture is the concern whose eligibility is considered.


(B) Where an agency seeks to issue a sole source order to a joint venture, the two-year restriction for joint venture awards set forth in § 121.103(h) does not apply and SBA will not review and approve the joint venture agreement as set forth in § 124.513(e)(1).


(2) *Allowing orders issued to 8(a) Participants under Multiple Award Contracts that were not set-aside for exclusive competition among eligible 8(a) Participants to be considered 8(a) awards.* In order for an order issued to an 8(a) Participant and placed against a Multiple Award Contract to be considered an 8(a) award, where the Multiple Award contract was not initially set-aside, partially set-aside or reserved for exclusive competition among 8(a) Participants, the following conditions must be met:


(i) The order must be offered to and accepted into the 8(a) BD program;




(ii) The order must be either an 8(a) sole source award or be competed exclusively among only the 8(a) awardees of the underlying multiple award contract. Where an agency seeks to issue an 8(a) competitive order under a multiple award contract that was awarded under full and open competition or as a small business set-aside, all eligible 8(a) BD Participants who are contract holders of the underlying multiple award contract must have the opportunity to compete for the order. Where an agency seeks to issue an 8(a) competitive order under the Federal Supply Schedule, an agency can utilize the procedures set forth in FAR subpart 8.4 (48 CFR part 8, subpart 8.4) to award to an eligible 8(a) BD Participant. Where an agency seeks to issue an 8(a) sole source order under a multiple award contract that was awarded under full and open competition or as a small business set-aside, the identified 8(a) Participant that is a contract holder of the underlying multiple award contract must be an eligible Participant on the date of the issuance of the order.


(iii) The order must require the concern comply with applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (*see* § 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule, if applicable, (*see* § 121.406(b)) in the performance of the individual order; and


(iv) SBA must verify that a concern is an eligible 8(a) Participant in accordance with § 124.501(g) as of the initial date specified for the receipt of offers contained in the order solicitation, or at the date of award of the order if there is no solicitation. If a concern has exited the 8(a) BD program prior to that date, it will be ineligible for the award of the order.


(3) *Reserves.* A procuring activity must offer and SBA must accept a requirement that is reserved for 8(a) Participants (*i.e.,* an acquisition where the contracting officer states an intention to make one or more awards to only 8(a) Participants under full and open competition). However, a contracting officer does not have to offer the requirement to SBA where the acquisition has been reserved for small businesses, even if the contracting officer states an intention to make one or more awards to several types of small business including 8(a) Participants since any such award to 8(a) Participants would not be considered an 8(a) contract award.


(j) Requirements where SBA has delegated contract execution authority. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, where SBA has delegated its 8(a) contract execution authority to the procuring activity, the procuring activity must still offer and SBA must still accept all requirements intended to be awarded as 8(a) contracts.


(k) *Contracting Among Small Business Programs*—(1) *Acquisitions Valued At or Below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.* The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Micro-purchase Threshold but not exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. This requirement does not preclude a contracting officer from making an award to a small business under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB Programs.


(2) *Acquisitions Valued Above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.* (i) The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. However, after conducting market research, the contracting officer shall first consider a set-aside or sole source award (if the sole source award is permitted by statute or regulation) under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs. The contracting officer must document the contract file with the rationale used to support the specific set-aside, including the type and extent of market research conducted. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system) certifications and associated representations were reviewed.


(ii) SBA believes that Progress in fulfilling the various small business goals, as well as other factors such as the results of market research, programmatic needs specific to the procuring agency, anticipated award price, and the acquisition history, will be considered in making a decision as to which program to use for the acquisition.



---

[N] [63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 51248, Aug. 30, 2005; 71 FR 66444, Nov. 15, 2006; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 75 FR 62280, Oct. 7, 2010; 76 FR 8259, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 1860, Jan. 12, 2012; 78 FR 61133, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 84 FR 65661, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66187, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26206, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024]




