# § 63.7282   What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source at your coke plant. The affected source is each coke oven battery and units that recover heat from coke oven gas from the coke batteries.


(b) This subpart covers emissions from pushing, soaking, quenching, by-product battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks from each affected source, as applicable to the coke oven facility.


(c) An affected source at your coke plant is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before July 3, 2001.


(d) An affected source at your coke plant is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after July 3, 2001. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of “reconstruction” in § 63.2. This paragraph (d) does not apply to the emission limitations listed in §§ 63.7290(b) through (d), 63.7296(c) through (f), 63.7297(a) through (d), and 63.7298(a) through (e) for capture systems and control devices applied to pushing emissions, battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks, respectively.


(e) An affected source at your coke plant is existing for the emissions limitations listed in §§ 63.7290(b) through (d), 63.7296(c) through (f), 63.7297(a) through (d), and 63.7298(a) through (e) for capture systems and control devices applied to pushing emissions, battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks, respectively if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before August 16, 2023.


(f) An affected source at your coke plant is new for the emissions limitations listed in §§ 63.7290(b) through (d), 63.7296(c) through (f), 63.7297(a) through (d), and 63.7298(a) through (e) for capture systems and control devices applied to pushing emissions, battery stacks, HNR HRSG main stacks, and HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stacks, respectively if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after August 16, 2023.





---

[N] [89 FR 55742, July 5, 2024]








