# § 685.309   Administrative and fiscal control and fund accounting requirements for schools participating in the Direct Loan Program.

(a) *General.* A participating school must—


(1) Establish and maintain proper administrative and fiscal procedures and all necessary records as set forth in this part and in 34 CFR part 668; and


(2) Submit all reports required by this part and 34 CFR part 668 to the Secretary.


(b) *Enrollment reporting process.* (1) Upon receipt of an enrollment report from the Secretary, a school must update all information included in the report and return the report to the Secretary—


(i) In the manner and format prescribed by the Secretary; and


(ii) Within the timeframe prescribed by the Secretary.


(2) Unless it expects to submit its next updated enrollment report to the Secretary within the next 60 days, a school must notify the Secretary within 30 days after the date the school discovers that—


(i) A loan under title IV of the Act was made to or on behalf of a student who was enrolled or accepted for enrollment at the school, and the student has ceased to be enrolled on at least a half-time basis or failed to enroll on at least a half-time basis for the period for which the loan was intended; or


(ii) A student who is enrolled at the school and who received a loan under title IV of the Act has changed his or her permanent address.


(c) *Record retention requirements.* An institution must follow the record retention and examination requirements in this part and in 34 CFR 668.24.


(d) *Accounting requirements.* A school must follow accounting requirements in 34 CFR 668.24(b).


(e) *Direct Loan Program bank account.* Schools must follow the procedures for maintaining funds established in 34 CFR 668.163.


(f) *Division of functions.* Schools must follow the procedures for division of functions in 34 CFR 668.16(c).


(g) *Limit on use of funds.* Funds received by a school under this part may be used only to make Direct Loans to eligible borrowers and may not be used or hypothecated for any other purpose.



---

[N] [59 FR 61690, Dec. 1, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 33345, June 28, 1995; 61 FR 60493, Nov. 27, 1996; 61 FR 60610, Nov. 29, 1996; 78 FR 65841, Nov. 1, 2013]




