# § 605.3   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions provided in 2 CFR part 200 as amended by 2 CFR part 910, the following definitions are provided for purposes of this part—


*Basic and applied research* means basic and applied research and that part of development not related to the development of specific systems or products. The primary aim of research is scientific study and experimentation directed toward advancing the state of the art or increasing knowledge or understanding rather than focusing on a specific system or product.


*Educational/Training* means support for education or related activities for an individual or organization that will enhance education levels and skills in particular scientific or technical areas of interest to DOE.


*Principal investigator* means the scientist or other individual designated by the recipient to direct the project.


*Recipient obligation* means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and subawards issued, services received, and similar transactions during a given period that will require payment by the recipient during the same or a future period.


*Related conference* means scientific or technical conferences, symposia, workshops or seminars for the purpose of communicating or exchanging information or views pertinent to SC.


*Special purpose equipment* means equipment which is used only for research, medical, scientific, educational, or other related project activity.



---

[N] [57 FR 40583, Sept. 3, 1992, as amended at 79 FR 76046, Dec. 19, 2014]




