# ยง 72.23   Changing the designated representative, alternate designated representative; changes in the owners and operators.

(a) *Changing the designated representative.* The designated representative may be changed at any time upon receipt by the Administrator of a superseding complete certificate of representation. Notwithstanding any such change, all representations, actions, inactions, and submissions by the previous designated representative prior to the time and date when the Administrator receives the superseding certificate of representation shall be binding on the new designated representative and on the owners and operators of the source represented and the affected units at the source.


(b) *Changing the alternate designated representative.* The alternate designated representative may be changed at any time upon receipt by the Administrator of a superseding complete certificate of representation. Notwithstanding any such change, all representations, actions, inactions, and submissions by the previous alternate designated representative prior to the time and date when the Administrator receives the superseding certificate of representation shall be binding on the new alternate designated representative and on the owners and operators of the source represented and the affected units at the source.


(c) *Changes in the owners and operators.* (1) In the event an owner or operator of an affected source or an affected unit is not included in the list of owners and operators submitted in the certificate of representation, such owner or operator shall be deemed to be subject to and bound by the certificate of representation, the representations, actions, inactions, and submissions of the designated representative and any alternative designated representative of the source or unit, and the decisions, actions, and inactions of the Administrator and permitting authority, as if the owner or operator were included in such list.


(2) Within 30 days following any change in the owners and operators of an affected unit, including the addition of a new owner or operator, the designated representative or any alternative designated representative shall submit a revision to the certificate of representation amending the list of owners and operators to include the change.



---

[N] [58 FR 3650, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 25378, Apr. 28, 2006]




