# § 363.22   Who has the right to conduct online transactions in book-entry securities?

(a) *Individual*—(1) *Single owner form of registration.* A single owner can conduct transactions in securities held in his or her TreasuryDirect ® account.


(2) *Owner with beneficiary form of registration.* The owner can conduct transactions in securities held in his or her TreasuryDirect account. The beneficiary has no rights during the lifetime of the owner and therefore cannot conduct transactions in the securities.


(3) *Primary owner with secondary owner form of registration.* (i) The primary owner can conduct any permitted transaction in a security held in the primary owner's TreasuryDirect account. (See § 363.20(e)).


(ii) If the primary owner has given the secondary owner the right to conduct transactions in a security, and has not revoked that right, then the secondary owner can conduct transactions in the security. Transactions that may be conducted by the secondary owner include transferring a marketable security, redeeming a savings bond, and changing the destination of interest and redemption payments for marketable securities.


(b) *Converted savings bonds.* The rules for transactions governing converted savings bonds are contained in subpart E of this part.


(c) *Entity.* The entity account manager can conduct transactions in the securities held within the entity's account. Initially, the entity account manager is the individual who opens the account. The entity account manager may be changed to a different individual using procedures available on our Web site. The entity account manager must certify that he or she is authorized to act alone on behalf of the entity in accessing and conducting transactions on behalf of the entity with regard to the entity's account.



---

[N] [70 FR 57434, Sept. 30, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 57443, Sept. 30, 2005; 74 FR 19419, Apr. 29, 2009; 75 FR 78901, Dec. 17, 2010]




