# § 334.515   Blount Island Command and Marine Corps Support Facility-Blount Island; Jacksonville, Florida restricted areas.

(a) *The areas.* (1) The restricted areas shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States, as defined at 33 CFR 329, contiguous to the area identified as Blount Island Command and Marine Corps Support Facility-Blount Island (MCSF-BI). The three areas are contiguous but each area is described separately below for clarification.


(2) *Area 1.* Commencing from the shoreline at the northwest portion of the facility, at latitude 30°24′46.10″ N, longitude 81°32′19.01″ W, thence proceed 200 yards in a northwesterly direction to latitude 30°24′49.84″ N, longitude 81°32′23.12″ W. From this point the line meanders irregularly, following the shoreline at a distance of 200 yards from the mean high water line to a point at latitude 30°23′36.75″ N, longitude 81°30′26.42″ W, thence southwesterly to a point at latitude 30°23′34.44″ N, longitude 81°30′28.80″ W, thence west southwesterly to a point at latitude 30°23′33.68″ N, longitude 81°30′32.61″ W.


(3) *Area 2.* This includes all waters within the area generally identified as the U.S. Marine Corps Slipway but which is also known as the Back River area and the waters out to a distance of 100 yards from the entranceway. From the last point identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, latitude 30°23′33.68″ N, longitude 81°30′32.61″ W, proceed west southwesterly to a point at latitude 30°23′30.93″ N, longitude 81°30′57.14″ W.


(4) *Area 3.* From the last point identified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, latitude 30°23′30.93″ N, longitude 81°30′57.14″ W, the line meanders irregularly in a westerly direction, following the shoreline at a distance of 100 yards from the mean high water line to a point at latitude 30°23′26.34″ N, longitude 81°31′49.73″ W, thence proceed north to terminate at a point on the shoreline at latitude 30°23′29.34″ N, longitude 81°31′49.79″ W.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) With the exception of local, State and federal law enforcement entities, all persons, vessels, and other craft are prohibited from entering, transiting, anchoring, or drifting within the areas described in paragraph (a) of this section for any reason without the permission of the Commanding Officer, Marine Corps Support Facility-Blount Island, Jacksonville, Florida, or his/her authorized representative.


(2) The restriction noted in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.


(3) Warning signs will be posted near the MCSF-BI shoreline advising boaters of the restrictions in this section.


(c) *Enforcement.* (1) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Marine Corps Support Facility-Blount Island, Jacksonville, Florida, and/or such persons or agencies as he/she may designate.


(2) Enforcement of the regulations in this section will be accomplished utilizing the Department of Defense Force Protection Condition (FPCON) System. From the lowest security level to the highest, Force Protection Conditions levels are titled Normal, Alpha, Bravo, Charlie and Delta. The regulations in this section will be enforced as noted in paragraph (b) of this section, or at the discretion of the Commanding Officer.



---

[N] [73 FR 54073, Sept. 18, 2008]




