# § 282.75   Missouri State-Administered Program.

(a) *History of the approval of Missouri's program.* The State of Missouri is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The State's program, as administered by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this Chapter. EPA approved the Missouri program on May 5, 2004 and it was effective on June 5, 2004. A subsequent program revision application was approved by EPA and became effective on July 16, 2024.


(b) *Enforcement authority.* Missouri has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally approved underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.


(c) *Retaining program approval.* To retain program approval, Missouri must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the federal Subtitle I program which makes it more stringent, in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Missouri obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(d) *Final program approval.* Missouri has final approval for the following elements of its program application originally submitted to EPA and approved on May 5, 2004 and effective June 5, 2004, and the program revision application approved by EPA, effective on July 16, 2024:


(1) *State statutes and regulations*—(i) *Incorporation by reference.* The provisions cited in this paragraph, and listed in appendix A to part 282, are incorporated by reference as part of the underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). You may inspect all approved material at the EPA Region 7 Office, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, KS 66219; phone number: (913) 551-7299. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email: *fr.inspection@nara.gov,* or go to: *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.* You may obtain copies of the Missouri regulations and statutes that are incorporated by reference in this paragraph from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources website at: *https://www.dnr.mo.gov/waste-recycling/business-industry/guidance-technical-assistance/underground-storage-tank-requirements, https://www.dnr.mo.gov/waste-recycling/investigations-cleanups/regulated-storage-tank-closure* or the Missouri Department of Natural Resources, Underground Storage Tanks Section, P.O. Box 176, Jefferson City, Missouri, 65102-0176; phone number: (573) 751-6822.


(A) EPA-Approved Missouri Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, May 2017.


(B) EPA-Approved Missouri Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, May 2017.


(ii) *Legal basis.* EPA evaluated the following statutes and regulations, which provide the legal basis for the State's implementation of the underground storage tank program, but they are not being incorporated by reference for enforcement purposes and do not replace Federal authorities. Missouri's no less stringent underground storage tank program compliance criteria is included in their regulations. Missouri includes brief statements in their statutes establishing the authority of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources to create and implement the underground storage tank program. None of these statutes are incorporated by reference.


(A) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo section 260.


(B) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo sections 319.100, 319.103, 319.105, 319.107, 319.109, 319.111, 319.114, 319.117, 319.120, 319.123, 319.125, 319.127, 319.129, 319.130, 319.131, 319.132, 319.133, 319.135, 319.136, 319.137, 319.138, 319.139, 319.140.


(C) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo section 507.


(D) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo section 644.


(E) Missouri Supreme Court Rules—Rule 52—Rules of Civil Procedure.


(F) Rules of Department of Natural Resources, Division 26—Chapters 1 and 4.


(G) Rules of Department of Natural Resources, Division 100—Chapters 1 through 5.


(iii) *Provisions not incorporated by reference.* The following statutory and regulatory provisions are broader in scope than the Federal program, are not part of the approved program, and are not incorporated by reference in this section for enforcement purposes:


(A) Missouri Revised Statutes.


(*1*) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo section 260.


(*2*) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo sections 319.100, 319.103, 319.105, 319.107, 319.109, 319.111, 319.114, 319.117, 319.120, 319.123, 319.125, 319.127, 319.129, 319.130, 319.131, 319.132, 319.133, 319.135, 319.136, 319.137, 319.138, 319.139, 319.140.


(*3*) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo section 507.


(*4*) Revised Statutes of Missouri, RSMo section 644.


(B) Missouri Code of State Regulations.


(*1*) Rules of Department of Natural Resources, Division 26—Chapters 1, 4 and 5.


(*2*) Rules of Department of Natural Resources, Division 100—Chapters 1 through 5.


(2) *Statement of legal authority.* The “Attorney General's Statement”, signed by the Missouri Attorney General on May 5, 2004, and August 11, 2023, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(3) *Demonstration of procedures for adequate enforcement.* The “Adequate Enforcement of Compliance” submitted as part of the original application on May 5, 2004, and as part of the program revision application on August 11, 2023, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(4) *Program description.* The program description and any other material submitted as part of the original application on May 5, 2004, and as part of the program revision application on August 11, 2023, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(5) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 7 and the State of Missouri, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on April 15, 2019, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*


---

[N] [89 FR 43326, May 17, 2024]




