# § 141.1   FERC Form No. 1, Annual report of Major electric utilities, licensees and others.

(a) *Prescription.* The Form of Annual Report for Major electric utilities, licensees and others, designated herein as FERC Form No. 1, is prescribed for the reporting year 1981 and each year thereafter.


(b) *Filing requirements*—(1) *Who must file*—(i) *Generally.* Each Major and each Nonoperating (formerly designated as Major) electric utility (as defined in part 101 of Subchapter C of this chapter) and each licensee as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796), including any agency, authority or other legal entity or instrumentality engaged in generation, transmission, distribution, or sale of electric energy, however produced, throughout the United States and its possessions, having sales or transmission service equal to Major as defined above, must prepare and file electronically with the Commission the FERC Form 1 pursuant to the General Instructions as provided in that form.


(ii) *Exceptions.* This report form is not prescribed for any agency, authority or instrumentality of the United States, nor is it prescribed for municipalities as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act; (*i.e.,* a city, county, irrigation district, drainage district, or other political subdivision or agency of a State competent under the laws thereof to carry on the business of developing, transmitting, utilizing, or distributing power).


(2) *When to file and what to file.* (i) The annual report for the year ending December 31, 2004, must be filed on April 25, 2005.


(ii) The annual report for each year thereafter must be filed on April 18.


(iii) This report must be filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as prescribed in § 385.2011 of this chapter and as indicated in the General Instructions set out in this form, and must be properly completed and verified. Filing on electronic media pursuant to § 385.2011 of this chapter is required.



---

[N] [Order 200, 47 FR 1280, Jan. 12, 1982, as amended by Order 390, 49 FR 32515, Aug. 14, 1984; Order 574, 60 FR 1718, Jan. 5, 1995; Order 626, 67 FR 36096, May 23, 2002; 69 FR 9043, Feb. 26, 2004; Order 694, 72 FR 20723, Apr. 26, 2007; 73 FR 58736, Oct. 7, 2008]




