# ยง 129.201   How does a small business concern located in a disaster area obtain Federal surplus personal property?

(a) *General.* Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(F)(ii) eligible small business concerns located in disaster areas may receive surplus Federal Government property from State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs). The procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 102-37 and this section will be used to transfer surplus personal property to eligible small business concerns.


(1) The property which may be transferred to SASPs for further transfer to eligible small business concerns includes all personal property which has become available for donation pursuant to 41 CFR 102-37.30.


(b) *Eligibility to receive Federal surplus personal property.* To be eligible to receive Federal surplus personal property, on the date of transfer a concern must:


(1) Be located in a disaster area;


(2) Qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code and certify its size in SAM.gov, or a successor system, prior to seeking access to surplus property. SASPs and GSA may rely on a concern's certification as small for purposes of this program;


(3) Not be debarred, suspended, or declared ineligible under Title 2 or Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations;


(4) Be engaged or expect to be engaged in business activities making the item useful to it; and


(5) Not have received a transfer of property under ยง 124.405 of this chapter during the covered period. The 2-year period of the presidentially declared disaster does not affect eligibility for additional technology transfers or surplus personal property to a small business concern located in a disaster area for a subsequent presidentially declared disaster occurring within the original 2-year period of a prior presidentially declared disaster.


(c) *Use of acquired surplus personal property.* (1) Eligible concerns may acquire surplus Federal personal property from the SASP in the State(s) where the concern is located and operates, provided the concern represents and agrees in writing:


(i) As to what the intended use of the surplus personal property is to be;


(ii) That it will use the property to be acquired in the normal conduct of its business activities or be liable for the fair rental value from the date of its receipt;


(iii) That it will not sell or transfer the property to be acquired to any party other than the Federal Government as required by GSA and SASP requirements and guidelines;


(iv) That, at its own expense, it will return the property to a SASP if directed to do so by SBA, including where the concern has not used the property as intended within one year of receipt;


(v) That, should it breach its agreement not to sell or transfer the property, it will be liable to the Federal Government for the established fair market value or the sale price, whichever is greater, of the property sold or transferred; and


(vi) That it will give GSA and the SASP access to inspect the property and all records pertaining to it.


(2) A concern receiving surplus personal property pursuant to this section assumes all liability associated with or stemming from the use of the property.


(d) *Costs.* Concerns acquiring surplus personal property from a SASP must pay a service fee to the SASP in accordance with 41 CFR 102-37.280. In no instance will any SASP charge a concern more for any service than their established fees charged to other transferees.


(e) *Title.* Upon execution of the SASP distribution document, the firm receiving the surplus personal property has only conditional title only to the surplus personal property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the property will vest in the donee only after the donee has met all of the requirements of this part and the requirements of GSA and the SASP that it received the property from.






