# ยง 1546.105   Acceptance of and amendments to the security program.

(a) *Initial acceptance of security program.* Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each foreign air carrier required to have a security program by this part must submit its proposed program to TSA at least 90 days before the intended date of passenger operations. TSA will notify the foreign air carrier of the security program's acceptability, or the need to modify the proposed security program for it to be acceptable under this part, within 30 days after receiving the proposed security program. The foreign air carrier may petition TSA to reconsider the notice to modify the security program within 30 days after receiving a notice to modify.


(b) *Amendment requested by a foreign air carrier.* A foreign air carrier may submit a request to TSA to amend its accepted security program as follows:


(1) The proposed amendment must be filed with the designated official at least 45 calendar days before the date it proposes for the amendment to become effective, unless a shorter period is allowed by the designated official.


(2) Within 30 calendar days after receiving a proposed amendment, the designated official, in writing, either approves or denies the request to amend.


(3) An amendment to a foreign air carrier security program may be approved if the designated official determines that safety and the public interest will allow it, and the proposed amendment provides the level of security required under this part.


(4) Within 45 calendar days after receiving a denial, the foreign air carrier may petition the Administrator to reconsider the denial. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official.


(5) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either approves the request to amend or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to approve the amendment, or affirming the denial.


(6) Any foreign air carrier may submit a group proposal for an amendment that is on behalf of it and other aircraft operators that co-sign the proposal.


(c) *Amendment by TSA.* If the safety and the public interest require an amendment, the designated official may amend an accepted security program as follows:


(1) The designated official notifies the foreign air carrier, in writing, of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 45 calendar days within which the foreign air carrier may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment.


(2) After considering all relevant material, the designated official notifies the foreign air carrier of any amendment adopted or rescinds the notice. If the amendment is adopted, it becomes effective not less than 30 calendar days after the foreign air carrier receives the notice of amendment, unless the foreign air carrier petitions the Administrator to reconsider no later than 15 calendar days before the effective date of the amendment. The foreign air carrier must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment.


(3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends or withdraws the notice or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the amendment, or by affirming the amendment.


(d) *Emergency amendments.* If the designated official finds that there is an emergency requiring immediate action with respect to safety in air transportation or in air commerce that makes procedures in this section contrary to the public interest, the designated official may issue an amendment, without the prior notice and comment procedures in paragraph (c) of this section, effective without stay on the date the foreign air carrier receives notice of it. In such a case, the designated official will incorporate in the notice a brief statement of the reasons and findings for the amendment to be adopted. The foreign air carrier may file a petition for reconsideration under paragraph (c) of this section; however, this does not stay the effectiveness of the emergency amendment.




