# § 165.1419   Safety Zone; Apra Outer Harbor, Naval Base Guam.

(a) *Location.* The following areas, within the U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam (COTP) Zone (See 33 CFR 3.70-15), all navigable waters on the surface and below the surface within 190 yards of the fireworks barge for Independence Day celebrations at Polaris Point, Naval Base Guam. The barge will be anchored approximately 500 yards off the north tip of Polaris Point in Apra Outer Harbor.


(b) *Definition.* As used in this section, “designated on-scene representative” means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel, and a Federal, State, and local officer either designated by or assisting the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in section § 165.23, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP or a designated on-scene representative.


(2) This safety zone is closed to all persons and vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the COTP or a designated on-scene representative.


(3) Persons and Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the safety zone must contact the COTP or a designated on-scene representative to obtain permission to do so. The COTP or a designated on-scene representative may be contacted via VHF Channel 16 or at telephone number (671) 355-4821. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the COTP or a designated on-scene representative.


(d) *Enforcement period.* This safety zone will be enforced on a specific date during the first week of July from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. annually, unless the event is delayed or cancelled due to weather. The Coast Guard will provide advance notice of enforcement and a broadcast notice to mariners to inform public of specific date during the first week in July.



---

[N] [USCG-2020-0458, 87 FR 26676, May 15, 2022, as amended by USCG-2022-0429, 87 FR 48447, Aug. 9, 2022]








