# ยง 982.354   Move with continued tenant-based assistance.

(a) *Applicability.* This section states when a participant family may move to a new unit with continued tenant-based assistance: 


(b) *When family may move.* A family may move to a new unit if:


(1) The assisted lease for the old unit has terminated. This includes a termination because:


(i) The PHA has terminated the HAP contract for the owner's breach; or


(ii) The lease has terminated by mutual agreement of the owner and the tenant.


(2) The owner has given the tenant a notice to vacate, or has commenced an action to evict the tenant, or has obtained a court judgment or other process allowing the owner to evict the tenant.


(3) The tenant has given notice of lease termination (if the tenant has a right to terminate the lease on notice to the owner, for owner breach, or otherwise).


(4) The family or a member of the family, is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), and the move is needed to protect the health or safety of the family or family member, or if any family member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's request to move. A PHA may not terminate assistance if the family, with or without prior notification to the PHA, moves out of a unit in violation of the lease, if such move occurs to protect the health or safety of a family member who is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking and who reasonably believed he or she was threatened with imminent harm from further violence if he or she remained in the dwelling unit. However, any family member that has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's move or request to move is not required to believe that he or she was threatened with imminent harm from further violence if he or she remained in the dwelling unit.


(c) *How many moves.* (1) A participant family may move with continued assistance under the program, either inside the PHA jurisdiction, or under the portability procedures (See ยง 982.353) in accordance with the PHA's policies.


(2) Consistent with applicable civil rights laws and regulations, the PHA may establish policies that:


(i) Prohibit any move by the family during the initial lease term; 


(ii) Prohibit more than one move by the family during any one-year period; and


(iii) The above policies do not apply when the family or a member of the family is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, and the move is needed to protect the health or safety of the family or family member, or any family member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's request to move.


(d) *Notice that family wants to move.* If the family wants to move to a new unit, the family must notify the PHA and the owner before moving from the old unit. If the family wants to move to a new unit that is located outside the initial PHA jurisdiction, the notice to the initial PHA must specify the area where the family wants to move. See portability procedures in subpart H of this part. 


(e) *When the PHA may deny permission to move.* (1) The PHA may deny permission to move if the PHA does not have sufficient funding for continued assistance. The PHA must provide written notification to the local HUD Office within 10 business days of determining it is necessary to deny moves to a higher-cost unit based on insufficient funding.


(2) At any time, the PHA may deny permission to move in accordance with ยง 982.552 (grounds for denial or termination of assistance). 



---

[N] [60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 56913, Oct. 21, 1999; 75 FR 66263, Oct. 27, 2010. Redesignated and amended at 80 FR 50573, Aug. 20, 2015; 81 FR 80817, Nov. 16, 2016]




