# ยง 401.311   Standards of conduct.

(a) *Minimum ethical standards for PAEs.* In connection with the performance of any PRA and during the term of such PRA, a PAE or other restricted person (as defined in ยง 401.310) may not: 


(1) Solicit for itself or others favors, gifts, or other items of monetary value from any person who is seeking official action from HUD or the PAE in connection with the PRA or has interests that may be substantially affected by the restricted person's performance or nonperformance of duties to HUD; 


(2) Use improperly (or allow the improper use of) HUD property or property over which the restricted person has supervision or charge by reason of the PRA; 


(3) Use its status as PAE for its own benefit, or the financial or business benefit of a third party, except as contemplated by the PRA; or 


(4) Make any unauthorized promise or commitment on behalf of HUD. 


(b) *18 U.S.C. 201.* Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 201, whoever acts for or on behalf of HUD in connection with the matters covered by this part is deemed to be a public official. Public officials are prohibited from soliciting or accepting anything of value in return for being influenced in the performance of official actions. Violators are subject to criminal sanctions. 


(c) *18 U.S.C. 1001.* Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever knowingly and willingly falsifies a material fact, makes a false statement or utilizes a false writing in connection with a PRA is subject to criminal sanctions. Other Federal civil statutes also apply to making false statements to the United States. 


(d) *18 U.S.C. 207.* Former Federal Government employees are subject to the prohibitions in 18 U.S.C. 207. 




