# ยง 1510.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to terms used in this part unless the context requires otherwise: 


*Act* means the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421 *et seq.*). 


*Administrative expenses* means costs incurred as necessary to carry out the functions of the Funding Corporation, including custodian fees, but does not include any interest on obligations.


*Bank* means a Federal Home Loan Bank established under the authority of the Act. 


*Custodian fee* means any fee incurred by the Funding Corporation in connection with the transfer of any security to, or the maintenance of any security in, the Funding Corporation Principal Fund and any other expense incurred in connection with the establishment or maintenance of the Funding Corporation Principal Fund. 


*Directorate* means the Directorate of the Funding Corporation established pursuant to section 21B(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1421b(c)). 


*FDIC* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation established pursuant to section 1 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811, *et seq.*). 


*Finance Board* means the Federal Housing Finance Board established pursuant to section 2A(a)(1) of the Act. 


*FSLIC Resolution Fund* means the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Resolution Fund established pursuant to section 11A(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811, *et seq.*). 


*Funding Corporation* means the Resolution Funding Corporation established pursuant to section 21B(b) of the Act. 


*Funding Corporation Principal Fund* means the separate account established under section 21B(g)(2) of the Act. 


*Interest payment due date* means the date on which the next quarterly interest payments on obligations are due. 


*Net earnings* means net earnings after deducting expenses relating to section 10(j) of the Act (Affordable Housing Program) and operating expenses, but without reduction for chargeoffs and payments to fund interest payments on obligations. 


*Obligations* means bonds issued by the Funding Corporation under section 21B(f) of the Act. 


*RTC* means the Resolution Trust Corporation established pursuant to section 21A(b)(1)(A) of the Act and which terminated on December 31, 1995, pursuant to section 21A(m) of the Act. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Treasury or the designee of the Secretary of the Treasury. 




