# § 1.706-1   Taxable years of partner and partnership.

(a) *Year in which partnership income is includible.* (1) In computing taxable income for a taxable year, a partner is required to include the partner's distributive share of partnership items set forth in section 702 and the regulations thereunder for any partnership taxable year ending within or with the partner's taxable year. A partner must also include in taxable income for a taxable year guaranteed payments under section 707(c) that are deductible by the partnership under its method of accounting in the partnership taxable year ending within or with the partner's taxable year. 


(2) The rules of paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following example: 


(3) If a partner receives distributions under section 731 or sells or exchanges all or part of a partnership interest, any gain or loss arising therefrom does not constitute partnership income. 


(b) *Taxable year*—(1) *Partnership treated as a taxpayer.* The taxable year of a partnership must be determined as though the partnership were a taxpayer. 


(2) *Partnership's taxable year*—(i) *Required taxable year.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the taxable year of a partnership must be— 


(A) The majority interest taxable year, as defined in section 706(b)(4); 


(B) If there is no majority interest taxable year, the taxable year of all of the principal partners of the partnership, as defined in 706(b)(3) (the principal partners' taxable year); or 


(C) If there is no majority interest taxable year or principal partners' taxable year, the taxable year that produces the least aggregate deferral of income as determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(ii) *Exceptions.* A partnership may have a taxable year other than its required taxable year if it makes an election under section 444, elects to use a 52-53-week taxable year that ends with reference to its required taxable year or a taxable year elected under section 444, or establishes a business purpose for such taxable year and obtains approval of the Commissioner under section 442. 


(3) *Least aggregate deferral*—(i) *Taxable year that results in the least aggregate deferral of income.* The taxable year that results in the least aggregate deferral of income will be the taxable year of one or more of the partners in the partnership which will result in the least aggregate deferral of income to the partners. The aggregate deferral for a particular year is equal to the sum of the products determined by multiplying the month(s) of deferral for each partner that would be generated by that year and each partner's interest in partnership profits for that year. The partner's taxable year that produces the lowest sum when compared to the other partner's taxable years is the taxable year that results in the least aggregate deferral of income to the partners. If the calculation results in more than one taxable year qualifying as the taxable year with the least aggregate deferral, the partnership may select any one of those taxable years as its taxable year. However, if one of the qualifying taxable years is also the partnership's existing taxable year, the partnership must maintain its existing taxable year. The determination of the taxable year that results in the least aggregate deferral of income generally must be made as of the beginning of the partnership's current taxable year. The director, however, may determine that the first day of the current taxable year is not the appropriate testing day and require the use of some other day or period that will more accurately reflect the ownership of the partnership and thereby the actual aggregate deferral to the partners where the partners engage in a transaction that has as its principal purpose the avoidance of the principles of this section. Thus, for example the preceding sentence would apply where there is a transfer of an interest in the partnership that results in a temporary transfer of that interest principally for purposes of qualifying for a specific taxable year under the principles of this section. For purposes of this section, deferral to each partner is measured in terms of months from the end of the partnership's taxable year forward to the end of the partner's taxable year.


(ii) *Determination of the taxable year of a partner or partnership that uses a 52-53-week taxable year.* For purposes of the calculation described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the taxable year of a partner or partnership that uses a 52-53-week taxable year must be the same year determined under the rules of section 441(f) and the regulations thereunder with respect to the inclusion of income by the partner or partnership.


(iii) *Special de minimis rule.* If the taxable year that results in the least aggregate deferral produces an aggregate deferral that is less than .5 when compared to the aggregate deferral of the current taxable year, the partnership's current taxable year will be treated as the taxable year with the least aggregate deferral. Thus, the partnership will not be permitted to change its taxable year.


(iv) *Examples.* The principles of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(4) *Measurement of partner's profits and capital interest*—


(i) *In general.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(4) apply in determining the majority interest taxable year, the principal partners' taxable year, and the least aggregate deferral taxable year.


(ii) *Profits interest*—(A) *In general.* For purposes of section 706(b), a partner's interest in partnership profits is generally the partner's percentage share of partnership profits for the current partnership taxable year. If the partnership does not expect to have net income for the current partnership taxable year, then a partner's interest in partnership profits instead must be the partner's percentage share of partnership net income for the first taxable year in which the partnership expects to have net income.


(B) *Percentage share of partnership net income.* The partner's percentage share of partnership net income for a partnership taxable year is the ratio of: the partner's distributive share of partnership net income for the taxable year, to the partnership's net income for the year. If a partner's percentage share of partnership net income for the taxable year depends on the amount or nature of partnership income for that year (due to, for example, preferred returns or special allocations of specific partnership items), then the partnership must make a reasonable estimate of the amount and nature of its income for the taxable year. This estimate must be based on all facts and circumstances known to the partnership as of the first day of the current partnership taxable year. The partnership must then use this estimate in determining the partners' interests in partnership profits for the taxable year.


(C) *Distributive share.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii), a partner's distributive share of partnership net income is determined by taking into account all rules and regulations affecting that determination, including, without limitation, sections 704(b), (c), and (e), 736, and 743.


(iii) *Capital interest.* Generally, a partner's interest in partnership capital is determined by reference to the assets of the partnership that the partner would be entitled to upon withdrawal from the partnership or upon liquidation of the partnership. If the partnership maintains capital accounts in accordance with § 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv), then for purposes of section 706(b), the partnership may assume that a partner's interest in partnership capital is the ratio of the partner's capital account to all partners' capital accounts as of the first day of the partnership taxable year.


(5) *Taxable year of a partnership with tax-exempt partners*—(i) *Certain tax-exempt partners disregarded.* In determining the taxable year (the current year) of a partnership under section 706(b) and the regulations thereunder, a partner that is tax-exempt under section 501(a) shall be disregarded if such partner was not subject to tax, under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, on any income attributable to its investment in the partnership during the partnership's taxable year immediately preceding the current year. However, if a partner that is tax-exempt under section 501(a) was not a partner during the partnership's immediately preceding taxable year, such partner will be disregarded for the current year if the partnership reasonably believes that the partner will not be subject to tax, under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, on any income attributable to such partner's investment in the partnership during the current year.


(ii) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(iii) *Effective date.* The provisions of this paragraph (b)(5) are applicable for taxable years beginning on or after July 23, 2002. For taxable years beginning before July 23, 2002, see § 1.706-3T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 2002. 


(6) *Certain foreign partners disregarded*—(i) *Interests of disregarded foreign partners not taken into account.* In determining the taxable year (the current taxable year) of a partnership under section 706(b) and the regulations thereunder, any interest held by a disregarded foreign partner is not taken into account. A foreign partner is a disregarded foreign partner unless such partner is allocated any gross income of the partnership that was effectively connected (or treated as effectively connected) with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States during the partnership's taxable year immediately preceding the current taxable year (or, if such partner was not a partner during the partnership's immediately preceding taxable year, the partnership reasonably believes that the partner will be allocated any such income during the current taxable year) and taxation of that income is not otherwise precluded under any U.S. income tax treaty. 


(ii) *Definition of foreign partner.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(6), a foreign partner is any partner that is not a United States person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)), except that a partner that is a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957(a)) in which a United States shareholder (as defined in section 951(b)) owns (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock is not treated as a foreign partner.


(iii) *Minority interest rule.* If each partner that is not a disregarded foreign partner under paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section (regarded partner) holds less than a 10-percent interest, and the regarded partners, in the aggregate, hold less than a 20-percent interest in the capital and profits of the partnership, then paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section does not apply. In determining ownership in a partnership for purposes of this paragraph (b)(6)(iii), each regarded partner is treated as owning any interest in the partnership owned by a related partner. For this purpose, partners are treated as related if they are related within the meaning of sections 267(b) or 707(b) (using the language “10 percent” instead of “50 percent” each place it appears). However, for purposes of determining if partners hold less than a 20-percent interest in the aggregate, the same interests will not be considered as being owned by more than one regarded partner. 


(iv) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(6) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(v) *Applicability dates*—(A) *Generally.* The provisions of this paragraph (b)(6) (other than paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section and paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section to the extent described in the next sentence) apply to partnership taxable years, other than those of an existing partnership, that begin on or after July 23, 2002. The provisions in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section relating to controlled foreign corporations apply to taxable years of foreign corporations ending on or after October 1, 2019, and taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end. For taxable years of foreign corporations ending before October 1, 2019, and taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end, a taxpayer may apply such provisions to the last taxable year of a foreign corporation beginning before January 1, 2018, and each subsequent taxable year of the foreign corporation, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years of the foreign corporation end, provided that the taxpayer and United States persons that are related (within the meaning of section 267 or 707) to the taxpayer consistently apply such provisions with respect to all foreign corporations. For taxable years of foreign corporations ending before October 1, 2019, and taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end, where the taxpayer does not apply the provisions of paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section relating to controlled foreign corporations, see paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section as in effect and contained in 26 CFR part 1, as revised April 1, 2020. The provisions of paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section apply to partnership taxable years, other than those of an existing partnership or an interim period partnership, that begin on or after August 3, 2015. For partnership taxable years beginning on or after July 23, 2002, and before August 3, 2015, see the provisions of § 1.706-1(b)(6)(iii) as contained in the 26 CFR part 1 on July 31, 2015. For purposes of paragraph (b)(6) of this section, an existing partnership is a partnership that was formed prior to September 23, 2002, and an interim period partnership is a partnership that was formed on or after September 23, 2002, and prior to August 3, 2015.


(B) *Voluntary change in taxable year.* An existing partnership may change its taxable year to a year determined in accordance with this section. An existing partnership that makes such a change prior to August 3, 2015 will generally cease to be exempted from the requirements of this paragraph (b)(6) of this section, and thus will be subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section, except for paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section—instead, such partnership will be subject to the provisions of § 1.706-1(b)(6)(iii) as contained in the 26 CFR part 1 on July 31, 2015. An existing partnership that makes such a change on or after August 3, 2015 will cease to be exempted from the requirements of this paragraph (b)(6). An interim period partnership may change its taxable year to a year determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section. An interim period partnership that makes such a change will cease to be exempted from the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section.


(C) *Subsequent sale or exchange of interests.* If an existing partnership or an interim period partnership terminates under section 708(b)(1)(B), the resulting partnership is not an existing partnership or an interim period partnership for purposes of paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section.


(D) *Transition rule.* If, in the first taxable year beginning on or after July 23, 2002, an existing partnership voluntarily changes its taxable year to a year determined in accordance with this paragraph (b)(6), then the partners of that partnership may apply the provisions of § 1.702-3T to take into account all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit attributable to the partnership year of change ratably over a four-year period. If, in a partnership taxable year beginning on or after August 3, 2015, an interim period partnership voluntarily changes its taxable year to a year determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section, then the partners of that partnership may apply the provisions of § 1.702-3T to take into account all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit attributable to the partnership year of change ratably over a four-year period.


(7) *Adoption of taxable year.* A newly-formed partnership may adopt, in accordance with § 1.441-1(c), its required taxable year, a taxable year elected under section 444, or a 52-53-week taxable year ending with reference to its required taxable year or a taxable year elected under section 444 without securing the approval of the Commissioner. If a newly-formed partnership wants to adopt any other taxable year, it must establish a business purpose and secure the approval of the Commissioner under section 442.


(8) *Change in taxable year*—(i) *Partnerships*—(A) *Approval required.* An existing partnership may change its taxable year only by securing the approval of the Commissioner under section 442 or making an election under section 444. However, a partnership may obtain automatic approval for certain changes, including a change to its required taxable year, pursuant to administrative procedures published by the Commissioner.


(B) *Short period tax return.* A partnership that changes its taxable year must make its return for a short period in accordance with section 443, but must not annualize the partnership taxable income.


(C) *Change in required taxable year.* If a partnership is required to change to its majority interest taxable year, then no further change in the partnership's required taxable year is required for either of the two years following the year of the change. This limitation against a second change within a three-year period applies only if the first change was to the majority interest taxable year and does not apply following a change in the partnership's taxable year to the principal partners' taxable year or the least aggregate deferral taxable year.


(ii) *Partners.* Except as otherwise provided in the Internal Revenue Code or the regulations thereunder (e.g., section 859 regarding real estate investment trusts or § 1.442-2(c) regarding a subsidiary changing to its consolidated parent's taxable year), a partner may not change its taxable year without securing the approval of the Commissioner under section 442. However, certain partners may be eligible to obtain automatic approval to change their taxable years pursuant to the regulations or administrative procedures published by the Commissioner. A partner that changes its taxable year must make its return for a short period in accordance with section 443.


(9) *Retention of taxable year.* In certain cases, a partnership will be required to change its taxable year unless it obtains the approval of the Commissioner under section 442, or makes an election under section 444, to retain its current taxable year. For example, a partnership using a taxable year that corresponds to its required taxable year must obtain the approval of the Commissioner to retain such taxable year if its required taxable year changes as a result of a change in ownership, unless the partnership previously obtained approval for its current taxable year or, if appropriate, makes an election under section 444.


(10) *Procedures for obtaining approval or making a section 444 election.* See § 1.442-1(b) for procedures to obtain the approval of the Commissioner (automatically or otherwise) to adopt, change, or retain a taxable year. See §§ 1.444-1T and 1.444-2T for qualifications, and § 1.444-3T for procedures, for making an election under section 444.


(11) *Effect of partner elections under section 444—(i) Election taken into account.* For purposes of section 706(b)(1)(B), any section 444 election by a partner in a partnership shall be taken into account in determining the taxable year of the partnership. See § 1.7519-1T(d), *Example (4).*

(ii) *Effective date.* The provisions of this paragraph (b)(11) are applicable for taxable years beginning on or after July 23, 2002. For taxable years beginning before July 23, 2002, see § 1.706-3T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 2002. 


(c) *Closing of partnership year*—(1) *General rule.* Section 706(c) and this paragraph provide rules governing the closing of partnership years. The closing of a partnership taxable year or a termination of a partnership for Federal income tax purposes is not necessarily governed by the “dissolution”, “liquidation”, etc., of a partnership under State or local law. The taxable year of a partnership shall not close as the result of the death of a partner, the entry of a new partner, the liquidation of a partner's entire interest in the partnership (as defined in section 761(d)), or the sale or exchange of a partner's interest in the partnership, except in the case of a termination of a partnership and except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. In the case of termination, the partnership taxable year closes for all partners as of the date of termination. See section 708(b) and paragraph (b) of § 1.708-1. 


(2) *Disposition of entire interest*—(i) *In general.* A partnership taxable year shall close with respect to a partner who sells or exchanges his entire interest in the partnership, with respect to a partner whose entire interest in the partnership is liquidated, and with respect to a partner who dies. In the case of a death, liquidation, or sale or exchange of a partner's entire interest in the partnership, the partner shall include in his taxable income for his taxable year within or with which the partner's interest in the partnership ends the partner's distributive share of items described in section 702(a) and any guaranteed payments under section 707(c) for the partnership taxable year ending with the date of such termination. If the decedent partner's estate or other successor sells or exchanges its entire interest in the partnership, or if its entire interest is liquidated, the partnership taxable year with respect to the estate or other successor in interest shall close on the date of such sale or exchange, or the date of the completion of the liquidation. The sale or exchange of a partnership interest does not, for the purpose of this rule, include any transfer of a partnership interest which occurs at death as a result of inheritance or any testamentary disposition.


(ii) *Example.* H is a partner of a partnership having a taxable year ending December 31. Both H and his wife W are on a calendar year and file joint returns. H dies on March 31, 2016. Administration of the estate is completed and the estate, including the partnership interest, is distributed to W as legatee on November 30, 2016. Such distribution by the estate is not a sale or exchange of H's partnership interest. The taxable year of the partnership will close with respect to H on March 31, 2016, and H will include in his final return for his final taxable year (January 1, 2016, through March 31, 2016) his distributive share of partnership items for that period under the rules of sections 706(d)(2), 706(d)(3), and § 1.706-4. W will include in her return for the taxable year ending December 31, 2016, her distributive share of partnership items for the period of April 1, 2016, through December 31, 2016, under the rules of sections 706(d)(2), 706(d)(3), and § 1.706-4.


(iii) *Deemed dispositions.* A deemed disposition of the partner's interest pursuant to § 1.1502-76(b)(2)(vi) (relating to corporate partners that become or cease to be members of a consolidated group within the meaning of §§ 1.1502-1(h)), 1.1362-3(c)(1) (relating to the termination of the subchapter S election of an S corporation partner), or 1.1377-1(b)(3)(iv) (regarding an election to terminate the taxable year of an S corporation partner), shall be treated as a disposition of the partner's entire interest in the partnership solely for purposes of section 706.


(3) *Disposition of less than entire interest.* If a partner sells or exchanges a part of his interest in a partnership, or if the interest of a partner is reduced, the partnership taxable year shall continue to its normal end. 


(4) *Determination of distributive shares.* See section 706(d)(2), 706(d)(3), and § 1.706-4 for rules regarding the methods to be used in determining the distributive shares of items described in section 702(a) for partners whose interests in the partnership vary during the partnership's taxable year as a result of a disposition of a partner's entire interest in a partnership as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section or as a result of a disposition of less than a partner's entire interest as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(5) *Transfer of interest by gift.* The transfer of a partnership interest by gift does not close the partnership taxable year with respect to the donor. However, the income up to the date of gift attributable to the donor's interest shall be allocated to him under section 704(e)(2).


(6) *Foreign taxes.* For rules relating to the treatment of foreign taxes paid or accrued by a partnership, see § 1.901-2(f)(4)(i) and (f)(4)(ii).


(d) *Effective/applicability date.* (1) The rules for paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply for partnership taxable years ending on or after May 17, 2002, except for paragraphs (b)(5) and (6) of this section, which generally apply to partnership taxable years beginning on or after July 23, 2002 (however, see paragraphs (b)(5)(iii) and (b)(6)(v) of this section for certain exceptions to and transition relief from the applicability dates of paragraphs (b)(5) and (6) of this section).


(2) The rules for paragraph (c)(1) of this section apply for partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 1953. All other paragraphs under paragraph (c) of this section apply for partnership taxable years that begin on or after August 3, 2015.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11814, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7286, 38 FR 26912, Sept. 27, 1973; T.D. 8123, 52 FR 3623, Feb. 5, 1987; T.D. 8996, 67 FR 35020, May 17, 2002; T.D. 9009, 67 FR 48019, July 23, 2002; T.D. 9576, 77 FR 8124, Feb. 14, 2012; T.D. 9728, 80 FR 45877, Aug. 3, 2015; 80 FR 68243, Nov. 4, 2015; T.D. 9908, 85 FR 59434, Sept. 22, 2020]






