# § 63.11095   What are my reporting requirements?

(a) *Reporting requirements for performance tests.* Prior to November 4, 2024, each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit performance test reports to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on November 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). As required by § 63.7(g)(2)(iv), you must include the value for the combustion zone temperature operating parameter limit set based on your performance test in the performance test report. If the monitoring alternative in § 63.11092(h) is used, indicate that this monitoring alternative is being used, identify each loading rack that loads gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart, and report the highest instantaneous pressure monitored during the performance test or performance evaluation for each identified loading rack. Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.


(b) *Reporting requirements for performance evaluations.* Prior to November 4, 2024, each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit performance evaluations to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on November 4, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). If the monitoring alternative in § 63.11092(h) is used, indicate that this monitoring alternative is being used, identify each loading rack that loads gasoline cargo tanks at the bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart, and report the highest instantaneous pressure monitored during the performance test or performance evaluation for each identified loading rack. The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.


(c) *Reporting requirements prior to May 8, 2027.* Prior to May 8, 2027, each owner or operator of a source subject to the requirements of this subpart shall submit reports as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.


(1) Each owner or operator of a bulk terminal or a pipeline breakout station subject to the control requirements of this subpart shall include in a semiannual compliance report to the Administrator the following information, as applicable:


(i) For storage vessels, if you are complying with options 2(a), 2(b), or 2(d) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 60.115b(a), (b), or (c) of this chapter, depending upon the control equipment installed, or, if you are complying with option 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 63.1066.


(ii) For loading racks, each loading of a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation had not been previously obtained by the facility.


(iii) For equipment leak inspections, the number of equipment leaks not repaired within 15 days after detection.


(iv) For storage vessels complying with § 63.11087(b) after January 10, 2011, the storage vessel's Notice of Compliance Status information can be included in the next semi-annual compliance report in lieu of filing a separate Notification of Compliance Status report under § 63.11093.


(2) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to the control requirements of this subpart shall submit an excess emissions report to the Administrator at the time the semiannual compliance report is submitted. Excess emissions events under this subpart, and the information to be included in the excess emissions report, are specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Each instance of a non-vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank loading at the facility in which the owner or operator failed to take steps to assure that such cargo tank would not be reloaded at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank was obtained.


(ii) Each reloading of a non-vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank at the facility before vapor tightness documentation for that cargo tank is obtained by the facility in accordance with § 63.11094(b).


(iii) Each exceedance or failure to maintain, as appropriate, the monitored operating parameter value determined under § 63.11092(b). The report shall include the monitoring data for the days on which exceedances or failures to maintain have occurred, and a description and timing of the steps taken to repair or perform maintenance on the vapor collection and processing systems or the CMS.


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) For each occurrence of an equipment leak for which no repair attempt was made within 5 days or for which repair was not completed within 15 days after detection:


(A) The date on which the leak was detected;


(B) The date of each attempt to repair the leak;


(C) The reasons for the delay of repair; and


(D) The date of successful repair.


(3) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline plant or a pipeline pumping station shall submit a semiannual excess emissions report, including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (c)(2)(v) of this section, only for a 6-month period during which an excess emission event has occurred. If no excess emission events have occurred during the previous 6-month period, no report is required.


(d) *Reporting requirements for semiannual reports on or after May 8, 2027.* On or after May 8, 2027, you must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports with the applicable information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section following the procedure specified in paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) Report the following general facility information:


(i) Facility name.


(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, and State.


(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(iv) The following information for the contact person:


(A) Name.


(B) Mailing address.


(C) Telephone number.


(D) Email address.


(v) The type of facility (bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput less than 4,000 gallons per day; bulk gasoline plant with an annual average gasoline throughput of 4,000 gallons per day or more; bulk gasoline terminal with a gasoline throughput (total of all racks) less than 250,000 gallons per day; bulk gasoline terminal with a gasoline throughput (total of all racks) of 250,000 gallons per day or more; pipeline breakout station; or pipeline pumping station).


(vi) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.


(vii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (d)(1)(vii).


(2) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the provision in § 63.11092(e)(2)(i) by monitoring the combustion zone temperature, for each pressure CPMS used to comply with the requirements in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter, and for each vapor recovery system used to comply with the provisions in item 3 of table 3 to this subpart, report the following information for the CMS:


(i) For all instances when the temperature CPMS measured 3-hour rolling averages below the established operating limit or when the vapor collection system pressure exceeded the maximum loading pressure specified in § 60.502a(h) when liquid product was being loaded into gasoline cargo tanks or when the TOC CEMS measured 3-hour rolling average concentrations higher than the applicable emission limitation when the vapor recovery system was operating:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation.


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.


(C) Each 3-hour rolling average combustion zone temperature, average pressure, or 3-hour rolling average TOC concentration during the deviation. For TOC concentration, indicate whether methane is excluded from the TOC concentration.


(D) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(E) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(F) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.


(ii) For all instances that the temperature CPMS for measuring the combustion zone temperature or pressure CPMS was not operating or out of control when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks, or the TOC CEMS was not operating or was out of control when the vapor recovery system was operating:


(A) The date and start time of the deviation.


(B) The duration of the deviation in hours.


(C) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(D) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(E) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken. For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, the corrective action taken shall include an indication of the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter.


(F) For TOC CEMS outages where the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter is used, report either an indication that there were no deviations from the operating limits when using the limited alternative or report the number of each of the following types of deviations that occurred during the use of the limited alternative for vapor recovery systems in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter.


(*1*) The number of adsorption cycles when the quantity of liquid product loaded in gasoline cargo tanks exceeded the operating limit established in § 60.504a(e)(1) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*2*) The number of desorption cycles when the vacuum pressure was below the average vacuum pressure as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(i) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*3*) The number of desorption cycles when the quantity of purge gas used was below the average quantity of purge gas as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(ii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(*4*) The number of desorption cycles when the duration of the vacuum/purge cycle was less than the average duration as specified in § 60.504a(e)(2)(iii) of this chapter. Enter 0 if no deviations of this type.


(3) For each thermal oxidation system used to comply with the provision in § 63.11092(e)(2)(ii) and each flare used to comply with the provision in item 2 of table 3 to this subpart, report:


(i) The date and start and end times for each of the following instances:


(A) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when gasoline vapors were routed to the flare and no pilot flame was present.


(B) Each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes. Additionally, report the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation or an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.


(C) Each 15-minute period for which the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) were not met. You must identify the specific operating limit that was not met. Additionally, report the information in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section, as applicable.


(*1*) If you use the loading rate operating limits as determined in § 60.502a(c)(3)(vii) of this chapter alone or in combination with the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum ratio and the actual ratio of gasoline loaded to total product loaded for the rolling 15-minute period and, if applicable, the required minimum quantity and the actual quantity of gasoline loaded, in gallons, for the rolling 15-minute period.


(*2*) If you use the supplemental gas flow rate monitoring alternative in § 60.502a(c)(3)(viii) of this chapter, the required minimum supplemental gas flow rate and the actual supplemental gas flow rate including units of flow rates for the 15-minute block.


(*3*) If you use parameter monitoring systems other than those specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section, the value of the net heating value operating parameter(s) during the deviation determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.


(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period when “vapors displaced from gasoline cargo tanks during product loading” were routed to the flare or thermal oxidation system and the applicable monitoring was not performed.


(iii) For each instance reported under paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section that involves CMS, report the following information:


(A) A unique identifier for the CMS.


(B) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS.


(C) The cause of the deviation or downtime and the corrective action taken.


(4) For any instance in which liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank for which vapor tightness documentation required under § 63.11094(b) was not provided or available in the terminal's records, report:


(i) Cargo tank owner and address.


(ii) Cargo tank identification number.


(iii) Date and time liquid product was loaded into a gasoline cargo tank without proper documentation.


(iv) Date proper documentation was received or statement that proper documentation was never received.


(5) For each instance when liquid product was loaded into gasoline cargo tanks not using submerged filling, as defined in § 63.11100, not equipped with vapor collection or balancing equipment that is compatible with the terminal's vapor collection system or plant's vapor balancing system, or not properly connected to the terminal's vapor collection system or plant's vapor balancing system, report:


(i) Date and time of liquid product loading into gasoline cargo tank not using submerged filling, improperly equipped, or improperly connected.


(ii) The type of deviation (*e.g.,* not submerged filling, incompatible equipment, not properly connected).


(iii) Cargo tank identification number.


(6) For each instance when gasoline was loaded between gasoline cargo tanks and storage tanks and the plant's vapor balancing system was not properly connected between the gasoline cargo tank and storage tank, report:


(i) Date and time of gasoline loading between a gasoline cargo tank and a storage tank that was not properly connected.


(ii) Cargo tank identification number and storage tank identification number.


(7) Report the following information for each leak inspection and each leak identified under § 63.11089(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter.


(i) For each leak detected during a leak inspection required under § 63.11089(c) and § 60.503a(a)(2) of this chapter, report:


(A) The date of inspection.


(B) The leak determination method (OGI or Method 21).


(C) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were detected.


(D) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.


(E) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.


(F) The total number and types of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.


(ii) For leaks identified under § 63.11089(c) by audio/visual/olfactory methods during normal duties report:


(A) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were identified.


(B) The total number and type of equipment for which leaks were repaired within 15 calendar days.


(C) The total number and type of equipment for which no repair attempt was made within 5 calendar days of the leaks being identified.


(D) The total number and type of equipment placed on the delay of repair, as specified in § 60.502a(j)(8) of this chapter.


(iii) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the start of the reporting period.


(iv) The total number of leaks on the delay of repair list at the end of the reporting period.


(v) For each leak that was on the delay of repair list at any time during the reporting period, report:


(A) Unique equipment identification number.


(B) Type of equipment.


(C) Leak determination method (OGI, Method 21, or audio/visual/olfactory).


(D) The reason(s) why the repair was not feasible within 15 calendar days.


(E) If applicable, the date repair was completed.


(8) For each gasoline storage tank subject to requirements in item 2 of table 1 to this subpart, report:


(i) If you are complying with options 2(a), 2(b), or 2(d) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 60.115b(a) or (b) of this chapter or deviations in measured parameter values from the plan specified in § 60.115b(c) of this chapter, depending upon the control equipment installed, or, if you are complying with option 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart, the information specified in § 63.1066(b).


(ii) If you are complying with options 2(c) or 2(e) in table 1 to this subpart, for each deviation in LEL monitoring, report:


(A) Date and start and end times of the LEL monitoring, and the tank being monitored.


(B) Description of the monitoring event, *e.g.,* monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2); monitoring that occurred on a date other than the visual inspection required under § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(d)(2) of this chapter; re-monitoring due to high winds; re-monitoring after repair attempt.


(C) Wind speed in miles per hour at the top of the tank on the date of LEL monitoring.


(D) The highest 5-minute rolling average reading during the monitoring event.


(E) Whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of gasoline service. If the floating roof was repaired or replaced, also report the information in paragraphs (d)(8)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section for each re-monitoring conducted to confirm the repair.


(9) If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards, then provide a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating parameters, or work practice standards during the reporting period. If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CEMS or CPMS) was inoperable or out-of-control, then provide a statement that there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system was inoperable or out-of-control during the reporting period.


(e) *Requirements for semiannual report submissions.* Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit semiannual compliance reports with the information specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.13. Beginning on May 8, 2027, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for one year, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent semiannual compliance reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Gasoline Distribution Sector Lead. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.



---

[N] [89 FR 39380, May 8, 2024]








