# § 77.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section except as otherwise specified. 


*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of subchapter J to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Affected herd.* A herd of livestock in which there is strong and substantial evidence that *Mycobacterium bovis* exists. This evidence should include, but is not limited to, any of the following: Histopathology, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, bacterial isolation or detection, testing data, or epidemiologic evidence such as contact with known sources of infection.


*Animal.* All species of animals except man, birds, or reptiles. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Animal identification number (AIN).* A numbering system for the official identification of individual animals in the United States that provides a nationally unique identification number for each animal. The AIN consists of 15 digits, with the first 3 being the country code (840 for the United States or a unique country code for any U.S. territory that has such a code and elects to use it in place of the 840 code). The alpha characters USA or the numeric code assigned to the manufacturer of the identification device by the International Committee on Animal Recording may be used as an alternative to the 840 or other prefix representing a U.S territory; however, only the AIN beginning with the 840 or other prefix representing a U.S. territory will be recognized as official for use on AIN tags applied to animals on or after March 11, 2015. The AIN beginning with the 840 prefix may not be applied to animals known to have been born outside the United States.


*APHIS representative.* An individual employed by APHIS who is authorized to perform the function involved. 


*Area veterinarian in charge.* The veterinary official of APHIS who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform the official animal health work of APHIS in the State concerned. 


*Cooperating State and Federal animal health officials.* The State and Federal animal health officials responsible for overseeing and implementing the National Cooperative State/Federal Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication Program. 


*Depopulate.* To destroy all livestock in a herd by slaughter or by death otherwise. 


*Directly.* Moved in a means of conveyance, without stopping to unload while en route, except for stops of less than 24 hours to feed, water, or rest the animals being moved, and with no commingling of animals at such stops.


*Epidemiologic investigation.* An investigation that is conducted by a State in conjunction with APHIS representatives, in which an official test for tuberculosis is conducted on all livestock in any tuberculosis-affected herd in a State or zone, all livestock in any herd into which livestock from the affected herd have been moved, all potential tuberculosis source herds, and all livestock herds and animals that are likely to have been exposed to the affected herd. 


*Herd.* Except for livestock assembled at feedlots, any group of livestock maintained for at least 4 months on common ground for any purpose, or two or more groups of livestock under common ownership or supervision, geographically separated but that have an interchange or movement of livestock without regard to health status, as determined by the Administrator.


*Interstate.* From one State into or through any other State. 


*Interstate certificate of veterinary inspection (ICVI).* An official document issued by a Federal, State, Tribal, or accredited veterinarian certifying the inspection of animals in preparation for interstate movement.


(1) The ICVI must show:


(i) The species of animals covered by the ICVI;


(ii) The number of animals covered by the ICVI;


(iii) The purpose for which the animals are to be moved;


(iv) The address at which the animals were loaded for interstate movement;


(v) The address to which the animals are destined; and


(vi) The names of the consignor and the consignee, and their addresses if different from the address at which the animals were loaded or the address to which the animals are destined.


(vii) Additionally, unless the species-specific requirements for ICVIs provide an exception, the ICVI must list the official identification number of each animal, except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, or group of animals moved that is required to be officially identified, or, if an alternative form of identification has been agreed upon by the sending and receiving States, the ICVI must include a record of that identification. If animals moving under a GIN also have individual official identification, only the GIN must be listed on the ICVI. An ICVI may not be issued for any animal that is not officially identified, if official identification is required. If the animals are not required by the regulations to be officially identified, the ICVI must state the exemption that applies (*e.g.,* the cattle and bison do not belong to one of the classes of cattle and bison to which the official identification requirements of this part apply). If the animals are required to be officially identified but the identification number does not have to be recorded on the ICVI, the ICVI must state that all animals to be moved under the ICVI are officially identified.


(2) As an alternative to recording individual animal identification on an ICVI, if agreed to by the receiving State or Tribe, another document may be attached to provide this information, but only under the following conditions:


(i) The document must be a State form or APHIS form that requires individual identification of animals, or a printout of official identification numbers generated by computer or other means;


(ii) A legible copy of the document must be attached to the original and each copy of the ICVI;


(iii) Each copy of the document must identify each animal to be moved with the ICVI. The document must not contain any information pertaining to other animals; and


(iv) The following information must be included in the identification column on the original and each copy of the ICVI:


(A) The name of the document; and


(B) Either the unique serial number on the document or both the name of the person who prepared the document and the date the document was signed.


*Livestock.* All farm-raised animals.


*Location-based numbering system.* The location-based number system combines a State or Tribal issued location identification (LID) number or a premises identification number (PIN) with a producer's unique livestock production numbering system to provide a nationally unique and herd-unique identification number for an animal.


*Location identification (LID) number.* A nationally unique number issued by a State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority to a location as determined by the State or Tribe in which it is issued. The LID number may be used in conjunction with a producer's own unique livestock production numbering system to provide a nationally unique and herd-unique identification number for an animal. It may also be used as a component of a group/lot identification number (GIN).


*Move.* To carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to aid, abet, cause, or induce carrying, entering, importing, mailing, shipping, or transporting; to offer to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to receive in order to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; or to allow any of these activities.


*National Uniform Eartagging System (NUES).* A numbering system for the official identification of individual animals in the United States that provides a nationally unique identification number for each animal.


*Official eartag.* An identification tag approved by APHIS that bears an official identification number for individual animals. The design, size, shape, color, and other characteristics of the official eartag will depend on the needs of the users, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The official eartag must be tamper-resistant and have a high retention rate in the animal.


*Official eartag shield.* The shield-shaped graphic of the U.S. Route Shield with “U.S.” or the State postal abbreviation or Tribal alpha code imprinted within the shield.


*Official identification number.* A nationally unique number that is permanently associated with an animal or group of animals and that adheres to one of the following systems:


(1) National Uniform Eartagging System (NUES).


(2) Animal identification number (AIN).


(3) Flock-based number system.


(4) Location-based number system.


(5) Any other numbering system approved by the Administrator for the official identification of animals.


*Official seal.* A seal issued by a State or APHIS representative, consisting of a serially numbered, metal or plastic strip, with a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, which forms a loop when the ends are engaged and that cannot be reused if opened, or a serially numbered, self-locking button that can be used for this purpose. 


*Officially identified.* Identified by means of an official eartag or by means of an individual tattoo or hot brand that provides unique identification for each animal. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity. 


*Premises identification number (PIN).* A nationally unique number assigned by a State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority to a premises that is, in the judgment of the State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority a geographically distinct location from other premises. The PIN may be used in conjunction with a producer's own livestock production numbering system to provide a nationally unique and herd-unique identification number for an animal. It may be used as a component of a group/lot identification number (GIN).


*Recognized slaughtering establishment.* Any slaughtering facility operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*), the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 *et seq.*), or State meat or poultry inspection acts that is approved in accordance with 9 CFR 71.21.


*State.* Any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any territory of the United States. 


*State animal health official.* The State official responsible for livestock and poultry disease control and eradication programs. 


*State representative.* A veterinarian or other person employed in livestock sanitary work of a State or a political subdivision of a State and who is authorized by such State or political subdivision of a State to perform the function involved under a memorandum of understanding with APHIS. 


*Transportation document.* Any document accompanying the interstate movement of livestock, such as an owner's statement, manifest, switch order, or vehicle record, on which is stated the point from which the animals are moved interstate, the destination of the animals, the number of animals covered by the document, and the name and address of the owner or shipper. 


*Tuberculosis.* The contagious, infectious, and communicable disease caused by *Mycobacterium bovis.* (Also referred to as bovine tuberculosis.)


*United States.* All of the States.


*United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) approved backtag.* A backtag issued by APHIS that provides a temporary unique identification for each animal.


*Zone.* A defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, manmade, or surveyed boundaries, with mechanisms of disease spread, epidemiological characteristics, and the ability to control the movement of animals across the boundaries of the zone taken into account. 



---

[N] [65 FR 63517, Oct. 23, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 7592, Feb. 20, 2002; 69 FR 64649, Nov. 8, 2004; 70 FR 61026, Oct. 20, 2005; 72 FR 39305, July 18, 2007; 73 FR 54062, Sept. 18, 2008; 78 FR 2064, Jan. 9, 2013; 79 FR 43926, July 29, 2014; 89 FR 39563, May 9, 2024]




