# § 1065.195   PM-stabilization environment for in-situ analyzers.

(a) This section describes the environment required to determine PM in-situ. For in-situ analyzers, such as an inertial balance, this is the environment within a PM sampling system that surrounds the PM sample media (e.g., filters). This is typically a very small volume.


(b) Maintain the environment free of ambient contaminants, such as dust, aerosols, or semi-volatile material that could contaminate PM samples. Filter all air used for stabilization with HEPA filters. Ensure that HEPA filters are installed properly so that background PM does not leak past the HEPA filters.


(c) Maintain the following thermodynamic conditions within the environment before measuring PM:


(1) *Ambient temperature.* Select a nominal ambient temperature, *T*_amb_, between (42 and 52) °C. Maintain the ambient temperature within ±1.0 °C of the selected nominal value.


(2) *Dewpoint.* Select a dewpoint, *T*_dew_, that corresponds to *T*_amb_ such that *T*_dew_ = (0.95*T*_amb_−11.40) °C. The resulting dewpoint will control the amount of water associated with sulfuric acid (H_2_SO_4_) PM, such that 1.1368 grams of water will be associated with each gram of H_2_SO_4_. For example, if you select a nominal ambient temperature of 47 °C, set a dewpoint of 33.3 °C.


(3) *Dewpoint tolerance.* If the expected fraction of sulfuric acid in PM is unknown, we recommend controlling dewpoint within ±1.0 °C. This would limit any dewpoint-related change in PM to less than ±2%, even for PM that is 50% sulfuric acid. If you know your expected fraction of sulfuric acid in PM, we recommend that you select an appropriate dewpoint tolerance for showing compliance with emission standards using Table 1 of § 1065.190 as a guide:


(4) *Absolute pressure.* Use good engineering judgment to maintain a tolerance of absolute pressure if your PM measurement instrument requires it.


(d) Continuously measure dewpoint, temperature, and pressure using measurement instruments that meet the PM-stabilization environment specifications in subpart C of this part. Use these values to determine if the in-situ stabilization environment is within the tolerances specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Do not use any PM quantities that are recorded when any of these parameters exceed the applicable tolerances.


(e) If you use an inertial PM balance, we recommend that you install it as follows:


(1) Isolate the balance from any external noise and vibration that is within a frequency range that could affect the balance.


(2) Follow the balance manufacturer's specifications.


(f) If static electricity affects an inertial balance, you may use a static neutralizer, as follows:


(1) You may use a radioactive neutralizer such as a Polonium (
210Po) source or a Krypton (
85Kr) source. Replace radioactive sources at the intervals recommended by the neutralizer manufacturer.


(2) You may use other neutralizers, such as a corona-discharge ionizer. If you use a corona-discharge ionizer, we recommend that you monitor it for neutral net charge according to the ionizer manufacturer's recommendations.



---

[N] [70 FR 40516, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 32799, June 30, 2008]




