# ยง 62.14351   Definitions.

Terms used but not defined in this subpart have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR part 60, subparts A, B, and WWW.


*Achieve final compliance* means to connect and operate the collection and control system as specified in the final control plan. Within 180 days after the date the landfill is required to achieve final compliance, the initial performance test must be conducted.


*Award contract* means the MSW landfill owner or operator enters into legally binding agreements or contractual obligations that cannot be canceled or modified without substantial financial loss to the MSW landfill owner or operator. The MSW landfill owner or operator may award a number of contracts to install the collection and control system. To meet this increment of progress, the MSW landfill owner or operator must award a contract or contracts to initiate on-site construction or installation of the collection and control system.


*Complete on-site construction* means that all necessary collection system components and air pollution control devices identified in the final control plan are on site, in place, and ready for operation.


*Design capacity* means the maximum amount of solid waste a landfill can accept, as indicated in terms of volume or mass in the most recent permit issued by the State, local, or Tribal agency responsible for regulating the landfill, plus any in-place waste not accounted for in the most recent permit. If the owner or operator chooses to convert the design capacity from volume to mass or from mass to volume to demonstrate its design capacity is less than 2.5 million megagrams or 2.5 million cubic meters, the calculation must include a site-specific density, which must be recalculated annually.


*EPA approved State plan* means a State plan that EPA has approved based on the requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart B to implement and enforce 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc. An approved State plan becomes effective on the date specified in the notice published in the _Federal Register_ announcing EPA's approval.


*Federal Indian Reservation* means for purposes of the Clean Air Act, all land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation.


*Final control plan (Collection and control system design plan)* means a plan that describes the collection and control system that will capture the gas generated within an MSW landfill. The collection and control system design plan must be prepared by a professional engineer and must describe a collection and control system that meets the requirements of 40 CFR 60.752(b)(2)(ii). The final control plan must contain engineering specifications and drawings of the collection and control system. The final control plan must include any alternatives to the operational standards, test methods, procedures, compliance measures, monitoring, recordkeeping or reporting provisions of 40 CFR 60.753 through 60.758 proposed by the owner or operator. The final control plan must either conform with the specifications for active collection systems in 40 CFR 60.759 or include a demonstration that shows that based on the size of the landfill and the amount of waste expected to be accepted, the system is sized properly to collect the gas, control emissions of NMOC to the required level and meet the operational standards for a landfill.


*Indian Country* means all land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation; all dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State; and all Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same.


*Initiate on-site construction* means to begin any of the following: installation of the collection and control system to be used to comply with the emission limits as outlined in the final control plan; physical preparation necessary for the installation of the collection and control system to be used to comply with the final emission limits as outlined in the final control plan; or, alteration of an existing collection and control system to be used to comply with the final emission limits as outlined in the final control plan.


*Modification* means an increase in the permitted volume design capacity of the landfill by either horizontal or vertical expansion based on its permitted design capacity as of May 30, 1991. Modification does not occur until the owner or operator commences construction on the horizontal or vertical expansion.


*Municipal solid waste landfill* or *MSW landfill* means an entire disposal facility in a contiguous geographical space where household waste is placed in or on land. A municipal solid waste landfill may also receive other types of RCRA Subtitle D wastes such as commercial solid waste, nonhazardous sludge, conditionally exempt small quantity generator waste, and industrial solid waste. Portions of a municipal solid waste landfill may be separated by access roads. A municipal solid waste landfill may be publicly or privately owned.


*Negative declaration* letter means a letter to EPA declaring that there are no existing MSW landfills in the State or that there are no existing MSW landfills in the State that must install collection and control systems according to the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc. The negative declaration letter must include the design capacities of any existing MSW landfills with a design capacity less than 2.5 million megagrams or 2.5 million cubic meters.


*Protectorate* means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.


*State* means any of the 50 United States and the protectorates of the United States.


*State plan* means a plan submitted pursuant to section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR part 60, subpart B that implements and enforces 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc. State plans include plans developed by States, local agencies, and protectorates.


*Tribal plan* means a plan submitted by a Tribal Authority pursuant to 40 CFR parts 9, 35, 49, 50, and 81 that implements and enforces 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc.




