# ยง 1500.8   Program income.

(a) *Governmental revenues.* Permit fees are governmental revenue and not program income. (See 2 CFR 200.307(c)).


(b) *Use of program income.* The default use of program income for EPA awards is addition even if the amount of program income the non-Federal entity generates exceeds the anticipated amount at time of the award of the assistance agreement. Unless the terms of the agreement provide otherwise, recipients may deduct costs incidental to the generation of program income from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to any Federal award. (See 2 CFR 200.307(b)). The program income shall be used for the purposes and under the conditions of the assistance agreement. (See 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2)).


(c) *Brownfields Revolving Loan.* To continue the mission of the Brownfields Revolving Loan fund, recipients may use EPA grant funding prior to using program income funds generated by the revolving loan fund. Recipients may also keep program income at the end of the assistance agreement as long as they use these funds to continue to operate the revolving loan fund or some other brownfield purpose as outlined in their respective closeout agreements.


(d) *Other revolving loan programs.* Recipients of EPA funding for other revolving loan fund programs may use EPA grant funding prior to using program income funds generated by the revolving loan fund. Recipients may also keep program income at the end of the assistance agreement as long as they use these funds to continue to operate the revolving loan fund or some other authorized purpose as outlined in their closeout agreement. This paragraph (d) does not apply to EPA's Clean Water State Revolving Fund and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund programs which are subject to their own regulations.



---

[N] [85 FR 61574, Sept. 30, 2020]




