# § 400.155   Other services.

A State may provide the following other services—


(a) *Information and referral services.*

(b) *Outreach services,* including activities designed to familiarize refugees with available services, to explain the purpose of these services, and facilitate access to these services.


(c) *Social adjustment services,* including:


(1) *Emergency services,* as follows: Assessment and short-term counseling to persons or families in a perceived crisis; referral to appropriate resources; and the making of arrangements for necessary services.


(2) *Health-related services,* as follows: Information; referral to appropriate resources; assistance in scheduling appointments and obtaining services; and counseling to individuals or families to help them understand and identify their physical and mental health needs and maintain or improve their physical and mental health.


(3) *Home management services,* as follows: Formal or informal instruction to individuals or families in management of household budgets, home maintenance, nutrition, housing standards, tenants' rights, and other consumer education services.


(d) *Day care for children,* when necessary for participation in a service other than an employability service.


(e) *Transportation,* when necessary for participation in a service other than an employability service.


(f) *Translation and interpreter services,* when necessary for a purpose other than in connection with employment or participation in an employability service.


(g) *Case management services,* when necessary for a purpose other than in connection with employment or participation in employability services.


(h) *Any additional service,* upon submission to and approval by the Director of ORR, aimed at strengthening and supporting the ability of a refugee individual, family, or refugee community to achieve and maintain economic self-sufficiency, family stability, or community integration which has been demonstrated as effective and is not available from any other funding source.


(i) Citizenship and naturalization preparation services, including English language training and civics instruction to prepare refugees for citizenship, application assistance for adjustment to legal permanent resident status and citizenship status, assistance to disabled refugees in obtaining disability waivers from English and civics requirements for naturalization, and the provision of interpreter services for the citizenship interview.



---

[N] [54 FR 5481, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 33603, June 28, 1995; 65 FR 15449, Mar. 22, 2000]




