# § 195.264   Impoundment, protection against entry, normal/emergency venting or pressure/vacuum relief for aboveground breakout tanks.

(a) A means must be provided for containing hazardous liquids in the event of spillage or failure of an aboveground breakout tank.


(b) After October 2, 2000, compliance with paragraph (a) of this section requires the following for the aboveground breakout tanks specified:


(1) For tanks built to API Spec 12F, API Std 620, and others (such as API Std 650 (or its predecessor Standard 12C)), the installation of impoundment must be in accordance with the following sections of NFPA-30 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3);


(i) Impoundment around a breakout tank must be installed in accordance with section 22.11.2; and


(ii) Impoundment by drainage to a remote impounding area must be installed in accordance with section 22.11.1.


(2) For tanks built to API Std 2510 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3) , the installation of impoundment must be in accordance with section 5 or 11 of API Std 2510.


(c) Aboveground breakout tank areas must be adequately protected against unauthorized entry.


(d) Normal/emergency relief venting must be provided for each atmospheric pressure breakout tank. Pressure/vacuum-relieving devices must be provided for each low-pressure and high-pressure breakout tank.


(e) For normal/emergency relief venting and pressure/vacuum-relieving devices installed on aboveground breakout tanks after October 2, 2000, compliance with paragraph (d) of this section requires the following for the tanks specified:


(1) Normal/emergency relief venting installed on atmospheric pressure tanks built to API Spec 12F must be in accordance with section 4 and Appendices B and C of API Spec 12F (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3) .


(2) Normal/emergency relief venting installed on atmospheric pressure tanks (such as those built to API Std 650 or its predecessor Standard 12C) must be in accordance with API Std 2000 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(3) Pressure-relieving and emergency vacuum-relieving devices installed on low-pressure tanks built to API Std 620 must be in accordance with Section 9 of API Std 620 (incorporated by reference, see § 195.3) and its references to the normal and emergency venting requirements in API Std 2000 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).


(4) Pressure and vacuum-relieving devices installed on high-pressure tanks built to API Std 2510 must be in accordance with sections 7 or 11 of API Std 2510 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3).



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-66, 64 FR 15935, Apr. 2, 1999, as amended by Amdt. 195-86, 71 FR 33410, June 9, 2006; Amd .t195-94, 75 FR 48606, Aug. 11, 2010; Amdt. 195-99, 80 FR 186, Jan. 5, 2015; 80 FR 46848, Aug. 6, 2015]




