# § 493.43   Application for registration certificate, certificate for provider-performed microscopy (PPM) procedures, and certificate of compliance.

(a) *Filing of application.* Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, all laboratories performing nonwaived testing must file a separate application for each laboratory location. 


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) Laboratories that are not at a fixed location, that is, laboratories that move from testing site to testing site, such as mobile units providing laboratory testing, health screening fairs, or other temporary testing locations may be covered under the certificate of the designated primary site or home base, using its address.


(2) Not-for-profit or Federal, State, or local government laboratories that engage in limited (not more than a combination of 15 moderately complex or waived tests per certificate) public health testing may file a single application.


(3) Laboratories within a hospital that are located at contiguous buildings on the same campus and under common direction may file a single application or multiple applications for the laboratory sites within the same physical location or street address.


(c) *Application format and contents.* The application must—(1) Be made to HHS or its designee on a form or forms prescribed by HHS;


(2) Be signed by an owner, or by an authorized representative of the laboratory who attests that the laboratory will be operated in accordance with the requirements established by the Secretary under section 353 of the Public Health Service Act; and


(3) Describe the characteristics of the laboratory operation and the examinations and other test procedures performed by the laboratory including—


(i) The name and total number of test procedures and examinations performed annually (excluding waived tests or tests for quality control, quality assurance or proficiency testing purposes);


(ii) The methodologies for each laboratory test procedure or examination performed, or both;


(iii) The qualifications (educational background, training, and experience) of the personnel directing and supervising the laboratory and performing the examinations and test procedures.


(d) *Access and reporting requirements.* All laboratories must make records available and submit reports to HHS as HHS may reasonably require to determine compliance with this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 7143, Feb. 28, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 5222, Jan. 19, 1993; 58 FR 39155, July 22, 1993; 60 FR 20045, Apr. 24, 1995; 68 FR 3702, Jan. 24, 2003]




