# ยง 1201.21   Notice of appeal rights.

When an agency issues a decision notice to an employee on a matter that is appealable to the Board, the agency must provide the employee with the following:


(a) Notice of the time limits for appealing to the Board, the requirements of ยง 1201.22(c), and the address of the appropriate Board office for filing the appeal;


(b) A copy, or access to a copy, of the Board's regulations;


(c) A copy, or access to a copy, of the MSPB appeal form available at the Board's Web site (*http://www.mspb.gov*), and


(d) Notice of any right the employee has to file a grievance or seek corrective action under subchapters II and III of 5 U.S.C. chapter 12, including:


(1) Whether the election of any applicable grievance procedure will result in waiver of the employee's right to file an appeal with the Board;


(2) Whether both an appeal to the Board and a grievance may be filed on the same matter and, if so, the circumstances under which proceeding with one will preclude proceeding with the other, and specific notice that filing a grievance will not extend the time limit for filing an appeal with the Board;


(3) Whether there is any right to request Board review of a final decision on a grievance in accordance with ยง 1201.155 of this part; and


(4) The effect of any election under 5 U.S.C. 7121(g), including the effect that seeking corrective action under subchapters II and III of 5 U.S.C. chapter 12 will have on the employee's appeal rights before the Board.


(e) Notice of any right the employee has to file a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or to grieve allegations of unlawful discrimination, consistent with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 7121(d) and 29 CFR 1614.301 and 1614.302.


(f) The name or title and contact information for the agency official to whom the Board should send the Acknowledgment Order and copy of the appeal in the event the employee files an appeal with the Board. Contact information should include the official's mailing address, email address, telephone and fax numbers.



---

[N] [74 FR 9343, Mar. 4, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 62364, Oct. 12, 2012; 78 FR 21518, Apr. 11, 2013]




