# § 3570.80   Grant closing and delivery of funds.

(a) “Community Facilities Grant Agreement” will be used as the grant agreement between the Agency and the grantee and will be signed by the grantee before grant funds are advanced.


(b) Approval officials may require recipients to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with Federal grant funds and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property as provided by 2 CFR part 200, as subsequently modified.


(c) Approval officials may require recipients to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with Federal grant funds and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property as provided by 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 as subsequently modified.


(d) Grant funds will not be disbursed until they are actually needed by the recipient and all borrower or other funds are expended, except when:


(1) Interim financing of the total estimated amount of loan funds needed during construction is arranged,


(2) All interim funds have been disbursed, and


(3) Agency grant funds are needed before RHS or other loans can be closed.


(e) If grant funds are available from other agencies and are transferred for disbursement by RHS, these grant funds will be disbursed in accordance with the agreement governing such other agencies' participation in the project.



---

[N] [62 FR 16469, Apr. 7, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014; 89 FR 96860, Dec. 6, 2024]








