# § 52.1175   Compliance schedules.

(a) The requirements of § 51.15(a)(2) of this chapter as of May 31, 1972, (36 FR 22398) are not met since Rule 336.49 of the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission provides for individual compliance schedules to be submitted to the State Agency by January 1, 1974. This would not be in time for submittal to the Environmental Protection Agency with the first semiannual report.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) The requirements of § 51.262(a) of this chapter are not met since compliance schedules with adequate increments of progress have not been submitted for every source for which they are required.


(d) *Federal compliance schedules.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of any stationary source subject to the following emission-limiting regulations in the Michigan implementation plan shall comply with the applicable compliance schedule in paragraph (d)(2) of this section: Air Pollution Control Commission, Department of Public Health, Michigan Rule 336.49.


(2) *Compliance schedules.* (i) The owner or operator of any boiler or furnace of more than 250 million Btu per hour heat input subject to Rule 336.49 and located in the Central Michigan Intrastate AQCR, South Bend-Elkhart-Benton Harbor Interstate AQCR, or Upper Michigan Intrastate AQCR (as defined in part 81 of this title) shall notify the Administrator, no later than October 1, 1973, of his intent to utilize either low-sulfur fuel or stack gas desulfurization to comply with the limitations effective July 1, 1975, in Table 3 or Table 4 of Rule 336.49.


(ii) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section who elects to utilize low-sulfur fuel shall take the following actions with respect to the source no later than the dates specified.


(*a*) November 1, 1973—Submit to the Administrator a projection of the amount of fuel, by types, that will be substantially adequate to enable compliance with Table 3 of Rule 336.49 on July 1, 1975, and for at least one year thereafter.


(*b*) December 31, 1973—Sign contracts with fuel suppliers for projected fuel requirements.


(*c*) January 31, 1974—Submit a statement as to whether boiler modifications will be required. If modifications will be required, submit plans for such modifications.


(*d*) March 15, 1974—Let contracts for necessary boiler modifications, if applicable.


(*e*) June 15, 1974—Initiate onsite modifications, if applicable.


(*f*) March 31, 1975—Complete onsite modifications, if applicable.


(*g*) July 1, 1975—Achieve final compliance with the applicable July 1, 1975, sulfur-in-fuel limitation listed in Table 3 of Rule 336.49.


(iii) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section who elects to utilize stack gas desulfurization shall take the following actions with respect to the source no later than the dates specified.


(*a*) November 1, 1973—Let necessary contracts for construction.


(*b*) March 1, 1974—Initiate onsite construction.


(*c*) March 31, 1975—Complete onsite construction.


(*d*) July 1, 1975—Achieve final compliance with the applicable July 1, 1975, emission limitation listed in Table 4 of Rule 336.49.


(*e*) If a performance test is necessary for a determination as to whether compliance has been achieved, such a test must be completed by July 1, 1975. Ten days prior to such a test, notice must be given to the Administrator to afford him the opportunity to have an observer present.


(iv) The owner or operator of any boiler or furnace of more than 250 million Btu per hour heat input subject to Rule 336.49 and located in the Central Michigan Intrastate AQCR. South Bend-Elkhart-Benton Harbor Interstate AQCR, or Upper Michigan Intrastate AQCR shall notify the Administrator, no later than January 31, 1974, of his intent to utilize either low-sulfur fuel or stack gas desulfurization to comply with the limitation effective July 1, 1978, in Table 3 or Table 4 of Rule 336.49.


(v) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section who elects to utilize low-sulfur fuel shall take the following actions with respect to the source no later than the dates specified.


(*a*) October 15, 1976—Submit to the Administrator a projection of the amount of fuel, by types, that will be substantially adequate to enable compliance with Table 3 of Rule 336.49 on July 1, 1978, and for at least one year thereafter.


(*b*) December 31, 1976—Sign contracts with fuel suppliers for projected fuel requirements.


(*c*) January 31, 1977—Submit a statement as to whether boiler modifications will be required. If modifications will be required, submit plans for such modifications.


(*d*) March 15, 1977—Let contracts for necessary boiler modifications, if applicable.


(*e*) June 15, 1977—Initiate onsite modifications, if applicable.


(*f*) March 31, 1978—Complete onsite modifications, if applicable.


(*g*) July 1, 1978—Achieve final compliance with the applicable July 1, 1978, sulfur-in-fuel limitation listed in Table 3 of Rule 336.49.


(vi) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section who elects to utilize stack gas desulfurization shall take the following actions with regard to the source no later than the dates specified.


(*a*) November 1, 1976—Let necessary contracts for construction.


(*b*) March 1, 1977—Initiate onsite construction.


(*c*) March 31, 1978—Complete onsite construction.


(*d*) July 1, 1978—Achieve final compliance with the applicable July 1, 1978, mission limitation listed in Table 4 of Rule 336.49.


(*e*) If a performance test is necessary for a determination as to whether compliance has been achieved, such a test must be completed by July 1, 1978. Ten days prior to such a test, notice must be given to the Administrator to afford him the opportunity to have an observer present.


(vii) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule above shall certify to the Administrator, within five days after the deadline for each increment of progress in that schedule, whether or not the increment has been met.


(3)(i) Paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section shall not apply to a source which is presently in compliance with Table 3 or Table 4 of Rule 336.49 and which has certified such compliance to the Administrator by October 1, 1973. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.


(ii) Any compliance schedule adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.


(iii) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule in this paragraph may submit to the Administrator no later than October 1, 1973, a proposed alternative compliance schedule. No such compliance schedule may provide for final compliance after the final compliance date in the applicable compliance schedule of this paragraph. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.


(4) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (d)(2) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of §§ 51.261 and 51.262(a) of this chapter.


(e) The compliance schedules for the sources identified below are approved as meeting the requirements of § 51.104 and subpart N of this chapter. All regulations cited are air pollution control regulations of the State, unless otherwise noted.


(f) The compliance schedules for the sources identified below are disapproved as not meeting the requirements of § 51.15 of this chapter. All regulations cited are air pollution control regulations of the State, unless otherwise noted.



---

[N] [37 FR 10873, May 31, 1972]


