# ยง 8.510   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Civil penalty* means a final assessment under the provisions of 33 CFR part 1, subpart 1.07 or part 20 of this chapter.


*Coast Guard SIP Advisor* means the Coast Guard marine inspector assigned by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI), to assist in the development of an action plan.


*Company* means the owner of the vessel or any other organization or person, such as the manager or the bareboat charterer, who operates a vessel under the SIP.


*Company Action Plan (CAP)* means the document describing a company's organization, policies, and responsibilities required for participation in the SIP.


*Company SIP Agent* means the individual who is responsible for the Company Action Plan and the Vessel Action Plan development and implementation and who has the authority to bind the company to the terms of these plans.


*Correction Report* means a document which sets out specific vessel deficiencies and is used to record their correction by the company.


*Documented deficiency* means an incident documented in a Coast Guard record in which the condition of a vessel, its equipment, or its operation was not in compliance with Coast Guard regulations.


*Examination Checklist* means any document or form approved in the VAP, that may be used by company employees to record the periodic examinations required by the VAP.


*Inspection Criteria References (ICR)* means the individual pages in the VAP that list each item on the vessel required by regulation to be periodically inspected.


*Inspection Schedule and Verification (ISV)* means the document that lists the items to be inspected and the intervals for their inspection, and on which is recorded the completion of required examinations and tests conducted by designated company employees.


*Prototype SIP plan* means the SIP plans developed for a company or vessel participating in a Coast Guard District-or OCMI-endorsed SIP before August 18, 1998.


*Reportable casualty* means a marine casualty or accident required to be reported under 46 CFR part 4, subpart 4.05 of this chapter.


*Streamlined Inspection Program (SIP)* means the alternative inspection program set out in this subpart.


*Vessel Action Plan (VAP)* means the document that prescribes procedures for maintenance, examination, and inspection of a vessel enrolled in the SIP.




