# ยง 1003.302   Project specific threshold requirements.

(a) *Housing rehabilitation projects.* All applicants for housing rehabilitation projects shall adopt rehabilitation standards and rehabilitation policies before submitting an application. The applicant shall assure that it will use project funds to rehabilitate units only when the homeowner's payments are current or the homeowner is current in a repayment agreement that is subject to approval by the Area ONAP. The Area ONAP administrator may grant exceptions to this requirement on a case-by-case basis. 


(b) *New housing construction projects.* New housing construction can only be implemented through a nonprofit organization that is eligible under ยง 1003.204 or is otherwise eligible under ยง 1003.207(b)(3). All applicants for new housing construction projects shall adopt, by current tribal resolution, construction standards before submitting an application. All applications which include new housing construction projects must document that: 


(1) No other housing is available in the immediate reservation area that is suitable for the household(s) to be assisted; and 


(2) No other sources can meet the needs of the household(s) to be assisted; and 


(3) Rehabilitation of the unit occupied by the household(s) to be assisted is not economically feasible; or 


(4) The household(s) to be housed currently is in an overcrowded housing unit (sharing with another household); or 


(5) The household(s) to be assisted has no current residence. 


(c) *Economic development projects.* All applicants for economic development projects must provide an analysis which shows public benefit commensurate with the ICDBG assistance requested will result from the assisted project. This analysis should also establish that to the extent practicable: reasonable financial support will be committed from non-Federal sources prior to disbursement of Federal funds; any grant amount provided will not substantially reduce the amount of non-Federal financial support for the activity; not more than a reasonable rate of return on investment is provided to the owner; and, that grant funds used for the project will be disbursed on a pro rata basis with amounts from other sources. In addition, it must be established that the project is financially feasible and that it has a reasonable chance of success. 




