# ยง 301.75-17   Funds for the replacement of certified citrus nursery stock.

Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, a commercial citrus nursery may be eligible to receive funds to replace certified citrus nursery stock in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(a) *Eligibility.* A commercial citrus nursery may be eligible to receive funds to replace certified citrus nursery stock removed to control citrus canker if the nursery stock was removed pursuant to a public order after September 30, 2001, and before January 10, 2006.


(b) *Certified citrus nursery stock payments.* A commercial citrus nursery that is eligible under paragraph (a) of this section to receive funds to replace certified citrus nursery stock will, upon approval of an application submitted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, receive a payment calculated using the following rates:


(c) *How to apply for certified nursery stock replacement funds.* The form necessary to apply for funds to replace certified nursery stock may be obtained from any local citrus canker eradication program office in Florida, or from the USDA Citrus Canker Eradication Program, 6901 West Sunrise Boulevard, Plantation, FL 33313. The completed application should be accompanied by a copy of the public order directing the destruction of the trees and its accompanying inventory that describes the number and type of the certified nursery stock removed. If the certified nursery stock was planted in pots, the inventory should specify the size of the container. If the certified nursery stock was bare root plants or in a temporary container, the inventory should specify whether the plant was non-budded or budded. The completed application must be sent to the USDA Citrus Canker Eradication Program, Attn: Commercial Compensation, 10300 Sunset Dr., Suite 150, Miami, FL 33173. Claims for certified nursery stock must be received by August 7, 2006.



---

[N] [71 FR 33172, June 8, 2006]




