# ยง 271.109   Technology analysis and technology implementation plan.

(a) *General.* As part of its RRP, a Class I railroad shall conduct a technology analysis and develop and adopt a technology implementation plan no later than February 17, 2023. A railroad with inadequate safety performance shall conduct a technology analysis and develop and adopt a technology implementation plan no later than three years after receiving final written notification from FRA to comply with this part, pursuant to ยง 271.13(d), or no later than February 17, 2023, whichever is later. A railroad that the STB reclassifies or newly classifies as a Class I railroad shall conduct a technology analysis and develop and adopt a technology implementation plan no later than three years following the effective date of the classification or reclassification or no later than April 18, 2023, whichever is later. A voluntarily-compliant railroad shall conduct a technology analysis and develop and adopt a technology implementation plan no later than three years after FRA approves the railroad's RRP plan.


(b) *Technology analysis.* A technology analysis shall evaluate current, new, or novel technologies that may mitigate or eliminate hazards and the resulting risks identified through the risk-based HMP. The railroad shall analyze the safety impact, feasibility, and costs and benefits of implementing technologies that will mitigate or eliminate hazards and the resulting risks. At a minimum, the technologies a railroad shall consider as part of its technology analysis are: Processor-based technologies, positive train control systems, electronically-controlled pneumatic brakes, rail integrity inspection systems, rail integrity warning systems, switch position monitors and indicators, trespasser prevention technology, and highway-rail grade crossing warning and protection technology.


(c) *Technology implementation plan.* A railroad shall develop, and periodically update as necessary, a technology implementation plan that contains a prioritized implementation schedule describing the railroad's plan for development, adoption, implementation, maintenance, and use of current, new, or novel technologies on its system over a 10-year period to reduce safety risks identified in the railroad's risk-based HMP.


(d) *Positive train control.* Except as required by subpart I of part 236 of this chapter, if a railroad decides to implement positive train control systems as part of its technology analysis and implementation plan, the railroad shall set forth and comply with a schedule for implementation of the positive train control system consistent with the deadlines in the Positive Train Control Enforcement and Implementation Act of 2015, Public Law 114-73, 129 Stat. 576-82 (Oct. 29, 2015), and 49 CFR 236.1005(b)(7).




