# § 45.117   Freeing port area: General.

(a) Where bulwarks on the weather portions of freeboard or superstructure decks form wells, the bulwarks must have the area prescribed in this section and §§ 45.119 and 45.121 for rapidly freeing and draining the decks of water. 


(b) Except as required in §§ 45.119 and 45.121 the minimum freeing port area in square feet on each side of the ship for each well on the freeboard deck and on the raised quarterdeck must be at least as great as A in the following formulas:


(1) Where the length of bulwark (*l*) in the well is 66 feet or less, A = 7.6 + 0.115 (*l*) 


(2) Where (*l*) exceeds 66 feet, A = 0.23 (*l*) 


(c) In ships having erections on deck that are open at either or both ends, provision for freeing the space within such erections must be approved by the Commandant or the assigning authority. 


(d) The lower edges of the freeing ports must be as near the deck as practicable. Two-thirds of the freeing port area required must be provided in the half of the well nearest the lowest point of the sheer curve. 


(e) All freeing port openings in the bulwarks must be protected by rails or bars spaced approximately 9 inches. If shutters are fitted to freeing ports, ample clearance must be provided to prevent jamming. Hinges must have pins or bearings of noncorrodible material. If shutters are fitted with securing appliances, these appliances must be of approved construction. 


(f) The minimum freeing port area for each well on superstructure decks must be one-half of the area required by paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [CGD 73-49R, 38 FR 12290, May 10, 1973, as amended by USCG-2014-0688, 79 FR 58280, Sept. 29, 2014]




