# ยง 620.2   Definitions.

*Agreement to serve or repay* means an agreement under which the individual receiving a CyberCorps SFS scholarship commits to meet the service requirement or to repay the scholarship or the loan as described in ยง 620.6, and to comply with notification and other provisions of the agreement and these rules.


*Commitment Phase* means the period, immediately following the date on which the Scholarship Phase ends, within which SFS recipients must complete their service obligation (employment). The SFS recipient must begin such employment within 18 months and it must be completed, including submission of all required verifiable employment documentation, within 5 years from the date that the Commitment Phase begins. The Commitment Phase is limited to a maximum of five years, unless extended by the Director under ยง 620.4 of this part.


*CyberCorps SFS scholarship recipient (scholarship recipient)* means a student who is selected by an SFS institution for a CyberCorps SFS scholarship and agrees to work after graduation in the cybersecurity mission of a Federal executive agency, Congress (including any agency, entity, office, or commission established in the legislative branch), an interstate agency, a state, local or Tribal government or government-affiliated non-profit considered to be critical infrastructure (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)), or as an educator in the field of cybersecurity at a qualified institution of higher education (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 7442(b)(3)(B)).


*Deferral* means an approved extension of the Commitment Phase.


*Director* means the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) or an NSF official or employee acting for the Director under a delegation of authority.


*Scholarship Phase* means a period when scholarship recipients are enrolled full-time (or, if enrolled in community college, at least half-time) in an approved SFS academic program in cybersecurity.


*Service obligation* means the time period the recipient is required to work in the cybersecurity mission of a Federal executive agency, Congress (including any agency, entity, office, or commission established in the legislative branch), an interstate agency, a state, local or Tribal government or government-affiliated non-profit considered to be critical infrastructure (as defined in 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)), or as an educator in the field of cybersecurity at a qualified institution of higher education (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 7442(b)(3)(B)). The recipient must also obtain prior approval of such employment from the SFS program office. Under this definition, as applied to employment in the cybersecurity mission of a Federal executive agency, creditable service includes periods of employment in paid duty status and excludes periods in unpaid nonduty status.


*SFS institution* means a higher education institution that receives an SFS grant from NSF to recruit, train, and graduate scholarship recipients.


*SFS program office* means an office managing the SFS program through partnership between NSF and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).






