# § 173.313   UN Portable Tank Table for Liquefied Compressed Gases and Chemical Under Pressure.

The UN Portable Tank Table for Liquefied Compressed Gases and chemical under pressure is referenced in § 172.102(c)(7)(iii) of this subchapter for portable tanks that are used to transport liquefied compressed gases and chemicals under pressure. The table applies to each liquefied compressed gas and chemical under pressure that is identified with Special Provision T50 in Column (7) of the Hazardous Materials Table in § 172.101. In addition to providing the UN identification number and proper shipping name, the table provides the minimum design pressures, bottom opening requirements, pressure relief device requirements, and degree of filling requirements for liquefied compressed gases and chemicals under pressure permitted for transportation in a T50 portable tank. In the minimum design pressure column, “small” means a portable tank with a diameter of 1.5 meters or less when measured at the widest part of the shell, “sunshield” means a portable tank with a shield covering at least the upper third of the shell, “bare” means no sunshield or insulation is provided, and “insulated” means a complete cladding of sufficient thickness of insulating material necessary to provide a minimum conductance of not more than 0.67 w/m2/k. In the pressure relief requirements column, the word “Normal” denotes that a frangible disc as specified in § 178.276(e)(3) of this subchapter is not required.









---

[N] [69 FR 76174, Dec. 20, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 34399, June 14, 2005; 78 FR 1091, Jan. 7, 2013; 87 FR 79782, Dec. 27, 2022]




