# § 4274.310   Eligibility requirements—intermediaries.

To be eligible to receive an Agency IRP loan, an intermediary must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.


(a) *Type of entity.* The intermediary must be one of the following types of entities:


(1) A private nonprofit corporation;


(2) A public agency;


(3) An Indian Tribe; or


(4) A cooperative.


(b) *Legal authority.* The intermediary must have the legal authority necessary for carrying out the proposed loan purposes and for obtaining, giving security for, and repaying the proposed loan. If the intermediary is an affiliate of another entity, the intermediary's governing board must be independent of the affiliated entity.


(c) *Proven record.* The intermediary must have a proven lending record of successfully assisting rural business and industry or, for intermediaries that propose to finance community development, a proven lending record of successfully assisting rural community development projects of the type planned. The intermediary must have the capacity to conduct outreach and marketing, the underwriting of loan applications, and provide the servicing and monitoring of its proposed IRP portfolio.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, such record must include recent experience in loan making and servicing with loans that are similar in nature to those proposed by the intermediary and a delinquency and loss rate acceptable to the Agency. Any request for an exception must be specifically addressed in the loan application and be supported with concluding statements that relate to the items specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(2) The Agency may approve an exception to the requirement for loan making and servicing experience provided the intermediary:


(i) Itself has a proven record of successfully assisting (other than through lending) rural business and industry or rural community development projects through technical assistance or business development projects to the type and size of planned ultimate recipient borrowers; and


(ii) Will, before the loan is closed, employ individuals with loan making and servicing experience and qualifications and expertise for the operation and administration of an IRP revolving loan fund as described in § 4274.340(a)(1)(ii). These shall not include contracted staff and staff from affiliates of the intermediary.


(d) *Staff.* The intermediary itself must employ a staff with loan making and servicing expertise acceptable to the Agency. The intermediary may contract for general services, such as, clerical, administrative, and accounting services, and loan packaging. The intermediary may not routinely contract their lending outreach, loan underwriting, management, or day-to-day operations. Essential activities of a business lending operation and the administration of the IRP revolving loan fund must be conducted in-house.


(e) *Capitalization/equity.* The intermediary's balance sheet must have capitalization or equity acceptable to the Agency and deemed sufficient to sustain its lending and business operations.


(f) *Citizens.* At least 51 percent of the outstanding interest or membership in any nonpublic body intermediary must be composed of citizens.


(g) *Delinquent debt.* An intermediary is ineligible to receive an Agency IRP loan if the intermediary or any principal of the intermediary has any delinquent debt to the Federal government. Agency IRP loan funds cannot be used to satisfy the delinquent debt.


(h) *Conditions.* No loans will be extended to an intermediary unless:


(1) There is adequate assurance of repayment of the loan based on the fiscal and managerial capabilities of the intermediary itself; and


(2) The amount of the loan, together with other funds available, is adequate to ensure the continuation or establishment of an effective IRP revolving loan fund or achieve the purposes for which the loan is made.


(i) *Other financing unavailable.* The intermediary must be unable to finance the continuation or establishment of an effective IRP revolving loan fund from its own resources, or through commercial credit, or from other Federal, State, or local programs at reasonable rates and terms.


(j) *Restrictions.* Intermediaries established for the purpose of, or that predominantly use IRP loan funds for, the financial benefit of an affiliate through loan participations or other funding methods will not be allowed.






