# ยง 7.83   Ozark National Scenic Riverways.

(a) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section only:


*Inboard motor* means a marine propulsion system that is enclosed within the hull of the vessel.


*Maximum horsepower* means the maximum horsepower produced by the engine's powerhead. This measurement may be different than the maximum horsepower at the final output or the maximum horsepower rated by the manufacturer.


*Off-peak season* means anytime that is not during peak season.


*Outboard motor* means a marine propulsion system that is mounted on the exterior of the vessel's hull.


*Peak season* means a period of time:


(i) Beginning on the day after the last day of the statewide spring trapping season on public lands, as determined by the Missouri Department of Conservation; and


(ii) Ending on the day before the first day of gigging season for nongame fish, as determined by the Missouri Department of Conservation.


(b) *Restrictions for motorized vessels.* (1) The following actions are prohibited on waters situated within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways:


(i) Operating a motorized vessel with more than one outboard motor, not including an electric trolling motor.


(ii) Operating a motorized vessel with an inboard motor.


(iii) Operating a personal watercraft.


(2) The use of a motorized vessel is allowed on the Current River according to the seasonal restrictions and maximum horsepower limits set forth in table 1 to paragraph (b)(2).


(3) The use of a motorized vessel is allowed on the Jacks Fork River according to the seasonal restrictions and maximum horsepower limits set forth in table 2 to paragraph (b)(3).


(4) The maximum horsepower limits in this section may be exceeded pursuant to a written permit issued by the Superintendent.


(5) Maps indicating the horsepower limits in the various sections of the rivers are located at park headquarters in Van Buren, MO, and on the Ozark National Scenic Riverways website. Signs at designated access points will have information about horsepower limits and seasonal closures in the upper, middle, and lower sections of river. The Superintendent will notify the public of the designated access points in accordance with ยง 1.7 of this chapter.


(6) Operating a motorized vessel in a manner not allowed by this paragraph (b) is prohibited.


(7) The Superintendent may restrict or impose conditions on the use of motorized vessels, or close any portion of the Riverways to motorized vessels, after taking into consideration public safety, protection or park resources, weather conditions and park management objectives. The Superintendent will provide notice of any such action in accordance with ยง 1.7 of this chapter. A violation of any such restriction, condition, or closure is prohibited.


(c) *Scuba Diving.* (1) Scuba diving is prohibited within all springs and spring branches on federally owned land within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways without a written permit from the superintendent.


(2) *Permits.* The superintendent may issue written permits for scuba diving in springs within the boundaries of the Ozark National Scenic Riverways; *Provided,*

(i) That the permit applicant will be engaged in scientific or educational investigations which will have demonstrable value to the National Park Service in its management or understanding of riverways resources. 


(ii) [Reserved]


(d) *Commercial Activities.* The activities listed herein constitute commercial activities which are prohibited within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways, except in accordance with the provisions of a permit, contract, or other written agreement with the United States. The National Park Service reserves the right to limit the number of such permits, contracts or other written agreements, when, in the judgment of the Service, such limitation is necessary in the interest of visitor enjoyment, public safety, or preservation or protection of the resources or values of the Riverways. 


(1) The sale or rental of any goods or equipment to a member or members of the public which is undertaken in the course of an ongoing or regular commercial enterprise. 


(2) The performance of any service or activity for a member or members of the public in exchange for monetary or other valuable consideration. 


(3) The delivery or retrieval within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways of watercraft or associated boating equipment which has been rented to a member or members of the public at a location not within the Riverways, when such delivery or retrieval is performed by a principal, employee or agent of the commercial enterprise offering the equipment for rental and when these services are performed as an integral part, necessary complement, or routine adjunct of or to the rental transaction, whether or not any charge, either separately or in combination with any other charge, is made for these services. 


(4) The performance, by a principal, employee, or agent of a commercial enterprise, within the boundaries of Ozark National Scenic Riverways of any other service or activity for which a fee, charge or other compensation is not collected, but which is an integral part, necessary complement, or routine adjunct of or to any commercial transaction undertaken by that enterprise for which monetary or other valuable consideration is charged or collected, even though such transaction is initiated, performed, or concluded outside the boundaries of the Riverways. 


(5) The solicitation of any business, employment, occupation, profession, trade, work or undertaking, which is engaged in with some continuity, regularity or permanency for any livelihood, gain, benefit, advantage, or profit. 


(e) *Fishing.* (1) Unless otherwise designated, fishing in a manner authorized under applicable State law is allowed.


(2) The superintendent may designate times and locations and establish conditions under which the digging of bait for personal use is allowed.


(f) *Frogs, turtles and crayfish.* (1) The superintendent may designate times and locations and establish conditions governing the taking of frogs, turtles and/or crayfish upon a written determination that the taking of frogs, turtles and/or crayfish:


(i) Is consistent with the purposes for which the area was established; and


(ii) Will not be detrimental to other park wildlife or the reproductive potential of the species to be taken; and


(iii) Will not have an adverse effect on the ecosystem.


(2) Violation of established conditions or designations is prohibited.



---

[N] [38 FR 5851, Mar. 5, 1973, as amended at 41 FR 23959, June 14, 1976; 49 FR 18451, Apr. 30, 1984; 50 FR 43388, Oct. 25, 1985; 56 FR 30696, July 5, 1991; 56 FR 37158, Aug. 5, 1991; 88 FR 86057, Dec. 12, 2023]




