# ยง 1266.2   Authorization and application for advances; obligation to repay advances.

(a) *Application for advances.* A Bank may accept oral or written applications for advances from its members. 


(b) *Obligation to repay advances.* (1) A Bank shall require any member to which an advance is made to enter into a primary and unconditional obligation to repay such advance and all other indebtedness to the Bank, together with interest and any unpaid costs and expenses in connection therewith, according to the terms under which such advance was made or other indebtedness incurred. 


(2) Such obligations shall be evidenced by a written advances agreement that shall be reviewed by the Bank's legal counsel to ensure such agreement is in compliance with applicable law. 


(c) *Secured advances.* (1) Each Bank shall make only fully secured advances to its members as set forth in the Bank Act, the provisions of this part and policy guidelines established by the FHFA. 


(2) The Bank shall execute a written security agreement with each borrowing member which establishes the Bank's security interest in collateral securing advances. 


(3) Such written security agreement shall, at a minimum, describe the type of collateral securing the advances and give the Bank a perfectible security interest in the collateral. 


(d) *Form of applications and agreements.* Applications for advances, advances agreements and security agreements shall be in substantially such form as approved by the Bank's board of directors, or a committee thereof specifically authorized by the board of directors to approve such forms. 


(e) *Status of secured lending.* All secured transactions, regardless of the form of the transaction, for money borrowed from a Bank by a member of any Bank shall be considered an advance subject to the requirements of this part.



---

[N] [58 FR 29469, May 20, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 71278, Dec. 21, 1999; 65 FR 8262, Feb. 18, 2000. Redesignated at 65 FR 44429, July 18, 2000; 67 FR 12851, Mar. 20, 2002; 75 FR 76623, Dec. 9, 2010]




