# § 63.602   Standards and compliance dates.

(a) On and after the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, for each wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, phosphate rock dryer, and phosphate rock calciner, you must comply with the emission limits as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. If a process line contains more than one emission point, you must sum the emissions from all emission points in a process line to determine compliance with the specified emission limits.


(1) For each existing wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, and phosphate rock dryer that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 2002.


(2) For each existing phosphate rock calciner that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, you must comply with the emission limits as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You must comply with the total particulate emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 2002.


(ii) You must comply with the mercury emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on November 3, 2020.


(iii) You must comply with the total fluorides emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart beginning on August 19, 2015.


(3) For each new wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, and phosphate rock dryer that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996 and on or before August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later.


(4) For each new wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, and phosphate rock dryer that commences construction or reconstruction after August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart immediately upon startup.


(5) For each new phosphate rock calciner that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996 and on or before August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits as specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You must comply with the total particulate emission limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later.


(ii) You must comply with the mercury emission limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on August 19, 2015, or upon startup, whichever is later.


(iii) You must comply with the total fluorides emission limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart beginning on August 19, 2015, or upon startup, whichever is later.


(6) For each new phosphate rock calciner that commences construction or reconstruction after August 19, 2015, you must comply with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart immediately upon startup.


(b) For each existing purified phosphoric acid process line that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, you must comply with the provisions of subpart H of this part and paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section beginning on June 10, 2002. For each new purified phosphoric acid process line that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996, you must comply with the provisions of subpart H of this part and paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later.


(1) Maintain a 30-day rolling average of daily concentration measurements of methyl isobutyl ketone equal to or below 20 parts per million by weight (ppmw) for each product acid stream.


(2) Maintain a 30-day rolling average of daily concentration measurements of methyl isobutyl ketone equal to or below 30 ppmw for each raffinate stream.


(3) Maintain the daily average temperature of the exit gas stream from the chiller stack below 50 degrees Fahrenheit.


(c) Beginning on June 10, 2002, you must not introduce into an existing evaporative cooling tower that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 27, 1996, any liquid effluent from any absorber installed to control emissions from process equipment. Beginning on June 10, 1999 or at startup, whichever is later, you must not introduce into a new evaporative cooling tower that commences construction or reconstruction after December 27, 1996, any liquid effluent from any absorber installed to control emissions from process equipment.


(d) For each gypsum dewatering stack system, you must prepare, and operate in accordance with, a gypsum dewatering stack and cooling pond management plan that contains the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section beginning on August 19, 2016.


(e) The gypsum dewatering stack and cooling pond management plan must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. You must submit the gypsum dewatering stack and cooling pond management plan for approval to the Administrator as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.


(1) Location (including latitude and longitude of centroid in decimal degrees to four decimal places) of each gypsum dewatering stack and each cooling pond in the gypsum dewatering stack system.


(2) Permitted maximum footprint acreage of each gypsum dewatering stack and each cooling pond in the gypsum dewatering stack system.


(3) Control measures that you use to minimize fugitive hydrogen fluoride emissions from the gypsum dewatering stack system. If you operate one or more active gypsum dewatering stacks or cooling ponds that are considered new sources as defined in § 63.601, then you must use, and include in the management plan, at least two of the control measures listed in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section for your gypsum dewatering stack system. If you only operate active gypsum dewatering stacks and cooling ponds that are considered existing sources as defined in § 63.601, then you must use, and include in the management plan, at least one of the control measures listed in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section for your gypsum dewatering stack system.


(i) For at least one cooling pond that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to submerge the discharge pipe to a level below the surface of the cooling pond.


(ii) For at least one cooling pond that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to use lime (or any other caustic substance) to raise the pH of the liquid (*e.g.,* the condensed vapors from the flash cooler and evaporators, and scrubbing liquid) discharged into the cooling pond. If you choose this control measure, then you must include in the plan the method used to raise the pH of the liquid discharged into the cooling pond, the target pH value (of the liquid discharged into the cooling pond) expected to be achieved by using the method, and the analyses used to determine and support the raise in pH.


(iii) For all cooling ponds that are considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to reduce the total cooling pond surface area based on a facility specific evaluation plan. If you choose this control measure, then you must include in the facility specific evaluation plan certified by an independent licensed professional engineer or similarly qualified individual. You must also include in the plan the method used to reduce total cooling pond footprint, the analyses used to determine and support the reduction in the total cooling pond surface area, and the amount of total cooling pond surface area that was reduced due to the facility specific evaluation plan.


(iv) For at least one gypsum dewatering stack that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to minimize the surface area of the gypsum pond associated with the active gypsum dewatering stack by using a rim ditch (cell) building technique or other building technique.


(v) For at least one gypsum dewatering stack that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to apply slaked lime to the active gypsum dewatering stack surfaces. If you choose this control measure, then you must include in the plan the method used to determine the specific locations slaked lime is applied. The plan must also include the methods used to determine the quantity of, and when to apply, slaked lime (*e.g.,* slaked lime may be applied to achieve a state ambient air standard for fluorides, measured as hydrogen fluoride).


(vi) For at least one gypsum dewatering stack that is considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to apply soil caps and vegetation, or a synthetic cover, to a portion of side slopes of the active gypsum dewatering stack. If you choose this control measure, then you must include in the plan the method used to determine the specific locations of soil caps and vegetation, or synthetic cover; and specify the acreage and locations where soil caps and vegetation, or synthetic cover, is applied. The plan must also include a schedule describing when soil caps and vegetation, or synthetic cover, is to be applied.


(vii) For all gypsum dewatering stacks that are considered part of your gypsum dewatering stack system, you may choose to establish closure requirements that at a minimum, contain requirements for the specified items in paragraphs (e)(3)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) A specific trigger mechanism for when you must begin the closure process on the gypsum dewatering stack; and


(B) A requirement to install a final cover. For purposes of this paragraph, final cover means the materials used to cover the top and sides of a gypsum dewatering stack upon closure.


(4) You must submit your plan for approval to the Administrator at least 6 months prior to the compliance date specified in § 63.602(d), or with the permit application for modification, construction, or reconstruction. The plan must include details on how you will implement and show compliance with the control technique(s) that you have selected to use. The Administrator will approve or disapprove your plan within 90 days after receipt of the plan. To change any of the information submitted in the plan, you must submit a revised plan 60 days before the planned change is to be implemented in order to allow time for review and approval by the Administrator before the change is implemented.


(f) Beginning on August 19, 2015, during periods of startup and shutdown (as defined in § 63.601), you must comply with the work practice specified in this paragraph in lieu of the emission limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section. During periods of startup and shutdown, you must operate any control device(s) being used at the affected source, monitor the operating parameters specified in Table 3 of this subpart, and comply with the operating limits specified in Table 4 of this subpart.



---

[N] [80 FR 50436, Aug. 19, 2015,, as amended at 85 FR 69512, Nov. 3, 2020]




