# ยง 60-30.9   Interrogatories, and admissions as to facts and documents.

(a) *Interrogatories.* Not later than 25 days prior to the date of the hearing, except for good cause shown, or not later than 14 days prior to such earlier date as the Administrative Law Judge may order, any party may serve upon an opposing party written interrogatories. Each interrogatory shall be answered separately and fully in writing under oath, unless objected to. Answers are to be signed by the person making them and objections by the attorney or by whoever is representing the party. Answers and objections shall be filed and served within 25 days of service of the interrogatory.


(b) *Admissions.* Not later than 14 days prior to the date of the hearing, except for good cause shown, or not later than 14 days prior to such earlier date as the Administrative Law Judge may order, any party may serve upon an opposing party a written request for the admission of the genuineness and authenticity of any relevant documents described in and exhibited with the request, or for the admission of the truth of any relevant matters of fact stated in the request. Each of the matters as to which an admission is requested shall be deemed admitted, unless within 25 days after service, the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the requesting party a sworn statement either (1) denying specifically the matter as to which an admission is requested, or (2) setting forth in detail the reasons why he cannot truthfully either admit or deny such matters.


(c) *Objections or failures to respond.* The party submitting the interrogatory or request may move for an order with respect to any objection or other failure to respond.




