# § 1.905-1   When credit for foreign income taxes may be taken.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules regarding when the credit for foreign income taxes (as defined in § 1.901-2(a)) may be taken, based on a taxpayer's method of accounting for such taxes. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rule. Paragraph (c) of this section sets forth rules for determining the taxable year in which taxpayers using the cash receipts and disbursement method of accounting for income (“cash method”) may claim a foreign tax credit. Paragraph (d) of this section sets forth rules for determining the taxable year in which taxpayers using the accrual method of accounting for income (“accrual method”) may claim a foreign tax credit. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules for taxpayers using the cash method to claim foreign tax credits on the accrual basis pursuant to the election provided under section 905(a). Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for when foreign income tax expenditures of a pass-through entity can be taken as a credit by the entity's partners, shareholders, or owners. Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules for when a foreign tax credit can be taken with respect to blocked income. Paragraph (h) provides the applicability dates for this section.


(b) *General rule.* The credit for foreign income taxes provided in subpart A, part III, subchapter N, chapter 1 of the Code (the “foreign tax credit”) may be taken either on the return for the year in which the foreign income taxes accrued or on the return for the year in which the foreign income taxes were paid (that is, remitted), depending on whether the taxpayer uses the accrual or the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting for purposes of computing taxable income and filing returns. However, regardless of the year in which the credit is claimed under the taxpayer's method of accounting for foreign income taxes, the foreign tax credit is allowed only to the extent the foreign income taxes are ultimately both owed and remitted to the foreign country (in the case of a taxpayer claiming the foreign tax credit on the accrual basis, within the time prescribed by section 905(c)(2)). See section 905(b) and §§ 1.901-1(a) and 1.901-2(e). Because the taxpayer's liability for foreign income tax may accrue (that is, become fixed and determinable) in a different taxable year than that in which the tax is paid (that is, remitted), the taxpayer's entitlement to the credit may be perfected, or become subject to adjustment, by reason of events that occur in a taxable year after the taxable year in which the credit is allowed. See section 905(c) and § 1.905-3(a) for rules relating to changes to the taxpayer's foreign income tax liability that require a redetermination of the allowable foreign tax credit and the taxpayer's U.S. tax liability.


(c) *Rules for cash method taxpayers*—(1) *Credit allowed in year paid.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a taxpayer who uses the cash method of accounting may claim a foreign tax credit only in the taxable year in which the foreign income taxes are paid. Generally, foreign income taxes are considered paid in the taxable year in which the taxes are remitted to the foreign country. However, foreign withholding taxes described in section 901(k)(1)(B), as well as foreign net income taxes described in § 1.901-2(a)(3) that are withheld from the taxpayer's gross income by the payor, are treated as paid in the year in which they are withheld. Foreign income taxes that have been withheld or remitted but which are not considered an amount of tax paid for purposes of section 901 under the rules of § 1.901-2(e) (for example, because the amount withheld or remitted was not a compulsory payment), however, are not eligible for a foreign tax credit. See §§ 1.901-2(e) and 1.905-3(b)(1)(ii)(B) (*Example 2*).


(2) *Payment of contested foreign tax liability.* Under § 1.901-2(e)(2)(i), a foreign income tax liability that is contested by the taxpayer is not a reasonable approximation of the taxpayer's final foreign income tax liability and, therefore, is not considered an amount of tax paid for purposes of section 901 until the contest is resolved. Thus, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a foreign tax credit for a contested foreign income tax liability (or portion thereof) that has been remitted to the foreign country cannot be claimed until such time as the contest is resolved and the tax is considered paid. Once the contest is resolved and the foreign income tax liability is finally determined, the tax liability is treated as paid in the taxable year in which the foreign tax was remitted. See paragraph (c)(1) of this section; see also section 6511(d)(3) and § 301.6511(d)-3 of this chapter for a special 10-year period of limitations for claiming a credit or refund of U.S. tax that is attributable to foreign income taxes for which a credit is allowed under section 901, which for taxpayers claiming credits on the cash basis runs from the unextended due date of the return for the taxable year in which the foreign income taxes are paid (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section).


(3) *Election to claim a provisional credit for contested taxes remitted before contest is resolved.* A taxpayer claiming foreign tax credits on the cash basis may, under the conditions provided in this paragraph (c)(3), elect to claim a foreign tax credit for a contested foreign income tax liability (or a portion thereof) in the year the contested amount (or a portion thereof) is remitted to the foreign country, notwithstanding that the liability is not finally determined and so is not considered an amount of tax paid. Such election applies only for contested foreign income taxes that are remitted in a taxable year in which the taxpayer elects under section 901(a) to claim a credit, instead of a deduction under section 164(a)(3), for taxes paid in such year. To make the election, a taxpayer must file a Form 1116 (Foreign Tax Credit (Individual, Estate, or Trust)) or Form 1118 (Foreign Tax Credit—Corporations), and the agreement described in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section. In addition, the taxpayer must, for each subsequent taxable year up to and including the taxable year in which the contest is resolved, file the annual notice described in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section. Any portion of a contested foreign income tax liability for which a provisional credit is claimed under this paragraph (c)(3) that is subsequently refunded by the foreign country results in a foreign tax redetermination under § 1.905-3(a).


(4) *Adjustments to taxes claimed as a credit in the year paid.* A refund of foreign income taxes for which a foreign tax credit has been claimed on the cash basis, or a subsequent determination that the amount paid exceeds the taxpayer's liability for foreign income tax, requires a redetermination of foreign income taxes paid and the taxpayer's U.S. tax liability pursuant to section 905(c) and § 1.905-3. See § 1.905-3(a) and 1.905-3(b)(1)(ii)(G) (*Example 7*). Additional foreign income taxes paid that relate back to a prior year in which foreign income taxes were claimed as a credit on the cash basis, including by reason of the settlement of a dispute with the foreign tax authority, may be claimed as a credit only in the year the additional taxes are paid (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section). The payment of such additional taxes does not result in a redetermination pursuant to section 905(c) or § 1.905-3 of the foreign income taxes paid in any prior year, although a redetermination of U.S. tax liability may be required due, for example, to a carryback of unused foreign tax under section 904(c) and § 1.904-2.


(d) *Rules for accrual method taxpayers*—(1) *Credit allowed in year accrued*—(i) *In general.* A taxpayer who uses the accrual method of accounting may claim a foreign tax credit only in the taxable year in which the foreign income taxes are considered to accrue for foreign tax credit purposes under the rules of this paragraph (d). Foreign income taxes accrue in the taxable year in which all the events have occurred that establish the fact of the liability and the amount of the liability can be determined with reasonable accuracy. See §§ 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)(A) and 1.461-4(g)(6)(iii)(B). For purposes of the preceding sentence, a foreign income tax that is contingent on a future distribution of earnings does not meet the all events test until the earnings are distributed. A foreign income tax liability determined on the basis of a foreign taxable year becomes fixed and determinable at the close of the taxpayer's foreign taxable year. Therefore, foreign income taxes that are computed based on items of income, deduction, and loss that arise in a foreign taxable year accrue in the United States taxable year with or within which the taxpayer's foreign taxable year ends. Foreign withholding taxes that are paid with respect to a foreign taxable year and that represent advance payments of a foreign net income tax liability determined on the basis of that foreign taxable year accrue at the close of the foreign taxable year. Foreign withholding taxes imposed on a payment giving rise to an item of foreign gross income accrue on the date the payment from which the tax is withheld is made (or treated as made under foreign tax law).


(ii) *Relation-back rule for adjustments to taxes claimed as a credit in year accrued.* Additional tax paid as a result of a change in the foreign tax liability, including additional tax paid when a contest with a foreign tax authority is resolved, relates back and is considered to accrue at the end of the foreign taxable year with respect to which the tax is imposed (the “relation-back year”). Additional withholding tax paid as a result of a change in the amount of an item of foreign gross income (such as pursuant to a foreign transfer pricing adjustment) also relates back and is considered to accrue in the year in which the payment from which the additional tax is withheld is made (or considered to have been made under foreign tax law). Foreign income taxes that are not paid within 24 months after the close of the taxable year in which they were accrued are treated as refunded pursuant to § 1.905-3(a); when subsequently paid, the foreign income taxes are allowed as a credit in the relation-back year. See § 1.905-3(b)(1)(ii)(E) (*Example 5*). For special rules that apply to determine when foreign income tax is considered to accrue in the case of certain ownership and entity classification changes, see §§ 1.336-2(g)(3)(ii), 1.338-9(d), 1.901-2(f)(5), and 1.1502-76.


(2) *Special rule for 52-53 week U.S. taxable years.* If a taxpayer has elected pursuant to section 441(f) to use a U.S. taxable year consisting of 52-53 weeks, and such U.S. taxable year closes within six calendar days of the end of the taxpayer's foreign taxable year, the determination of when foreign income taxes accrue under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is made by deeming the taxpayer's U.S. taxable year to end on the last day of its foreign taxable year.


(3) *Accrual of contested foreign tax liability.* A contested foreign income tax liability is finally determined and accrues for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section when the contest is resolved. However, pursuant to section 905(c)(2), no credit is allowed for any accrued tax that is not paid within 24 months of the close of the relation-back year until the tax is actually remitted and considered paid. Thus, except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, a foreign tax credit for a contested foreign income tax liability cannot be claimed until such time as both the contest is resolved and the tax is considered paid, even if the contested liability (or portion thereof) has previously been remitted to the foreign country. Once the contest is resolved and the foreign income tax liability is finally determined and paid, the tax liability accrues, and is considered to accrue in the relation-back year for purposes of the foreign tax credit. See paragraph (d)(1) of this section; see also section 6511(d)(3) and § 301.6511(d)-3 of this chapter for a special 10-year period of limitations for claiming a credit or refund of U.S. tax that is attributable to foreign income taxes for which a credit is allowed under section 901, which for taxpayers claiming credits on the accrual basis runs from the unextended due date of the return for the taxable year in which the foreign income taxes accrued (within the meaning of this paragraph (d)).


(4) *Election to claim a provisional credit for contested taxes remitted before accrual*—(i) *Conditions of election.* A taxpayer may, under the conditions provided in this paragraph (d)(4), elect to claim a foreign tax credit for a contested foreign income tax liability (or a portion thereof) in the relation-back year when the contested amount (or a portion thereof) is remitted to the foreign country, notwithstanding that the liability is not finally determined and so has not accrued. This election is available only for contested foreign income taxes that relate to a taxable year in which the taxpayer has elected under section 901(a) to claim a credit, instead of a deduction under section 164(a)(3), for foreign income taxes that accrue in such year. If the election is made by a taxpayer with respect to contested foreign income taxes of a controlled foreign corporation, such taxes are treated as deemed paid in the relation-back year and the controlled foreign corporation may deduct the taxes in computing its taxable income in the relation-back year. To make the election, a taxpayer must file an amended return for the taxable year to which the contested tax relates, together with a Form 1116 (Foreign Tax Credit (Individual, Estate, or Trust)) or Form 1118 (Foreign Tax Credit—Corporations), and the agreement described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. In addition, the taxpayer must, for each subsequent taxable year up to and including the taxable year in which the contest is resolved, file the annual notice described in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section. Any portion of a contested foreign income tax liability for which a provisional credit is claimed under this paragraph (d)(4) that is subsequently refunded by the foreign country results in a foreign tax redetermination under § 1.905-3(a).


(ii) *Contents of provisional foreign tax credit agreement.* The provisional foreign tax credit agreement must contain the following:


(A) A statement that the document is an election and an agreement under the provisions of paragraph (d)(4) of this section;


(B) A description of the contested foreign income tax liability, including the name (or other identifier) of the foreign tax or taxes being contested, the name of the country imposing the tax, the name and identifying number of the payor of the contested tax, the amount of the contested tax, and the U.S. taxable year(s) and the income to which the contested foreign income tax liability relates;


(C) The amount of the contested foreign income tax liability in paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B) of this section that has been remitted to the foreign country and the date of the remittance(s);


(D) An agreement by the taxpayer, for a period of three years from the later of the filing or the due date (with extensions) of the return for the taxable year in which the taxpayer notifies the Internal Revenue Service of the resolution of the contest, not to assert the statute of limitations on assessment as a defense to the assessment of additional taxes or interest related to the contested foreign income tax liability described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B) of this section that may arise from a determination that the taxpayer failed to exhaust all effective and practical remedies to minimize its foreign income tax liability, so that the amount of the contested foreign income tax is not a compulsory payment and is not considered paid within the meaning of § 1.901-2(e)(5);


(E) A statement that the taxpayer agrees to comply with all the conditions and requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, including to provide notice to the Internal Revenue Service upon the resolution of the contest; and


(F) Any additional information as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in Internal Revenue Service forms or instructions.


(iii) *Signatory.* The provisional foreign tax credit agreement must be signed under penalties of perjury by a person authorized to sign the return of the taxpayer.


(iv) *Annual notice.* For each taxable year following the year in which an election pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section is made up to and including the taxable year in which the contest is resolved, the taxpayer must include with its timely-filed return the information described in paragraphs (d)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section on Form 1116 or Form 1118 or in such other form or manner prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in Internal Revenue Service forms or instructions.


(A) A description of the contested foreign income tax liability, including the name (or other identifier) of the foreign tax or taxes, the name of the country imposing the tax, the name and identifying number of the payor of the contested tax, the amount of the contested tax, and a description of the status of the contest.


(B) With the return for the taxable year in which the contest is resolved, notification that the contest has been resolved. Such notification must include the date of final resolution and the amount of the finally determined foreign income tax liability.


(C) Any additional information, which may include a copy of the final judgment, order, settlement, or other documentation of the contest resolution, as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in Internal Revenue Service forms or instructions.


(5) *Correction of improper accruals*—(i) *In general.* The accrual of a foreign income tax expense generally involves the determination of the proper timing for recognizing the expense for Federal income tax purposes. Thus, foreign income tax expense is a material item within the meaning of section 446. See § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii). As a material item, a change in the timing of accruing a foreign income tax expense is generally a change in method of accounting. See section 446(e). A change from an improper method of accruing foreign income taxes to the proper method of accrual described in this paragraph (d) is treated as a change in a method of accounting, regardless of whether the taxpayer (or a partner or beneficiary taking into account a distributive share of foreign income taxes paid by a partnership or other pass-through entity) chooses to claim a deduction or a credit for such taxes in any taxable year. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5), an improper method of accruing foreign income taxes includes a method under which foreign income tax is accrued in a taxable year other than the taxable year in which the requirements of the all events test in §§ 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)(A) and 1.461-4(g)(6)(iii)(B) are met, or which fails to apply the relation-back rule in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that applies for purposes of the foreign tax credit, but does not include corrections to estimated accruals or errors in computing the amount of foreign income tax that is allowed as a deduction or credit in any taxable year. Taxpayers must file a Form 3115, Application for Change in Accounting Method, in accordance with Revenue Procedure 2015-13 (or any successor administrative procedure prescribed by the Commissioner) to obtain the Commissioner's permission to change from an improper method of accruing foreign income taxes to the proper method described in this paragraph (d). In order to prevent a duplication or omission of a benefit for foreign income taxes that accrue in any taxable year (whether through the double allowance or double disallowance of either a deduction or a credit, the allowance of both a deduction and a credit, or the disallowance of either a deduction or a credit, for the same amount of foreign income tax), the rules in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii) through (iv) of this section, describing a modified cut-off approach, apply if the Commissioner grants permission for the taxpayer to change to the proper method of accrual. Under the modified cut-off approach, a section 481(a) adjustment is neither required nor permitted with respect to the amounts of foreign income tax that were improperly accrued (or improperly not accrued) under the taxpayer's improper method in taxable years before the taxable year of change.


(ii) *Adjustments required to implement a change in method of accounting for accruing foreign income taxes.* A change from an improper method of accruing foreign income taxes to the proper method described in this paragraph (d) is made under the modified cut-off approach described in this paragraph (d)(5)(ii). Under the modified cut-off approach, the amount of foreign income tax in a statutory or residual grouping (such as a separate category as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(4)) that properly accrues in the taxable year of change (accounted for in the currency in which the foreign tax liability is denominated) is first adjusted upward by the amount of foreign income tax in the same grouping that properly accrued in a taxable year before the taxable year of change but which, under the taxpayer's improper method of accounting, the taxpayer failed to accrue and claim as either a credit or a deduction in any taxable year before the taxable year of change, and next, adjusted downward (but not below zero) by the amount of foreign income tax in the same grouping that the taxpayer improperly accrued in a taxable year before the year of change and for which the taxpayer claimed a credit or a deduction in such prior taxable year, but only if the improperly-accrued amount of foreign income tax did not properly accrue in a taxable year before the taxable year of change. The modified cut-off approach is applied separately with respect to amounts of foreign income tax for which the foreign tax credit is disallowed and to which section 275 does not apply. See, for example, section 901(m)(6). For purposes of the foreign tax credit, the adjusted amounts of accrued foreign income taxes, including any upward adjustment, are translated into U.S. dollars under § 1.986(a)-1 as if those amounts properly accrued in the taxable year of change. To the extent that the downward adjustment in any grouping required under this modified cut-off approach exceeds the amount of foreign income tax properly accruing in that grouping in the year of change, as increased by the upward adjustment, if any, such excess will carry forward to each subsequent taxable year and reduce properly-accrued amounts of foreign income tax in the same grouping to the extent of those properly-accrued amounts, until all improperly-accrued amounts included in the downward adjustment are accounted for. See § 1.861-20 for rules that apply to assign foreign income taxes to statutory and residual groupings. See paragraphs (d)(6)(v) through (d)(6)(ix) of this section for examples illustrating the application of the modified cut-off approach.


(iii) *Application of section 905(c)*—(A) *Two-year rule.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(5)(iii), if the taxpayer claimed a credit for improperly-accrued amounts in a taxable year before the taxable year of change, no adjustment is required under section 905(c)(2) and § 1.905-3(a) solely by reason of the improper accrual. For purposes of applying section 905(c)(2) and § 1.905-3(a) to improperly-accrued amounts of foreign income tax that were claimed as a credit in any taxable year before the taxable year of change, the 24-month period runs from the close of the U.S. taxable year(s) in which those amounts were accrued under the taxpayer's improper method and claimed as a credit. To the extent any improperly-accrued amounts remain unpaid as of the date 24 months after the close of the taxable year in which the amounts were improperly accrued and claimed as a credit, an adjustment is required under section 905(c)(2) and § 1.905-3(a) as if the improperly-accrued amounts were refunded as of the date 24 months after the close of such taxable year. See § 1.986(a)-1(c) (a refund or other downward adjustment to foreign income taxes paid or accrued on more than one date reduces the foreign income taxes paid or accrued on a last-in, first-out basis, starting with the amounts most recently paid or accrued).


(B) *Application of payments.* Amounts of foreign income tax that a taxpayer accrued and claimed as a credit or a deduction in a taxable year before the taxable year of change under the taxpayer's improper method, but that had properly accrued either in the taxable year the credit or deduction was claimed or in a different taxable year before the taxable year of change, are not included in the downward adjustment required by paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section. Remittances to the foreign country of such amounts (accounted for in the currency in which the foreign tax liability is denominated) are treated first as payments of the amounts of tax that had properly accrued in the taxable year claimed as a credit or deduction to the extent thereof, and then as payments of the amounts of tax that were improperly accrued in a different taxable year, on a last-in, first-out basis, starting with the most recent improperly-accrued amounts. Remittances to the foreign country of amounts of foreign income tax that properly accrue in or after the taxable year of change (accounted for in the foreign currency in which the foreign tax liability is denominated) but that are offset by the amounts included in the downward adjustment required by paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section are treated as payments of the amounts of tax that were improperly accrued before the taxable year of change and included in the downward adjustment on a last-in, first-out basis, starting with the most recent improperly-accrued amounts. Additional amounts of foreign income tax that first accrue in or after the taxable year of change but that relate to a taxable year before the taxable year of change are taken into account in the earlier of the taxable year of change or the taxable year or years in which they would have been considered to accrue based upon the taxpayer's improper method. Additional amounts of foreign income tax that first accrue in or after the taxable year of change and that relate to the taxable year of change or a taxable year after the year of change are taken into account in the proper relation-back year, but may then be subject to the downward adjustment required by paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section.


(iv) *Foreign income tax expense improperly accrued by a foreign corporation, partnership, or other pass-through entity.* Foreign income tax expense of a foreign corporation reduces both the corporation's taxable income and its earnings and profits, and may give rise to an amount of foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960 that may be claimed as a credit by a United States shareholder that is a domestic corporation or that is a person that makes an election under section 962. If the Commissioner grants permission for a foreign corporation to change its method of accounting for foreign income tax expense, the duplication or omission of those expenses (accounted for in the functional currency of the foreign corporation) and the associated foreign income taxes (translated into dollars in accordance with § 1.986(a)-1) are accounted for by applying the rules in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section as if the foreign corporation were itself eligible to, and did, claim a credit under section 901 for such amounts. In the case of a partnership or other pass-through entity that is granted permission to change its method of accounting for accruing foreign income taxes to a proper method as described in this paragraph (d), such partnership or other pass-through entity must provide its partners or other owners with the information needed for the partners or other owners to properly account for the improperly-accrued or unaccrued amounts under the rules in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section as if their proportionate shares of foreign income tax expense were directly paid or accrued by them.


(6) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (d) of this section. Unless otherwise stated, the local currency of Country X and Country Y, and the functional currency of any foreign branch, is the Euro (€), and at all relevant times the exchange rate is $1:€1.


(i) *Example 1: Accrual of foreign income tax*—(A) *Facts.* A, a U.S. citizen, resides and works in Country X. A uses the calendar year as the U.S. taxable year and has made an election under paragraph (e) of this section to claim foreign tax credits on an accrual basis. Country X has a tax year that begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. A's wages are subject to net income tax, at graduated rates, under Country X tax law and are subject to withholding on a monthly basis by A's employer in Country X. In the period between April 1, Year 1, and March 31, Year 2, A earns $50,000x in Country X wages, from which A's employer withholds $10,000x in tax. On December 1, Year 1, A receives a dividend distribution from a Country Y corporation, from which the corporation withheld $500x of tax. Country Y imposes withholding tax on dividends paid to nonresidents solely based on the gross amount of the dividend payment; A is not required to file a tax return in Country Y.


(B) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, A's liability for Country X net income tax accrues on March 31, Year 2, the last day of the Country X taxable year. The Country X net income tax withheld by A's employer from A's wages is a reasonable approximation of, and represents an advance payment of, A's final net income tax liability for the year, which becomes fixed and determinable only at the close of the Country X taxable year. Thus, A cannot claim a credit for any portion of the Country X net income tax on A's Federal income tax return for Year 1, and may claim a credit for the entire Country X net income tax that accrues on March 31, Year 2, on A's Federal income tax return for Year 2. A may claim a credit for the Country Y withholding tax on A's Federal income tax return for Year 1, because the withholding tax accrued on December 1, Year 1.


(ii) *Example 2: 52-53 week taxable year*—(A) *Facts.* U.S.C., an accrual method taxpayer, is a domestic corporation that operates in branch form in Country X. U.S.C. uses the calendar year for Country X tax purposes. For Federal income tax purposes, U.S.C. elects pursuant to § 1.441-2(a) to use a 52-53 week taxable year that ends on the last Friday of December. In Year 1, U.S.C.'s U.S. taxable year ends on Friday, December 25; in Year 2, U.S.C.'s U.S. taxable year ends Friday, December 31. For its foreign taxable year ending December 31, Year 1, U.S.C. earns $10,000x of foreign source income through its Country X branch and incurs Country X foreign income tax of $500x; for Year 2, U.S.C. earns $12,000x and incurs Country X foreign income tax of $600x.


(B) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the $500x of Country X foreign income tax becomes fixed and determinable at the close of U.S.C.'s foreign taxable year, on December 31, Year 1, which is after the close of its U.S. taxable year (December 25, Year 1). The $600x of Country X foreign income tax becomes fixed and determinable on December 31, Year 2. Thus, both the Year 1 and Year 2 Country X foreign income taxes accrue in U.S.C.'s U.S. taxable year ending December 31, Year 2. However, pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, for purposes of determining the amount of foreign income taxes accrued in each taxable year for foreign tax credit purposes, U.S.C.'s U.S. taxable year is deemed to end on December 31, the end of U.S.C.'s Country X taxable year. U.S.C. may therefore claim a foreign tax credit for $500x of Country X foreign income tax on its Federal income tax return for Year 1 and a credit for $600x of Country X foreign income tax on its Federal income tax return for Year 2.


(iii) *Example 3: Contested tax*—(A) *Facts.* U.S.C. is a domestic corporation that operates in branch form in Country X. U.S.C. uses an accrual method of accounting and uses the calendar year as its U.S. and Country X taxable year. In Year 1, when the average exchange rate described in § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1) is $1:€1, U.S.C. earns €20,000x = $20,000x through its Country X branch for U.S. and Country X tax purposes and accrues Country X foreign income taxes of €500x = $500x, which U.S.C. claims as a credit on its Federal income tax return for Year 1. In Year 3, when the average exchange rate is $1:€1.2, Country X asserts that U.S.C. owes additional foreign income taxes of €100x with respect to U.S.C.'s Year 1 income. U.S.C. contests the liability but remits €40x to Country X with respect to the contested liability in Year 3. U.S.C. does not make an election under paragraph (d)(4) of this section to claim a provisional credit with respect to the €40x. In Year 6, after exhausting all effective and practical remedies, it is finally determined that U.S.C. is liable for €50x of additional Country X foreign income taxes with respect to its Year 1 income. U.S.C. pays an additional €10x to Country X on September 15, Year 6, when the spot rate described in § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i) is $1:€2.


(B) *Analysis.* Pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the additional liability asserted by Country X with respect to U.S.C.'s Year 1 income does not accrue until the contest is resolved in Year 6. U.S.C.'s remittance of €40x of contested tax in Year 3 is not a payment of accrued tax, and so is not a foreign tax redetermination. Both the €40x of Country X taxes paid in Year 3 and the €10x of Country X taxes paid in Year 6 accrue in Year 6, when the contest is resolved. Once accrued and paid, the €50x relates back for foreign tax credit purposes to Year 1, and can be claimed as a credit by U.S.C. on a timely-filed amended return for Year 1. Under § 1.986(a)-1(a), for foreign tax credit purposes the €40x paid in Year 3 is translated into dollars at the average exchange rate for Year 1 (€40x × $1/€1 = $40x), and the €10x paid in Year 6 is translated into dollars at the spot rate on the date paid (€10x × $1/€2 = $5x). Accordingly, after the €50x of Country X income tax is paid in Year 6 U.S.C. may claim an additional foreign tax credit of $45x for Year 1.


(iv) *Example 4: Provisional credit for contested tax*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as those in paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 3*), except that U.S.C. pays the entire contested tax liability of €100x to Country X in Year 3 and elects under paragraph (d)(4) of this section to claim a provisional foreign tax credit on an amended return for Year 1. In Year 6, upon resolution of the contest, U.S.C. receives a refund of €50x from Country X.


(B) *Analysis.* In Year 3, U.S.C. may claim a provisional foreign tax credit for $100x (€100x translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1) of contested foreign tax paid to Country X by filing an amended return for Year 1, with Form 1118 attached, and a provisional foreign tax credit agreement described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. In each year for Years 4 through 6, U.S.C. must attach the certification described in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section to its timely-filed Federal income tax return. In Year 6, as a result of the €50x refund, U.S.C. must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 1 and for any other affected year pursuant to § 1.905-3, reducing the Year 1 foreign tax credit by $50x (from $600x to $550x), and comply with the notification requirements in § 1.905-4. See § 1.986(a)-1(c) (refunds of foreign income tax translated into U.S. dollars at the rate used to claim the credit).


(v) *Example 5: Improperly accelerated accrual*—(A) *Facts*—(*1*) *Foreign income tax accrued and paid.* U.S.C. is a domestic corporation that operates a foreign branch in Country X. All of U.S.C.'s gross and taxable income is foreign source foreign branch category income, and all of its foreign income taxes are properly allocated and apportioned under § 1.861-20 to the foreign branch category. U.S.C. uses the accrual method of accounting and uses the calendar year as its U.S. taxable year. For Country X tax purposes, U.S.C. uses a fiscal year that ends on March 31. U.S.C. accrued €200x of Country X net income tax (as defined in § 1.901-2(a)(3)) for its foreign taxable year ending March 31, Year 2, for which the average exchange rate was $1:€1. It timely filed its Country X tax return and paid the €200x on January 15, Year 3. U.S.C. accrued and paid with its timely filed Country X tax returns €280x and €240x of Country X net income tax for its foreign taxable years ending on March 31 of Year 3 and Year 4, respectively, on January 15 of Year 4 and Year 5, respectively.


(*2*) *Improper accrual.* On its Federal income tax return for Year 1, U.S.C. improperly pro-rated and accelerated the accrual of Country X net income tax and claimed a credit for $150x, equal to three-fourths of the Country X net income tax of $200x that relates to U.S.C.'s foreign taxable year ending March 31, Year 2. Continuing with this improper method of accruing foreign income taxes, U.S.C. claimed a foreign tax credit of $260x on its U.S. tax return for Year 2, comprising $50x (one-fourth of the $200x of net income tax relating to its foreign taxable year ending March 31, Year 2) plus $210x (three-fourths of the $280x of net income tax relating to its foreign taxable year ending March 31, Year 3). Similarly, U.S.C. improperly accrued and claimed a foreign tax credit on its U.S. tax return for Year 3 for $250x of Country X net income tax, comprising $70x (one-fourth of the $280x that properly accrued in Year 3) plus $180x (three-fourths of the $240x that properly accrued in Year 4). In Year 4, U.S.C. realizes its mistake and, as provided in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, files Form 3115 with the IRS to seek permission to change from an improper method to a proper method of accruing foreign income taxes.


(B) *Analysis*—(*1*) *Downward adjustment.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, in Year 4, the year of change, U.S.C. must reduce (but not below zero) the amount (in Euros) of Country X net income tax in the foreign branch category that properly accrues in Year 4, €240x, by the amount of foreign income tax that was accrued and claimed as either a deduction or a credit in a year before the year of change, and that had not properly accrued in either the year in which the tax was accrued under U.S.C.'s improper method or in any other taxable year before the taxable year of change. For all taxable years before the taxable year of change, under its improper method U.S.C. had accrued and claimed as a credit a total of €660x = $660x of foreign income tax, of which only €480x = $480x had properly accrued. Therefore, the downward adjustment required by paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section is €180x (€660x − €480x = €180x). In Year 4, U.S.C.'s foreign tax credit in the foreign branch category is reduced by $180x (€180x downward adjustment translated into dollars at $1:€1, the average exchange rate for Year 4), from $240x to $60x.


(*2*) *Application of section 905(c*)—(*i*) *Year 1.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, the €200x U.S.C. paid on January 15, Year 3, that relates to its Country X taxable year ending on March 31, Year 2, is first treated as a payment of the €50x of that Country X net income tax liability that properly accrued and was claimed as a credit by U.S.C. in Year 2, and next as a payment of the €150x of that Country X net income tax liability that U.S.C. improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 1. Because all €150x of the Country X net income tax that was improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 1 was paid within 24 months of December 31, Year 1, no foreign tax redetermination occurs, and no redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required, for Year 1.


(*ii*) *Year 2.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, the €280x U.S.C. paid on January 15, Year 4, that relates to its Country X taxable year ending on March 31, Year 3, is first treated as a payment of the €70x = $70x of that Country X net income tax liability that properly accrued and was claimed as a credit by U.S.C. in Year 3, and next as a payment of the €210x = $210x of that Country X net income tax liability that U.S.C. improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 2. Together with the €50x = $50x of U.S.C.'s Country X net income tax liability that properly accrued and was claimed as a credit in Year 2, all €260x of the Country X net income tax that was accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 2 under U.S.C.'s improper method was paid within 24 months of December 31, Year 2. Accordingly, no foreign tax redetermination occurs, and no redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required, for Year 2.


(*iii*) *Year 3.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, the €240x U.S.C. paid on January 15, Year 5, that relates to its Country X taxable year ending on March 31, Year 4, is first treated as a payment of the €60x = $60x of that Country X net income tax liability that properly accrued and was claimed as a credit by U.S.C. in Year 4, and next as a payment of the €180x = $180x of that Country X net income tax liability that U.S.C. improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 3. Together with the €70x = $70x of U.S.C.'s Country X net income tax liability that properly accrued and was claimed as a credit by U.S.C. in Year 3, all €250x of the Country X net income tax that was accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 3 under U.S.C.'s improper method was paid within 24 months of December 31, Year 3. Accordingly, no foreign tax redetermination occurs, and no redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required, for Year 3.


(*iv*) *Year 4.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, €60x = $60x of U.S.C.'s January 15, Year 5 payment of €240x with respect to its Country X net income tax liability for Year 4 is treated as a payment of €60x = $60x of Country X net income tax that, after application of the downward adjustment required by paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, was accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 4, the year of change.


(vi) *Example 6: Failure to pay improperly-accrued tax within 24 months*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as those in paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section (the facts in *Example 5*), except that U.S.C. does not pay its €240x tax liability for its Country X taxable year ending on March 31, Year 4, until January 15 of Year 6, when the spot rate described in § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i) is $1:€1.5.


(B) *Analysis.* The results are the same as in paragraphs (d)(6)(v)(B)(*2*)(*i*) and (*ii*) of this section (the analysis in *Example 5* for Year 1 and Year 2). With respect to Year 3, because the €180x = $180x of Year 4 foreign income tax that was improperly accrued and credited in Year 3 was not paid within 24 months of the end of Year 3, under section 905(c)(2) and § 1.905-3(a) that €180x = $180x is treated as refunded on December 31, Year 5, requiring a redetermination of U.S.C.'s Federal income tax liability for Year 3 (to reverse out the credit claimed). In Year 6, when U.S.C. pays the €240x of Country X income tax liability for Year 4, under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section that payment is first treated as a payment of the €60x = $60x that was properly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 4, and then as a payment of the €180x that was improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 3 and that was treated as refunded in Year 5. Under section 905(c)(2)(B) and § 1.905-3(a), that Year 6 payment of accrued but unpaid tax is a second foreign tax redetermination for Year 3 that also requires a redetermination of U.S.C.'s U.S. tax liability. Under § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2), the €180x of redetermined tax for Year 3 is translated into dollars at the spot rate on January 15, Year 6, when the tax is paid (€180x × $1/€1.5 = $120x). Under § 1.905-4(b)(1)(iv), U.S.C. may file one amended return accounting for both foreign tax redeterminations (which occur in two consecutive taxable years) with respect to Year 3, which taken together result in a reduction in U.S.C.'s foreign tax credit for Year 3 from $250x to $190x ($250x originally accrued − $180x unpaid after 24 months + $120x paid in Year 6).


(vii) *Example 7: Additional payment of improperly-accrued tax*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as those in paragraph (d)(6)(v)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 5*), except that in Year 6, Country X assessed additional net income tax of €100x with respect to U.S.C.'s Country X taxable year ending March 31, Year 3, and after exhausting all effective and practical remedies to reduce its liability for Country X income tax, U.S.C. pays the additional assessed tax on September 15, Year 7, when the spot rate described in § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i) is $1:€0.5.


(B) *Analysis.* Under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the additional €100x of Country X income tax U.S.C. paid in Year 7 with respect to its foreign taxable year that ended March 31, Year 3, relates back and is considered to accrue in Year 3. However, under its improper method of accounting U.S.C. had accrued and claimed foreign tax credits for Country X net income tax that related to Year 3 on its Federal income tax returns for both Year 2 and Year 3. Accordingly, under paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(B) of this section U.S.C. must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for both Year 2 and Year 3 (and any other affected years) to account for the additional €100x of Country X net income tax liability, using the improper method it used to accrue foreign income taxes before the year of change. Therefore, three-fourths of the €100x of additional tax, or €75x, is treated as if it accrued in Year 2, and one-fourth of the additional tax, or €25x, is treated as if it accrued in Year 3. Pursuant to § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i), the €75x of tax treated as if it accrued in Year 2 and the €25x of tax treated as if it accrued in Year 3 are converted into dollars using the September 15, Year 7, spot rate of $1:€0.5, to $150x and $50x, respectively. Under § 1.905-4(b)(1)(iii), U.S.C. may claim a refund for any resulting overpayment of U.S. tax for Year 2 or Year 3 or any other affected year by filing an amended return within the period provided in section 6511.


(viii) *Example 8: Tax improperly accrued before year of change exceeds tax properly accrued in year of change*—(A) *Facts.* U.S.C. owns all of the stock in CFC, a controlled foreign corporation organized in Country X. Country X imposes net income tax on Country X corporations at a rate of 10% only in the year its earnings are distributed to its shareholders, rather than in the year the income is earned. Both U.S.C. and CFC use the calendar year as their taxable year for both Federal and Country X income tax purposes and CFC uses the Euro as its functional currency. In each of Years 1-3, CFC earns €1,000x for both Federal and Country X income tax purposes of general category foreign base company sales income (before reduction for foreign income taxes). CFC improperly accrues €100x of Country X net income tax with respect to €1,000x of income at the end of each of Years 1 and 2, even though no distribution is made in those years. In Year 1, for which the average exchange rate is $1:€1, U.S.C. computes and includes in income with respect to CFC $900x of subpart F income, claims a deemed paid foreign tax credit of $100x under section 960(a), and has a section 78 dividend of $100x. In Year 2, for which the average exchange rate is $1:€0.5, U.S.C. computes and includes in income with respect to CFC $1,800x of subpart F income, claims a deemed paid foreign tax credit of $200x under section 960(a), and has a section 78 dividend of $200x. In Year 2, CFC makes a distribution to U.S.C. of €400x of earnings and pays €40x of net income tax to Country X. In Year 3, for which the average exchange rate is $1:€1, CFC makes another distribution to U.S.C. of €500x of earnings and pays €50x in net income tax to Country X. In Year 3, U.S.C. realizes its mistake and seeks permission from the IRS for CFC to change to a proper method of accruing foreign income taxes. In Year 4, for which the average exchange rate is $1:€2, CFC makes a distribution of €700x of earnings and pays €70x of net income tax to Country X.


(B) *Analysis*—(*1*) *Downward adjustment.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(iv) of this section, CFC applies the rules of paragraph (d)(5) of this section as if it claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 for Country X taxes. Under paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, in Year 3, the year of change, CFC must reduce (but not below zero) the amount (in Euros) of Country X net income tax allocated and apportioned to its general category foreign base company sales income group that properly accrues in Year 3, €50x, by the amount of foreign income tax (in Euros) that was improperly accrued in that statutory grouping in a year before the year of change, and that had not properly accrued in either the year accrued or in another taxable year before the year of change. For all taxable years before the year of change, under its improper method CFC had accrued a total of €200x of foreign income tax with respect to its general category foreign base company sales income group, of which only €40x had properly accrued. Therefore, the downward adjustment required by paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section is €160x (€200x—€40x = €160x). In Year 3, CFC's €50x of eligible foreign income taxes in the general category foreign base company sales income group is reduced by €50x to zero. The €110x balance of the downward adjustment carries forward to Year 4, and reduces CFC's €70x of eligible foreign income taxes in the general category foreign base company sales income group by €70x to zero. The remaining €40x balance of the downward adjustment carries forward to later years and will reduce CFC's eligible foreign income taxes in the general category foreign base company sales income group until all improperly-accrued amounts are accounted for.


(*2*) *Application of section 905(c)*—(*i*) *Year 2.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, CFC's payment in Year 2 of the €40x of Country X net income tax that properly accrued in Year 2, before the year of change, is treated as a payment of €40x of foreign income tax that CFC properly accrued in Year 2. The €60x of foreign income tax that CFC improperly accrued in Year 2 that remains unpaid at the end of Year 2 is not adjusted in Year 2. Under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, CFC's payment in Year 3 of €50x of Country X net income tax that properly accrued but was offset by the downward adjustment in Year 3 is treated as a payment of €50x of the remaining €60x of Country X net income tax that CFC improperly accrued in Year 2, the most recent improper accrual. In addition, CFC's payment in Year 4 of €70x of Country X net income tax that properly accrued but was offset by the downward adjustment in Year 4 is treated first as a payment of the remaining €10x of Country X net income tax that CFC improperly accrued in Year 2. Because all €100x of foreign income tax accrued in Year 2 under CFC's improper method of accounting is treated as paid within 24 months of December 31, Year 2, no foreign tax redetermination occurs, and no redetermination of CFC's foreign base company sales income, earnings and profits, and eligible foreign income taxes or of U.S.C.'s $1,800x subpart F inclusion, $200x deemed paid credit, $200x section 78 dividend and U.S. tax liability is required, for Year 2.


(*ii*) *Year 1.* Because all €100x of the tax CFC improperly accrued in Year 1 remained unpaid as of December 31, Year 3, the date 24 months after the end of Year 1, under section 905(c)(2) and § 1.905-3(a) that €100x is treated as refunded on December 31, Year 3. Under § 1.905-3(b)(2)(ii), U.S.C. must redetermine its Federal income tax liability for Year 1 to account for the foreign tax redetermination, increasing CFC's foreign base company sales income and earnings and profits by €100x, and decreasing its eligible foreign income taxes by $100x. However, under paragraph (d)(5)(iii)(B) of this section €60x of CFC's payment in Year 4 of €70x of Country X net income tax that properly accrued but was offset by the downward adjustment in Year 4 is treated as a payment of €60x of the €100x of Country X net income tax that was improperly accrued in Year 1 and treated as refunded in Year 3. Under § 1.905-4(b)(1)(iv), U.S.C. may account for the two foreign tax redeterminations that occurred in Years 3 and 4 on a single amended Federal income tax return for Year 1. CFC's foreign base company sales income (taking into account the reduction for foreign income taxes) and earnings and profits for Year 1 are recomputed as €1,000x of foreign base company sales income—€100x foreign income tax improperly accrued in Year 1 + €100x improperly accrued foreign income tax treated as refunded on December 31, Year 3—€60x improperly accrued foreign income tax treated as paid in Year 4 = €940x. CFC's eligible foreign income taxes for Year 1 are translated into dollars at the applicable exchange rate and recomputed as $100x foreign income tax improperly accrued in Year 1—$100x improperly accrued foreign income tax treated as refunded on December 31, Year 3 + $30x improperly accrued foreign income tax treated as paid in Year 4 = $30x. U.S.C.'s subpart F inclusion with respect to CFC for Year 1 (translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1 of $1:€1) is increased from $900x to $940x (€940x x $1/€1), and the amount of foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) and the amount of the section 78 dividend are reduced from $100x to $30x.


(*iii*) *Summary.* As of the end of Year 4, CFC and U.S.C. have been allowed a $30x foreign tax credit for Year 1, and a $200x foreign tax credit for Year 2. If in a later taxable year CFC distributes additional earnings to U.S.C. and accrues €40x of additional Country X net income tax that is offset by the balance of the €40x downward adjustment, CFC's payment of that €40x Country X net income tax liability will be treated as a payment of the remaining €40x of Country X net income tax that was improperly accrued in Year 1 and treated as refunded as of the end of Year 3.


(ix) *Example 9: Improperly deferred accrual*—(A) *Facts*—(*1*) *Foreign income tax accrued and paid.* U.S.C. is a domestic corporation that operates a foreign branch in Country X. All of U.S.C.'s gross and taxable income is foreign source foreign branch category income, and all of its foreign income taxes are properly allocated and apportioned under § 1.861-20 to the foreign branch category. U.S.C. uses the accrual method of accounting and uses the calendar year as its taxable year for both Federal and Country X income tax purposes. U.S.C. accrued €160x of Country X net income tax (as defined in § 1.901-2(a)(3)) with respect to Year 1. U.S.C. filed its Country X tax return and paid the €160x on June 30, Year 2. U.S.C. accrued €180x, €240x, and €150x of Country X tax for Years 2, 3, and 4, respectively, and paid with its timely filed Country X tax returns these tax liabilities on June 30 of Years 3, 4, and 5, respectively. The average exchange rate described in § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1) is $1:€0.5 in Year 1, $1:€1 in Year 2, $1:€1.25 in Year 3, and $1:€1.5 in Year 4.


(*2*) *Improper accrual.* On its Federal income tax return for Year 1, U.S.C. claimed no foreign tax credit. On its Federal income tax return for Year 2, U.S.C. improperly accrued and claimed a credit for $160x (€160x of Country X tax for Year 1 that it paid in Year 2, translated into dollars at the average exchange rate for Year 2). Continuing with this improper method of accounting, U.S.C. improperly accrued and claimed a credit in Year 3 for $144x (€180x of Country X tax for Year 2 that it paid in Year 3, translated into dollars at the average exchange rate for Year 3). In Year 4, U.S.C. realizes its mistake and seeks permission from the IRS to change to a proper method of accruing foreign income taxes.


(B) *Analysis*—(*1*) *Upward adjustment.* Under paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, in Year 4, the year of change, U.S.C. increases the amount of Country X net income tax allocated and apportioned to its foreign branch category that properly accrues in Year 4, €150x, by the amount of foreign income tax in that same grouping that properly accrued in a taxable year before the taxable year of change, but which, under its improper method of accounting, U.S.C. failed to accrue and claim as either a credit or deduction before the taxable year of change. For all taxable years before the taxable year of change, under a proper method, U.S.C. would have accrued a total of €580x of foreign income tax, of which it accrued and claimed a credit for only €340x under its improper method. Thus, in Year 4, U.S.C. increases its €150x of properly accrued foreign income taxes in the foreign branch category by €240x (€580x − €340x), and may claim a credit in that year for the total, €390x, or $260x (translated into dollars at the average exchange rate for Year 4, as if the total amount properly accrued in Year 4).


(*2*) *Application of section 905(c).* Under paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section, U.S.C.'s payment in Year 2 of €160x of Country X net income tax that properly accrued in Year 1 but that U.S.C. accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 2 under its improper method of accounting is first treated as a payment of the amount of the Year 1 tax liability that properly accrued in Year 2. Since none of the €160x properly accrued in Year 2, the €160x is treated as a payment of the Year 1 tax liability that U.S.C. improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 2, €160x. Because all €160x of the Country X net income tax that was improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 2 was paid within 24 months of the end of Year 2, no foreign tax redetermination occurs, and no redetermination of U.S.C.'s $160x foreign tax credit and U.S. tax liability is required, for Year 2. Similarly, because all €180x of the Year 2 Country X net income tax that was improperly accrued and claimed as a credit in Year 3 was paid within 24 months of the end of Year 3, no foreign tax redetermination occurs, and no redetermination of U.S.C.'s $144x foreign tax credit and U.S. tax liability is required, for Year 3.


(e) *Election by cash method taxpayer to take credit on the accrual basis*—(1) *In general*. A taxpayer who uses the cash method of accounting for income may elect to take the foreign tax credit in the taxable year in which the taxes accrue in accordance with the rules in paragraph (d) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, an election pursuant to this paragraph (e)(1) must be made on a timely-filed original return, by checking the appropriate box on Form 1116 (Foreign Tax Credit (Individual, Estate, or Trust)) or Form 1118 (Foreign Tax Credit—Corporations) indicating the cash method taxpayer's choice to claim the foreign tax credit in the year the foreign income taxes accrue. Once made, the election is irrevocable and must be followed for purposes of claiming a foreign tax credit for all subsequent years. See section 905(a).


(2) *Exception for cash method taxpayers claiming a foreign tax credit for the first time.* If the year with respect to which an election pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section to claim the foreign tax credit on an accrual basis is made (the “election year”) is the first year for which a taxpayer has ever claimed a foreign tax credit, the election to claim the foreign tax credit on an accrual basis can also be made on an amended return filed within the period permitted under § 1.901-1(d)(1). The election is binding in the election year and all subsequent taxable years in which the taxpayer claims a foreign tax credit.


(3) *Treatment of taxes that accrued in a prior year.* In the election year and subsequent taxable years, a cash method taxpayer that claimed foreign tax credits on the cash basis in a prior taxable year may claim a foreign tax credit not only for foreign income taxes that accrue in the election year, but also for foreign income taxes that accrued (or are considered to accrue) in a taxable year preceding the election year but that are paid in the election year or a subsequent taxable year, as applicable. Under paragraph (c) of this section, foreign income taxes paid with respect to a taxable year that precedes the election year may be claimed as a credit only in the year the taxes are paid and do not require a redetermination under section 905(c) or § 1.905-3 of U.S. tax liability in any prior year.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (e) of this section.


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* A, a U.S. citizen who is a resident of Country X, is a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as the taxable year for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. In Year 1 through Year 5, A claims foreign tax credits for Country X foreign income taxes on the cash method, in the year the taxes are paid. For Year 6, A makes a timely election to claim foreign tax credits on the accrual basis. In Year 6, A accrues $100x of Country X foreign income taxes with respect to Year 6. Also in Year 6, A pays $80x in foreign income taxes that had accrued in Year 5.


(B) *Analysis.* Pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, A can claim a foreign tax credit in Year 6 for the $100x of Country X taxes that accrued in Year 6 and for the $80x of Country X taxes that accrued in Year 5 but that are paid in Year 6.


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* The facts are the same as those in paragraph (e)(4)(i)(A) of this section (the facts in *Example 1*), except that in Year 7, A is assessed an additional $10x of foreign income tax by Country X with respect to A's income in Year 3. After exhausting all effective and practical remedies, A pays the additional $10x to Country X in Year 8.


(B) *Analysis.* Pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, A can claim a foreign tax credit in Year 8 for the additional $10x of foreign income tax paid to Country X in Year 8 with respect to Year 3.


(f) *Rules for creditable foreign tax expenditures of partners, shareholders, or beneficiaries of a pass-through entity*—(1) *Effect of pass-through entity's method of accounting on when foreign tax credit or deduction can be claimed.* Each partner that elects to claim the foreign tax credit for a particular taxable year may treat its distributive share of the creditable foreign tax expenditures (as defined in § 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(*b*)) of the partnership that are paid or accrued by the partnership, under the partnership's method of accounting, during the partnership's taxable year ending with or within the partner's taxable year, as foreign income taxes paid or accrued (as the case may be, according to the partner's method of accounting for such taxes) by the partner in that particular taxable year. See §§ 1.702-1(a)(6) and 1.703-1(b)(2). Under §§ 1.905-3(a) and 1.905-4(b)(2), additional creditable foreign tax expenditures of the partnership that result from a change in the partnership's foreign tax liability for a prior taxable year, including additional taxes paid when a contest with a foreign tax authority is resolved, must be identified by the partnership as a prior year creditable foreign tax expenditure in the information reported to its partners for its taxable year in which the additional tax is actually paid. Subject to the rules in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, a partner using the cash method of accounting for foreign income taxes may claim a credit (or a deduction) for its distributive share of such additional taxes in the partner's taxable year with or within which the partnership's taxable year ends. Subject to the rules in paragraph (d) of this section, a partner using the accrual method of accounting for foreign income taxes may claim a credit for the partner's distributive share of such additional taxes in the relation-back year, or may claim a deduction in its taxable year with or within which the partnership's taxable year ends. The principles of this paragraph (f)(1) apply to determine the year in which a shareholder of a S corporation, or the grantor or beneficiary of an estate or trust, may claim a foreign tax credit (or a deduction) for its proportionate share of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the S corporation, estate or trust. See sections 642(a), 671, 901(b)(5), and 1373(a) and §§ 1.1363-1(c)(2)(iii) and 1.1366-1(a)(2)(iv). See §§ 1.905-3 and 1.905-4 for notifications and adjustments of U.S. tax liability that are required if creditable foreign tax expenditures of a partnership or S corporation, or foreign income taxes paid or accrued by a trust or estate, are refunded or otherwise reduced.


(2) *Provisional credit for contested taxes.* Under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, a contested foreign tax liability does not accrue until the contest is resolved and the amount of the liability has been finally determined. In addition, under section 905(c)(2), a foreign income tax that is not paid within 24 months of the close of the taxable year to which the tax relates may not be claimed as a credit until the tax is actually paid. Thus, a partnership or other pass-through entity cannot take the contested tax into account as a creditable foreign tax expenditure until both the contest is resolved and the tax is actually paid. However, to the extent that a partnership or other pass-through entity remits a contested foreign tax liability to a foreign country, a partner or other owner of such pass-through entity that claims foreign tax credits may, by complying with the rules in paragraph (c)(3) or (d)(4) of this section, as applicable, elect to claim a provisional credit for its distributive share of such contested tax liability in the year the pass-through entity remits the tax (for owners claiming foreign tax credits on the cash basis) or in the relation-back year (for owners claiming foreign tax credits on the accrual basis).


(3) *Example.* The following example illustrates the application of paragraph (f) of this section.


(i) *Facts.* ABC is a U.S. partnership that is engaged in a trade or business in Country X. ABC has two U.S. partners, A and B. For Federal income tax purposes, ABC and partner A both use the accrual method of accounting and utilize a taxable year ending on September 30. ABC uses a taxable year ending on September 30 for Country X tax purposes. B is a calendar year taxpayer that uses the cash method of accounting. For its taxable year ending September 30, Year 1, ABC accrues $500x in foreign income tax to Country X; each partner's distributive share of the foreign income tax is $250x. In its taxable year ending September 30, Year 5, ABC settles a contest with Country X with respect to its Year 1 tax liability and, as a result of such settlement, accrues an additional $100x in foreign income tax for Year 1. ABC remits the additional tax to Country X in January of Year 6. A and B both elect to claim foreign tax credits for their respective taxable Years 1 through 6.


(ii) *Analysis.* For its taxable year ending September 30, Year 1, A can claim a credit for its $250x distributive share of foreign income taxes paid by ABC with respect to ABC's taxable year ending September 30, Year 1. Pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, B can claim its distributive share of $250x of foreign income tax for its taxable year ending December 31, Year 1, even if ABC does not remit the Year 1 taxes to Country X until Year 2. Although the additional $100x of Country X foreign income tax owed by ABC with respect to Year 1 accrued in its taxable year ending September 30, Year 5, upon conclusion of the contest, because ABC uses the accrual method of accounting, it does not take the additional tax into account until the tax is actually paid, in its taxable year ending September 30, Year 6. See section 905(c)(2)(B) and paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Pursuant to § 1.905-4(b)(2), ABC is required to notify the IRS and its partners of the foreign tax redetermination. A's distributive share of the additional tax relates back, is considered to accrue, and may be claimed as a credit for Year 1; however, A cannot claim a credit for the additional tax until Year 6, when ABC remits the tax to Country X. See § 1.905-3(a). B's distributive share of the additional tax does not relate back to Year 1 and is creditable in B's taxable year ending December 31, Year 6.


(g) *Blocked income.* If, under the provisions of the regulations under section 461, an amount otherwise constituting gross income for the taxable year from sources without the United States is, owing to monetary, exchange, or other restrictions imposed by a foreign country, not includible in gross income of the taxpayer for such year, the credit for foreign income taxes imposed by such foreign country with respect to such amount shall be taken proportionately in any subsequent taxable year in which such amount or portion thereof is includible in gross income.


(h) *Applicability dates.* This section applies to foreign income taxes paid or accrued in taxable years beginning on or after December 28, 2021. In addition, the election described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (d)(4) of this section may be made (including by a partner or other owner of a pass-through entity described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section) with respect to amounts of contested tax that are remitted in taxable years beginning on or after December 28, 2021 and that relate to a taxable year beginning before December 28, 2021.



---

[N] [T.D. 9959, 87 FR 363, Jan. 4, 2022; 87 FR 45020, July 27, 2022]




