# ยง 63.1156   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows:


*Affirmative defense* means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or a defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.


*Batch pickling line* means the collection of equipment and tanks configured for pickling metal in any form but usually in discrete shapes where the material is lowered in batches into a bath of acid solution, allowed to remain until the scale is dissolved, then removed from the solution, drained, and rinsed by spraying or immersion in one or more rinse tanks to remove residual acid.


*Carbon steel* means steel that contains approximately 2 percent or less carbon, 1.65 percent or less manganese, 0.6 percent or less silicon, and 0.6 percent or less copper.


*Closed-vent system* means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport emissions from a process unit or piece of equipment (e.g., pumps, pressure relief devices, sampling connections, open-ended valves or lines, connectors, and instrumentation systems) back into a closed system or into any device that is capable of reducing or collecting emissions.


*Continuous pickling line* means the collection of equipment and tanks configured for pickling metal strip, rod, wire, tube, or pipe that is passed through an acid solution in a continuous or nearly continuous manner and rinsed in another tank or series of tanks to remove residual acid. This definition includes continuous spray towers.


*Hydrochloric acid regeneration plant* means the collection of equipment and processes configured to reconstitute fresh hydrochloric acid pickling solution from spent pickle liquor using a thermal treatment process.


*Hydrochloric acid regeneration plant production mode* means operation under conditions that result in production of usable regenerated acid or iron oxide.


*Hydrochloric acid storage vessel* means a stationary vessel used for the bulk containment of virgin or regenerated hydrochloric acid.


*Responsible maintenance official* means a person designated by the owner or operator as having the knowledge and the authority to sign records and reports required under this rule.


*Specialty steel* means a category of steel that includes silicon electrical, alloy, tool, and stainless steels.


*Spray tower* means an enclosed vertical tower in which acid pickling solution is sprayed onto moving steel strip in multiple vertical passes.


*Steel pickling* means the chemical removal of iron oxide mill scale that is formed on steel surfaces during hot rolling or hot forming of semi-finished steel products through contact with an aqueous solution of acid where such contact occurs prior to shaping or coating of the finished steel product. This definition does not include removal of light rust or scale from finished steel products or activation of the metal surface prior to plating or coating.


*Steel pickling facility* means any facility that operates one or more batch or continuous steel pickling lines.



---

[N] [64 FR 33218, June 22, 1999, as amended at 77 FR 58250, Sept. 19, 2012]




