# § 150.110   Fruit butter.

(a) The fruit butters for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are the smooth, semisolid foods each of which is made from a mixture of one or a permitted combination of the optional fruit ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section and one or any combination of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section, which meets the specifications in paragraph (d) of this section, and which is labeled in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Such mixture is concentrated with or without heat. The volatile flavoring materials or essence from such mixture may be captured during concentration, separately concentrated, and added back to any such mixture, together with any concentrated essence accompanying any optional fruit ingredient.


(b)(1) Each of the optional fruit ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is prepared by cooking one of the following fresh, frozen, canned, and/or dried (evaporated) mature fruits, with or without added water, and screening out skins, seeds, pits, and cores:


(2) The permitted combinations are of two, three, four, and five of the fruit ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; the weight of each is not less than one-fifth of the weight of the combination. Each such fruit ingredient in any such combination is an optional ingredient.


(c) The following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used:


(1) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.


(2) Spice.


(3) Flavoring (other than artificial flavoring).


(4) Salt.


(5) Acidifying agents.


(6) Fruit juice or diluted fruit juice or concentrated fruit juice, in a quantity not less than one-half the weight of the optional fruit ingredient.


(7) Preservatives. 


(8) Antifoaming agents except those derived from animal fats.


(9) Pectin, in a quantity which reasonably compensates for deficiency, if any, of the natural pectin content of the fruit ingredient.


(d) For the purposes of this section:


(1) The mixture referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall contain not less than five parts by weight of the fruit ingredient as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section to each two parts by weight of nutritive carbohydrate sweetener as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.


(2) Any requirement with respect to the weight of any optional fruit ingredient, whether concentrated, unconcentrated, or diluted, means the weight determined by the following method: (i) Determine the percent of soluble solids in the optional fruit ingredient by the method for soluble solids referred to in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; (ii) multiply the percent so found by the weight of such fruit ingredient; (iii) divide the result by 100; (iv) subtract from the quotient the weight of any nutritive sweetener solids or other added solids; and (v) multiply the remainder by the factor for such ingredient prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The result is the weight of the optional fruit ingredient.


(3) The soluble solids content of the finished fruit butter is not less than 43 percent, as determined by the method prescribed in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists” (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), section 22.024, under “Soluble Solids by Refractometer in Fresh and Canned Fruits, Fruit Jellies, Marmalades, and Preserves—Official Final Action,” which is incorporated by reference, except that no correction is made for water-insoluble solids. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(4) The weight of any nutritive carbohydrate sweetener means the weight of the solids of such ingredient.


(5) The weight of fruit juice or diluted fruit juice or concentrated fruit juice (optional ingredient, paragraph (c)(6)) from a fruit specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the weight of such juice, as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, except that the percent of soluble solids is determined by the method prescribed in the AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), section 31.011, under “Solids by Means of Refractometer—Official Final Action,” which is incorporated by reference; the weight of diluted concentrated juice from any other fruits is the original weight of the juice before it was diluted or concentrated. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(e)(1) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that:


(i) In case the fruit butter is made from a single fruit ingredient, the name is “Butter”, preceded by the name where by such fruit is designated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) In case the fruit butter is made from a combination of two, three, four, or five fruit ingredients, the name is “Butter”, preceded by the words “Mixed fruit” or by the names whereby such fruits are designated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in the order of predominance, if any, of the weight of such fruit ingredients in the combination.


(2) Each of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of part 101 of this chapter, except that:


(i) Other than in the case of dried (evaporated) fruit the name(s) of the fruit or fruits used may be declared without specifying the particular form of the fruit or fruits used. When the optional fruit ingredient is prepared in whole or in part from dried fruit, the label shall bear the words “prepared from” or “prepared in part from”, as the case may be, followed by the word “evaporated” or “dried”, followed by the name whereby such fruit is designated in paragraph (c) of this section. When two or more such optional fruit ingredients are used, such names, each preceded by the word “evaporated” or “dried”, shall appear in the order of predominance, if any, of the weight of such ingredients in the combination.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [42 FR 14445, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11831, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10101, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24895, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2882, Jan. 6, 1993; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998]




