# ยง 129.2   Definitions.

For purposes of the Act and for reporting requirements under this Part:


(a) *United States,* when used in a geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.


(b) *Foreign,* when used in a geographic sense, means that which is situated outside the United States or which belongs to or is characteristic of a country other than the United States.


(c) *Person* means any individual, branch, partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust, corporation, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State), and any government (including a foreign government, the United States Government, a State or local government, and any agency, corporation, financial institution, or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a government-sponsored agency).


(d) *United States person* means any person resident in the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.


(e) *Foreign person* means any person resident outside the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of a country other than the United States.


(f) *Foreign parent* means any foreign person who owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated United States business enterprise, or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated United States business enterprise.


(g) *Reporter* means a United States person required to file a report.


(h) *Foreign official institution* means central governments of foreign countries and their possessions, including recognized central banks of issue.




