# ยง 64.621   Interoperability and portability.

(a) *General obligations of VRS providers.* (1) All Video Relay Service (VRS) users and hearing point-to-point video users must be able to place a VRS or point-to-point video call through any of the VRS providers' services, and all VRS providers must be able to receive calls from, and make calls to, any VRS or hearing point-to-point video user. 


(2) A VRS provider may not take steps that restrict a user's unfettered access to another provider's service, such as providing degraded service quality to VRS users using VRS equipment or service with another provider's service.




(3) All VRS providers must ensure that their VRS access technologies and their video communication service platforms are interoperable with the VRS Access Technology Reference Platform, including for point-to-point calls. No VRS provider shall be compensated for minutes of use involving their VRS access technologies or video communication service platforms that are not interoperable with the VRS Access Technology Reference Platform.


(4) All VRS providers must ensure that their VRS access technologies and their video communication service platforms are interoperable with the Neutral Video Communication Service Platform, including for point-to-point calls. No VRS provider shall be compensated for minutes of use involving their VRS access technologies or video communication service platforms that are not interoperable with the Neutral Video Communication Service Platform.


(b) *Technical standards for interoperability and portability.* (1) Beginning no later than December 20, 2017, VRS providers shall ensure that their provision of VRS and video communications, including their access technology, meets the requirements of the VRS Provider Interoperability Profile. 


(2) Beginning no later than October 24, 2017, VRS providers shall provide a standard xCard export interface to enable users to import their lists of contacts in xCard XML format, in accordance with IETF RFC 6351.




(c) *Incorporation by reference.* The material listed in this paragraph (c) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FCC and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FCC through the Federal Communications Commission's Reference Information Center, phone: (202) 418-0270. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the following sources in this paragraph (c):




(1) FCC (on behalf of SIP Forum), located at the address indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a), Tel: (888) 225-5322 (voice), (844) 432-2275 (videophone), (888) 835-5322 (TTY).


(i) VRS US Providers Profile TWG-6.1, the US VRS Provider Interoperability Profile, September 23, 2015. *https://www.fcc.gov/files/sip-forum-vrs-us-providers-profile-twg-6-1.*

(ii) [Reserved]


(2) The following standards are available from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Secretariat, 5177 Brandin Court, Fremont, CA 94538, 510-492-4080.


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) Request for Comments (RFC) 6351, xCard: vCard XML Representation (August 2011) *https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6351.*


---

[N] [78 FR 40609, July 5, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 17764, Apr. 13, 2017; 82 FR 19325, Apr. 27, 2017; 82 FR 39683, Aug. 22, 2017; 85 FR 64407, Oct. 13, 2020; 86 FR 35633, July 7, 2021; 86 FR 54871, Oct. 5, 2021; 88 FR 21445, Apr. 10, 2023]




