# § 96.120   Definitions.

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this section, the definitions in Chapter IX, Regulation 1 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) apply to this part.


(b) As used in this part—


*Administration* means the Government of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly.


*Authorized Organization Acting on behalf of the U.S.* means an organization that is recognized by the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard under the minimum standards of subparts A and B of 46 CFR part 8, and has been authorized under this section to conduct certain actions and certifications on behalf of the United States.


*Captain of the Port (COTP)* means the U.S. Coast Guard officer as described in 33 CFR 6.01-3, commanding a Captain of the Port zone described in 33 CFR part 3, or that person's authorized representative.


*Commandant* means the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard.


*Company* means the owner of a vessel, or any other organization or person such as the manager or the bareboat charterer of a vessel, who has assumed the responsibility for operation of the vessel from the shipowner and who on assuming responsibility has agreed to take over all the duties and responsibilities imposed by this part or the ISM Code.


*Designated person* means a person or persons designated in writing by the responsible person who monitors the safety management system of the company and vessel and has:


(1) Direct access to communicate with the highest levels of the company and with all management levels ashore and aboard the company's vessel(s);


(2) Responsibility to monitor the safety and environmental aspects of the operation of each vessel; and


(3) Responsibility to ensure there are adequate support and shore-based resources for vessel(s) operations.


*Document of Compliance* means a certificate issued to a company or responsible person that complies with the requirements of this part or the ISM Code.


*International Safety Management (ISM) Code* means the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, Chapter IX of the Annex to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974.


*Non-conformity* means an observed situation where objective evidence indicates the non-fulfillment of a specified requirement.


*Major non-conformity* means an identifiable deviation which poses a serious threat to personnel or vessel safety or a serious risk to the environment and requires immediate corrective action; in addition, the lack of effective and systematic implementation of a requirement of the ISM Code is also considered a major non-conformity.


*Objective Evidence* means quantitative or qualitative information, records or statements of fact pertaining to safety or to the existence and implementation of a safety management system element, which is based on observation, measurement or test and which can be verified.


*Officer In Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI)* means the U.S. Coast Guard officer as described in 46 CFR 1.01-15(b), in charge of an inspection zone described in 33 CFR part 3, or that person's authorized representative.


*Recognized organization* means an organization which has applied and been recognized by the Commandant of the Coast Guard to meet the minimum standards of 46 CFR part 8, subparts A and B.


*Responsible person* means—


(1) The owner of a vessel to whom this part applies, or


(2) Any other person that—


(i) has assumed the responsibility from the owner for operation of the vessel to which this part applies; and


(ii) agreed to assume, with respect to the vessel, responsibility for complying with all the requirements of this part.


(3) A responsible person may be a company, firm, corporation, association, partnership or individual.


*Safety management audit* means a systematic and independent examination to determine whether the safety management system activities and related results comply with planned arrangements and whether these arrangements are implemented effectively and are suitable to achieve objectives.


*Safety Management Certificate* means a document issued to a vessel which signifies that the responsible person or its company, and the vessel's shipboard management operate in accordance with the approved safety management system.


*Safety Management System* means a structured and documented system enabling Company and vessel personnel to effectively implement the responsible person's safety and environmental protection policies.


*SOLAS* means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended.


*Vessel engaged on a foreign voyage* means a vessel to which this part applies that is—


(1) Arriving at a place under the jurisdiction of the United States from a place in a foreign country;


(2) Making a voyage between places outside the United States; or


(3) Departing from a place under the jurisdiction of the United States for a place in a foreign country.




