# ยง 862.3245   Clozapine test system.

(a) *Identification.* A clozapine test system is a device intended to measure clozapine in human specimens. Measurements obtained by this device are used in monitoring levels of clozapine to ensure appropriate therapy in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) Design verification and validation must include the following:


(i) Precision study data that demonstrates precision that is clinically appropriate, as determined by FDA, for the clozapine test system. Precision studies must include a minimum of three samples containing different concentrations of clozapine including near medical decision points and throughout the expected therapeutic range of clozapine. Samples near the medical decision points must be clinical specimens collected from patients taking clozapine;


(ii) Method comparison data that demonstrates accuracy that is clinically acceptable, as determined by FDA, for the clozapine test system;


(iii) Data from studies that demonstrate that the device is free from clinically significant interference, as determined by FDA, from commonly co-administered medications that are used in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia; and


(iv) Data from studies that demonstrate that the device is free from clinically significant cross-reactivity, as determined by FDA, from major circulating metabolites found in the intended use population.


(2) The labeling required under ยง 809.10 of this chapter must include a limiting statement conveying that the assay should only be used in conjunction with information available from clinical evaluations and other diagnostic procedures and that results from the assay alone should not be used in making treatment decisions.



---

[N] [89 FR 75491, Sept. 16, 2024]






