# ยง 61.27   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, the following terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this subpart.


*Abuser.* An individual adjudicated in a military disciplinary proceeding or civilian criminal proceeding who is found guilty of committing an act of domestic violence or a lesser included offense, as well as an individual alleged to have committed domestic abuse, including domestic violence, who has not had such an allegation adjudicated.


*Abuser contract.* The treatment agreement between the clinician and the abuser that specifies the responsibilities and expectations of each party. It includes specific abuser treatment goals as identified in the treatment plan and clearly specifies that past, present, and future allegations and threats of domestic abuse and child abuse or neglect will be reported to the active duty member's commander, to local law enforcement and child protective services, as appropriate, and to the potential victim.


*Clinical case management.* Defined in subpart B of this part.


*Clinical case staff meeting (CCSM).* Defined in subpart B of the part.


*Clinical intervention.* Defined in subpart B of this part.


*Domestic abuse.* Domestic violence or a pattern of behavior resulting in emotional/psychological abuse, economic control, and/or interference with personal liberty that is directed toward a person who is:


(1) A current or former spouse;


(2) A person with whom the abuser shares a child in common; or


(3) A current or former intimate partner with whom the abuser shares or has shared a common domicile.


*Domestic violence.* An offense under the United States Code, the UCMJ, or State law involving the use, attempted use, or threatened use of force or violence against a person, or a violation of a lawful order issued for the protection of a person, who is:


(1) A current or former spouse.


(2) A person with whom the abuser shares a child in common; or


(3) A current or former intimate partner with whom the abuser shares or has shared a common domicile.


*FAP Manager.* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Incident determination committee.* Defined in subpart A of this part.


*Intimate partner.* A person with whom the victim shares a child in common, or a person with whom the victim shares or has shared a common domicile.


*Risk management.* Defined in subpart B of this part.


*Severe abuse.* Exposure to chronic pattern of emotionally abusive behavior with physical or emotional effects requiring hospitalization or long-term mental health treatment. In a spouse emotional abuse incident, this designation requires an alternative environment to protect the physical safety of the spouse. Exposure to a chronic pattern of neglecting behavior with physical, emotional, or educational effects requiring hospitalization, long-term mental health treatment, or long-term special education services. Physical abuse resulting in major physical injury requiring inpatient medical treatment or causing temporary or permanent disability or disfigurement; moderate or severe emotional effects requiring long-term mental health treatment; and may require placement in an alternative environment to protect the physical safety or other welfare of the victim. Sexual abuse involving oral, vaginal, or anal penetration that may or may not require one or more outpatient visits for medical treatment; may be accompanied by injury requiring inpatient medical treatment or causing temporary or permanent disability or disfigurement; moderate or severe emotional effects requiring long-term mental health treatment; and may require placement in an alternative environment to protect the physical safety or welfare of the victim.


*Unrestricted report.* A process allowing a victim of domestic abuse to report an incident using current reporting channels, *e.g.* chain of command, law enforcement or criminal investigative organization, and FAP for clinical intervention.




