# § 1036.550   Calculating greenhouse gas emission rates.

This section describes how to calculate official emission results for CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O.


(a) Calculate brake-specific emission rates for each applicable duty cycle as specified in 40 CFR 1065.650. Apply infrequent regeneration adjustment factors as described in § 1036.580.


(b) Adjust CO_2_ emission rates calculated under paragraph (a) of this section for measured test fuel properties as specified in this paragraph (b). This adjustment is intended to make official emission results independent of differences in test fuels within a fuel type. Use good engineering judgment to develop and apply testing protocols to minimize the impact of variations in test fuels.


(1) Determine your test fuel's mass-specific net energy content, *E*_mfuelmeas,_ also known as lower heating value, in MJ/kg, expressed to at least three decimal places. Determine *E*_mfuelmeas_ as follows:


(i) For liquid fuels, determine *E*_mfuelmeas_ according to ASTM D4809 (incorporated by reference, see § 1036.810). Have the sample analyzed by at least three different labs and determine the final value of your test fuel's *E*_mfuelmeas_ as the median of all the lab test results as described in 40 CFR 1065.602(m). If you have results from three different labs, we recommend you screen them to determine if additional observations are needed. To perform this screening, determine the absolute value of the difference between each lab result and the average of the other two lab results. If the largest of these three resulting absolute value differences is greater than 0.297 MJ/kg, we recommend you obtain additional results prior to determining the final value of *E*_mfuelmeas._

(ii) For gaseous fuels, determine *E*_mfuelmeas_ according to ASTM D3588 (incorporated by reference, see § 1036.810).


(2) Determine your test fuel's carbon mass fraction, *w*_C,_ as described in 40 CFR 1065.655(d), expressed to at least three decimal places; however, you must measure fuel properties for *α* and *β* rather than using the default values specified in 40 CFR 1065.655(e).


(i) For liquid fuels, have the sample analyzed by at least three different labs, determine *w*_C_ for each result as described in 40 CFR 1065.655(d), and determine the final value of your test fuel's *w*_C_ as the median (as described in 40 CFR 1065.602(m)) of all the *w*_C_ values. If you have results from three different labs, we recommend you screen them to determine if additional observations are needed. To perform this screening, determine the absolute value of the difference between each *w*_C_ value and the average of the other two *w*_C_ values. If the largest of these three resulting absolute value differences is greater than 1.56 percent carbon, we recommend you obtain additional results prior to determining the final value of *w*_C._

(ii) For gaseous fuels, have the sample analyzed by a single lab and use that result as your test fuel's *w*_C._

(3) If, over a period of time, you receive multiple fuel deliveries from a single stock batch of test fuel, you may use constant values for mass-specific energy content and carbon mass fraction, consistent with good engineering judgment. To use these constant values, you must demonstrate that every subsequent delivery comes from the same stock batch and that the fuel has not been contaminated.


(4) Correct measured CO_2_ emission rates as follows:


(c) Your official emission result for each pollutant equals your calculated brake-specific emission rate multiplied by all applicable adjustment factors, other than the deterioration factor.



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 29763, Apr. 22, 2024]






