# ยง 384.209   Notification of traffic violations.

(a) *Required notification with respect to CLP or CDL holders.* (1) Whenever a person who holds a CLP or CDL from another State or other jurisdiction of domicile is convicted of a violation of any State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle defect violations), in any type of vehicle, the licensing entity of the State in which the conviction occurs must notify the licensing entity in the State or jurisdiction where the driver is licensed of this conviction within the time period established in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) Whenever a person who holds a foreign commercial driver's license is convicted of a violation of any State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle defect violations), in any type of vehicle, the licensing entity of the State in which the conviction occurs must report that conviction to the Federal Convictions and Withdrawal Database.


(b) *Required notification with respect to non-CDL holders.* (1) Whenever a person who does not hold a CDL, but who is licensed to drive by another State or other jurisdiction of domicile, is convicted of a violation in a CMV of any State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than a parking violation), the licensing entity of the State in which the conviction occurs must notify the licensing entity in the State or jurisdiction where the driver is licensed of this conviction within the time period established in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) Whenever a person from a foreign country who is unlicensed or holds a foreign non-commercial driver's license is convicted of a violation in a CMV of any State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than a parking violation), the licensing entity of the State in which the conviction occurs must report that conviction to the Federal Convictions and Withdrawal Database.


(c) *Required timing of notification.* Notification of traffic violations must be made within 10 days of the conviction and must be transmitted through CDLIS.



---

[N] [78 FR 60232, Oct. 1, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 59456, Oct. 2, 2014; 80 FR 36932, June 29, 2015; 86 FR 38940, July 23, 2021; 88 FR 80182, Nov. 17, 2023]




