# ยง 550.218   What air emissions information must accompany the EP?

The following air emissions information, as applicable, must accompany your EP: 


(a) *Projected emissions.* Tables showing the projected emissions of criteria air pollutants, volatile organic compounds (VOC), and total suspended particulates (TSP) generated by your proposed exploration activities.


(1) For each source on or associated with the drilling unit (including well test flaring and well protection structure installation), you must list:


(i) The projected peak hourly emissions;


(ii) The total annual emissions in tons per year;


(iii) Emissions over the duration of the proposed exploration activities;


(iv) The frequency and duration of emissions; and


(v) The total of all emissions listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(2) You must provide the basis for all calculations, including engine size and rating, and applicable operational information.


(3) You must base the projected emissions on the maximum rated capacity of the equipment on the proposed drilling unit under its physical and operational design.


(4) If the specific drilling unit has not yet been determined, you must use the maximum emission estimates for the type of drilling unit you will use.


(b) *Emission reduction measures.* A description of any proposed emission reduction measures, including the affected source(s), the emission reduction control technologies or procedures, the quantity of reductions to be achieved, and any monitoring system you propose to use to measure emissions.


(c) *Processes, equipment, fuels, and combustibles.* A description of processes, processing equipment, combustion equipment, fuels, and storage units. You must include the characteristics and the frequency, duration, and maximum burn rate of any well test fluids to be burned.


(d) *Distance to shore.* Identification of the distance of your drilling unit from the mean high water mark (mean higher high water mark on the Pacific coast) of the adjacent State.


(e) *Non-exempt drilling units.* A description of how you will comply with ยง 550.303 when the projected emissions reported under paragraph (a) of this section are greater than the respective emission exemption thresholds (EET) calculated using the formulas in ยง 550.303(d). When BOEM requires air quality dispersion modeling, you must use the guidelines in appendix W of 40 CFR part 51 for dispersion modeling with a model approved by the Director. You must also submit the best available meteorological information and data consistent with the model(s) used.


(f) *Modeling report.* A modeling report or the modeling results (if ยง 550.303 requires you to use an approved air quality model to model projected air emissions in developing your EP), or a reference to such a report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.



---

[N] [76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34936, June 5, 2020]




