# § 1.25-3   Qualified mortgage credit certificate.

(a)-(g)(1)(ii) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.25-3T(a) through (g)(1)(ii). 


(g)(1)(iii) *Reissued certificate exception.* See paragraph (p) of this section for rules regarding the exception in the case of refinancing existing mortgages. 


(g)(2)-(o) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.25-3T(g)(2) through (o). 


(p) *Reissued certificates for certain refinancings*—(1) *In general.* If the issuer of a qualified mortgage credit certificate reissues a certificate in place of an existing mortgage credit certificate to the holder of that existing certificate, the reissued certificate is treated as satisfying the requirements of this section. The period for which the reissued certificate is in effect begins with the date of the refinancing (that is, the date on which interest begins accruing on the refinancing loan). 


(2) *Meaning of existing certificate.* For purposes of this paragraph (p), a mortgage credit certificate is an existing certificate only if it satisfies the requirements of this section. An existing certificate may be the original certificate, a certificate issued to a transferee under § 1.25-3T(h)(2)(ii), or a certificate previously reissued under this paragraph (p). 


(3) *Limitations on reissued certificate.* An issuer may reissue a mortgage credit certificate only if all of the following requirements are satisfied: 


(i) The reissued certificate is issued to the holder of an existing certificate with respect to the same property to which the existing certificate relates. 


(ii) The reissued certificate entirely replaces the existing certificate (that is, the holder cannot retain the existing certificate with respect to any portion of the outstanding balance of the certified mortgage indebtedness specified on the existing certificate). 


(iii) The certified mortgage indebtedness specified on the reissued certificate does not exceed the remaining outstanding balance of the certified mortgage indebtedness specified on the existing certificate. 


(iv) The reissued certificate does not increase the certificate credit rate specified in the existing certificate. 


(v) The reissued certificate does not result in an increase in the tax credit that would otherwise have been allowable to the holder under the existing certificate for any taxable year. The holder of a reissued certificate determines the amount of tax credit that would otherwise have been allowable by multiplying the interest that was scheduled to have been paid on the refinanced loan by the certificate rate of the existing certificate. In the case of a series of refinancings, the tax credit that would otherwise have been allowable is determined from the amount of interest that was scheduled to have been paid on the original loan and the certificate rate of the original certificate. 


(A) In the case of a refinanced loan that is a fixed interest rate loan, the interest that was scheduled to be paid on the refinanced loan is determined using the scheduled interest method described in paragraph (p)(3)(v)(C) of this section. 


(B) In the case of a refinanced loan that is not a fixed interest rate loan, the interest that was scheduled to be paid on the refinanced loan is determined using either the scheduled interest method described in paragraph (p)(3)(v)(C) of this section or the hypothetical interest method described in paragraph (p)(3)(v)(D) of this section. 


(C) The scheduled interest method determines the amount of interest for each taxable year that was scheduled to have been paid in the taxable year based on the terms of the refinanced loan including any changes in the interest rate that would have been required by the terms of the refinanced loan and any payments of principal that would have been required by the terms of the refinanced loan (other than repayments required as a result of any refinancing of the loan). 


(D) The hypothetical interest method (which is available only for refinanced loans that are not fixed interest rate loans) determines the amount of interest treated as having been scheduled to be paid for a taxable year by constructing an amortization schedule for a hypothetical self-amortizing loan with level payments. The hypothetical loan must have a principal amount equal to the remaining outstanding balance of the certified mortgage indebtedness specified on the existing certificate, a maturity equal to that of the refinanced loan, and interest equal to the annual percentage rate (APR) of the refinancing loan that is required to be calculated for the Federal Truth in Lending Act. 


(E) A holder must consistently apply the scheduled interest method or the hypothetical interest method for all taxable years beginning with the first taxable year the tax credit is claimed by the holder based upon the reissued certificate. 


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (p)(3)(v) of this section: 


(5) *Coordination with Section 143(m)(3).* A refinancing loan underlying a reissued mortgage credit certificate that replaces a mortgage credit certificate issued on or before December 31, 1990, is not a federally subsidized indebtedness for the purposes of section 143(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. 



---

[N] [T.D. 8692, 61 FR 66214, Dec. 17, 1996]




