# § 3405.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Authorized departmental officer* means the Secretary or any employee of the Department who has the authority to issue or modify grant instruments on behalf of the Secretary. 


(b) *Authorized organizational representative* means the president of the institution or the official, designated by the president of the institution, who has the authority to commit the resources of the institution. 


(c) *Budget period* means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes. 


(d) *Cash contributions* means the applicant's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the applicant by non-Federal third parties. 


(e) *Citizen or national of the United States means:*

(1) A citizen or native resident of a State; or,


(2) A person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States. 


(f) *College* or *University* means an educational institution in any State which: 


(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate; 


(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education; 


(3) Provides an educational program for which a baccalaureate degree or any other higher degree is awarded; 


(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and 


(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association. 


(g) *Complementary project proposal* means a proposal for a project which involves coordination with one or more other projects for which funding was awarded under this program in a previous fiscal year, or for which funding is requested under this program in the current fiscal year. 


(h) *Department* or *USDA* means the United States Department of Agriculture. 


(i) *Eligible institution* means a land-grant or other U.S. college or university offering a baccalaureate or first professional degree in at least one discipline or area of the food and agricultural sciences. The definition includes a research foundation maintained by an eligible college or university. 


(j) *Eligible participant* means, for purposes of § 3405.6(b), Faculty Preparation and Enhancement for Teaching, and § 3405.6(f), Student Recruitment and Retention, an individual who: Is a citizen or national of the United States, as defined in § 3405.2(e); or is a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau. Where eligibility is claimed under § 3405.2(e)(2), documentary evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization Service as to such eligibility must be made available to NIFA upon request. 


(k) *Food and agricultural sciences* means basic, applied, and developmental research, extension, and teaching activities in the food, agricultural, renewable natural resources, forestry, and physical and social sciences, in the broadest sense of these terms, including but not limited to, activities concerned with the production, processing, marketing, distribution, conservation, consumption, research, and development of food and agriculturally related products and services, and inclusive of programs in agriculture, natural resources, aquaculture, forestry, veterinary medicine, home economics, rural development, and closely allied disciplines. 


(l) *Grantee* means the eligible institution designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to which a grant is awarded. 


(m) *Joint project proposal* means a proposal for a project, which will involve the applicant institution and two or more other colleges, universities, community colleges, junior colleges, or other institutions, each of which will assume a major role in the conduct of the proposed project, and for which the applicant institution will transfer at least one-half of the awarded funds to the other institutions participating in the project. Only the applicant institution must meet the definition of “eligible institution” as specified in § 3405.2(i); the other institutions participating in a joint project proposal are not required to meet the definition of “eligible institution” as specified in § 3405.2(i), nor required to meet the definition of “college” or “university” as specified in § 3405.2(f). 


(n) *Land-grant colleges and universities* means those institutions eligible to receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862 (12 Stat. 503-505, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 301-305, 307 and 308), or the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417-419, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee University. 


(o) *Matching* or *Cost-sharing* means that portion of project costs not borne by the Federal Government, including the value of in-kind contributions. 


(p) *Peer review panel* means a group of experts or consultants, qualified by training and experience in particular fields of science, education, or technology to give expert advice on the merit of grant applications in such fields, who evaluate eligible proposals submitted to this program in their personal area(s) of expertise. 


(q) *Prior approval* means written approval evidencing prior consent by an authorized departmental officer as defined in § 3405.2(a) of this part. 


(r) *Project* means the particular activity within the scope of one or more of the targeted areas supported by a grant awarded under this program. 


(s) *Project director* means the single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Secretary who is responsible for the direction and management of the project. 


(t) *Project period* means the period, as stated in the award document and modifications thereto, if any, during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends. 


(u) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated. 


(v) *State* means any one of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia. 


(w) *Teaching* means formal classroom instruction, laboratory instruction, and practicum experience in the food and agricultural sciences and matters related thereto (such as faculty development, student recruitment and services, curriculum development, instructional materials and equipment, and innovative teaching methodologies) conducted by colleges and universities offering baccalaureate or higher degrees. 


(x) *Third party in-kind contributions* means non-cash contributions of property or services provided by non-Federal third parties, including real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to a funded project or program. 


(y) *United States* means the several States, the territories and possessions of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia. 




