# § 34.25   Non-volatile particulate emissions standards (nvPM).

The standards of this section apply to an aircraft engine of Class TF, T3, or T8 with a rated output greater than 26.7 kN that is manufactured after January 1, 2023. Where a maximum nvPM_MC_ standard is expressed as a formula, calculate and round the standard to the nearest 1.0 µg/m
3. Where an nvPM_mass_ standard is expressed as a formula, calculate and round the standard to three significant figures or to the nearest 0.1 mg/kN. Where an nvPM_num_ standard is expressed as a formula, calculate and round the standard to three significant figures. Engines comply with an applicable standard if the test results show that the engine type certificate family's characteristic level does not exceed the numerical level of the nvPM standard when tested as described in subpart H of this part.


(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section;


(1) The characteristic level for the maximum nvPM_MC_ expressed in units of µg/m
3 must not exceed the following:


(2) The characteristic level for nvPM mass expressed in [mg/kN] and for nvPM number expressed in [particles/kN] must not exceed the following:


(b) For a change in type design by the type design holder, when the application for an amended type certificate is filed after January 1, 2023:


(1) If the engine qualifies as a derivative engine in accordance with § 34.48 of this part, no testing is required for the engine to use the same nvPM certificated parameters (nvPM_mass_, nvPM_num_, and maximum nvPM_MC_) as the engine it is derived from; or


(2) If the engine does not qualify as a derivative engine in accordance with § 34.48 of this part, the applicant must demonstrate compliance with each requirement in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) For issuance of an original type certificate when an application for type certification is filed after January 1, 2023, the applicant must demonstrate that the engine does not exceed:


(1) For maximum nvPM_MC_: as prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and


(2) For the characteristic level for nvPM_mass_ expressed in units of [mg/kN], and for nvPM_num_ expressed in units of [particles/kN], the following:


(d) For engines type certificated after January 1, 2023 and prior to May 24, 2024, compliance with this part must be demonstrated no later than August 22, 2024.





---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2023-2434, Amdt. No. 34-7, 89 FR 31087, Apr. 24, 2024, as amended by Amdt. No. 34-7A, 89 FR 37972, May 7, 2024]








