# § 10.472   Verification in the United States of textile and apparel goods.

(a) *Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate.* CBP will endeavor, at the request of the government of Chile, to conduct a verification for the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate. A verification will be conducted under this paragraph regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. If the government of Chile is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, Chile may take appropriate action with respect to the textile and apparel good subject to the verification, and with respect to similar goods exported or produced by the entity that exported or produced the good.


(b) *Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of Chile.* CBP will endeavor to conduct a verification at the request of the government of Chile for purposes of enabling Chile to determine that the U.S. exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures, if Chile has a reasonable suspicion that a U.S. exporter or producer is engaging in unlawful activity relating to trade in textile and apparel goods. A verification will be conducted under this paragraph regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. A “reasonable suspicion” for the purpose of this paragraph will be based on relevant factual information, including information of the type set forth in Article 5.5 of the US-CFTA, that indicates circumvention of applicable laws, regulations or procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods. If the government of Chile is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, it may take action as permitted under its laws with respect to any textile or apparel goods exported or produced by the entity subject to the verification.


(c) *Visits by CBP.* CBP may conduct visits to the premises of a U.S. exporter or producer or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from the United States to Chile in order to undertake or assist in a verification pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(d) *Initiation of verification by CBP.* CBP may conduct, on its own initiative, a verification for the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate.


(e) *Treatment of documents and information.* CBP will endeavor to provide to the government of Chile, consistent with U.S. laws, regulations, and procedures, production, trade, and transit documents and other information necessary to conduct a verification under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Such information will be considered confidential as provided for in Article 5.6 of the US-CFTA.




