# § 52.2730   Section 110(a)(2) infrastructure requirements.

(a) *1997 8-hour ozone and the 1997 PM*_2.5_*NAAQS*— (1) *Approval.* Submittal from Puerto Rico dated November 29, 2006 and supplemented February 1, 2016, to address the CAA infrastructure requirements for the 1997 ozone and the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This submittal satisfies the 1997 ozone and the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS requirements of the Clean Air Act (CAA) 110(a)(2)(A), (B), (C) (with the exception of program requirements for PSD), (D)(i)(I), (D)(i)(II) and (ii) (with the exception of program requirements related to PSD), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J) (with the exception of program requirements related to PSD), (K), (L), and (M). 


(2) *Disapproval.* Submittal from Puerto Rico dated November 29, 2006 and supplemented February 1, 2016, to address the CAA infrastructure requirements for the 1997 ozone and the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS are disapproved for the following sections: 110(a)(2)(C) (PSD program only), (D)(i)(II), PSD program only), (D)(ii) (PSD program only) and (J) (PSD program only). These requirements are being addressed by § 52.2729 which has been delegated to Puerto Rico to implement.


(b) *2008 ozone and the 2006 PM*_2.5_*NAAQS*— (1) *Approval.* Submittal from Puerto Rico dated January 22, 2013, supplemented February 1, 2016 to address the CAA infrastructure requirements for the 2008 ozone NAAQS and supplemented April 16, 2015 and February 1, 2016 to address the CAA infrastructure requirements for the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This submittal satisfies the 2008 ozone and the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS requirements of the Clean Air Act (CAA) 110(a)(2)(A), (B), (C) (with the exception of program requirements for PSD), (D)(i)(I), (D)(i)(II) and (ii) (with the exception of program requirements related to PSD), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J) (with the exception of program requirements related to PSD), (K), (L), and (M). 


(2) *Disapproval.* Submittal from Puerto Rico dated January 22, 2013 and supplemented April 16, 2015 and February 1, 2016, to address the CAA infrastructure requirements for the 2008 ozone and the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS are disapproved for the following sections: 110(a)(2)(C) (PSD program only), (D)(i)(II) (PSD program only), (D)(ii) (PSD program only) and (J) (PSD program only). These requirements are being addressed by § 52.2729 which has been delegated to Puerto Rico to implement.


(c) *2008 lead NAAQS*— (1) *Approval.* Submittal from Puerto Rico dated January 31, 2013 and supplemented February 1, 2016, to address the CAA infrastructure requirements for the 2008 lead NAAQS. This submittal satisfies the 2008 lead NAAQS requirements of the Clean Air Act (CAA) 110(a)(2)(A), (B), (C) (with the exception of program requirements for PSD), (D)(i)(I), (D)(i)(II) and (ii) (with the exception of program requirements related to PSD), (E), (F), (G), (H), (J) (with the exception of program requirements related to PSD), (K), (L), and (M). 


(2) *Disapproval.* Submittal from Puerto Rico dated January 31, 2013 and supplemented February 1, 2016, to address the CAA infrastructure requirements for the 2008 lead NAAQS are disapproved for the following sections: 110(a)(2)(C) (PSD program only), (D)(i)(II) (PSD program only), (D)(ii) (PSD program only) and (J) (PSD program only). These requirements are being addressed by § 52.2729 which has been delegated to Puerto Rico to implement.



---

[N] [81 FR 62817, Sept. 13, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 61330, Nov. 29, 2018]




