# § 86.005-1   General applicability.

Section 86.005-1 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.001-1. Where a paragraph in § 86.001-1 is identical and applicable to § 86.005-1, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement “[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.001-1.”. 


(a) *Applicability.* The provisions of this subpart generally apply to 2005 and later model year new Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines used in incomplete vehicles and vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR and 2005 and later model year new diesel-cycle heavy-duty engines. In cases where a provision applies only to a certain vehicle group based on its model year, vehicle class, motor fuel, engine type, or other distinguishing characteristics, the limited applicability is cited in the appropriate section or paragraph. The provisions of this subpart continue to generally apply to 2000 and earlier model year new Otto-cycle and diesel-cycle light-duty vehicles, 2000 and earlier model year new Otto-cycle and diesel-cycle light-duty trucks, and 2004 and earlier model year new Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR. Provisions generally applicable to 2001 and later model year new Otto-cycle and diesel-cycle light-duty vehicles, 2001 and later model year new Otto-cycle and diesel-cycle light-duty trucks, and 2005 and later model year Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR are located in subpart S of this part. 


(b) *Optional applicability.* (1) A manufacturer may request to certify any 2003 or 2004 model year heavy-duty vehicle of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less in accordance with the light-duty truck provisions located in subpart S of this part. Heavy-duty engine or vehicle provisions of this subpart A do not apply to such a vehicle. This option is not available in the 2003 model year for manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 1 in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or in the 2004 model year for manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 2 in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(2) For 2005 and later model years, a manufacturer may request to certify any incomplete Otto-cycle heavy-duty vehicle of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less in accordance with the provisions for Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles located in subpart S of this part. Heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle provisions of this subpart A do not apply to such a vehicle. This option is available starting with the 2003 model year to manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 1 in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This option is available starting with the 2004 model year to manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 2 in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. 


(c) *Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles.* The manufacturer must select one of the three options for Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section. The emission standards and other requirements that apply under a given option shall apply to all Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles certified by the manufacturer (e.g., a manufacturer may not select one option for certain engine families and the other option for other engine families). The requirements under each option shall remain effective, once selected, for subsequent model years, until superceded or otherwise revised by the Administrator (e.g., a manufacturer may not select one option prior to the 2004 model year and change to another option in the 2006 model year). The complete requirements under each option are contained in subparts A and S of this part. 


(1) *Otto-cycle HDE Option 1.* The following requirements apply to Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles certified by manufacturers selecting this option: 


(i) Emission standards for 2003 and later model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines, according to the provisions of § 86.005-10(f)(1). 


(ii) Emission standards for 2003 and later model year Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles, according to the provisions of § 86.1816-05, except that, for 2003 through 2006 model year Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles, manufacturers may optionally comply with the standards in either 86.005-10 or 86.1816-05. 


(iii) Averaging, banking, and trading provisions that allow transfer of credits between a manufacturer's complete vehicle averaging set and their heavy-duty Otto-cycle engine averaging set, according to the provisions of § 86.1817-05(o). 


(iv) On-board diagnostics requirements effective starting with the 2004 model year for Otto-cycle engines and complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.005-17 and 86.1806-05. 


(v) Refueling emissions requirements effective starting with the 2004 model year for Otto-cycle complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.1810-01 and 86.1816-05. 


(2) *Otto-cycle HDE Option 2.* The following requirements apply to Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles certified by manufacturers selecting this option: 


(i) Emission standards for 2004 and later model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines, according to the provisions of § 86.005-10(f)(2). 


(ii) Emission standards for 2004 and later model year Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles, according to the provisions of § 86.1816-05. 


(iii) Averaging, banking, and trading provisions that allow transfer of credits between a manufacturer's complete vehicle averaging set and their heavy-duty Otto-cycle engine averaging set, according to the provisions of § 86.1817-05(o). 


(iv) On-board diagnostics requirements effective starting with the 2004 model year for Otto-cycle engines and complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.005-17 and 86.1806-05. 


(v) Refueling emissions requirements effective starting with the 2004 model year for Otto-cycle complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.1810-01 and 86.1816-05. 


(3) *Otto-cycle HDE Option 3.* The following requirements apply to Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles certified by manufacturers that do not select one of the options for 2003 or 2004 model year compliance in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section: 


(i) Emission standards for 2005 and later model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines, according to the provisions of § 86.005-10. 


(ii) Emission standards for 2005 and later model year Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles, according to the provisions of § 86.1816-05. 


(iii) On-board diagnostics requirements effective starting with the 2005 model year for Otto-cycle engines and complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.005-17 and 86.1806-05. 


(iv) Refueling emissions requirements effective starting with the 2005 model year for Otto-cycle complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.1810-01 and 86.1816-05. 


(v) Manufacturers selecting this option may exempt 2005 model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles whose model year commences before July 31, 2004 from the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. 


(vi) For 2005 model year engines or vehicles exempted under paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, a manufacturer shall certify such Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles to all requirements in this subpart applicable to 2004 model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines. The averaging, banking, and trading provisions contained in § 86.000-15 remain effective for these engines. 


(d) [Reserved] 


(e)-(f) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.001-1.



---

[N] [65 FR 59949, Oct. 6, 2000]




