# ยง 74.1336   D&C Red No. 36.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive D&C Red No. 36 is 1-[(2-chloro-4-nitrophenyl)azo]-2-naphthalenol (CAS Reg. No. 2814-77-9). The color additive is manufactured by diazotization of 2-chloro-4-nitrobenzenamine in acid medium and coupling with 2-naphthalenol in acid medium.


(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with D&C Red No. 36 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.


(b) *Specifications.* D&C Red No. 36 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by current good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* The color additive D&C Red No. 36 may be safely used for coloring ingested drugs, other than mouthwashes and dentifrices, in amounts not to exceed 1.7 milligrams per daily dose of the drug for drugs that are taken continuously only for less than 1 year. For drugs taken continuously for longer than 1 year, the color additive shall not be used in amounts to exceed 1.0 milligram per daily dose of the drug. D&C Red No. 36 may be safely used for coloring externally applied drugs in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Certification.* All batches of D&C Red No. 36 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.



---

[N] [53 FR 29031, Aug. 2, 1988; 53 FR 35255, Sept. 12, 1988, as amended at 53 FR 52130, Dec. 27, 1988]




