# § 1033.301   General requirements.

(a) *Requirement to maintain interfaces.* A data provider subject to the requirements of this part must maintain a consumer interface and a developer interface. The consumer interface and the developer interface must satisfy the requirements set forth in this section. The developer interface must satisfy the additional requirements set forth in § 1033.311.


(b) *Machine-readable files upon request.* Upon request for covered data in a machine-readable file, and subject to paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, a data provider must make available to a consumer or an authorized third party covered data in a file that is machine-readable and that the consumer or authorized third party can retain and transfer for processing into a separate information system that is reasonably available to and in the control of the consumer or authorized third party.


(1) *Consumer interface.* With respect to covered data provided through its consumer interface, a data provider is not required to comply with:


(i) The requirements of this paragraph (b) for the covered data described in § 1033.211(c) (payment initiation information) and (f) (account verification information); and


(ii) The requirement of this paragraph (b) to provide in a file that is machine-readable the covered data described in § 1033.211(d) (terms and conditions).


(2) *Developer interface.* With respect to covered data provided through its developer interface, a data provider satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (b) if it makes available covered data in a form that satisfies the requirements of § 1033.311(b).


(c) *Fees prohibited.* A data provider must not impose any fees or charges on a consumer or an authorized third party in connection with:


(1) *Interfaces.* Establishing or maintaining the interfaces required by paragraph (a) of this section; or


(2) *Requests.* Receiving requests or making available covered data in response to requests as required by this part.






