# § 178.814   Hydrostatic pressure test.

(a) *General.* The hydrostatic pressure test must be conducted for the qualification of all metal, rigid plastic, and composite IBC design types intended to contain solids that are loaded or discharged under pressure or intended to contain liquids.


(b) *Special preparation for the hydrostatic pressure test.* For metal IBCs, the test must be carried out before the fitting of any thermal insulation equipment. For all IBCs, pressure relief devices and vented closures must be removed and their apertures plugged or rendered inoperative.


(c) *Test method.* Hydrostatic gauge pressure must be measured at the top of the IBC. The test must be carried out for a period of at least 10 minutes applying a hydrostatic gauge pressure not less than that indicated in paragraph (d) of this section. The IBCs may not be mechanically restrained during the test.


(d) *Hydrostatic gauge pressure applied.* (1) For metal IBC design types, 31A, 31B, 31N: 65 kPa gauge pressure (9.4 psig).


(2) For metal IBC design types 21A, 21B, 21N, 31A, 31B, 31N: 200 kPa (29 psig). For metal IBC design types 31A, 31B and 31N, the tests in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section must be conducted consecutively.


(3) For metal IBCs design types 21A, 21B, and 21N, for Packing Group I solids: 250 kPa (36 psig) gauge pressure.


(4) For rigid plastic IBC design types 21H1 and 21H2 and composite IBC design types 21HZ1 and 21HZ2: 75 kPa (11 psig).


(5) For rigid plastic IBC design types 31H1 and 31H2 and composite IBC design types 31HZ1 and 31HZ2: whichever is the greater of:


(i) The pressure determined by any one of the following methods:


(A) The gauge pressure (pressure in the IBC above ambient atmospheric pressure) measured in the IBC at 55 °C (131 °F) multiplied by a safety factor of 1.5. This pressure must be determined on the basis of the IBC being filled and closed to no more than 98 percent capacity at 15 °C (60 °F);


(B) If absolute pressure (vapor pressure of the hazardous material plus atmospheric pressure) is used, 1.5 multiplied by the vapor pressure of the hazardous material at 55 °C (131 °F) minus 100 kPa (14.5 psi). If this method is chosen, the hydrostatic test pressure applied must be at least 100 kPa gauge pressure (14.5 psig); or


(C) If absolute pressure (vapor pressure of the hazardous material plus atmospheric pressure) is used, 1.75 multiplied by the vapor pressure of the hazardous material at 50 °C (122 °F) minus 100 kPa (14.5 psi). If this method is chosen, the hydrostatic test pressure applied must be at least 100 kPa gauge pressure (14.5 psig); or


(ii) Twice the greater of: (A) The static pressure of the hazardous material on the bottom of the IBC filled to 98 percent capacity; or


(B) The static pressure of water on the bottom of the IBC filled to 98 percent capacity.


(e) *Criteria for passing the test(s).* (1) For metal IBCs, subjected to the 65 kPa (9.4 psig) test pressure specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, there may be no leakage or permanent deformation that would make the IBC unsafe for transportation.


(2) For metal IBCs intended to contain liquids, when subjected to the 200 kPa (29 psig) and the 250 kPa (36 psig) test pressures specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, respectively, there may be no leakage.


(3) For rigid plastic IBC types 21H1, 21H2, 31H1, and 31H2, and composite IBC types 21HZ1, 21HZ2, 31HZ1, and 31HZ2, there may be no leakage and no permanent deformation which renders the IBC unsafe for transportation.



---

[N] [Amdt. 178-103, 59 FR 38074, July 26, 1994, as amended at 66 FR 45185, 45386, Aug. 28, 2001]




