# § 721.10862   Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, sodium salt; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, potassium salt; Oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, ammonium salt; Ethanol, 2-amino-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate; and Ethanol, 2,2′2″,-nitrilotris-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified as oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate (P-15-1; CAS No. 73361-29-2); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, sodium salt (P-15-2; CAS No. 151688-56-1); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, potassium salt (P-15-3; CAS No. 1456802-88-2); oxirane, 2-methyl-, polymer with oxirane, monohexadecyl ether, phosphate, ammonium salt (P-15-4; CAS No. 1456802-89-3); ethanol, 2-amino-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate (P-15-5; CAS No, 1456803-12-5); and ethanol, 2,2″2″,-nitrilotris-, compd. with 2-methyloxirane polymer with oxirane monohexadecyl ether phosphate (PMN P-15-6; CAS No. 1456803-14-7) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=18 in aggregate).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 59607, Oct. 2, 2015]




