# § 791.200   Penalties.

(a) *Prohibited activities.* (1) No person shall be a party to an ICTS Transaction that is prohibited by a Final Determination issued under this part, unless authorized by the Secretary.


(2) No person shall aid, abet, counsel, command, induce, facilitate, procure, or otherwise engage in conduct with knowledge that such conduct is prohibited by, or contrary to a Final Determination issued under this part, unless authorized by the Secretary.


(3) No person shall be a party to an ICTS Transaction in a manner that is contrary to any direction, regulation, or condition published under this part.


(4) No person shall aid, abet, counsel, command, induce, facilitate, procure, or otherwise engage in conduct with knowledge that such conduct is contrary to the terms of a mitigation agreement under this part.


(5) Any ICTS Transaction that has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate, any of the prohibitions set forth in this section is prohibited.


(6) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this section is prohibited.


(7) Any approval, financing, facilitation, or guarantee by a United States person, wherever located, of an ICTS Transaction by a foreign person where the ICTS Transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by this order if performed by a United States person or within the United States, is prohibited.


(8) No person may, whether directly or indirectly through any other person, make any false or misleading representation, statement, or certification, or falsify or conceal any material fact, to the Department:


(i) In the course of an ICTS Transaction review, in order to secure a benefit or avoid a prohibition, including in proposing and agreeing to mitigation measures; or


(ii) In connection with the preparation, submission, issuance, use, or maintenance of any report filed or required to be filed pursuant to this part.


(9) Additional requirements:


(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(8), any representation, statement, or certification made by any person shall be deemed to be continuing in effect until the person notifies the Department in accordance with paragraph (a)(9)(ii).


(ii) Any person who makes a representation, statement, or certification to the Department relating to any ICTS Transaction review shall notify the Department, in writing, of any change of any material fact or intention from that previously represented, stated, or certified, immediately upon receipt of any information that would lead a reasonably prudent person to know that a change of material fact or intention had occurred or may occur in the future.


(b) *Maximum penalties*—(1) *Civil penalty.* A civil penalty not to exceed the amount set forth in Section 206 of IEEPA, 50 U.S.C. 1705, may be imposed on any person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes any knowing violation of paragraph (a) of this section. IEEPA provides for a maximum civil penalty not to exceed the greater of $250,000 per violation, subject to inflationary adjustment, or an amount that is twice the amount of the transaction that is the basis of the violation with respect to which the penalty is imposed.


(i) Notice of the penalty, including a written explanation of the penalized conduct specifying the laws and regulations allegedly violated and the amount of the proposed penalty, and notifying the recipient of a right to make a written petition within 30 days as to why a penalty should not be imposed, shall be served on the person.


(ii) The Secretary shall review any presentation and issue a final administrative decision within 30 days of receipt of the petition.


(2) *Criminal penalty.* A person who willfully commits, willfully attempts to commit, or willfully conspires to commit, or aids and abets in the commission of a violation of paragraph (a) of this section shall, upon conviction of a violation of IEEPA, be fined not more than $1,000,000, or if a natural person, may be imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both.


(3) Any civil penalties authorized in this section may be recovered in a civil action brought by the United States in U.S. district court.


(c) *Adjustments to penalty amounts.* (1) The civil penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note).


(2) The criminal penalties provided in IEEPA are subject to adjustment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3571.


(d) *Available penalties.* The penalties available under this section are without prejudice to other penalties, civil or criminal, available under law. Attention is directed to 18 U.S.C. 1001, which provides that whoever, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency in the United States, knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals, or covers up by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations, or makes or uses any false writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.





---

[N] [89 FR 96896, Dec. 6, 2024]




