# ยง 233.14   Memorandum of Agreement with the Secretary.

(a) Before a State program is approved under this part, the Director shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Secretary. When more than one agency within a State has responsibility for administering the State program, Directors of each of the responsible agencies shall be parties of the Memorandum of Agreement.


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement shall include:


(1) A description of all navigable waters within the State over which the Corps retains administrative authority. Retained waters shall be identified in accordance with procedures set forth in ยง 233.11(i).


(2) Procedures whereby the Secretary will, prior to or on the effective date set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement with the Regional Administrator, transfer to the State pending section 404 permit applications for discharges into State regulated waters and other relevant information not already in the possession of the Director.


(3) An identification of all general permits issued by the Secretary, the terms and conditions of which the State intends to administer and enforce upon receiving approval of its program, and a plan for transferring responsibility for these general permits to the State, including procedures for the prompt transmission from the Secretary to the Director relevant information not already in the possession of the Director. The information to be transferred includes but is not limited to support files for permit issuance, conditions and certifications placed on the Corps general permits, compliance reports, and records of enforcement actions.


(4) Procedures whereby the Secretary would notify the State of changes to its RHA section 10 list that implicate waters that are presently used, or are susceptible to use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport interstate or foreign commerce, and the State would then incorporates these changes into its retained waters description, pursuant to the procedures in ยง 233.16(d).



---

[N] [53 FR 20776, June 1, 1988, as amended at 89 FR 103503, Dec. 18, 2024] 








