# § 1940.592   Community facilities grants.

(a) *Amount available for allocations.* See § 1940.552(a).


(b) *Basic formula criteria, data source, and weight.* See § 1940.552(b).


(1) The criteria used in the basic formula are:


(i) State's percentage of National rural population—50 percent.


(ii) State's percentage of National rural population with income below the poverty level—50 percent.


(2) The data source for the first criterion is the most recent decennial Census data. The data source for the second criterion is the 5-year data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. Each criterion is assigned a specific weight according to its relevance in determining need. The percentage representing each criterion is multiplied by the weight factor and summed to arrive at a State factor (SF).


SF (criterion (b)(1)(i) × 50 percent) + (criterion (b)(1)(ii) × 50 percent)


(c) *Basic formula allocation.* See § 1940.552(c). States receiving administrative allocations do not receive formula allocations.


(d) *Transition formula.* The transition formula for Community Facilities Grants is not used.


(e) *Base allocation.* See § 1940.552(e). States receiving administrative allocations do not receive base allocations.


(f) *Administrative allocation.* See § 1940.552(f). States participating in the formula base allocation procedures do not receive administrative allocations.


(g) *Reserve.* See § 1940.552(g).


(h) *Pooling of funds.* See § 1940.522(h). Funds will be pooled at midyear and yearend. Pooled funds will be placed in the National Office reserve and will be made available administratively.


(i) *Availability of the allocation.* See § 1940.552(i).


(j) *Suballocation by State Director.* See § 1940.552(j).


(k) *Other documentation.* Not applicable.



---

[N] [62 FR 16468, Apr. 7, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 9877, Feb. 24, 2015]




