# ยง 98.483   Calculating CO

You must calculate CO_2_ sequestered using the following quantification principles from Clause 8.2 of CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:19 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 98.7).


(a) You must calculate the mass of CO_2_ stored in association with CO_2_-EOR (*m*_stored_) in the reporting year by subtracting the mass of CO_2_ loss from operations and the mass of CO_2_ loss from the EOR complex from the total mass of CO_2_ input (as specified in equation 1 to this paragraph (a)).


(b) The manner by which associated storage is quantified must assure completeness and preclude double counting. The annual mass of CO_2_ that is recycled and reinjected into the EOR complex must not be quantified as associated storage. Loss from the CO_2_ recycling facilities must be quantified.


(c) You must quantify the total mass of CO_2_ input (*m*_input_) in the reporting year according to paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) You must include the total mass of CO_2_ received at the custody transfer meter by the CO_2_-EOR project (*m*_received_).


(2) The CO_2_ stream received (including CO_2_ transferred from another CO_2_-EOR project) must be metered.


(i) The native CO_2_ recovered and included as *m*_native_ must be documented.


(ii) CO_2_ delivered to multiple CO_2_-EOR projects must be allocated among those CO_2_-EOR projects.


(3) The sum of the quantities of allocated CO_2_ must not exceed the total quantities of CO_2_ received.


(d) You must calculate the total mass of CO_2_ from project operations (*m*_loss operations_) in the reporting year as specified in equation 2 to this paragraph (d).


