# § 865.111   Response to items submitted as issues by the applicant.

(a) If an issue submitted by an applicant contains two or more clearly separate issues, the DRB should respond to each issue under the guidance of this section as if it had been set forth separately by the applicant.


(b) If an applicant uses a “building block” approach (that is, setting forth a series of conclusions on issues that lead to a single conclusion purportedly warranting a change in the applicant's discharge), normally there should be a separate response to each issue.


(c) This section does not preclude the DRB from making a single response to multiple issues when such action would enhance the clarity of the decisional document, but such response must reflect an adequate response to each separate issue.


(d) An item submitted as an issue by an applicant in accordance with this regulation shall be addressed as a decisional issue under § 865.112 of this subpart in the following circumstances:


(1) When the DRB decides that a change in discharge should be granted, and the DRB bases its decision in whole or in part on the applicant's issue; or


(2) When the DRB does not provide the applicant with the full change in discharge requested, and the decision is based in whole or in part on the DRB's disagreement with the merits of an issue submitted by the applicant. 


(e) If the applicant receives the full change in discharge requested (or a more favorable change), that fact shall be noted and the basis shall be addressed as a decisional issue even if that basis is not addressed as an issue by the applicant. No further response is required to other issues submitted by the applicant. 


(f) If the applicant does not receive the full change in discharge requested with respect to either the character of or reason for discharge (or both), the DRB shall address the items submitted by the applicant unless one of the following responses is applicable: 


(1) *Duplicate issues.* The DRB may state that there is a full response to the issue submitted by the applicant under a specified decisional issue. This respose may be used only when one issue clearly duplicates another or the issue clearly requires discussion in conjunction with another issue. 


(2) *Citations without principles and facts.* The DRB may state that any issue, which consists of a citation of a previous decision without setting forth any principles and facts from the decision that the applicant states are relevant to the applicant's case, does not comply with the requirements of § 865.106(g)(1) of this part. 


(3) *Unclear issues.* The DRB may state that it cannot respond to an item submitted by the applicant as an issue because the meaning of the item is unclear. An issue is unclear if it cannot be understood by a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process after a review of the materials considered under § 865.110(d) of this subpart. 


(4) *Nonspecific issues.* The DRB may state that it cannot respond to an item submitted by the applicant as an issue because it is not specific. A submission is considered not specific if a reasonable person familiar with the discharge review process after a review of the materials considered under § 865.110(d), cannot determine the relationship between the applicant's submission and the particular circumstances of the case. This response may be used only if the submission is expressed in such general terms that no other response is applicable. For example, if the DRB disagrees with the applicant as to the relevance of matters set forth in the submission, the DRB normally will set forth the nature of the disagreement under the guidance in § 865.112 of this subpart with respect to decisional issues, or it will reject the applicant's position on the basis of § 865.111(f)(1) or § 865.111(f)(2). If the applicant's submission is so general that none of those provisions is applicable, then the DRB may state that it cannot respond because the item is not specific. 




