# § 1.59-1   Optional 10-year writeoff of certain tax preferences.

(a) *In general.* Section 59(e) allows any qualified expenditure to which an election under section 59(e) applies to be deducted ratably over the 10-year period (3-year period in the case of circulation expenditures described in section 173) beginning with the taxable year in which the expenditure was made (or, in the case of intangible drilling and development costs deductible under section 263(c), over the 60-month period beginning with the month in which the expenditure was paid or incurred).


(b) *Election*—(1) *Time and manner of election.* An election under section 59(e) shall only be made by attaching a statement to the taxpayer's income tax return (or amended return) for the taxable year in which the amortization of the qualified expenditures subject to the section 59(e) election begins. The statement must be filed no later than the date prescribed by law for filing the taxpayer's original income tax return (including any extensions of time) for the taxable year in which the amortization of the qualified expenditures subject to the section 59(e) election begins. Additionally, the statement must include the following information—


(i) The taxpayer's name, address, and taxpayer identification number; and


(ii) The type and amount of qualified expenditures identified in section 59(e)(2) that the taxpayer elects to deduct ratably over the applicable period described in section 59(e)(1).


(2) *Elected amount.* A taxpayer may make an election under section 59(e) with respect to any portion of any qualified expenditure paid or incurred by the taxpayer in the taxable year to which the election applies. An election under section 59(e) must be for a specific dollar amount and the amount subject to an election under section 59(e) may not be made by reference to a formula. The amount elected under section 59(e) is properly chargeable to a capital account under section 1016(a)(20), relating to adjustments to basis of property.


(c) *Revocation*—(1) *In general.* An election under section 59(e) may be revoked only with the consent of the Commissioner. Such consent will only be granted in rare and unusual circumstances. The revocation, if granted, will be effective in the first taxable year in which the section 59(e) election was applicable. However, if the period of limitations for the first taxable year the section 59(e) election was applicable has expired, the revocation, if granted, will be effective in the earliest taxable year for which the period of limitations has not expired.


(2) *Time and manner for requesting consent.* A taxpayer requesting the Commissioner's consent to revoke a section 59(e) election must submit the request prior to the end of the taxable year the applicable amortization period described in section 59(e)(1) ends. The application for consent to revoke the election must be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service in the form of a letter ruling request.


(3) *Information to be provided.* A request to revoke a section 59(e) election must contain all of the information necessary to demonstrate the rare and unusual circumstances that would justify granting revocation.


(4) *Treatment of unamortized costs.* The unamortized balance of the qualified expenditures subject to the revoked section 59(e) election as of the first day of the taxable year the revocation is effective is deductible in the year the revocation is effective (subject to the requirements of any other provision under the Code, regulations, or any other published guidance) and the taxpayer will be required to amend any federal income tax returns affected by the revocation.


(d) *Effective date.* These regulations apply to a section 59(e) election made for a taxable year ending, or a request to revoke a section 59(e) election submitted, on or after December 22, 2004.



---

[N] [T.D. 9168, 69 FR 76616, Dec. 22, 2004]




