# § 20.4   Retirement benefits.

(a) *Type of benefits.* (1) A former spouse who meets the qualification requirements of § 20.3 is entitled to a share of any Foreign Service annuity (other than a disability annuity) or any supplemental annuity computed under section 806(a), 823 or 824 of the Act to which the principal is entitled under FSRDS and to any Foreign Service annuity (other than a disability annuity) or annuity supplement computed under section 824 or 855 of the Act of 5 U.S.C. 8415 to which the principal is entitled under FSPS.


(2) A former spouse of a disability annuitant is entitled to a share of benefits to which the annuitant would qualify under paragraph (a) of this section, he or she not been disabled based on the actual age and service of the annuitant.


(b) *Share.* The share of a participant's benefits to which a qualified former spouse is entitled is—


(1) 50 percent of the benefits described in § 20.4(a) if the former spouse was married to the participant throughout the latter's creditable service; or 


(2) A pro rata share of 50 percent of such benefits if the former spouse was not married to the participant throughout such creditable service.


(c) *Reduction of benefits.* If retirement benefits of a principal are reduced because of reemployment, attainment of eligibility for Social Security benefits or for any other reason, the amount of the share payable to a former spouse is correspondingly reduced during the period of the reduction.


(d) *Commencement, termination and suspension.* (1) Entitlement to retirement benefits under this section (except for a former spouse of a disability annuitant) shall commence on the latter of—


(i) The day the principal becomes entitled to benefits described in § 20.4(a); or


(ii) December 22, 1987.


(2) Entitlement to retirement benefits under this section for a former spouse of a disability annuitant shall commence on the latter of—


(i) The date the principal would qualify for benefits (other than a disability annuity) described in § 20.4(a) on the basis of the principal's actual age and service;


(ii) The date the disability annuity begins; or


(iii) December 22, 1987.


(3) Entitlement to retirement benefits under this section shall terminate or be suspended on the earlier of—


(i) Last day of the month before the former spouse dies or remarries before attaining age 55;


(ii) Date benefits of the principal terminate or are suspended because of death, recall, reemployment, recovery from disability or for any other reason.


(4) Entitlement to benefits under this section shall be resumed for a former spouse, following their suspension, or the date they are resumed for the principal.




