# § 165.787   Safety Zones; Vieques Unexploded Ordnance Operations, East Vieques; Vieques, Puerto Rico.

(a) *Regulated area.* The following regulated areas are established as a safety zones:


(1) All waters of East Vieques, Vieques, Puerto Rico encompassed within the following points: starting at Point 1 in position 18°08′56.48″ N, 065°20′10.69″ W; thence north to point 2 in position 18°09′10.72″ N, 065°20′04.11″ W; thence east to Point 3 in position 18°08′50.19″ N, 065°17′05.78″ W; thence south to Point 4 in position 18°08′05.79″ N, 065°16′16.70″ W.


(2) All waters of East Vieques, Vieques, Puerto Rico encompassed within the following points: starting at Point 1 in position 18 07′38.60″ N, 065°17′45.95″ W; thence south to point 2 in position 18°07′23.73″ N, 065°17′58.34″ W; thence west to Point 3 in position 18°07′18.77″ N, 065°18′29.64″ W; thence north to Point 4 in position 18°07′34.47″ N, 065°18′31.82″ W.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) No person or vessel may anchor, dredge, or trawl in the safety zones unless authorized by the Captain of the Port (COTP), San Juan, Puerto Rico, or a designated Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer. Those in the safety zones must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the designated Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer.


(2) No person or vessel may enter, transit or remain in the safety zones during unexploded ordnance clearance operations, unless authorized by the Captain of the Port San Juan or a designated representative.


(3) Vessels encountering emergencies, which require transit through the safety zones, should contact the Coast Guard patrol craft or Duty Officer on VHF Channel 16. In the event of an emergency, the Coast Guard patrol craft may authorize a vessel to transit through the safety zones with a Coast Guard designated escort.


(4) The Captain of the Port and the Duty Officer at Sector San Juan, Puerto Rico, can be contacted at telephone number 787-289-2041. The Coast Guard Patrol Commander enforcing the safety zones can be contacted on VHF-FM channels 16 and 22A.


(5) Coast Guard Sector San Juan will notify the marine community of periods during which these safety zones will be in effect by providing notice to mariners in accordance with § 165.7.


(6) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of on-scene patrol personnel. On-scene patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, or petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard. Coast Guard Auxiliary and local or state officials may be present to inform vessel operators of the requirements of this section, and other applicable laws.



---

[N] [USCG-2020-0424, 86 FR 17070, Apr. 1, 2021]






