# § 721.11712   2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, aminoalkyl ester, polymer with hydroxyalkyl alkenoate and octadecyl alkenoate, acetate (salts) (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, aminoalkyl ester, polymer with hydroxyalkyl alkenoate and octadecyl alkenoate, acetate (salts) (PMN P-21-54) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been incorporated into an article as defined at § 720.3.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), and (g)(1), (3), and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin irritation; eye irritation; and specific target organ toxicity. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(3), this substance may be: toxic to aquatic life. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture or process the substance in any manner that results in inhalation exposure. It is a significant new use to use the substance in an application method that results in inhalation exposure. It is a significant new use to use the substance in a product that is applied by a consumer.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4), where N=52. Before totaling the releases of the substance to water from all operations at a site as described in 40 CFR 721.91(a)(5), you may subtract up to 90 percent for any releases that will be treated using primary and secondary wastewater treatment as defined in 40 CFR part 133.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [88 FR 13701, Mar. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 102798, Dec. 18, 2024]






