# § 74.735   Power limitations.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) The maximum ERP of a low power TV or TV translator station (average power) shall not exceed:


(1) 3 kW for VHF channels 2-13; and


(2) 15 kW for UHF channels 14-36.


(c) The limits in paragraph (b) of this section apply to the effective radiated power in the horizontally polarized plane. For either omnidirectional or directional antennas, where the ERP values of the vertically and horizontally polarized components are not of equal strength, the ERP limits shall apply to the horizontal polarization, and the vertical ERP shall not intentionally exceed the horizontal ERP in any direction. Applications proposing the use of directional antenna systems must be accompanied by the following:


(1) Complete description of the proposed antenna system, including the manufacturer and model number of the proposed directional antenna. It is *not* acceptable to label the antenna with only a generic term such as “Yagi” or “Dipole”. A specific model number must be provided. In the case of individually designed antennas with no model number, or in the case of a composite antenna composed of two or more individual antennas, the antenna should be described as a “custom” or “composite” antenna, as appropriate. A full description of the design of the antenna should also be submitted.


(2) Relative field azimuth plane pattern (patterns for both horizontal and vertical polarization should be included if elliptical or circular polarization is used) of the proposed directional antenna. A value of 1.0 should be used for the maximum radiation in the horizontal polarization. The plot of the pattern should be oriented so that 0° corresponds to the maximum radiation of the directional antenna or, alternatively in the case of a symmetrical pattern, to the line of symmetry. The 0° on the plot should be referenced to the actual azimuth with respect to true North.


(3) A tabulation of the relative field pattern required in paragraph (c)(2), of this section. The tabulation should use the same zero degree reference as the plotted pattern, and be tabulated at least every 10°. In addition, tabulated values of all maximas and minimas, with their corresponding azimuths, should be submitted.


(4) All azimuth plane patterns must be plotted in a PDF attachment to the application in a size sufficient to be easily viewed.


(5) The horizontal plane patterns that are required are the patterns for the complete directional antenna system. In the case of a composite antenna composed of two or more individual antennas, this means that the patterns for the composite antenna composed of two or more individual antennas, not the patterns for each of the individual antennas, must be submitted.


(6) If an elevation pattern is submitted in the application form, similar tabulations and PDF attachments shall be provided for the elevation pattern.


(7) If a matrix pattern is submitted in the application form, similar tabulations shall be provided as necessary in the form of a spreadsheet to accurately represent the pattern.



---

[N] [30 FR 8847, July 14, 1965, as amended at 41 FR 28267, July 9, 1976; 47 FR 21500, May 18, 1982; 48 FR 21487, May 12, 1983; 52 FR 7423, Mar. 11, 1987; 52 FR 31404, Aug. 20, 1987; 58 FR 44951, Aug. 25, 1993; 62 FR 26722, May 14, 1997; 76 FR 44828, July 27, 2011; 86 FR 66214, Nov. 22, 2021; 87 FR 58203, Sept. 23, 2022; 88 FR 30668, May 12, 2023]




