# ยง 683.300   What are the reporting requirements for programs funded under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

(a) *General.* All States and other direct grant recipients must report financial, participant, and other performance data in accordance with instructions issued by the Secretary. Reports, records, plans, or any other data required to be submitted or made available must, to the extent practicable, be submitted or made available through electronic means. Reports will not be required to be submitted more frequently than quarterly within a time period specified in the reporting instructions.


(b) *Subrecipient reporting.* (1) For the annual eligible training provider performance reports described in ยง 677.230 of this chapter and local area performance reports described in ยง 677.205 of this chapter, the State must require the template developed under WIOA sec. 116(d)(1) to be used.


(2) For financial reports and performance reports other than those described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a State or other grant recipient may impose different forms or formats, shorter due dates, and more frequent reporting requirements on subrecipients.


(3) If a State intends to impose different reporting requirements on subrecipients, it must describe those reporting requirements in its State WIOA Plan.


(c) *Financial reports.* (1) Each grant recipient must submit financial reports on a quarterly basis.


(2) Local WDBs will submit quarterly financial reports to the Governor.


(3) Each State will submit to the Secretary a summary of the reports submitted to the Governor pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(4) Reports must include cash on hand, obligations, expenditures, any income or profits earned, including such income or profits earned by subrecipients, indirect costs, recipient share of expenditures and any expenditures incurred (such as stand-in costs) by the recipient that are otherwise allowable except for funding limitations.


(5) Reported expenditures, matching funds, and program income, including any profits earned, must be reported on the accrual basis of accounting and cumulative by fiscal year of appropriation. If the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis of accounting, the recipient must develop accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand.


(d) *Performance reports.* (1) States must submit an annual performance report for each of the core workforce programs administered under WIOA as required by sec. 116(d) of WIOA and in accordance with part 677, subpart A, of this chapter.


(2) For all programs authorized under subtitle D of WIOA, each grant recipient must complete reports on performance indicators or goals specified in its grant agreement.


(e) *Due date.* (1) For the core programs, performance reports are due on the date set forth in guidance.


(2) Financial reports and all performance and data reports not described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are due no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter unless otherwise specified in reporting instructions. Closeout financial reports are required no later than 90 calendar days after the expiration of a period of performance or period of fund availability (whichever comes first) and/or termination of the grant. If required by the terms and conditions of the grant, closeout performance reports are required no later than 90 calendar days after the expiration of a period of performance or period of fund availability (whichever comes first) and/or termination of the grant.


(f) *Format.* All reports whenever practicable should be collected, transmitted, and stored in open and machine readable formats.


(g) *Systems compatibility.* States and grant recipients will develop strategies for aligning data systems based upon guidelines issued by the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education.


(h) *Additional reporting.* At the Grant Officer's or Secretary's discretion, reporting may be required more frequently of its grant recipients. Such requirement is consistent with 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900.




