# § 537.7   Pre-model year and mid-model year reports.

(a) *Report submission requirements.* (1) Manufacturers must provide a report with the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for each domestic and import passenger automobile fleet, as specified in part 531 of this chapter, for the current model year.


(2) Manufacturers must provide a report with the information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for each light truck fleet, as specified in part 533 of this chapter, for the current model year.


(3) For model year 2023 and later, for passenger cars specified in part 531 and light trucks specified in part 533 of this chapter, manufacturers must provide the information for pre-model and mid-model year reports in accordance with the NHTSA CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474). The required reporting template can be downloaded from NHTSA's website.


(i) Manufacturers are only required to provide the actual information on vehicles and technologies in production at the time the pre- and mid-model year reports are required. Otherwise, manufacturers must provide reasonable estimates or updated estimates where possible for pre-and mid-model year reports.


(ii) Manufacturers should attempt not to omit data which should only be the done for products pending production and with unknown information at the time CAFE reports are prepared.


(b) *Projected average and required fuel economy.* (1) Manufacturers must state the projected average fuel economy for the manufacturer's automobiles determined in accordance with § 537.9 and based upon the fuel economy values and projected sales figures provided under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(2) Manufacturers must state the projected final average fuel economy that the manufacturer anticipates having if changes implemented during the model year will cause that average to be different from the average fuel economy projected under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) Manufacturers must state the projected required fuel economy for the manufacturer's passenger automobiles and light trucks determined in accordance with §§ 531.5(c) and 533.5 of this chapter and based upon the projected sales figures provided under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For each unique model type and footprint combination of the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturer must provide the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section in tabular form. The manufacturer must list the model types in order of increasing average inertia weight from top to bottom down the left side of the table and list the information categories in the order specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section from left to right across the top of the table. Other formats, such as those accepted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which contain all the information in a readily identifiable format are also acceptable. For model year 2023 and later, for each unique model type and footprint combination of the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturer must provide the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section in accordance with the CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474).


(i) In the case of passenger automobiles, manufacturers must report the following:


(A) Beginning model year 2013, base tire as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;


(B) Beginning model year 2013, front axle, rear axle, and average track width as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;


(C) Beginning model year 2013, wheelbase as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;


(D) Beginning model year 2013, footprint as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter; and


(E) The fuel economy target value for each unique model type and footprint entry listed in accordance with the equation provided in part 531 of this chapter.


(ii) In the case of light trucks, manufacturers must report the following:


(A) Beginning model year 2013, base tire as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;


(B) Beginning model year 2013, front axle, rear axle, and average track width as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;


(C) Beginning model year 2013, wheelbase as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter;


(D) Beginning model year 2013, footprint as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter; and


(E) The fuel economy target value for each unique model type and footprint entry listed in accordance with the equation provided in part 533 of this chapter.


(4) Manufacturers must state the projected final required fuel economy that the manufacturer anticipates having if changes implemented during the model year will cause the targets to be different from the target fuel economy projected under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(5) Manufacturers must state whether the manufacturer believes that the projections it provides under paragraphs (b)(2) and (4) of this section, or if it does not provide an average or target under paragraphs (b)(2) and (4), the projections it provides under paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section, sufficiently represent the manufacturer's average and target fuel economy for the current model year for purposes of the Act. In the case of a manufacturer that believes that the projections are not sufficiently representative for the purpose of determining the projected average fuel economy for the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturers must state the specific nature of any reason for the insufficiency and the specific additional testing or derivation of fuel economy values by analytical methods believed by the manufacturer necessary to eliminate the insufficiency and any plans of the manufacturer to undertake that testing or derivation voluntarily and submit the resulting data to the EPA under 40 CFR 600.509-12.


(c) *Model type and configuration fuel economy and technical information.* (1) For each model type of the manufacturer's automobiles, the manufacturers must provide the information specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section in tabular form. List the model types in order of increasing average inertia weight from top to bottom down the left side of the table and list the information categories in the order specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section from left to right across the top of the table. For model year 2023 and later, CAFE reports required by this part, shall for each model type of the manufacturer's automobiles, provide the information in specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section in accordance with the NHTSA CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474) and list the model types in order of increasing average inertia weight from top to bottom.


(2)(i) Combined fuel economy; and


(ii) Projected sales for the current model year and total sales of all model types.


(3) For pre-model year reports only through model year 2022, for each vehicle configuration whose fuel economy was used to calculate the fuel economy values for a model type under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, manufacturers must provide the information specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section in accordance with the NHTSA CAFE Projections Reporting Template (OMB Control No. 2127-0019, NHTSA Form 1474).


(4)(i) Loaded vehicle weight;


(ii) Equivalent test weight;


(iii) Engine displacement, liters;


(iv) Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) net rated power, kilowatts;


(v) SAE net horsepower;


(vi) Engine code;


(vii) Fuel system (number of carburetor barrels or, if fuel injection is used, so indicate);


(viii) Emission control system;


(ix) Transmission class;


(x) Number of forward speeds;


(xi) Existence of overdrive (indicate yes or no);


(xii) Total drive ratio (N/V);


(xiii) Axle ratio;


(xiv) Combined fuel economy;


(xv) Projected sales for the current model year;


(xvi)(A) In the case of passenger automobiles:


(*1*) Interior volume index, determined in accordance with subpart D of 40 CFR part 600; and


(*2*) Body style;


(B) In the case of light trucks:


(*1*) Passenger-carrying volume; and


(*2*) Cargo-carrying volume;


(xvii) Frontal area;


(xviii) Road load power at 50 miles per hour, if determined by the manufacturer for purposes other than compliance with this part to differ from the road load setting prescribed in 40 CFR 86.177-11(d); and


(xix) Optional equipment that the manufacturer is required under 40 CFR parts 86 and 600 to have actually installed on the vehicle configuration, or the weight of which must be included in the curb weight computation for the vehicle configuration, for fuel economy testing purposes.


(5) For each model type of automobile which is classified as a non-passenger vehicle (light truck) under part 523 of this chapter, manufacturers must provide the following data:


(i) For an automobile designed to perform at least one of the following functions in accordance with § 523.5(a) of this chapter, indicate (by “yes” or “no” for each function) whether the vehicle can:


(A) Transport more than 10 persons (if yes, provide actual designated seating positions);


(B) Provide temporary living quarters (if yes, provide applicable conveniences as defined in § 523.2 of this chapter);


(C) Transport property on an open bed (if yes, provide bed size width and length);


(D) Provide, as sold to the first retail purchaser, greater cargo-carrying than passenger-carrying volume, such as in a cargo van and quantify the value which should be the difference between the values provided in paragraphs (c)(4)(xvi)(B)(1) and (2) of this section; if a vehicle is sold with a second-row seat, its cargo-carrying volume is determined with that seat installed, regardless of whether the manufacturer has described that seat as optional; or


(E) Permit expanded use of the automobile for cargo-carrying purposes or other non-passenger-carrying purposes through:


(*1*) For non-passenger automobiles manufactured prior to model year 2012, the removal of seats by means of uninstalling by the automobile's manufacturer or by uninstalling with simple tools, such as screwdrivers and wrenches, so as to create a flat, floor level, surface extending from the forward-most point of installation of those seats to the rear of the automobile's interior; or


(*2*) For non-passenger automobiles manufactured in model year 2008 and beyond, for vehicles equipped with at least 3 rows of designated seating positions as standard equipment, permit expanded use of the automobile for cargo-carrying purposes or other nonpassenger-carrying purposes through the removal or stowing of foldable or pivoting seats so as to create a flat, leveled cargo surface extending from the forward-most point of installation of those seats to the rear of the automobile's interior.


(ii) For an automobile capable of off-highway operation, identify which of the features in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section qualify the vehicle as off-road in accordance with § 523.5(b) of this chapter and quantify the values of each feature:


(A) 4-wheel drive; or


(B) A rating of more than 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight; and


(C) Has at least four of the following characteristics calculated when the automobile is at curb weight, on a level surface, with the front wheels parallel to the automobile's longitudinal centerline, and the tires inflated to the manufacturer's recommended pressure. The exact value of each feature should be quantified:


(*1*) Approach angle of not less than 28 degrees.


(*2*) Breakover angle of not less than 14 degrees.


(*3*) Departure angle of not less than 20 degrees.


(*4*) Running clearance of not less than 20 centimeters.


(*5*) Front and rear axle clearances of not less than 18 centimeters each.


(6) Manufacturers must determine the fuel economy values provided under paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section in accordance with § 537.9.


(7) Manufacturers must identify any air-conditioning (AC), off-cycle and full-size pick-up truck technologies used each model year to calculate the average fuel economy specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12.


(i) Provide a list of each air conditioning (AC) efficiency improvement technology utilized in your fleet(s) of vehicles for each model year for which the manufacturer qualifies for fuel consumption improvement values under 49 CFR 531.6 or 533.6. For each technology identify vehicles by make and model types that have the technology, which compliance category those vehicles belong to and the number of vehicles for each model equipped with the technology. For each compliance category (domestic passenger car, import passenger car, and light truck), report the AC fuel consumption improvement value in gallons/mile in accordance with the equation specified in 40 CFI00.510-12(c)(3)(i).


(ii) Manufacturers must provide a list of off-cycle efficiency improvement technologies utilized in its fleet(s) of vehicles for each model year that is pending or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for which the manufacturer qualifies for fuel consumption improvement values under 49 CFR 531.6 or 533.6. For each technology, manufacturers must identify vehicles by make and model types that have the technology, which compliance category those vehicles belong to, the number of vehicles for each model equipped with the technology, and the associated off-cycle credits (grams/mile) available for each technology. For each compliance category (domestic passenger car, import passenger car, and light truck), manufacturers must calculate the fleet off-cycle fuel consumption improvement value in gallons/mile in accordance with the equation specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12(c)(3)(ii).


(iii) For model years up to 2024, manufacturers must provide a list of full-size pickup trucks in its fleet that meet the mild and strong hybrid vehicle definitions. For each mild and strong hybrid type, manufacturers must identify vehicles by make and model types that have the technology, the number of vehicles produced for each model equipped with the technology, the total number of full-size pickup trucks produced with and without the technology, the calculated percentage of hybrid vehicles relative to the total number of vehicles produced, and the associated full-size pickup truck credits (grams/mile) available for each technology. For the light truck compliance category, manufacturers must calculate the fleet pickup truck fuel consumption improvement value in gallons/mile in accordance with the equation specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12(c)(3)(iii).



---

[N] [87 FR 26087, May 2, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 52954, June 24, 2024]






