# § 721.3140   Vinyl epoxy ester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance vinyl epoxy ester (PMN P-85-527) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The provision of § 721.72(d) requiring that employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program does not apply when the written program is not required under § 721.72(a). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k) (as an injection molding coating), and (y).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (j).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 



---

[N] [55 FR 39900, Sept. 28, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




