# ยง 24.12   Designated ports.

(a) The following U.S. Department of Agriculture ports are designated ports for the importation, exportation, or reexportation of plants which are listed in 50 CFR 17.12 and/or 23.23 and which are required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 17 and/or 23:


(b) The U.S. Department of Agriculture ports at Hilo, Hawaii, and Chicago, Illinois, are designated ports for the importation, exportation, or reexportation of plants of the family Orchidaceae (orchids) which are listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 and which are required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or 23.


(c) The U.S. Department of Agriculture ports at Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Baltimore, Maryland; St. Louis, Missouri; and Milwaukee, Wisconsin; are designated ports for the importation, exportation or reexportation of roots of American ginseng (*Panax quinquefolius*) listed in 50 CFR 23.23 and which are required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or 23.


(d) The U.S. Department of Agriculture ports at Detroit and Port Huron, Michigan; Buffalo, New York; Rouses Point, New York; and Blaine, Washington, are designated ports for the importation from Canada of plants which are listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 and which are required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or 23, and for the exportation or reexportation to Canada of plants which are listed in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 and which are required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or 23.


(e) The U.S. Department of Agriculture ports at Mobile, Alabama; Fort Lauderdale (=Port Everglades), Jacksonville, and Panama City, Florida; Savannah, Georgia; Baltimore, Maryland; Gulfport, Mississippi; Wilmington and Morehead City, North Carolina; Portland, Oregon; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Charleston, South Carolina; Laredo, Texas; Norfolk, Virginia; and Vancouver, Washington, are designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees which are listed in the appendices to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) or in 50 CFR 17.12 or 23.23 and which are required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or 23.


(f) The U.S. Department of Agriculture port at Wilmington, North Carolina, is a designated port for the exportation of plants of the species *Dionaea muscipula* (Venus flytrap), which is listed in appendix II to CITES and which is required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 23.


(g) All U.S. Customs designated ports of entry on the United States-Canadian border (Customs designated ports of entry are listed in 19 CFR part 101) and the following U.S. Department of Agriculture ports are designated ports for the importation, exportation, or reexportation of plants not required to be accompanied by documentation under 50 CFR part 17 or 23:



---

[N] [49 FR 42941, Oct. 25, 1984, as amended at 55 FR 11920, Mar. 30, 1990; 58 FR 68543, Dec. 28, 1993; 58 FR 14121, Mar. 25, 1994; 59 FR 42775, Aug. 19, 1994; 62 FR 30775, June 5, 1997]




