# § 1.6664-3   Ordering rules for determining the total amount of penalties imposed.

(a) *In general.* This section provides rules for determining the order in which adjustments to a return are taken into account for the purpose of computing the total amount of penalties imposed under sections 6662 and 6663, where—


(1) There is at least one adjustment with respect to which no penalty has been imposed and at least one with respect to which a penalty has been imposed, or


(2) There are at least two adjustments with respect to which penalties have been imposed and they have been imposed at different rates.


(b) *Order in which adjustments are taken into account.* In computing the portions of an underpayment subject to penalties imposed under sections 6662 and 6663, adjustments to a return are considered made in the following order:


(1) Those with respect to which no penalties have been imposed.


(2) Those with respect to which a penalty has been imposed at a 20 percent rate (*i.e.,* a penalty for negligence or disregard of rules or regulations, substantial understatement of income tax, or substantial valuation misstatement, under sections 6662(b)(1) through 6662(b)(3), respectively).


(3) Those with respect to which a penalty has been imposed at a 40 percent rate (*i.e.,* a penalty for a gross valuation misstatement under sections 6662 (b)(3) and (h)).


(4) Those with respect to which a penalty has been imposed at a 75 percent rate (*i.e.,* a penalty for fraud under section 6663).


(c) *Manner in which unclaimed prepayment credits are allocated.* Any income tax withholding or other payment made before a return was filed, that was neither claimed on the return nor previously allowed as a credit against the tax liability for the taxable year (an “unclaimed prepayment credit”), is allocated as follows—


(1) If an unclaimed prepayment credit is allocable to a particular adjustment, such credit is applied in full in determining the amount of the underpayment resulting from such adjustment.


(2) If an unclaimed prepayment credit is not allocable to a particular adjustment, such credit is applied in accordance with the ordering rules set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this § 1.6664-3. These examples do not take into account the reasonable cause exception to the accuracy-related penalty under § 1.6664-4.



---

[N] [T.D. 8381, 56 FR 67507, Dec. 31, 1991; T.D. 8381, 57 FR 6165, Feb. 20, 1992]




