# § 292.16   Standards.

The standards established in these regulations are in furtherance of the preservation and protection of the natural, scenic, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values and to provide for the enhancement of the recreation values of the Recreation Area. 


(a) *Applicability.* The standards set forth in this section for each land use category shall apply to the private land in each such land use category as classified by the Secretary in accordance with § 292.15. 


(b) *Changes in standards.* Changes in and addition to the standards may be made from time to time through amendment of these regulations. 


(c) *General standards.* The following standards apply to properties in all land use categories. 


(1) Use and development of the property will be in conformance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations and ordinances. 


(2) Development, improvement and use of the property will not materially detract from the scenic, natural, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values of the area. 


(3) There will be adequate provision for disposal of solid and liquid waste originating on or resulting from use of the property. 


(4) All new utilities will be underground. 


(5) No structures or other improvements will be constructed in or encroaching upon streambeds, banks and flood plains of live or intermittent streams. Streambeds, banks, and flood plains will not be disturbed, except as may be necessary to construct, operate, and maintain irrigation, fisheries, utilities, roads, and similar facilities or improvements. Any such necessary encroachment will avoid impeding water flow, sedimentation of streams or entrance of deleterious material into streams. 


(d) *Designated communities.* (1) The following standards are established until replaced as provided for in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. 


(i) No buildings or structures, or part thereof, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, moved, or used for any purpose, except in conformance with the standards established herein. 


(ii) No excavation or topographic change, except that required for foundations, utilities, or roads, that would modify or change the scenic beauty of natural hillsides or mountain slope lands. 


(iii) Minimum 100-foot frontage on new building sites. 


(iv) All new buildings set in 10 feet from each side of property line. 


(v) All new buildings set back 20 feet from front property line. 


(vi) Only one single-family dwelling for each building site or lot. 


(vii) No new building to exceed two stories in height as determined from ground level. 


(viii) No building or structure erected with foundation pillars or stilts that exceeds 36 inches above ground level. Pillars or stilts, if used, must be enclosed. 


(ix) Minimum of 750 square feet for new residences. 


(x) All new buildings constructed of logs, shakes, rough lumber, rough wood, and native stone. 


(xi) Mobile or semimobile homes permitted only in existing mobile home parks. 


(xii) Nonreflective roofs on new buildings. 


(xiii) All new steps and walks constructed of wood. 


(xiv) Paints or stains to be of earth tones common to the area. 


(xv) All buildings and structures, including fences, to be maintained in a useable and serviceable condition or removed. Properties to be maintained in a clean and orderly condition. 


(xvi) Existing plus new buildings or structures cannot occupy more than 30 percent of the land surface on a lot less than 20,000 square feet in area. On any lot larger than 20,000 square feet, existing plus new buildings cannot occupy more than 6,500 square feet. Existing properties exceeding this amount as of the effective date of these regulations may not be further developed. 


(xvii) The standards in paragraphs (d)(1) (v), (vi), (ix), and (xvi) of this section shall not apply to properties developed for commercial purposes. 


(2) The Area Ranger shall cooperate with each designated community in the preparation of a community development plan and implementing ordinances which will assure that use and development of the private properties within the community will be consistent with the purposes for which the Sawtooth National Recreation Area was established and with the overall general plan of the Recreation Area. The Secretary may then, by amendment of these regulations, replace the standards adopted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section with the standards set forth in such community development plan and implementing ordinances as the standards applicable to that designated community. 


(e) *Residential.* (1) Vegetative cover and screening requirements. Any combination of vegetative screening, topography, and structure design that renders the residence inconspicuous and not obtrusive as seen from main travel routes. 


(2) *Buildings.* (i) Not more than one residence on each separately owned contiguous property as recorded in the records of the appropriate county on date of publication of these regulations. 


(ii) *Not more than two outbuildings with each residence.* Aggregate square foot area of outbuildings not to exceed 850 square feet and to be limited to one story not more than 22 feet in height.


(iii) Dwelling size not less than 750 square feet of floor space. 


(iv) Building architecture compatible with location and the pastoral environment, rustic in nature, harmoniously colored or natural wood finish or suitable wood substitutes, nonreflective roofs and sidings. 


(v) Height of buildings to be in keeping with site characteristics and normally not exceeding on-site tree height, or 30 feet. 


(vi) Sufficient setback of buildings from centerline of public roads for safety and unhampered traffic flow. 


(vii) Minimum building setback from property line—10 feet. 


(3) No excavation or topographic change except that required for buildings, roads, and utilities. 


(4) Removal of live trees and other vegetation limited to that necessary to accommodate buildings and roads to allow installation of utilities. 


(5) Roads designed, located, and constructed to minimize adverse esthetic impact and soil erosion. 


(6) Owner identification and sale or rental signs not to exceed 2 square feet in size. 


(7) Buildings and structures, including fences, to be maintained in a usable and serviceable condition or removed. 


(8) No further reduction in size of residential ownerships except that which will not impair the objectives for which the Sawtooth National Recreation Area was established. A certification will be issued pursuant to § 292.15(d) upon application in such cases. 


(f) *Commercial*—(1) *General.* Service provided must serve a need which cannot readily or adequately be provided in a designated community, and must be compatible with the purposes for which the Sawtooth National Recreation Area was established. 


(2) *Buildings.* (i) Building architecture to be compatible with the pastoral environment, rustic in nature, harmoniously colored or natural wood finish or suitable wood substitutes, nonreflective roofs and sidings. 


(ii) Building height to be in keeping with building size, scale, setback from roads and property boundaries, site size, setting, building design and type of use. 


(iii) Sufficient setback of buildings from centerline of public roads for safety and unhampered traffic flow. 


(3) Only signs identifying the commercial enterprise being conducted on the property. Signs not to exceed 20 square feet in area, 6 feet in length and 15 feet maximum height. Signs to be subdued in appearance and harmonizing in design and color with the surroundings. Signs not complying with the standard may be approved by certifications issued pursuant to § 292.15(d) in special cases. 


(4) No flashing lights. 


(5) No new mobile or semimobile homes and mobile home parks except where they may be located without substantially impairing or detracting from the scenic, natural, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values of the area. 


(g) *Agriculture.* (1) Only structures which do not substantially impair or detract from the scenic, natural, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values of the area and which are necessary for ranching or dude ranching such as dwellings, barns, storage buildings, fences, corrals, irrigation facilities, roads, and utilities. 


(2) Buildings to be ranch-type character with log or other rustic exterior with harmoniously colored or natural wood finish and nonreflective surfaces. 


(3) Fences and other improvements to be in harmony with the western ranching atmosphere. 


(4) Minimum setback of new buildings to be 150 feet from public roads where determined feasible by the Area Ranger. 


(5) No further reduction in size of agricultural ownerships except that which will not impair the objectives for which the Sawtooth National Recreation Area was established. A certification will be issued pursuant to § 292.15(d) upon application in such cases. 


(6) No signs, billboards or advertising devices except a property identification sign and one sale or rental sign not to exceed 2 square feet in area, harmonious in design and color with the surroundings. Signs not complying with this standard may be approved by certifications issued pursuant to § 292.15(d) in special cases. 


(7) Any tree removal and related slash disposal and soil erosion prevention measures to be conducted in a manner that will minimize detrimental effects to the site and adjoining lands. 


(8) The general topography of the landscape to be unaltered except for incidental excavation or topographic change required by ranching activities. 


(9) Structures and improvements, including fences, to be maintained in usable condition or removed. Those recognized as having historic or esthetic value may remain. 


(10) Roads to be designed, located and constructed to minimize esthetic impact and soil movement. 


(11) Agricultural practices to be limited to hay production and pasture and range grazing in a manner which does not degrade water quality or result in accelerated soil erosion. 


(h) *Mineral operations.* The standards set forth in this paragraph shall apply to a private property or portion thereof in any land use category which is used for mineral operations. To aid in determining whether a planned mineral operation will conform to these standards, the owner of the property shall submit to the Area Ranger a proposed plan of operations. If the Area Ranger determines that the proposed operation conforms to the standards established herein he will approve the plan and such approval shall constitute the certification provided for in § 292.15(d). 


(1) Operations will be confined to those locations where they may be conducted without substantially impairing or detracting from the scenic, natural, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values of the area. 


(2) The general standards set forth in paragraph (c) of this section shall apply to any mineral operations. 


(3) The operations as described in the plan of operation and as they are carried out in accordance with the plan shall: 


(i) Comply with Federal and State air and water quality and waste disposal standards. 


(ii) Minimize adverse impacts on scenic values. 


(iii) Provide for prompt stabilization and restoration of areas disturbed by the operations. 



---

[N] [39 FR 11544, Mar. 29, 1974, as amended at 69 FR 55094, Sept. 13, 2004]




