# ยง 12.117   Procedure after examination.

(a) *Merchandise complying with the Act.* If, upon examination or analysis of a sample from a shipment of pesticides or devices, the sample is found to be in compliance with the Act, the Administrator will notify the port director that the shipment may be released to the consignee.


(b) *Merchandise not complying with the Act.* If, upon examination or analysis of a sample from a shipment of pesticides or devices, the sample is found to be in violation of the Act, the consignee will be notified promptly by the Administrator of the nature of the violation and be given a reasonable time, not to exceed 20 days, to submit written material or, at his option, to appear before the Administrator and introduce testimony, to show cause why the shipment should not be destroyed or refused entry. If, after consideration of all the evidence presented, it is still the opinion of the Administrator that the merchandise is in violation of the Act, the Administrator will notify the port director of this opinion and the port director will either (1) refuse delivery to the consignee, or (2) if the shipment has been released to the consignee under bond, demand redelivery of the shipment under the terms of the bond. If the merchandise is not redelivered within 30 days after the date of demand by the port director, the port director will issue a demand for liquidated damages in the full amount of the bond if it is a single entry bond, or if a continuous bond is used, the amount that would have been taken under a single entry bond. The port director will cause the destruction of any merchandise refused delivery to the consignee, or redelivered by the consignee pursuant to a demand therefor, and not exported by the consignee within 90 days after notice of such refusal of delivery or within 90 days after such redelivery, as applicable.



---

[N] [T.D. 75-194, 40 FR 32322, Aug. 1, 1975, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41168, Oct. 19, 1984; CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]




