# § 263.23   Motions.

(a) *In writing.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.


(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.


(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the ALJ. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits, or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.


(b) *Oral motions.* A motion may be made orally on the record unless the ALJ directs that such motion be reduced to writing.


(c) *Filing of motions.* Motions must be filed with the ALJ, except that following the filing of the recommended decision, motions must be filed with the Board.


(d) *Responses.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, within ten days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the ALJ or the Board, any party may file a written response to a motion. The ALJ will not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.


(2) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed a consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.


(e) *Dilatory motions.* Frivolous, dilatory or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.


(f) *Dispositive motions.* Dispositive motions are governed by §§ 263.29 and 263.30.






