# § 35.6270   Standards for financial management systems.

(a) *Accounting system standards*—(1) *General.* The recipient's system must track expenses by site, activity, and, operable unit, as applicable, according to object class. The system must also provide control, accountability, and an assurance that funds, property, and other assets are used only for their authorized purposes. The recipient must allow an EPA review of the adequacy of the financial management system as described in 2 CFR 200.302.


(2) *Allowable costs.* The recipient's systems must comply with the appropriate allowable cost principles described in 2 CFR part 200 Subpart E—Cost Principles.


(3) *Pre-remedial.* The system need not track expenses by site. However, all pre-remedial costs must be documented under a single Superfund account number designated specifically for the pre-remedial activity.


(4) *Core Program.* Since all costs associated with Core Program Cooperative Agreements are non-site-specific, the systems need not track expenses by site. However, all Core Program costs must be documented under the Superfund account number(s) designated specifically for Core Program activity.


(5) *Support Agency.* All support agency agreements will be assigned a single Superfund activity code designated specifically for support agency activities. All support agency costs, however, must be documented site specifically in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the Cooperative Agreement.


(6) *Accounting system control procedures.* Except as provided for in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, accounting system control procedures must ensure that accounting information is:


(i) Accurate, charging only costs attributable to the site, activity, and operable unit, as applicable; and


(ii) Complete, recording and charging to individual sites, activities, and operable units, as applicable, all costs attributable to the recipient's CERCLA effort.


(7) *Financial reporting.* The recipient's accounting system must use actual costs as the basis for all reports of direct site charges. The recipient must comply with the requirements for financial reporting contained in § 35.6670.


(b) *Recordkeeping system standards.* (1) The recipient must maintain a recordkeeping system that enables site-specific costs to be tracked by site, activity, and operable unit, as applicable, and provides sufficient documentation for cost recovery purposes.


(2) The recipient must provide this site-specific documentation to the EPA Regional Office within 30 working days of a request, unless another time frame is specified in the Cooperative Agreement.


(3) In addition, the recipient must comply with the requirements regarding records described in §§ 35.6700, 35.6705, and 35.6710. The recipient must comply with the requirements regarding source documentation described in 2 CFR 200.302.


(4) For pre-remedial and Core Program activities, the recordkeeping system must comply with the requirements described in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 24504, May 2, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76060, Dec. 19, 2014]




