# § 721.6475   Alkyl polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated fatty alcohols.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated fatty alcohols (PMNs P-96-554/555/556/557/558/559) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* The chemical substances identified generically as alkyl polycarboxylic acids, esters with ethoxylated fatty alcohols (PMN P-96-560/561/564/565) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(i) The significant new uses are:


(A) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(A) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.


(B) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 3433, Jan. 22, 1998]




