# ยง 570.50   General.

(a) *Higher standards.* Nothing in this subpart shall authorize non-compliance with any Federal or State law, regulation, or municipal ordinance establishing a higher standard. If more than one standard within this subpart applies to a single activity the higher standard shall be applicable.


(b) *Apprentices.* Some sections in this subpart contain an exemption for the employment of apprentices. Such an exemption shall apply only when: (1) The apprentice is employed in a craft recognized as an apprenticeable trade; (2) the work of the apprentice in the occupations declared particularly hazardous is incidental to his training; (3) such work is intermittent and for short periods of time and is under the direct and close supervision of a journeyman as a necessary part of such apprentice training; and (4) the apprentice is registered by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training of the United States Department of Labor as employed in accordance with the standards established by that Bureau, or is registered by a State agency as employed in accordance with the standards of the State apprenticeship agency recognized by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, or is employed under a written apprenticeship agreement and conditions which are found by the Secretary of labor to conform substantially with such Federal or State standards.


(c) *Student-learners.* Some sections in this subpart contain an exemption for the employment of student-learners. Such an exemption shall apply when:


(1) The student-learner is enrolled in a course of study and training in a cooperative vocational training program under a recognized State or local educational authority or in a course of study in a substantially similar program conducted by a private school and;


(2) Such student-learner is employed under a written agreement which provides:


(i) That the work of the student-learner in the occupations declared particularly hazardous shall be incidental to his training;


(ii) That such work shall be intermittent and for short periods of time, and under the direct and close supervision of a qualified and experienced person;


(iii) That safety instructions shall be given by the school and correlated by the employer with on-the-job training; and


(iv) That a schedule of organized and progressive work processes to be performed on the job shall have been prepared.



---

[N] [28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963, as amended at 33 FR 12777, Sept. 10, 1968. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]




