# § 433.52   General definitions.

As used in this subpart— 


*Entity related to a health care provider* means—


(1) An organization, association, corporation, or partnership formed by or on behalf of a health care provider; 


(2) An individual with an ownership or control interest in the provider, as defined in section 1124(a)(3) of the Act; 


(3) An employee, spouse, parent, child, or sibling of the provider, or of a person with an ownership or control interest in the provider, as defined in section 1124(a)(3) of the Act; or 


(4) A supplier of health care items or services or a supplier to providers of health care items or services. 


*Health care provider* means the individual or entity that receives any payment or payments for health care items or services provided. 


*Provider-related donation* means a donation or other voluntary payment (in cash or in kind) made directly or indirectly to a State or unit of local government by or on behalf of a health care provider, an entity related to such a health care provider, or an entity providing goods or services to the State for administration of the State's Medicaid plan. 


(1) Donations made by a health care provider to an organization, which in turn donates money to the State, may be considered to be a donation made indirectly to the State by a health care provider. 


(2) When an organization receives less than 25 percent of its revenues from providers and/or provider-related entities, its donations will not generally be presumed to be provider-related donations. Under these circumstances, a provider-related donation to an organization will not be considered a donation made indirectly to the State. However, if the donations from providers to an organization are subsequently determined to be indirect donations to the State or unit of local government for administration of the State's Medicaid program, then such donations will be considered to be health care related. 


(3) When the organization receives more than 25 percent of its revenue from donations from providers or provider-related entities, the organization always will be considered as acting on behalf of health care providers if it makes a donation to the State. The amount of the organization's donation to the State, in a State fiscal year, that will be considered health care related, will be based on the percentage of donations the organization received from the providers during that period. 




