# § 165.504   Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company Shipyard, James River, Newport News, Va.

(a) *Location.* The following is a security zone: The waters of the James River encompassed by a line beginning at the intersection of the shoreline with the northernmost property line of the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co. at latitude 37°00′38.1″ N, longitude 76°27′05.7″ W, thence southerly to latitude 36°59′58.4″ N, longitude 76°27′16.7″ W, thence southeasterly to latitude 36°59′23.0″ N, longitude 76°26′54.6″ W, thence westerly to latitude 36°59′21.5″ N, longitude 76°26′58.4″ W, thence southeasterly to latitude 36°59′12.9″ N, longitude 76°26′52.4″ W, thence easterly to latitude 36°59′14.2″ N, longitude 76°26′49.1″ W, thence southeasterly to latitude 36°58′37.8″ N, longitude 76°26′26.3″ W, thence easterly to latitude 36°58′43.5″ N, longitude 76°26′13.7″ W, thence northerly to the intersection of the shoreline with the southernmost property line of the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co. at latitude 36°58′48.0″ N, longitude 76°26′11.2″ W, thence northwesterly along the shoreline to the point of beginning. 


(b) *Security zone anchorage.* The following is a security zone anchorage: The waters of the James River encompassed by a line beginning at the intersection of the shoreline with the northernmost property line of the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company shipyard at latitude 37°00′38.1″ N, longitude 76°27′05.7″ W, thence southerly to latitude 36°59′58.4″ N, longitude 76°27′16.7″ W, thence easterly to the shoreline at latitude 36°59′58.5″ N, longitude 76°27′11.6″ W, thence along the shoreline to the point of beginning. 


(c) *Special regulations.* (1) Section 165.33 (a), (e), and (f) do not apply to the following vessels or individuals on board those vessels:


(i) Public vessels of the United States.


(ii) Public vessels owned or operated by the Commonwealth of Virginia or its subdivisions for law enforcement or firefighting purposes.


(iii) Vessels owned by, operated by, or under charter to Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co.


(iv) Vessels that are performing work at Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co., including the vessels of subcontractors and other vendors of Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co. or other persons that have a contractual relationship with Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co.


(v) Vessels that are being built, rebuilt, repaired, or otherwise worked on at or by Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co. or another person authorized to perform work at the shipyard.


(vi) Vessels that are authorized by Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company to moor at and use its facilities.


(vii) Commercial shellfish harvesting vessels taking clams from the shellfish beds within the zone, if


(A) The owner of the vessel has previously provided the Captain of the Port, Virginia, information about the vessel, including:


(*1*) The name of the vessel;


(*2*) The vessel's official number, if documented, or state number, if numbered by a state issuing authority;


(*3*) A brief description of the vessel, including length, color, and type of vessel;


(*4*) The name, Social Security number, current address, and telephone number of the vessel's master, operator, or person in charge; and


(*5*) Upon request, information the vessel's crew.


(B) The vessel is operated in compliance with any specific orders issued to the vessel by the Captain of the Port or other regulations controlling the operation of vessels within the security zone that may be in effect.


(d) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the enforcement of this zone by the U.S. Navy.



---

[N] [CGD5 86-03, 51 FR 18322, May 19, 1986, as amended by CGD5 87-038, 52 FR 41996, Nov. 2, 1987; USCG-2019-0943, 85 FR 6806, Feb. 6, 2020]




