# § 700.175   Temporary emergency moves.

(a) *General.* An eligible household may be granted temporary relocation resources, at the Commission's discretion, provided:


(1) That the move is for a limited time period not to exceed 12 months unless extended by the Commission.


(2) That permanent relocation resources are not available at the time of displacement.


(3) Prior approval of the Commission is obtained.


(4) That a Relocation Contract providing for permanent relocation has been executed.


(5) The head of household actually remained domiciled on lands partitioned to the tribe of which he is not a member as of December 22, 1974, and continuously thereafter.


(6) The head of household shall vacate all improvements owned by him on lands partitioned to the tribe of which he is not a member and shall transfer title to said improvements to the Commission.


(b) *Conditions under which move to temporary housing accommodations may be approved.* The move of a family or individual into temporary housing accommodations may be approved by the Commission only if the following conditions are met.


(1) The move will be undertaken because:


(i) It is necessary because of an emergency as determined by the Commission; or


(ii) The individual or family is subject to conditions hazardous to his or his family's health or safety.


(2) The temporary housing is decent, safe, and sanitary.


(3) The Commission shall have determined that within twelve (12) months of the date of the temporary move, replacement housing meeting Commission-approved standards will be available for occupancy by the persons temporarily rehoused.


(4) Prior to the move, the Commission shall provide in writing assurance to each head of household that:


(i) Replacement housing will be available at the earliest possible time but in any event no later than twelve (12) months from the date of the move to temporary housing.


(ii) Replacement housing will be made available on a priority basis, to the individual or family who has been temporarily rehoused.


(iii) The move to temporary rehousing will not, in any way, affect a claimant's eligibility for a replacement housing payment nor deprive him of the same choice or replacement housing units that would have been made available had the temporary move not been made.


(iv) The Commission will pay all costs in connection with the move to temporary housing, including any increased housing costs.


(c) *Agency documentation.* To request Commission approval for a temporary move of a family, the following information shall be submitted to the Commission (additional information may be required on a case-by-case basis):


(1) An explanation of the necessity for the temporary move, based upon the criteria set forth by the Commission.


(2) The estimated duration of the temporary occupancy.


(3) In the case of the family or individual, (i) a copy of the written assurance which will be provided to the person explaining his rights and the continuing obligation of the agency to provide relocation assistance, and (ii) evidence that the family or individual agrees to make the temporary move.


(d) *Costs in connection with temporary move*—(1) *Costs included.* Costs included in a temporary move may cover the following:


(i) Actual reasonable moving costs and related expenses for the move to temporary accommodations.


(ii) For the family or individual moved from a rental unit the difference, if any, between the rental cost of the dwelling vacated and the rental cost of the temporary unit.


(iii) For a homeowner who retains ownership of his dwelling the reasonable cost of renting the temporary dwelling.


(iv) For a homeowner whose dwelling has been acquired the difference, if any, between his housing costs for the acquired dwelling and the rental cost of the temporary unit.


(2) *Costs not a replacement home benefit.* Costs in connection with a move to temporary accommodations are not to be considered as relocation payments under the Act. (See paragraph (e) of this section.)


(e) *Distinguishing between cost of temporary move and relocation payment.* The costs of a temporary move, as decribed in the foregoing subparagraphs, are not to be considered as all or a part of the relocation payment to which a displaced person is entitled under the Act. Thus, when a family is moved to temporary accommodations, a relocation payment is *not* made and the election or choice of type of payments that would ordinarily be made upon displacement must be delayed until the final move is made. When the move out of temporary accommodations is made, the displaced person shall receive the full relocation payments to which he/she is entitled pursuant to Commission regulations. 




