# § 1489.14   Application review and formation of agreements.

(a) *General.* (1) CCC will review all proposals for eligibility and completeness. CCC will evaluate each eligible proposal against the factors described in the appropriate NOFO to identify those applications that it considers to best meet the criteria and objectives outlined in the NOFO. Based on its review and evaluation, CCC will, subject to the availability of funds, recommend an appropriate funding level for each proposal and submit the proposals and funding recommendations to the appropriate officials for decision. CCC may, when appropriate to the subject matter of the proposal, request the assistance of other U.S. Government experts in evaluating a proposal. All reviewers will be required to sign a conflict-of-interest form, and when conflicts of interests are identified the reviewer will be recused from the objective review process.


(2) When considering applicant organizations, CCC may give priority to those organizations that have the broadest producer representation and affiliated industry participation of the commodity being promoted, as determined by CCC. CCC may require that an applicant participate in the RAPP through another RAPP Participant or applicant.


(3) CCC will approve those applications that it determines best satisfy the criteria and factors specified in the NOFO.


(4) CCC will notify each applicant in writing of the final disposition of its application.


(b) *Formation of agreements.* CCC will send a program agreement (or amendment to an existing program agreement), an approval letter, and a signature card to each approved applicant. The program agreement or amendment and the approval letter will outline which activities and budgets are approved and will specify any special terms and conditions applicable to a RAPP Participant's program, including any requirements with respect to contributions and program evaluations. An applicant that decides to accept the terms and conditions contained in the program agreement or amendment and the approval letter must so indicate by having the appropriate personnel sign the program agreement or amendment and the approval letter and submit these to CCC. Final agreement shall occur when the program agreement or amendment and the approval letter are signed by both parties.


(c) *Signature cards.* The RAPP Participant is encouraged to designate at least two individuals in its organization to sign program agreements and amendments, approval letters, reimbursement claims, and advance requests. The RAPP Participant shall submit the signature card signed by those designated individuals and by the RAPP Participant's Chief Executive Officer (or designee) to CCC. The Participant shall immediately notify CCC in writing of any changes in signatories and shall submit a revised signature card accordingly.


(d) *UES ID and passwords.* CCC will provide each RAPP Participant with IDs and passwords for the UES website, as necessary. RAPP Participants shall immediately notify CCC whenever a person who possesses the ID and password information no longer needs such information, or when a person who is not authorized gains such information.


(e) *Annual certifications.* A RAPP Participant through which U.S. for-profit entities are participating in the RAPP program shall obtain annual certifications from all such entities that certify their size, as defined in this part. The Participant shall retain these certifications in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of this part.


(f) *Changes to activities and funding*—(1) *Adding a new activity.* (i) A RAPP Participant may not conduct a new activity without first obtaining an approved activity budget for such change. To request approval of such activity budget, the RAPP Participant shall submit a notification to CCC.


(ii) A notification for a new activity shall provide an activity justification and identify any related adjustments to the approved strategic plan, including changes in the market, constraint, or opportunity that the activity proposes to address. The notification shall contain the activity description and the proposed budget.


(iii) After receipt of the notification, CCC will inform the RAPP Participant via the UES website whether the requested budget is approved.


(2) *Modifying existing activities and their funding levels.* (i) A RAPP Participant desiring to increase the funding level for existing, approved activities addressing a single constraint or opportunity by more than $25,000 or 25 percent of the approved funding level, whichever is greater, must first submit a notification explaining the adjustment to CCC before making such change.


(ii) A RAPP Participant may make significant adjustments below $25,000 or 25 percent of the approved funding level, whichever is greater, to the funding levels for existing, approved activities without prior notification to CCC, but only if it submits a notification explaining the adjustments to CCC no later than 30 days after the change. Minor adjustments to existing, approved activities and/or funding levels do not require notification.


(iii) Notifications shall describe the activity, changes to the activity, the existing funding level, the proposed funding level, and a justification for transfer of funds, if applicable.






