# ยง 140.420   Emergency drills and instruction.

(a) *Master's responsibilities.* The master of a towing vessel must ensure that drills are conducted and instructions are given to ensure that all crewmembers are capable of performing the duties expected of them during emergencies. This includes abandoning the vessel, recovering persons from the water, responding to onboard fires and flooding, or responding to other threats to life, property, or the environment.


(b) *Nature of drills.* Each drill must, as far as practicable, be conducted as if there was an actual emergency.


(c) *Annual instruction for each crew member.* Unless otherwise stated, each crewmember must receive the instruction required by this section annually.


(d) *Instructions and drills required.* The following instruction and drills are required:


(1) Response to fires, as required by ยง 142.245 of this subchapter;


(2) Launching of a skiff, if listed as an item of emergency equipment to abandon ship or recover a person-overboard;


(3) Instruction on the use of davit-launched liferafts, if installed.


(4) If a rescue boat is installed, instruction on how it must be launched, with its assigned crew aboard, and maneuvered in the water as if during an actual man-overboard situation.


(5) Credentialed mariners holding an officer endorsement do not require instruction in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1), (3), and (4) of this section.


(e) *Alternative forms of instruction.* (1) Instruction as required by this section may be conducted via an electronic format followed by a discussion and demonstration by a competent individual. This instruction may occur either on board or off the vessel but must include the equipment that is the subject of the instruction.


(2) Instruction as required by this section may be performed in accordance with the TSMS applicable to the vessel, provided that it meets the minimum requirements of this section.


(f) *Location of drills, full crew participation, and use of equipment.* As far as practicable, drills must take place on board the vessel. They must include:


(1) Participation by all crewmembers; and


(2) Actual use of, or realistic simulation of the use of, emergency equipment.


(g) *Recordkeeping.* Records of drills and instruction must be maintained in the TVR, official logbook, or in accordance with the TSMS applicable to the vessel. The record must include:


(1) The date of the drill and instruction;


(2) A description of the drill scenario and instruction topics;


(3) The personnel involved.




