# ยง 868.263   Special grades and special grade requirements.

A special grade, when applicable, is supplemental to the grade assigned under ยง 868.262. Such special grades for brown rice for processing are established and determined as follows:


(a) *Parboiled brown rice for processing.* Parboiled brown rice for processing shall be rice in which the starch has been gelatinized by soaking, steaming, and drying. Grades U.S. Nos. 1 to 5, inclusive, shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of ungelatinized kernels. Grades U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 shall contain not more than 0.1 percent, grades U.S. No. 3 and U.S. No. 4 not more than 0.2 percent, and grade U.S. No. 5 not more than 0.5 percent of nonparboiled rice.


(b) *Smutty brown rice for processing.* Smutty brown rice for processing shall be rice which contains more than 3.0 percent of smutty kernels.


(c) *Glutinous brown rice for processing.* Glutinous brown rice for processing shall be special varieties of rice (Oryza sativa L. glutinosa) which contain more than 50 percent chalky kernels. Grade U.S. No. 1 shall contain not more than 1.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 2 not more than 2.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 3 not more than 4.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, grade U.S. No. 4 not more than 6.0 percent of nonchalky kernels, and grade U.S. No. 5 not more than 10.0 percent of nonchalky kernels.


(d) *Aromatic brown rice for processing.* Aromatic brown rice for processing shall be special varieties of rice (Oryza sativa L. scented) that have a distinctive and characteristic aroma; e.g., basmati and jasmine rice.



---

[N] [42 FR 40869, Aug. 12, 1977; 42 FR 64356, Dec. 23, 1977, as amended at 56 FR 55979, Oct. 31, 1991; 58 FR 68016, Dec. 23, 1993. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 16364, 16365, Mar. 30, 1995]




