# ยง 34.86   OREO expenditures and notification.

(a) *Operating expenditures.* A national bank or Federal savings association may pay operating expenses on OREO, including taxes, insurance, utilities, and maintenance, that are reasonable and consistent with safe and sound banking practices.


(b) *Business expenditures.* A national bank or Federal savings association may pay expenses for OREO that includes the operation of a business, provided the expenses are:


(1) Reasonably calculated to reduce any shortfall between the property's market value and the recorded investment amount; and


(2) Consistent with safe and sound banking practices.


(c) *Additional expenditures.* For OREO that is a development or improvement project, a national bank or Federal savings association may make advances to complete the project if the advances are:


(1) Reasonably calculated to reduce any shortfall between the property's market value and the recorded investment amount;


(2) Not made for the purpose of speculation in real estate; and


(3) Consistent with safe and sound banking practices.


(d) *Notification procedures for additional expenditures.* (1) A national bank or Federal savings association shall notify the appropriate supervisory office at least 30 days before implementing a development or improvement plan for OREO when the sum of the plan's estimated cost and the bank's or savings association's current recorded investment amount (including any unpaid prior liens on the property) exceeds 10 percent of the bank's or savings association's total equity capital on its most recent report of condition. A national bank or Federal savings association need notify the OCC under this paragraph (d)(1) only once.


(2) The required notification must demonstrate that the additional expenditure is consistent with the conditions and limitations in paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) Unless informed otherwise, the national bank or Federal savings association may implement the proposed plan on the thirty-first day (or sooner, if notified by the OCC) following receipt by the OCC of the notification, subject to any conditions imposed by the OCC.



---

[N] [84 FR 56375, Oct. 22, 2019]




