# ยง 1918.88   Log operations.

(a) *Working in holds.* When loading logs into the holds of vessels and using dumper devices to roll logs into the wings, the employer shall ensure that employees remain clear of areas where logs being dumped could strike, roll upon, or pin them. 


(b) *Personal flotation devices.* Each employee working on a log boom shall be protected by a personal flotation device meeting the requirements of ยง 1918.105(b)(2). 


(c) *Footwear.* The employer shall provide each employee that is working logs with appropriate footwear, such as spiked shoes or caulked sandals, and shall ensure that each employee wears appropriate footwear to climb or walk on logs. 


(d) *Lifelines.* When employees are working on log booms or cribs, lifelines shall be furnished and hung overside to the water's edge. 


(e) *Jacob's ladder.* When a log boom is being worked, a Jacob's ladder meeting the requirements of ยง 1918.23 shall be provided for each gang working alongside unless other safe means of access (such as the vessel's gangway) is provided. However, no more than two Jacob's ladders are required for any single log boom being worked. 


(f) *Life-ring.* When working a log boom alongside a ship, a U.S. Coast Guard approved 30-inch (76.2 cm) life-ring, with no less than 90 feet (27.4 m) of line, shall be provided either on the floating unit itself or aboard the ship close to each floating unit being worked. 


(g) *Rescue boat.* When employees are working on rafts or booms, a rescue boat capable of effecting an immediate rescue shall be available. Powered rescue boats are required when the current exceeds one knot. 


(h) *Log rafts.* When an employee is working logs out of the water, walking sticks 
11 (safety sticks) shall be provided as follows: 


(1) They shall be planked and be no less than 24 inches (.61 m) wide; 


(2) They shall extend along the entire length of all rafts on the side(s) of the vessel being worked, and to the means of access to the log raft(s); and 


(3) They shall be buoyant enough to keep the walking surface above the waterline when employees are walking on them. 




