# § 721.2577   Certain copper complexes of (substituted sulfonaphthyl azo substituted phenyl) disulfonaphthyl azo, amine salt.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified as cuprate(3-), [3-[2-[5-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-4-[2-[1-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-6-(phenylamino)-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl]diazenyl-.kappa.N1]-2-methylphenyl]diazenyl]-1,5-naphthalenedisulfonato(5-)]-, hydrogen, compd. with 2,2′-iminobis[ethanol] (1:3:3) (PMN P-00-0364; CAS No. 1078726-27-8) and cuprate(3-), [3-[2-[5-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-4-[2-[1-(hydroxy-.kappa.O)-6-(phenylamino)-3-sulfo-2-naphthalenyl]diazenyl-.kappa.N1]-2-methylphenyl]diazenyl]-1,5-naphthalenedisulfonato(5-)]-, ammonium (1:3) (PMN P-00-0365; CAS No. 1078726-28-9) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (v)(1), (w)(1), (x)(1).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 15082, Mar. 28, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 34637, June 18, 2014]




