# § 630.1002   Definitions.

*Agency* means an “Executive agency,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, or a “military department,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102. “Agency” does not include the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or any other Executive agency or subunit thereof, as determined by the President, whose principal function is the conduct of foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities.


*Available paid leave* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Committed relationship* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Domestic partner* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Employee* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Family member* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Leave bank* means a pooled fund of annual leave established by an agency under § 630.1003.


*Leave bank member* means a leave contributor who has contributed, in an open enrollment period (or individual enrollment period, as applicable) of the current leave year, at least the minimum amount of annual leave required by § 630.1004.


*Leave contributor* means an employee who contributes annual leave to a leave bank under § 630.1004.


*Leave recipient* means a leave bank member whose application to receive contributions of annual leave from a leave bank has been approved under § 630.1007.


*Medical emergency* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Paid leave status under subchapter I* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Parent* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Shared leave status* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.


*Son or daughter* has the meaning given that term in subpart I of this part.



---

[N] [59 FR 67129, Dec. 29, 1994, as amended at 75 FR 33496, June 14, 2010]




