# ยง 501.1   Definitions.

(a) *FECA* means the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, 5 U.S.C. 8101 *et seq.* and any statutory extension or application thereof.


(b) *The Board* means the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board.


(c) *Chief Judge and Chairman of the Board* means the Chairman of the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board.


(d) *Judge or Alternate Judge* means a member designated and appointed by the Secretary of Labor with authority to hear and make final decisions on appeals taken from determinations and awards by the OWCP in claims arising under the FECA.


(e) *OWCP* means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor.


(f) *Director* means the Director of the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs or a person delegated authority to perform the functions of the Director. The Director of OWCP is represented before the Board by an attorney designated by the Solicitor of Labor.


(g) *Appellant* means any person adversely affected by a final decision or order of the OWCP who files an appeal to the Board.


(h) *Representative* means an individual properly authorized by an Appellant in writing to act for the Appellant in connection with an appeal before the Board. The Representative may be any individual or an attorney who has been admitted to practice and who is in good standing with any court of competent jurisdiction.


(i) *Decision,* as prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 8149 of the FECA, means the final determinative action made by the Board on appeal of a claim.


(j) *Clerk or Office of the Clerk* means the Clerk of the Office of the Appellate Boards.




