# ยง 0.26   Organization.

There shall be within the Office of the Deputy Attorney General an Office of International Programs.


(a) *Director.* The Office of International Programs shall be headed by a Director appointed by the Attorney General.


(b) *Functions.* The Director of the Office of International Programs shall discharge the following duties:


(1) Coordinate all proposals for the Department of Justice, or Department of Justice personnel, to provide foreign countries with training or technical assistance in the fields of law enforcement, administration of justice, legislation, and economic reform and democratic institution-building initiatives.


(2) Assist the Deputy Attorney General in coordinating the activities of the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance Program and in coordinating responses to requests for international training and technical assistance submitted to the INTERPOL-U.S. National Central Bureau and other Department of Justice units.


(3) Serve as the focal point, on behalf of the Deputy Attorney General, for administrative matters involving international activities, including overseas staffing, of all Department of Justice units.


(4) Coordinate arrangements and preparations for contacts by the Attorney General and Deputy Attorney General with officials of foreign governments, foreign non-governmental organizations, and international organizations.


(5) As required, advise the Deputy Attorney General on matters relating to non-operational foreign travel by Department of Justice personnel.


(6) Serve as a primary liaison with the Department of State, with other appropriate federal, state and local agencies, and with appropriate non-governmental institutions, regarding training and technical assistance to foreign countries in the fields of law enforcement, administration of justice, legislation, and economic reform and democratic institution-building initiatives.


(7) Review and coordinate all planned and ongoing training and technical assistance activities in the fields of law enforcement, administration of justice, legislation, and economic reform and democratic institution-building initiatives by Department of Justice personnel in foreign countries.


(8) As needed, facilitate logistical arrangements for Department of Justice personnel to engage in approved training and technical assistance activities in the fields of law enforcement, administration of justice, legislation, and economic reform and democratic institution-building initiatives in foreign countries.


(9) Coordinate Department of Justice views on proposals for entities outside the Department, including international organizations, to conduct training and technical assistance activities in the fields of law enforcement, administration of justice, legislation, and economic reform and democratic institution-building initiatives in or for foreign countries.


(10) Serve as a focal point, on behalf of the Deputy Attorney General, for resolution, within the Department of Justice, of issues regarding international policy.


(11) Coordinate, on behalf of the Deputy Attorney General, legislation relevant to Department of Justice training and technical assistance activities in or for foreign countries.


(12) Perform such other duties and functions as may be specially assigned by the Deputy Attorney General.


(c) *Relationship with other Departmental units.* The Office of International Programs shall:


(1) Maintain continual liaison with interested components of the Department on international matters.


(2) Develop and administer effective mechanisms to ensure thorough consideration, by interested components of the Department, of all proposals for international training and technical assistance by Department personnel.


(d) *Redelegation of authority.* The Director is authorized to redelegate to any subordinate member of the Office of International Programs any of the authority, functions or duties vested in the Director by this subpart.



---

[N] [Order No. 1606-92, 57 FR 32438, July 22, 1992]




