# § 62.13   Notification requirements.

(a) *Valid program status of exchange visitor.* Sponsors must notify the Department of State via SEVIS of the following:


(1) Validation of program participation. Sponsors must promptly validate an exchange visitor's participation in their program. This will change the status of the exchange visitor's SEVIS record from “Initial” to “Active.” SEVIS records with program durations (e.g., the period between the “Program Begin Date” and “Program End Date”) of 30 days or more must be validated within 30 days following the “Program Begin Date” identified in SEVIS. SEVIS records with program durations that are less than 30 days must be validated prior to the “Program End Date” reflected in SEVIS. As part of the validation process, sponsors may amend the program begin date and must update the SEVIS record to reflect the actual and current U.S. address and site of activity in SEVIS. The status of SEVIS records that are not validated according to this schedule will automatically change to “Invalid” or “No Show”. Accompanying spouses and dependents' SEVIS records are automatically validated upon validation of the exchange visitors' SEVIS records.


(2) Failure of an exchange visitor to begin program. Sponsors must report in SEVIS, no later than 30 calendar days after the “Program Begin Date” listed in SEVIS, the failure of an exchange visitor to report to his or her sponsor upon entry in the United States (*i.e.*, failure of exchange visitor to begin an exchange visitor program as scheduled). This will change the status of the exchange visitor's SEVIS record from “Initial” to “No Show.”


(3) End of an exchange visitor's program. Sponsors must report in SEVIS any withdrawal from or early completion of an exchange visitor's program that occurs prior to the “Program End Date” listed in SEVIS on the exchange visitor's Form DS-2019. Sponsors must not alter the “Program End Date” field, but should enter the date of program completion in the “Effective Date of Completion” field. This will change the status of the exchange visitor's SEVIS record from “Active” to “Inactive.” Such notification in SEVIS ends a sponsor's programmatic obligations to the exchange visitor and/or his or her accompanying spouse and dependents.


(4) Accompanying spouse and dependent records. Sponsors must report in SEVIS if accompanying spouses and/or dependents depart from the United States prior to the exchange visitors' departure dates.


(5) Termination of an exchange visitor's program. Sponsors must promptly report in SEVIS the involuntary termination of an exchange visitor's program. Sponsors must not alter the “Program End Date” field, but should enter the date of program termination in the “Effective Date of Termination” field. This will change the status of the SEVIS record from “Active” to “Terminated”. Such notification in SEVIS ends a sponsor's programmatic obligation to the exchange visitor and his or her accompanying spouse and dependents, if any, and prevents the sponsor from thereafter extending the exchange visitor's duration of participation, transferring the exchange visitor to another program, or changing the exchange visitor's category. Sponsors must not terminate the program of an exchange visitor who voluntarily ends his or her program.


(b) *Change of circumstance of an exchange visitor.* Sponsors must promptly notify the Department of State via SEVIS of any of the following circumstances:


(1) Change in the actual and current U.S. address. Sponsors must ensure that the actual and current U.S. addresses of an exchange visitor are reported in SEVIS:


(i) Sponsors must report the U.S. mailing address (*i.e.*, provide a P.O. Box number) in SEVIS in those limited cases where mail cannot be delivered to the exchange visitor's actual and current U.S. address (e.g., the exchange visitor resides in a campus setting); and


(ii) If a U.S. mailing address is reported to SEVIS, sponsors must also maintain records in SEVIS of actual and current U.S. addresses (e.g., dormitory, building and room number) for such exchange visitors.


(2) Change in site of activity. Sponsors must report in SEVIS any change to an exchange visitor's site of activity by entering the new site within ten business days of notification of such a change where sponsor rules or regulations permit such a change. Sponsors must promptly enter any change in the site of activity in those instances where the sponsor is responsible for the placement. Sponsors must identify the “primary” site of activity of an exchange visitor if multiple sites of activity are reported in SEVIS.


(c) *Change in sponsor's circumstance.* Sponsors must report within ten business days in SEVIS or directly to the Department of State, if appropriate, any material changes to their exchange visitor program as follows:


(1) Change of business and/or mailing address, telephone number, facsimile number, or email address;


(2) Change in the composition of the sponsor organization that affects its status as a United States Person as defined in § 62.2, which includes a new Employment Identification Number (EIN);


(3) Change of Responsible Officer or Alternate Responsible Officer;


(4) Major change of ownership or control of the sponsor's organization as defined in § 62.60(e);


(5) Change of the sponsor's principal place of business to a location outside the United States;


(6) Change in financial circumstances that may render the sponsor unable to comply with its obligations as set forth in § 62.9(e);


(7) Loss of licensure or accreditation;


(8) Loss or theft of Forms DS-2019, in which case a sponsor must notify the Department of State promptly by telephone or email of the SEVIS identification numbers of such Forms DS-2019 that have been lost or stolen;


(9) A decision by the sponsor to voluntarily cancel (withdraw) its exchange visitor program designation; or


(10) Any other material facts or events that may have an impact on the sponsor's ability to properly administer or conduct its exchange visitor program.


(d) *Serious problem or controversy.* Sponsors must inform the Department of State on or before the next business day by telephone (confirmed promptly in writing by facsimile or email) of any investigations of an exchange visitor's site of activity or serious problem or controversy that could be expected to bring the Department of State, the Exchange Visitor Program, or the sponsor's exchange visitor program into notoriety or disrepute, including any potential litigation related to a sponsor's exchange visitor program, in which the sponsor or an exchange visitor may be a named party.



---

[N] [79 FR 60307, Oct. 6, 2014]




