# § 483.410   Condition of participation: Governing body and management.

(a) *Standard: Governing body.* The facility must identify an individual or individuals to constitute the governing body of the facility. The governing body must—


(1) Exercise general policy, budget, and operating direction over the facility;


(2) Set the qualifications (in addition to those already set by State law, if any) for the administrator of the facility; and


(3) Appoint the administrator of the facility.


(b) *Standard: Compliance with Federal, State, and local laws.* The facility must be in compliance with all applicable provisions of Federal, State and local laws, regulations and codes pertaining to health, safety, and sanitation.


(c) *Standard: Client records.* (1) The facility must develop and maintain a recordkeeping system that includes a separate record for each client and that documents the client's health care, active treatment, social information, and protection of the client's rights.


(2) The facility must keep confidential all information contained in the clients' records, regardless of the form or storage method of the records.


(3) The facility must develop and implement policies and procedures governing the release of any client information, including consents necessary from the client, or parents (if the client is a minor) or legal guardian.


(4) Any individual who makes an entry in a client's record must make it legibly, date it, and sign it.


(5) The facility must provide a legend to explain any symbol or abbreviation used in a client's record.


(6) The facility must provide each identified residential living unit with appropriate aspects of each client's record.


(d) *Standard: Services provided under agreements with outside sources.* (1) If a service required under this subpart is not provided directly, the facility must have a written agreement with an outside program, resource, or service to furnish the necessary service, including emergency and other health care.


(2) The agreement must—


(i) Contain the responsibilities, functions, objectives, and other terms agreed to by both parties; and


(ii) Provide that the facility is responsible for assuring that the outside services meet the standards for quality of services contained in this subpart.


(3) The facility must assure that outside services meet the needs of each client.


(4) If living quarters are not provided in a facility owned by the ICF/IID, the ICF/IID remains directly responsible for the standards relating to physical environment that are specified in § 483.470 (a) through (g), (j) and (k).


(e) *Standard: Licensure.* The facility must be licensed under applicable State and local law.



---

[N] [53 FR 20496, June 3, 1988. Redesignated at 56 FR 48918, Sept. 26, 1991, and amended at 57 FR 43925, Sept. 23, 1992]




