# ยง 1002.22   Property.

(a) The following are prohibited:


(1) Abandoning property.


(2) Leaving property unattended for longer than 24 hours, except in locations where longer time periods have been designated or in accordance with conditions established by the Board.


(3) Failing to turn in found property to the Executive Director as soon as practicable.


(b) *Impoundment of property.* (1) Property determined to be left unattended in excess of an allowed period of time may be impounded by the Executive Director.


(2) Unattended property that interferes with visitor safety or orderly management of the area administered by the Presidio Trust, or that presents a threat to resources of the area administered by the Presidio Trust may be impounded by the Executive Director at any time.


(3) Found or impounded property shall be inventoried to determine ownership and safeguard personal property.


(4) The owner of record is responsible and liable for charges to the person who has removed, stored, or otherwise disposed of property impounded pursuant to this section; or the Executive Director may assess the owner reasonable fees for the impoundment and storage of property impounded pursuant to this section.


(c) *Disposition of property.* (1) Unattended property impounded pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be abandoned unless claimed by the owner or an authorized representative thereof within 60 days. The 60-day period shall begin when the rightful owner of the property has been notified, if the owner can be identified, or from the time the property was placed in the Executive Director's custody, if the owner cannot be identified.


(2) Unclaimed, found property shall be stored for a minimum period of 60 days and, unless claimed by the owner or an authorized representative thereof, may be claimed by the finder, provided that the finder is not an employee of the Presidio Trust. Found property not claimed by the owner or an authorized representative or the finder shall be deemed abandoned.


(3) Abandoned property shall be disposed of in accordance with law.


(4) Property, including real property, located within the area administered by the Presidio Trust and owned by a deceased person, shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws of the State within whose exterior boundaries the property is located.


(d) The regulations contained in paragraphs (a)(2), (b) and (c) of this section apply, regardless of land ownership, on all lands and waters within the boundaries of the area administered by the Presidio Trust that are under the legislative jurisdiction of the United States.



---

[N] [63 FR 35700, June 30, 1998, as amended at 71 FR 10610, Mar. 2, 2006]




