# § 999.500   Safeguard procedures for walnuts, dates, pistachios, and raisins exempt from grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.

(a) Each person who imports or receives any of the commodities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section shall file (electronically or paper) an “Importer's Exempt Commodity Form” (SC-6) with the Market Development Division, Fruit and Vegetable Program, AMS, USDA. A “person who imports” may include a customs broker, acting as an importer's representative (hereinafter referred to as “importer”). A copy of the form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. If a paper form is used, a copy of the form shall accompany the lot to the exempt outlet specified on the form. Any lot of any commodity offered for inspection or aflatoxin testing and, all or a portion thereof, subsequently imported as exempt under this provision shall also be reported on an SC-6. Such form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the Market Development Division in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The applicable commodities are:


(1) Dates which are donated to needy persons, prisoners or Native Americans on reservations; dates for processing; dates prepared or preserved; or dates for packaging or dates in retail packages that fail to meet grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements and are reclassified as dates for processing;


(2) Walnuts which are: Green walnuts (so immature that they cannot be used for drying and sale as dried walnuts); walnuts used in non-competitive outlets such as use by charitable institutions, relief agencies, governmental agencies for school lunch programs, and diversion to animal feed or oil manufacture;


(3) Substandard pistachios which are for non-human consumption purposes; or


(4) Raisins which do not meet grade and size requirements and are used in the production of alcohol, or syrup for industrial use, or which do not meet grade requirements with respect to mechanical damage or sugaring and are used in the production of raisin paste.


(b) *Certification of exempt use.* (1) Each importer of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall certify on the SC-6 form (electronic or paper) as to the intended exempt outlet (*e.g.,* processing, charity, livestock feed). If certification is made using a paper SC-6 form, the importer shall provide a handwritten signature on the form.


(2) Each receiver of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall also receive a copy of the associated SC-6 form (electronic or paper) filed by the importer. Within two days of receipt of the exempt lot, the receiver shall certify on the form (electronic or paper) that such lot has been received and will be utilized in the exempt outlet as certified by the importer. If certification is made using a paper SC-6 form, the receiver shall provide a handwritten signature on the form.


(c) It is the responsibility of the importer to notify the Market Development Division of any lot of exempt commodity rejected by a receiver, shipped to an alternative exempt receiver, exported, or otherwise disposed of. In such cases, a second SC-6 form must be filed by the importer, providing sufficient information to determine ultimate disposition of the exempt lot, and such disposition shall be so certified by the final receiver.


(d) All SC-6 forms and other correspondence regarding entry of exempt commodities must be submitted electronically, by mail, or by fax to the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (202) 720-2491; email *ComplianceInfo@usda.gov;* or fax (202) 720-5698.



---

[N] [80 FR 15678, Mar. 25, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 82237, Nov. 24, 2023]




