# § 69.605   Reporting and distribution of pool access revenues.

(a) Access revenues and cost data shall be reported by participants in association tariffs to the association for computation of monthly pool revenues distributions in accordance with this subpart.


(b) Association expenses incurred during the month that are allowable access charge expenses shall be reimbursed before any other funds are disbursed.


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, payments to average schedule companies that are computed in accordance with § 69.606 shall be disbursed before any other funds are disbursed. For purposes of this part, a telephone company that was participating in average schedule settlements on December 1, 1982, shall be deemed to be an average schedule company except that any company that does not join in association tariffs for all access elements shall not be deemed to be an average schedule company.


(d) The residue shall be disbursed to telephone companies that are not average schedule companies in accordance with §§ 69.607 through 69.610.


(e) The association shall submit a report on or before February 1 of each calendar year describing the association's cost study review process for the preceding calendar year as well as the results of that process. For any revisions to cost study results made or recommended by the association that would change the respective carrier's calculated annual common line or traffic sensitive revenue requirement by ten percent or more, the report shall include the following information:


(1) The name of the carrier;


(2) A detailed description of the revisions;


(3) The amount of the revisions;


(4) The impact of the revisions on the carrier's calculated common line and traffic sensitive revenue requirements; and


(5) The carrier's total annual common line and traffic sensitive revenue requirement.



---

[N] [48 FR 10358, Mar. 11, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 17027, May 8, 1986; 52 FR 21543, June 8, 1987; 54 FR 11537, Mar. 21, 1989; 60 FR 19530, Apr. 19, 1995]




