# ยง 385.2001   Filings and Other Submissions.

(a) *Filings with the Commission.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any document required to be filed with the Commission must comply with Rules 2001 to 2005 and must be submitted to the Secretary by: 


(i) Mailing the document through the United States Postal Service to the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 888 First Street NE, Washington, DC 20426;


(ii) Delivering the document by any source other than United States Postal Service to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 12225 Wilkins Avenue, Rockville, Maryland 20852; or

 


(iii) By filing via the Internet pursuant to Rule 2003 through the links provided at *http://www.ferc.gov.*

(2) Any document is considered filed, if in paper form, on the date stamped by the Secretary or, in the case of a document filed via the Internet, on the date indicated in the acknowledgment that will be sent immediately upon the Commission's receipt of a submission, unless the document is subsequently rejected. Any document received after regular business hours is considered filed on the next regular business day. 


(b) *Rejection.* (1) If any filing does not comply with any applicable statute, rule, or order, the filing may be rejected, unless the filing is accompanied by a motion requesting a waiver of the applicable requirement of a rule or order and the motion is granted. 


(2) If any filing is rejected, the document is deemed not to have been filed with the Commission. 


(3) Where a document is rejected under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Secretary, or the office director to whom the filing has been referred, will notify the submitter and indicate the deficiencies in the filing and the reason for the rejection. 


(4) If a filing does not comply with any applicable requirement, all or part of the filing may be stricken. Any failure to reject a filing which is not in compliance with an applicable statute, rule, or order does not waive any obligation to comply with the requirements of this chapter.



---

[N] [Order 619, 65 FR 57091, Sept. 21, 2000, as amended by Order 2002, 68 FR 51143, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 647, 69 FR 32440, June 10, 2004; Order 703, 72 FR 65664, Nov. 23, 2007; 84 FR 46440, Sept. 4, 2019]






