# ยง 1001.161   What definitions apply to this part?

*Department* means the United States Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units and their representatives.


*Eligible person,* as defined at 38 U.S.C. 4101(5), means:


(1) The spouse of any person who died of a service-connected disability;


(2) The spouse of any member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who, at the time of application for assistance under this chapter, is listed, pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 556 and regulations issued thereunder by the Secretary concerned, in one or more of the following categories and has been so listed for a total of more than ninety days:


(i) Missing in action,


(ii) Captured in line of duty by a hostile force, or


(iii) Forcibly detained or interned in line of duty by a foreign government or power; or


(3) The spouse of any person who has a total disability permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability or the spouse of a veteran who died while a disability so evaluated was in existence.


*Employment service delivery system,* as defined at 38 U.S.C. 4101(7), means a service delivery system at which or through which labor exchange services, including employment, training, and placement services, are offered in accordance with the Wagner-Peyser Act.


*Jobs for Veterans Act (JVA)* means Public Law 107-288, 116 Stat. 2033 (2002), codified at 38 U.S.C. chapters 41 and 42.


*Jobs for Veterans State Grant (JVSG)* means an award of Federal financial assistance by the Department to a State for the purposes of the Disabled Veterans' Outreach Program or the Local Veterans' Employment Representative Program.


*Program year* is the period from July 1 of a year through June 30 of the following year and is numbered according to the calendar year in which it begins.




