# ยง 332.2   Developing voluntary agreements.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section establishes the standards and procedures by which voluntary agreements may be developed through consultation, pursuant to subsection 708(c) of the DPA.


(b) *Proposal to develop an agreement.* (1) A sponsor who wishes to develop a voluntary agreement shall submit to the Attorney General and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency a document proposing the agreement. The proposal will include statements as to: The purpose of the agreement; the factual basis for making the finding required in subsection 708(c)(1) of the DPA; the proposed participants in the agreement; and any coordination with other Federal agencies accomplished in connection with the proposal.


(2) If the Attorney General, after consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, approves this proposal, the sponsor shall then initiate one or more meetings of interested persons to develop the agreement.


(c) *Conduct of meetings held to develop the agreement.* (1) The sponsor shall give to the Attorney General, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, and the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency adequate written notice of each meeting to develop a voluntary agreement. The sponsor shall also publish in the _Federal Register_ notice of the time, place, and nature of each meeting at least seven days prior to the meeting.


(2) The sponsor shall chair each meeting held to develop a voluntary agreement. Both the Attorney General and the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, or their delegates, shall attend each of these meetings.


(3) Any interested person may attend a meeting held to develop a voluntary agreement, unless the sponsor of the agreement limits attendance pursuant to ยง 332.5 of this part.


(4) Any interested person may, as set out in the _Federal Register_ meeting notice, submit written data and views concerning the proposed voluntary agreement, and at the discretion of the Chairman of the meeting, may be given the opportunity for oral presentation.


(d) *Maintenance of records.* (1) The sponsor is responsible for the making of a full and verbatim transcript of each meeting. The Chairman shall send this transcript, and any voluntary agreement resulting from the meeting, to the Attorney General, the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and any other party or repository required by law.


(2) The sponsor of a voluntary agreement shall maintain each meeting transcript and voluntary agreement, and make them available for public inspection and copying the extent required by ยง 332.5 of this part.


(e) *Effectiveness of agreements.* The following steps must occur before a new voluntary agreement or an extension of an existing agreement may become effective:


(1) The sponsor must approve the agreement and certify in writing that it is necessary to carry out the purposes of subsection 708(c)(1) of the DPA;


(2) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must approve this certification, and submit it to the Attorney General with a request for a written finding; and


(3) The Attorney General, after consulting with the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, must issue a written finding that the purposes of subsection 708(c)(1) can not reasonably be achieved through a voluntary agreement having less anti-competitive effects or without any voluntary agreement.




