# § 1.117-5   Federal grants requiring future service as a Federal employee.

(a) *In general.* Under section 117(c), amounts received by an individual under a Federal program as a scholarship or grant for qualified tuition and expenses at an institution of higher education are excluded from the gross income of the recipient even though the recipient is required to perform future service as a Federal employee. See paragraph (c) of this section for the definitions of the terms “qualified tuition and expenses” and “institution of higher education.”


(b) *Exception for uniformed services scholarship programs.* The requirements of this section do not apply to amounts received before 1985 by a member of a uniformed service who entered training before 1981 under the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program, National Public Health Service Corps Scholarship Training Program, or other substantially similar Federal programs requiring the recipient to work for a uniformed Federal service after completion of studies. These awards are governed by section 4 of Pub. L. 93-483 as amended by Pub. L. 95-171, Pub. L. 95-600 and Pub. L. 96-167. See section 101(3) of title 37, United States Code for the definition of the term “uniformed service.”


(c) *Definitions*—(1) *Qualified tuition and related expenses.* For purposes of section 117(c) and this section, qualified tuition and related expenses are those amounts which under the terms of the Federal program are required to be used and in fact are used for payment of:


(i) Tuition and fees that are required for the recipient's enrollment or attendance at an institution of higher education; and


(ii) Those amounts used for payment of fees, books, supplies and equipment required for courses of instruction at such an institution.


(2) *Institution of higher education.* To qualify as an institution of higher education under this section, the institution must be a public or other nonprofit institution in any state which—


(i) Admits as regular students only individuals who have a certificate of graduation from a high school or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate;


(ii) Is legally authorized within the state to provide a program of education beyond high school; and


(iii) Provides an education program for which it awards a bachelor's or higher degree or which is acceptable for full credit towards such a degree, or which trains and prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized health profession. For purposes of this section, recognized health professions are those health professions which are supervised or monitored by appropriate state or Federal agencies or governing professional associations and which require members to be currently licensed or certified in order to practice.


(3) *Service as a Federal employee*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, service as a Federal employee refers to employment of the recipient by the Federal government to work directly for the Federal government. Thus, Federal grants or scholarships which do not require the recipient to work directly for the Federal government are not governed by the rules of this section.


(ii) *Service in a health manpower shortage area.* For purposes of this section an obligation under a grant for the recipient to serve in a health related field in a health manpower shortage area as designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services according to the criteria of the Public Health Services Act (42 U.S.C. 254(e)) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (42 CFR 5.1-5.4) will be considered an obligation to serve as a Federal employee.


(d) *Records required for exclusion from gross income.* To exclude amounts received under Federal programs requiring future services as a Federal employee, the recipient must maintain records that establish that the amounts received under such programs were used for qualified tuition and related expenses as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Qualifying uses may be established by providing to the Service, upon request, copies of relevant bills, receipts, cancelled checks or other convenient documentation or records which clearly reflect the use of the money received under the grant. The recipient must also submit, upon request, documentation establishing receipt of the grant and setting out the terms and requirements of the particular grant.


(e) *Applicability of rules of §§ 117(a) and 117(b).* Except where a different rule has been expressly provided in this section, amounts received under Federal grants requiring future service as a Federal employee, and which meet the requirements for exclusion from gross income under this section, are subject to the rules, limitations and definitions specified in §§ 117 (a) and (b) of the Code and §§ 1.117-1 through 1.117-4.


(f) *Effective date.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section will apply to amounts received after December 31, 1980 under Federal programs which meet the requirements of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 8032, 50 FR 27232, July 2, 1985]




