# § 51.2648   Tolerances.

In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, are provided as specified:


(a) *For defects at shipping point*2—(1) *U.S. No. 1.* 8 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than one-half of 1 percent for cherries which are affected by decay.


(2) *U.S. Commercial.* 16 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than 4 percent shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than one-half of 1 percent for cherries affected by decay.


(b) *For defects en route or at destination*—(1) *U.S. No. 1.* 12 percent for cherries in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:


(i) 8 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade because of permanent defects; or,


(ii) 6 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged, including therein not more than 4 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged by permanent defects and not more than 2 percent for cherries which are affected by decay.


(2) *U.S. Commercial.* 24 percent for cherries in any lot which fail to meet the requirements for this grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:


(i) 16 percent for cherries which fail to meet the requirements for this grade because of permanent defects; or,


(ii) 6 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged, including therein not more than 4 percent for cherries which are seriously damaged by permanent defects and not more than 2 percent for cherries which are affected by decay.


(c) *For off-size.* 5 percent for cherries which fail to meet the specified minimum diameter and 10 percent for cherries that fail to meet any specified maximum diameter.




