# § 520.452   Clenbuterol syrup.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter contains 72.5 micrograms of clenbuterol hydrochloride.


(b) *Sponsor.* See 000010 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Horses*—(i) *Amount.* Administer orally twice a day (b.i.d.). Initial dose is 0.5 milliliter per 100 pounds body weight (0.8 micrograms per kilogram) for 3 days (6 treatments). If no improvement, administer 1 milliliter per 100 pounds (1.6 micrograms per kilogram) for 3 days (6 treatments). If no improvement, administer 1.5 milliliters per 100 pounds (2.4 micrograms per kilogram) for 3 days (6 treatments). If no improvement, administer 2.0 milliliters per 100 pounds (3.2 micrograms per kilogram) for 3 days (6 treatments). If no improvement, horse is nonresponder to clenbuterol and treatment should be discontinued.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Indicated for the management of horses affected with airway obstruction, such as occurs in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).


(iii) *Limitations.* Treat at effective dose for 30 days. At the end of the 30-day treatment period, drug should be withdrawn. If signs return, the 30-day treatment period may be repeated. If repeating treatment, the step-wise dosage schedule should be repeated. The effect of this drug on breeding stallions and brood mares has not been determined. Treatment starting with dosages higher than the initial dose is not recommended. Federal law prohibits the extralabel use of this drug in food animals. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [63 FR 41419, Aug. 4, 1998]




