# ยง 203.43   Inspection of Federal flood control works.

(a) *Required inspections.* A completed Federal flood control project, or completed functional portions thereof, is granted Active status in the RIP upon transfer of the operation and maintenance of the project (or functional portion thereof) to the non-Federal sponsor. Federal flood control works will be periodically inspected in accordance with 33 CFR 208.10 and Engineer Regulation (ER) 1130-2-530, Flood Control Operations and Maintenance Policies. These periodic inspections of Federal flood control works are also, for simplicity, known as CEI's. If a Federal project is found to be inadequately maintained on a CEI, then it will be placed in an Inactive status in the RIP. [_Note:_ This is a separate and distinct action from project deauthorization, which is not within the scope of PL 84-99 activities.] A Federal project will remain in an Inactive status until such time as an adequate maintenance program is restored, and the project is determined by the Corps to be adequately maintained. 


(b) *Advice and reporting.* Information on the results of CEI inspections will be furnished in writing to non-Federal sponsors, and will be maintained in Corps district offices. Non-Federal sponsors will be informed that a CEI rating of Unacceptable will cause the flood control work to be placed in an Inactive status, and not eligible for Rehabilitation Assistance. Non-Federal sponsors will be informed that maintenance deficiencies found during CEI's may negatively impact on eligibility of future Rehabilitation Assistance, and the degree of local cost-sharing participation in any proposed work. Follow-up inspections can be made by the Corps to monitor progress in correcting deficiencies when warranted. 




