# ยง 512.21   Hearing.

(a) *Petition for hearing.* (1) A hearing may be requested by filing a written petition with the Director, Financial Operations Division of Broadcasting Board of Governors, or such other official as may be named in the future by the Director of Broadcasting Board of Governors, stating why the employee believes the Board's determination of the existence or amount of the debt is in error.


(2) The petition must be signed by the employee and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence and witnesses which the employee believes support his or her position.


(3) The petition must be filed no later than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the notification under ยง 512.20(b) was hand delivered or the date of delivery by certified mail.


(4) Where petition is received after the 15 calendar day limit, Broadcasting Board of Governors will accept the petition if the employee can show that the delay was beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice.


(5) If the petition is not filed within the time limit, and is not accepted pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the employee's right to hearing will be considered waived, and salary offset will be implemented.


(b) *Type of hearing.* (1) The form and content of the hearing will be determined by the hearing official who shall be a person outside the control or authority of Broadcasting Board of Governors.


(2) The employee may represent him or herself, or may be represented by counsel.


(3) The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of the hearing.


(4) The hearing official will prepare a written decision which will state:


(i) The facts purported to evidence nature and origin of the alleged debt; 


(ii) The hearing official's analysis, findings, and conclusions relative to: 


(A) The employee's and/or the Board's grounds; 


(B) The amount and the validity of the alleged debt; 


(C) The repayment schedule, if applicable. 


(5) The decision of the hearing official shall constitute the final administrative decision of the Board. 




