# § 2429.22   Additional time for filing with the FLRA if you are filing in response to a document that has been served on you by first-class mail or commercial delivery.

(a) *General rules.* Except as discussed in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section, apply the following rules if and only if you are filing a document with the FLRA in response to a document that has been served on you by first-class mail or commercial delivery. First, look to § 2429.21(a)(1) and apply steps 1 through 5 of that section in order to determine what normally would be your due date. Second, starting with the next calendar day, which will be day one, count forward on the calendar, including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays, until you reach day five. If day five is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday, then your filing is due with the FLRA on that day. If day five is a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday, then find the next calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal legal holiday; your filing is due with the FLRA on that day.


(b) *Rules that apply when you have been served by more than one method.* If someone has served you with a document using more than one method of service, then, as a general rule, the first method of service is controlling for purposes of determining your due date for filing with the FLRA. For example, if someone serves you with a document by first-class mail or commercial delivery on one day, and then serves you by some other method (such as electronic mail) the next day, then you may add 5 days to your due date, as described in paragraph (a) of this section. But if someone serves you with a document one day by any method *other than* first-class mail or commercial delivery, and *later* serves you with the document by first-class mail or commercial delivery, then you may not add 5 days to your due date; rather, you must look to § 2429.21(a)(1) and apply steps 1 through 5 of that section in order to determine your due date. Also, if someone serves you by first-class mail or commercial delivery on one day, and by any other method on the same day, then you may not add 5 days—even if the first-class mail was postmarked or the time of deposit with the commercial-delivery service was earlier in the day than the time at which the other method of service was effected.


(c) *Exception for applications for review filed under 5 CFR 2422.31.* You do not get an additional 5 days to file an application for review of a Regional Director's Decision and Order under 5 CFR 2422.31, regardless of the method of service of that Decision and Order.


(d) *Exception where extension of time has been granted.* You do not get an additional 5 days in any instance where an extension of time already has been granted.


(e) *Rules that apply to exceptions to arbitration awards.* For specific rules that apply to filing exceptions to arbitration awards, *see* 5 CFR 2425.2(c).



---

[N] [77 FR 26436, May 4, 2012]




