# ยง 1991.101   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom the Assistant Secretary delegates authority under CAARA.


*Antitrust laws* means section 1 or 3 of the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 1 or 3).


*Business days* means days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.


*CAARA* means the Criminal Antitrust Anti-Retaliation Act, Public Law 116-257, 134 Stat. 1147 (December 23, 2020) (codified at 15 U.S.C. 7a-3).


*Complainant* means the covered individual who filed a CAARA complaint or on whose behalf a complaint was filed.


*Covered individual* means an employee, contractor, subcontractor, or agent of an employer and includes an individual presently or formerly working for, an individual applying to work for, or an individual whose employment could be affected by, another person.


*DOJ* means the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice.


*Employer* means a person, or any officer, employee, contractor, subcontractor, or agent of such person.


*Federal Government* means a Federal regulatory or law enforcement agency; or any Member of Congress or committee of Congress.


*OSHA* means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.


*Person* has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 12(a) and includes individuals as well as corporations and associations existing under or authorized by the laws of either the United States, the laws of any of the Territories, the laws of any State, or the laws of any foreign country.


*Respondent* means the person named in the complaint who is alleged to have violated CAARA.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor.






