# ยง 308.12   Contents of records systems.

(a) The agency shall maintain in any records contained in any records system hereunder only such information about an individual as is accurate, relevant, and necessary to accomplish the purpose for which the agency acquired the information as authorized by statute or executive order.


(b) In situations in which the information may result in adverse determinations about such individual's rights, benefits and privileges under any Federal program, all information placed in records systems shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be collected from the individual to whom the record pertains.


(c) Each form or other document which an individual is expected to complete in order to provide information for any records system shall have appended thereto, or in the body of the document:


(1) An indication of the authority authorizing the solicitation of the information and whether the provision of the information is mandatory or voluntary.


(2) The purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used.


(3) Routine uses which may be made of the information and published pursuant to ยง 308.7 of this regulation.


(4) The effect on the individual, if any, of not providing all or part of the required or requested information.


(d) Records maintained in any system of records used by the agency to make any determination about any individual shall be maintained with such accuracy, relevancy, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the making of any determination about such individual: *Provided, however*, That the agency shall not be required to update or keep current retired records.


(e) Before disseminating any record about an individual to any person other than an agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e) or pursuant to the provsions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the agency shall make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely and relevant for agency purposes.


(f) Under no circumstances shall the agency maintain any record about an individual with respect to or describing how such individual exercises rights guaranteed by the first amendment of the Constitution of the United States unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.


(g) In the event any record is disclosed as a result of the order of a presiding judge of a court of competent jurisdiction, the agency shall make reasonable efforts to notify the individual whose record was so disclosed after the process becomes a matter of public record.




