# ยง 110.195   Mississippi River below Baton Rouge, LA, including South and Southwest Passes.

(a) *The Anchorage Grounds.* Unless otherwise specified, all anchorage widths are measured from the average low water plane (ALWP).


(1) *Pilottown Anchorage.* An area 5.2 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river from mile 1.5 to mile 6.7 above Head of Passes, extending in width to 1600 feet from the left descending bank of the river.


(2) *Lower Venice Anchorage.* An area 1.6 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river from mile 8.0 to mile 9.6 above Head of Passes with the west limit 1,200 feet from the ALWP of the right descending bank.


(3) *Upper Venice Anchorage.* An area 1.2 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river from mile 10.0 to mile 11.2 above Head of Passes with the west limit 1,200 feet from the ALWP of the right descending bank.


(4) *Boothville Anchorage.* An area, 6.45 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 12.05 to mile 18.5 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 750 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 250 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the Low Water Reference Plane (LWRP). The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 1,000 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(5) *Ostrica Anchorage.* An area 1.4 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 23.0 to mile 24.4 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 800 feet.


(6) *Port Sulphur Anchorage.* An area 2.2 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river, 800 feet wide, extending from mile 37.5 to mile 39.7 above Head of Passes.


(7) *Magnolia Anchorage.* An area, 2.2 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 45.4 to mile 47.6 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 700 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 400 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 1,100 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(8) *Point Celeste Anchorage.* An area 2.2 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 49.8 to mile 52.0 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 400 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 400 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(9) *Davant Anchorage.* An area, 1.4 miles in length, along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 52.5 to mile 53.9 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 800 feet.


(10) *Alliance Anchorage.* An area 2.0 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 63.8 to mile 65.8 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 400 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 400 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(11) *Wills Point Anchorage.* An area, 1.1 miles in length, along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 66.5 to mile 67.6 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 200 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(12) *Cedar Grove Anchorage.* An area, 1.34 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 69.56 to mile 70.9 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 200 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(13) *Belle Chasse Anchorage.* An area, 2.15 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 73.05 to mile 75.2 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 375 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 875 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(14) *Lower 12 Mile Point Anchorage.* An area, 2.2 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 78.6 to mile 80.8 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 300 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(15) *Lower 9 Mile Anchorage.* An area, 2.4 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 82.6 to mile 85.0 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 300 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(16) *New Orleans Emergency Anchorage.* An area 0.5 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 89.6 to mile 90.1 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 550 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 250 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(17) *New Orleans General Anchorage.* An area 0.8 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 90.1 to mile 90.9 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 550 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 250 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(18) *Quarantine Anchorage.* An area 0.7 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 90.9 to mile 91.6 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 800 feet.


(19) *Lower Kenner Bend Anchorage.* An area 1.0 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 113.3 to mile 114.3 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 350 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 350 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(20) *Kenner Bend Anchorage.* An area 0.9 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 114.7 to mile 115.6 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 700 feet.


(21) *Ama Anchorage.* An area 1.8 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 115.5 to mile 117.3 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 400 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 300 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(22) *Bonnet Carre Anchorage.* An area 1.5 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 127.3 to mile 128.8 above Head of Passes. This area is located adjacent to the river end of the Bonnet Carre Spillway. The width of the anchorage is 600 feet.


(23) *La Place Anchorage.* An area 0.7 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 134.7 to mile 135.4 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 600 feet.


(24) *Reserve Anchorage.* An area 0.5 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 137.0 to mile 137.5 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 300 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(25) *Lower Grandview Reach Anchorage.* An area 0.3 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 146.4 to mile 146.7 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 200 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured for the LWRP.


(26) *Middle Grandview Reach Anchorage.* An area 0.4 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 146.8 to mile 147.2 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 200 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(27) *Upper Grandview Reach Anchorage.* An area 1.3 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 147.5 to mile 148.8 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 200 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(28) *Sunshine Anchorage.* An area 2.0 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 165.0 to mile 167.0 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 450 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 350 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(29) *White Castle Anchorage.* An area, 0.84 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 190.3 to mile 191.14 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 300 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 400 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(30) *Baton Rouge General Anchorage.* An area 1.5 miles in length along the right descending bank of the river, 1,400 feet wide, extending from mile 225.8 to mile 227.3 above Head of Passes.


(31) *Lower Baton Rouge Anchorage.* An area 0.5 miles in length near mid-channel between mile 228.5 and mile 229.0 above Head of Passes with the west limit 1,100 feet off the right descending bank and having the width of 700 feet at both the upper and lower limits.


(32) *Middle Baton Rouge Anchorage.* An area 0.2 miles in length near mid-channel between mile 229.6 and mile 229.8 above Head of Passes with the west limit 1,100 feet off the right descending bank and having a width of 700 feet at both the upper and lower limits.


(33) *Upper Baton Rouge Anchorage.* An area 0.4 miles in length near mid-channel between mile 230.6 and mile 231.0 above Head of Passes with the west limit 1,100 feet off the right descending bank and having a width of 1,075 feet at the upper limit and 1,200 feet at the lower limit.


(34) *Belmont Anchorage.* An area 1.1 miles in length along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 152.9 (Belmont Light) to mile 154.0 above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 300 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 400 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 700 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(35) *Point Michel Anchorage.* An area, 2.2 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 40.0 to mile 42.2 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 325 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 825 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(36) *Plaquemines Point Anchorage.* An area, 0.5 miles in length, along the right descending bank of the river extending from mile 203.9 to mile 204.4 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 500 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 400 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 900 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(37) *Phoenix Anchorage.* An area, 0.6 miles in length, along the left descending bank of the river extending from mile 57.82 to mile 58.42 Above Head of Passes. The width of the anchorage is 400 feet. The inner boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 400 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP. The outer boundary of the anchorage is a line parallel to the nearest bank 800 feet from the water's edge into the river as measured from the LWRP.


(b) *Temporary anchorages.* (1) Temporary anchorages are non-permanent anchorages established by the Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District to provide additional anchorage space. Establishment of temporary anchorages is based on recommendations by the Captain of the Port.


(2) Each vessel using temporary anchorages shall anchor as prescribed by the Captain of the Port.


(3) Establishment of each temporary anchorage and any requirement for the temporary anchorage will be published in the Local Notice of Mariners.


(4) Each person who has notice of any requirement prescribed for a temporary anchorage shall comply with that requirement.


(c) *The Regulations.* (1) Anchoring in the Mississippi River below Baton Rouge, LA., including South and Southwest Passes is prohibited outside of established anchorages except in cases of emergency. In an emergency, if it becomes necessary to anchor a vessel outside an established anchorage, the vessel shall be anchored so that it does not interfere with or endanger any facility or other vessel. The master or person in charge of the vessel shall notify the Captain of the Port of the location of the emergency anchoring by the most expeditious means and shall move the vessel as soon as the emergency is over.


(2) In an emergency, if it becomes necessary to anchor a vessel in South Pass or Southwest Pass, the vessel shall be positioned as close to the left descending bank as possible.


(3) No vessel may be anchored unless it maintains a bridge watch, guards and answers Channel 16 FM (or the appropriate VTS New Orleans sector frequency), maintains an accurate position plot and can take appropriate action to ensure the safety of the vessel, structure, and other vessels.


(4) When anchoring individually, or in fleets, vessels shall be anchored with sufficient anchors, or secured with sufficient lines, to ensure their remaining in place and withstanding the actions of winds, currents and the suction of passing vessels.


(5) No vessel may be anchored over revetted banks of the river or within any cable or pipeline area. The locations of revetted areas and cable and pipeline areas may be obtained from the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, New Orleans, LA.


(6) The intention to transfer any cargo while in an anchorage shall be reported to the Captain of the Port, giving particulars as to name of ships involved, quantity and type of cargo, and expected duration of the operation. The Captain of the Port shall be notified upon completion of operations. Cargo transfer operations are not permitted in the New Orleans General or Quarantine Anchorages. Bunkering and similar operations related to ship's stores are exempt from reporting requirements.


(7) Vessels anchored in the Lower Kenner Bend Anchorage are prohibited from using or exercising the ship's hold cargo cranes. Vessels in this anchorage must keep the ship's hold cargo gear in the down and hawsed position, as rigged for sea transits. Deck-mounted cranes, deck booms and stiff legs may be used to take on ships stores and spare parts and may be used to move manifold hoses.


(8) Nothing in this section relieves the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties for obstructing or interfering with navigational aids or for failing to comply with the navigation laws for lights, day shapes, or fog signals and any other applicable laws and regulations.



---

[N] [CGD 77-028, 46 FR 49850, Oct. 8, 1981]


