# ยง 723.8   Staff action.

(a) *Transmittal of final decisions granting relief.* (1) If the final decision of the Secretary is to grant the applicant's request for relief the record of proceedings shall be returned to the Board for disposition. The Board shall transmit the finalized record of proceedings to proper naval authority for appropriate action. Similarly final decisions of the Board granting the applicant's request for relief under the authority delegated in ยง 723.6(e), shall also be forwarded to the proper naval authority for appropriate action.


(2) The Board shall transmit a copy of the record of proceedings to the proper naval authority for filing in the applicant's service record except where the effect of such action would be to nullify the relief granted. In such cases no reference to the Board's decision shall be made in the service record or files of the applicant and all copies of the record of proceedings and any related papers shall be forwarded to the Board and retained in a file maintained for this purpose.


(3) The addressees of such decisions shall report compliance therewith to the Executive Director.


(4) Upon receipt of the record of proceedings after final action by the Secretary, or by the Board acting under the authority contained in ยง 723.6(e), the Board shall communicate the decision to the applicant. The applicant is entitled, upon request, to receive a copy of the Board's findings, conclusions and recommendations.


(b) *Transmittal of final decisions denying relief.* If the final decision of the Secretary or the Board is to deny relief, the following materials will be made available to the applicant:


(1) A statement of the findings, conclusions, and recommendations made by the Board and the reasons therefor;


(2) Any advisory opinions considered by the Board;


(3) Any minority reports; and


(4) Any material prepared by the Secretary as required in ยง 723.7. Moreover, applicant shall also be informed that the name and final vote of each Board member will be furnished or made available upon request and that he/she may submit new and material evidence or other matter for further consideration.




