# § 1.501(h)-3   Lobbying or grass roots expenditures normally in excess of ceiling amount.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules under section 501(h) for determining whether an organization that has elected the expenditure test and that is not a member of an affiliated group of organizations (as defined in § 56.4911-7(e)) either normally makes lobbying expenditures in excess of its lobbying ceiling amount or normally makes grass roots expenditures in excess of its grass roots ceiling amount. Under section 501(h) and this section, an organization that has elected the expenditure test and that normally makes expenditures in excess of the corresponding ceiling amount will cease to be exempt from tax under section 501(a) as an organization described in section 501(c)(3). For similar rules relating to members of an affiliated group of organizations, see § 56.4911-9.


(b) *Loss of exemption*—(1) *In general.* Under section 501(h)(1), an organization that has elected the expenditure test shall be denied exemption from taxation under section 501(a) as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) for the taxable year following a determination year if—


(i) The sum of the organization's lobbying expenditures for the base years exceeds 150 percent of the sum of its lobbying nontaxable amounts for the base years, or (ii) The sum of the organization's grass roots expenditures for its base years exceeds 150 percent of the sum of its grass roots nontaxable amounts for the base years.


(2) *Special exception for organization's first election.* For the first, second, or third consecutive determination year for which an organization's first expenditure test election is in effect, no determination is required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and the organization will not be denied exemption from tax by reason of section 501(h) and this section if, taking into account as base years only those years for which the expenditure test election is in effect—


(i) The sum of the organization's lobbying expenditures for such base years does not exceed 150 percent of the sum of its lobbying nontaxable amounts for the same base years, and


(ii) The sum of the organization's grass roots expenditure for those base years does not exceed 150 percent of the sum of its grass roots nontaxable amounts for such base years. If an organization does not satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (b)(2), paragraph (b)(1) of this section will apply.


(c) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section—


(1) The term *lobbying expenditures* means lobbying expenditures as defined in section 4911(c)(1) or section 4911(f)(4)(A) and § 56.4911-2(a).


(2) The term *lobbying nontaxable amount* is defined in § 56.4911-1(c)(1).


(3) An organization's *lobbying ceiling amount* is 150 percent of the organization's lobbying nontaxable amount for a taxable year.


(4) The term *grass roots expenditures* means expenditures for grass roots lobbying communications as defined in section 4911(c)(3) or section 4911(f)(4)(A) and §§ 56.4911-2 and 56.4911-3.


(5) The term *grass roots nontaxable amount* is defined in § 56.4911-1(c)(2).


(6) An organization's *grass roots ceiling amount* is 150 percent of the organization's grass roots nontaxable amount for a taxable year.


(7) In general, the term *base years* means the determination year and the three taxable years immediately preceding the determination year. The base years, however, do not include any taxable year preceding the taxable year for which the organization is first treated as described in section 501(c)(3).


(8) A taxable year is a *determination year* if it is a year for which the expenditure test election is in effect, other than the taxable year for which the organization is first treated as described in section 501(c)(3).


(d) *Reapplication for recognition of exemption*—(1) *Time of application.* An organization that is denied exemption from taxation under section 501(a) by reason of section 501(h) and this section may apply on Form 1023 for recognition of exemption as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) for any taxable year following the first taxable year for which exemption is so denied. See paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section for material to be included with an application described in the preceding sentence.


(2) *Section 501(h) calculation.* An application described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must demonstrate that the organization would not be denied exemption from taxation under section 501(a) by reason of section 501(h) if the expenditure test election has been in effect for all of its last taxable year ending before the application is made by providing the calculations, described either in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section or in § 56.4911-9(b), that would have applied to the organization for that year.


(3) *Operations not disqualifying.* An application described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include information that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the organization will not knowingly operate in a manner that would disqualify the organization for tax exemption under section 501(c)(3) by reason of attempting to influence legislation.


(4) *Reelection of expenditure test.* If an organization is denied exemption from tax for a taxable year by reason of section 501(h) and this section, and thereafter is again recognized as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) pursuant to this paragraph (d), it may again elect the expenditure test under section 501(h) in accordance with § 1.501(h)-2(a).


(e) *Examples.* The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples, which also illustrate the operation of the tax imposed by section 4911.



---

[N] [T.D. 8308, 55 FR 35589, Aug. 31, 1990]




