# ยง 1850.12   Requests for access to confidential commercial or financial information.

(a) *Notice to submitters.* The Council shall provide a submitter with prompt notice of a FOIA request or administrative appeal that seeks its business information whenever required under paragraph (b) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, in order to give the submitter an opportunity under paragraph (c) of this section to object to disclosure of any specified portion of that information. The notice shall either describe the business information requested or include copies of the requested records containing the information. If notification of a large number of submitters is required, notification may be made by posting or publishing the notice in a place reasonably likely to accomplish notification.


(b) *When notice is required.* Notice shall be given to the submitter whenever:


(1) The submitter has designated the information in good faith as protected from disclosure under FOIA exemption (b)(4); or


(2) The Council has reason to believe that the information may be protected from disclosure under FOIA exemption (b)(4).


(c) *Opportunity to object to disclosure.* The Council shall allow a submitter seven days from the date of receipt of the written notice described in paragraph (a) of this section to provide the Council with a statement of any objection to disclosure. The statement must identify any portions of the information the submitter requests to be withheld under FOIA exemption (b)(4), and describe how each qualifies for protection under the exemption: That is, why the information is a trade secret, or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. If a submitter fails to respond to the notice within the time frame specified, the submitter will be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. Information a submitter provides under this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.


(d) *Notice of intent to disclose.* The Council shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds under the FOIA for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose business information. If the Council decides to disclose business information over a submitter's objection, the Council shall give the submitter written notice via certified mail, return receipt requested, or similar means, which shall include:


(1) A statement of reason(s) why the submitter's objections to disclosure were not sustained;


(2) A description of the business information to be disclosed; and


(3) A statement that the Council intends to disclose the information seven days from the date the submitter receives the notice.


(e) *Exceptions to notice requirements.* The notice requirements of paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section shall not apply if:


(1) The Council determines that the information is exempt and will be withheld under a FOIA exemption, other than exemption (b)(4);


(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;


(3) Disclosure of the information is required by statute (other than the FOIA) or by a regulation issued in accordance with Executive Order 12600; or


(4) The designation made by the submitter under this section or ยง 1850.11 appears obviously frivolous, except that, in such a case, the Council shall provide the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information seven days from the date the submitter receives the notice.


(f) *Notice to requester.* The Council shall notify a requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.


(g) *Notice of lawsuits.* Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the Council shall promptly notify the submitter.




