# § 4.1105   Parties.

(a) All persons indicated in the act as parties to administrative review proceedings under the act shall be considered statutory parties. Such statutory parties include—


(1) In a civil penalty proceeding under § 4.1150, OSM, as represented by the Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, and any person against whom a proposed assessment is made who files a petition;


(2) In a review proceeding under §§ 4.1160 through 4.1171, 4.1180 through 4.1187, 4.1300 through 4.1309, 4.1350 through 4.1356, 4.1360 through 4.1369, 4.1370 through 4.1377, 4.1380 through 4.1387 or 4.1390 through 4.1394 of this part, OSM, as represented by the Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, and—


(i) If an applicant, operator, or permittee files an application or request for review, the applicant, operator, or permittee; and


(ii) If any other person having an interest which is or may be adversely affected files an application or request for review, the applicant, operator, or permittee and the person filing such application or request;


(3) In a proceeding to suspend or revoke a permit under § 4.1190 *et seq.* OSM, as represented by the Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, and the permittee who is ordered to show cause why the permit should not be suspended or revoked; and


(4) In a discriminatory discharge proceeding under § 4.1200 *et seq.* OSM, as represented by the Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, any employee or any authorized representative of employees who files an application for review, and the alleged discriminating party, except where the applicant files a request for the scheduling of a hearing under § 4.1201(c) only such applicant and the alleged discriminating party.


(5) In an appeal to the Board in accordance with 43 CFR 4.1280 through 4.1286 from a determination of the Director of OSM or his or her designee under 30 CFR 842.15(d) or a determination of an authorized representative under 30 CFR 843.12(i), the permittee of the operation that is the subject of the determination and any person whose interests may be adversely affected by the outcome on appeal and who participated before OSM. A person who wishes his or her identity kept confidential under 30 CFR 842.12(b) is responsible for maintaining that confidentiality when serving documents in accordance with § 4.1109.


(b) Any other person claiming a right to participate as a party may seek leave to intervene in a proceeding by filing a petition to do so pursuant to § 4.1110.


(c) If any person has a right to participate as a full party in a proceeding under the act and fails to exercise that right by participating in each stage of the proceeding, that person may become a participant with the rights of a party by order of an administrative law judge or the Board.



---

[N] [43 FR 34386, Aug. 3, 1978, as amended at 56 FR 2142, Jan. 22, 1991; 59 FR 1488, Jan. 11, 1994; 59 FR 54362, Oct. 28, 1994]




