# § 31.3402(j)-1   Remuneration other than in cash for service performed by retail commission salesman.

(a) *In general.* (1) An employer, in computing the amount to be deducted and withheld as tax in accordance with section 3402, may, at his election, disregard any wages paid, after August 9, 1955, in a medium other than cash for services performed for him by an employee if (i) the noncash remuneration is paid for services performed by the employee as a retail commission salesman and (ii) the employer ordinarily pays the employee remuneration solely by way of cash commissions for services performed by him as a retail commission salesman.


(2) Section 3402(j) and this section are not applicable with respect to wages paid to the employee that are subject to withholding under § 31.3402(g)-1(a)(2). Section 3402(j) and this section are not applicable with respect to noncash wages paid to a retail commission salesman for services performed by him in a capacity other than as such a salesman. Such sections are not applicable with respect to noncash wages paid by an employer to an employee for services performed as a retail commission salesman if the employer ordinarily pays the employee remuneration other than by way of cash commissions for such services. Thus, noncash remuneration may not be disregarded in computing the amount to be deducted and withheld in a case where the employee, for services performed as a retail commission salesman, is paid both a salary and cash commissions on sales, or is ordinarily paid in something other than cash (stocks, bonds, or other forms of property) notwithstanding that the amount of remuneration paid to the employee is measured by sales.


(b) *Retail commission salesman.* For purposes of section 3402(j) and this section, the term “retail commission salesman” includes an employee who is engaged in the solicitation of orders at retail, that is, from the ultimate consumer, for merchandise or other products offered for sale by his employer. The term does not include an employee salesman engaged in the solicitation on behalf of his employer of orders from wholesalers, retailers, or others, for merchandise for resale. However, if the salesman solicits orders for more than one principal, he is not excluded from the term solely because he solicits orders from wholesalers or retailers on behalf of one or more principals. In such case the salesman may be a retail commission salesman with respect to services performed for one or more principals and not with respect to services performed for his other principals.


(c) *Noncash remuneration.* The term “noncash remuneration” includes remuneration paid in any medium other than cash, such as goods or commodities, stocks, bonds, or other forms of property. The term does not include checks or other monetary media of exchange.


(d) *Cross reference.* For provisions relating to records required to be kept and statements which must be furnished an employee with respect to wage payments, see sections 6001 and 6051 and the regulations thereunder in Subpart G of this part.



---

[N] [T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 9276, 71 FR 42057, July 25, 2006]




