# ยง 164.137-3   Testing, marking, and inspection requirements.

(a) Windows submitted for type approval must be tested for fire resistance under Annex 1, Part 3 of the FTP Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 164.137-2). Windows must also meet the thermal radiation test supplement to fire resistance, and hose stream test supplement, as outlined in Appendix 1 of Part 3 of the FTP Code.




(b) All testing and inspections required by this subpart must be performed by an independent laboratory accepted by the Coast Guard under subpart 159.010 of this chapter. A list of independent laboratories accepted as meeting subpart 159.010 of this chapter is available online at *http://psix.uscg.mil/EQLabs/Default.aspx.*

(c) The independent laboratory must perform an initial factory inspection to select the test specimens and establish the materials of construction, chemical make-up, dimensions, tolerances, and other related factors needed to confirm product consistency during follow-up production inspections.


(d) Production inspections must be performed by the independent laboratory in accordance with subpart 159.007 of this chapter at least annually to confirm that no changes have been made to the product that may adversely affect its fire performance as a window.


(e) The independent laboratory must prepare production inspection procedures and a report of the results of the fire testing program, and must furnish the manufacturer with three copies of each upon completion of the required testing.


(f) Materials approved under this subpart must be shipped in packaging that is clearly marked with the name of the manufacturer, product designation, date of manufacture, batch or lot number, and Coast Guard type approval number.



---

[N] [USCG-2012-0196, 81 FR 48287, July 22, 2016, as amended by USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76705, Sept. 18, 2024]




