# § 60.611   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined here shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of part 60, and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.


*Air Oxidation Reactor* means any device or process vessel in which one or more organic reactants are combined with air, or a combination of air and oxygen, to produce one or more organic compounds. Ammoxidation and oxychlorination reactions are included in this definition.


*Air Oxidation Reactor Recovery Train* means an individual recovery system receiving the vent stream from at least one air oxidation reactor, along with all air oxidation reactors feeding vent streams into this system.


*Air Oxidation Unit Process* means a unit process, including ammoxidation and oxychlorination unit process, that uses air, or a combination of air and oxygen, as an oxygen source in combination with one or more organic reactants to produce one or more organic compounds.


*Boilers* means any enclosed combustion device that extracts useful energy in the form of steam.


*By Compound* means by individual stream components, not carbon equivalents.


*Continuous recorder* means a data recording device recording an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes.


*Flame zone* means the portion of the combustion chamber in a boiler or process heater occupied by the flame envelope.


*Flow indicator* means a device which indicates whether gas flow is present in a vent stream.


*Halogenated Vent Stream* means any vent stream determined to have a total concentration (by volume) of compounds containing halogens of 20 ppmv (by compound) or greater.


*Incinerator* means any enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds and does not extract energy in the form of steam or process heat.


*Process Heater* means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel to fluids contained in tubes, including all fluids except water that is heated to produce steam.


*Process Unit* means equipment assembled and connected by pipes or ducts to produce, as intermediates or final products, one or more of the chemicals in § 60.617. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient fuel or raw materials and sufficient product storage facilities.


*Product* means any compound or chemical listed in § 60.617 that is produced for sale as a final product as that chemical or is produced for use in a process that needs that chemical for the production of other chemicals in another facility. By-products, co-products, and intermediates are considered to be products.


*Recovery Device* means an individual unit of equipment, such as an absorber, condenser, and carbon adsorber, capable of and used to recover chemicals for use, reuse or sale.


*Recovery System* means an individual recovery device or series of such devices applied to the same process stream.


*Total organic compounds (TOC)* means those compounds measured according to the procedures in § 60.614(b)(4). For the purposes of measuring molar composition as required in § 60.614(d)(2)(i), hourly emissions rate as required in § 60.614(d)(5) and § 60.614(e) and TOC concentration as required in § 60.615(b)(4) and § 60.615(g)(4), those compounds which the Administrator has determined do not contribute appreciably to the formation of ozone are to be excluded. The compounds to be excluded are identified in Environmental Protection Agency's statements on ozone abatement policy for SIP revisions (42 FR 35314; 44 FR 32042; 45 FR 32424; 45 FR 48942).


*Total resource effectiveness (TRE) Index Value* means a measure of the supplemental total resource requirement per unit reduction of TOC associated with an individual air oxidation vent stream, based on vent stream flow rate, emission rate of TOC, net heating value, and corrosion properties (whether or not the vent stream is halogenated), as quantified by the equation given under § 60.614(e).


*Vent Stream* means any gas stream, containing nitrogen which was introduced as air to the air oxidation reactor, released to the atmosphere directly from any air oxidation reactor recovery train or indirectly, after diversion through other process equipment. The vent stream excludes equipment leaks and relief valve discharges including, but not limited to, pumps, compressors, and valves.



---

[N] [55 FR 26922, June 29, 1990; 55 FR 36932, Sept. 7, 1990, as amended at 89 FR 43086, May 16, 2024]






