# ยง 1753.30   Closeout procedures.

(a) This section outlines the procedure to be followed to close out RUS Contract Form 257 (Contract to Construct Buildings) and construction or rehabilitation performed by the force account method. 


(b) *RUS Form 257 Contract.* (1) Whenever changes were made in the plans and specifications which did not require immediate submission to RUS of an amendment under ยง 1753.11, a final contract amendment showing the changes shall be prepared.


(2) Upon completion of the project, the borrower shall obtain certifications from the architect or engineer that the project and all required documentation are satisfactory and complete. The requirements for this certification are contained in ยง 1753.18.


(3) The engineer's or architect's contract closeout certification and the final amendment shall be submitted to RUS as a basis for the final advance of funds for the contract.


(4) After all required RUS approvals are obtained, final payment is made in accordance with article III of RUS Form 257 once the borrower has received the architect's or engineer's certifications regarding satisfactory completion of the project.


(c) Upon completion of force account construction, the borrower shall: 


(1) Arrange with its architect or engineer and the GFR for final inspection of the project. 


(2) Complete, with the assistance of its architect or engineer, the documents listed in the following table that are required for the closeout of force account construction.


(3) Make distribution of the completed documents as indicated in the table in this section.


(d) Final payment shall not be made until RUS has approved the closeout documents. 



---

[N] [54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16606, Apr. 6, 1999]




