# ยง 121.5   Exemptions.

(a) This part does not apply to a very small business, except that a very small business must, upon request, provide for official review documentation sufficient to show that the facility meets this exemption. Such documentation must be retained for 2 years.


(b) This part does not apply to the holding of food, except the holding of food in liquid storage tanks.


(c) This part does not apply to the packing, re-packing, labeling, or re-labeling of food where the container that directly contacts the food remains intact.


(d) This part does not apply to activities of a farm that are subject to section 419 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Standards for Produce Safety).


(e)(1) This part does not apply with respect to alcoholic beverages at a facility that meets the following two conditions:


(i) Under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 201 *et seq.*) or chapter 51 of subtitle E of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 5001 *et seq.*) the facility is required to obtain a permit from, register with, or obtain approval of a notice or application from the Secretary of the Treasury as a condition of doing business in the United States, or is a foreign facility of a type that would require such a permit, registration, or approval if it were a domestic facility; and


(ii) Under section 415 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act the facility is required to register as a facility because it is engaged in manufacturing, processing, packing, or holding one or more alcoholic beverages.


(2) This part does not apply with respect to food that is not an alcoholic beverage at a facility described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, provided such food:


(i) Is in prepackaged form that prevents any direct human contact with such food; and


(ii) Constitutes not more than 5 percent of the overall sales of the facility, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.


(f) This part does not apply to the manufacturing, processing, packing, or holding of food for animals other than man.


(g) This part does not apply to on-farm manufacturing, processing, packing, or holding of the following foods on a farm mixed-type facility, when conducted by a small or very small business if such activities are the only activities conducted by the business subject to section 418 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


(1) Eggs (in-shell, other than raw agricultural commodities, *e.g.,* pasteurized); and


(2) Game meats (whole or cut, not ground or shredded, without secondary ingredients).




