# ยง 192.505   Strength test requirements for steel pipeline to operate at a hoop stress of 30 percent or more of SMYS.

(a) Except for service lines, each segment of a steel pipeline that is to operate at a hoop stress of 30 percent or more of SMYS must be strength tested in accordance with this section to substantiate the proposed maximum allowable operating pressure. In addition, in a Class 1 or Class 2 location, if there is a building intended for human occupancy within 300 feet (91 meters) of a pipeline, a hydrostatic test must be conducted to a test pressure of at least 125 percent of maximum operating pressure on that segment of the pipeline within 300 feet (91 meters) of such a building, but in no event may the test section be less than 600 feet (183 meters) unless the length of the newly installed or relocated pipe is less than 600 feet (183 meters). However, if the buildings are evacuated while the hoop stress exceeds 50 percent of SMYS, air or inert gas may be used as the test medium. 


(b) In a Class 1 or Class 2 location, each compressor station regulator station, and measuring station, must be tested to at least Class 3 location test requirements. 


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the strength test must be conducted by mai ntaining the pressure at or above the test pressure for at least 8 hours.


(d) For fabricated units and short sections of pipe, for which a post installation test is impractical, a preinstallation strength test must be conducted by maintaining the pressure at or above the test pressure for at least 4 hours. 



---

[N] [35 FR 13257, Aug. 19, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 192-85, 63 FR 37504, July 13, 1998; Amdt. 192-94, 69 FR 32895, June 14, 2004; Amdt. 195-94, 69 FR 54592, Sept. 9, 2004; Amdt. 192-120, 80 FR 12779, Mar. 11, 2015; 86 FR 2241, Jan. 11, 2021]




