# § 124.502   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


(a) *Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended.


(b) *Allowable credit* for services provided to a specific patient means the lesser of the facility's usual charge for those services, or the usual charge multiplied by the percentage which the total allowable cost as reported by the facility in the facility's preceding fiscal year under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395, *et seq.*) and the implementing regulations (42 CFR part 413) bears to the facility's total patient revenues for the year.


(c) *Applicant* means a person who requests uncompensated services or on whose behalf uncompensated services are requested.


(d) *CPI* means the National Consumer Price Index for medical care.


(e) *Facility* means an entity that received assistance under title VI or XVI of the Act and provided an assurance that it would provide a reasonable volume of services to persons unable to pay for the services.


(f) *Federal assistance* means assistance received by the facility under title VI or title XVI of the Act and any assistance supplementary to that title VI or title XVI assistance received by the facility under any of the following acts: the District of Columbia Medical Facilities Construction Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 631 (Pub. L. 90-457); the Public Works Acceleration Act of 1962 (42 U.S.C. 2641, *et seq.*); the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3121, *et seq.*); the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, as amended (40 U.S.C. App.); the Local Public Works Capital Development and Investment Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-369). In the case of a loan guaranteed by the Secretary with an interest subsidy, the amount of Federal assistance under title VI or title XVI for a fiscal year is the total amount of the interest subsidy that the Secretary will have paid by the close of that fiscal year, as well as any other payments which the Secretary has made as of the beginning of the fiscal year on behalf of the facility in connection with the loan guarantee or the direct loan which has been sold.


(g) *Fiscal year* means the facility's fiscal year.


(h) *Nursing home* means a facility which received Federal assistance for and operates as a *facility for long-term care* as defined at, as applicable, section 645(h) or section 1624(6) of the Act.


(i) *Operating costs* for any fiscal year means the total operating expenses of a facility as set forth in an audited financial statement, minus the amount of reimbursement, if any, received (or if not received, claimed) in that year under titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act.


(j) *Persons unable to pay* means persons who meet the eligibility criteria set out in § 124.505.


(k) *Request for uncompensated services* means any indication by or on behalf of an individual seeking services of the facility of the individual's inability to pay for services. A request for uncompensated services may be made at any time, including following institution of a collection action against the individual.


(l) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services or [his or her] delegatee.


(m) *Uncompensated services* means:


(1) For facilities other than those certified under § 124.513, § 124.514, § 124.515, or § 124.516, health services that are made available to persons unable to pay for them without charge or at a charge which is less than the allowable credit for those services. The amount of uncompensated services provided in a fiscal year is the total allowable credit for services less the amount charged for the services following an eligibility determination. Excluded are services provided more than 96 hours following notification to the facility by a quality improvement organization that it disapproved the services under section 1155(a)(1) or section 1154(a)(1) of the Social Security Act.


(2) For facilities certified under § 124.513, § 124.514, § 124.515, or § 124.516, services as defined in paragraph (m)(1) of this section and services that are made available to persons unable to pay for them under programs described by the documentation provided under § 124.513(c)(2), § 124.514(c)(2), or § 124.516(c)(2), as applicable, or pursuant to the terms of the applicable grant or agreement as provided in § 124.515. Except as provided in § 124.516, excluded are services reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party programs, including services for which reimbursement was provided as payment in full, and services provided more than 96 hours following notification to the facility by a quality improvement organization that it disapproved the services under section 1155(a)(1) or section 1154(a)(1) of the Social Security Act.



---

[N] [52 FR 46031, Dec. 3, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 44639, Aug. 30, 1994]




