# § 63.10030   What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8 (e), (f)(4) and (6), and 63.9 (b) through (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.


(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you startup your EGU that is an affected source before April 16, 2012, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 days after April 16, 2012.


(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(4) and (b)(5), if you startup your new or reconstructed EGU that is an affected source on or after April 16, 2012, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 15 days after the actual date of startup of the EGU that is an affected source.


(d) When you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Intent to conduct a performance test at least 30 days before the performance test is scheduled to begin.


(e) When you are required to conduct an initial compliance demonstration as specified in § 63.10011(a), you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). The Notification of Compliance Status report must contain all of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section, that applies to your initial compliance strategy.


(1) A description of the affected source(s), including identification of the subcategory of the source, the design capacity of the source, a description of the add-on controls used on the source, description of the fuel(s) burned, including whether the fuel(s) were determined by you or EPA through a petition process to be a non-waste under 40 CFR 241.3, whether the fuel(s) were processed from discarded non-hazardous secondary materials within the meaning of 40 CFR 241.3, and justification for the selection of fuel(s) burned during the performance test.


(2) Summary of the results of all performance tests and fuel analyses and calculations conducted to demonstrate initial compliance including all established operating limits.


(3) Identification of whether you plan to demonstrate compliance with each applicable emission limit through performance testing; fuel moisture analyses; performance testing with operating limits (*e.g.,* use of PM CPMS—which on or after July 6, 2027—you may not use for filterable PM compliance demonstrations, unless it is for an IGCC unit); CEMS; or a sorbent trap monitoring system.




(4) Identification of whether you plan to demonstrate compliance by emissions averaging.


(5) A signed certification that you have met all applicable emission limits and work practice standards.


(6) If you had a deviation from any emission limit, work practice standard, or operating limit, you must also submit a brief description of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, emissions point identification, and the cause of the deviation in the Notification of Compliance Status report.


(7) Except for requests to switch from one emission limit to another, as provided in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, your initial notification of compliance status shall also include the following information:


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) Certifications of compliance, as applicable, and must be signed by a responsible official stating:


(A) “This EGU complies with the requirements in § 63.10021(a) to demonstrate continuous compliance.” and


(B) “No secondary materials that are solid waste were combusted in any affected unit.”


(iii) For each of your existing EGUs, identification of each emissions limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart with which you plan to comply initially. (*Note:* If, at some future date, you wish to switch from the limit specified in your initial notification of compliance status, you must follow the procedures and meet the conditions of paragraphs (e)(7)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section).


(A) You may switch from a mass per heat input to a mass per gross output limit (or vice-versa), provided that:


(*1*) You submit a request that identifies for each EGU or EGU emissions averaging group involved in the proposed switch both the current and proposed emission limit;


(*2*) Your request arrives to the Administrator at least 30 calendar days prior to the date that the switch is proposed to occur;


(*3*) Your request includes performance stack test results or valid CMS data, obtained within 45 days prior to the date of your submission, demonstrating that each EGU or EGU emissions averaging group is in compliance with both the mass per heat input limit and the mass per gross output limit;


(*4*) You revise and submit all other applicable plans, *e.g.,* monitoring and emissions averaging, with your request; and


(*5*) You maintain records of all information regarding your choice of emission limits.


(B) You must begin to use the revised emission limits starting in the next reporting period, after receipt of written acknowledgement from the Administrator of the switch.


(C) From submission of your request until start of the next reporting period after receipt of written acknowledgement from the Administrator of the switch, you must demonstrate compliance with both the mass per heat input and mass per gross output emission limits for each pollutant for each EGU or EGU emissions averaging group.


(8) Identification of whether you plan to rely on paragraph (1) or (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042. On or after January 2, 2025 you may not use paragraph (2) of the definition of startup in § 63.10042.






(i) Before January 2, 2025 should you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 for your EGU, you shall include a report that identifies:




(A) The original EGU installation date;


(B) The original EGU design characteristics, including, but not limited to, fuel mix and PM controls;


(C) Each design PM control device efficiency established during performance testing or while operating in periods other than startup and shutdown periods;


(D) The design PM emission rate from the EGU in terms of pounds PM per MMBtu and pounds PM per hour established during performance testing or while operating in periods other than startup and shutdown periods;


(E) The design time from start of fuel combustion to necessary conditions for each PM control device startup;


(F) Each design PM control device efficiency upon startup of the PM control device, if different from the efficiency provided in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(C) of this section;


(G) Current EGU PM producing characteristics, including, but not limited to, fuel mix and PM controls, if different from the characteristics provided in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(B) of this section;


(H) Current PM control device efficiency from each PM control device, if different from the efficiency provided in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(C) of this section;


(I) Current PM emission rate from the EGU in terms of pounds PM per MMBtu and pounds per hour, if different from the rate provided in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(D) of this section;


(J) Current time from start of fuel combustion to conditions necessary for each PM control device startup, if different from the time provided in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(E) of this section; and


(K) Current PM control device efficiency upon startup of each PM control device, if different from the efficiency provided in paragraph (e)(8)(i)(H) of this section.


(ii) The report shall be prepared, signed, and sealed by a professional engineer licensed in the state where your EGU is located.


(iii) You may switch from paragraph (1) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 to paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” (or vice-versa), provided that:


(A) You submit a request that identifies for each EGU or EGU emissions averaging group involved in the proposed switch both the current definition of “startup” relied on and the proposed definition you plan to rely on;


(B) Your request arrives to the Administrator at least 30 calendar days prior to the date that the switch is proposed to occur;


(C) You revise and submit all other applicable plans, *e.g.,* monitoring and emissions averaging, with your submission;


(D) You maintain records of all information regarding your choice of the definition of “startup”; and


(E) You begin to use the revised definition of “startup” in the next reporting period after receipt of written acknowledgement from the Administrator of the switch.


(f) You must submit the notifications in § 63.10000(h)(2) and (i)(2) that may apply to you by the dates specified.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23404, Apr. 19, 2012; 78 FR 24087, Apr. 24, 2013; 79 FR 68791, Nov. 19, 2014; 81 FR 20187, Apr. 6, 2016; 85 FR 55760, Sept. 9, 2020; 89 FR 38567, May 7, 2024]




