# ยง 101-6.217   Laws authorizing Federal financial assistance for programs to which this subpart applies.

(a)(1) Donation of surplus personal property to educational activities which are of special interest to the armed services (section 203(j)(2) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 484(j)(2)).


(2) Donation of surplus personal property for use in any State for purposes of education, public health, or civil defense, or for research for any such purposes (section 203(j) (3) and (4) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 484(j) (3) and (4)), and the making available to State agencies for surplus property, or the transfer of title to such agencies, of surplus personal property approved for donation for purposes of education, public health, or civil defense, or for research for any such purposes (section 203(n) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 484(n)).


(b) Disposal of surplus real and related personal property for purposes of education or public health, including research (section 203(k)(1) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 484(k)(1)).


(c) Donation of property for public airport purposes (section 13(g) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, 50 U.S.C. App. 1622(g); section 23 of the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970, Pub. L. 91-258).


(d)(1) Disposal of surplus real property, including improvements, for use as a historic monument (section 13(h) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, 50 U.S.C. App. 1622(h)).


(2) Disposal of surplus real and related personal property for public park or public recreational purposes (section 203(k)(2) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 484(k)(2).


(e) Disposal of real property to States for wildlife conservation purposes (Act of May 19, 1948, 16 U.S.C. 667b-d).


(f) Donation of personal property to public bodies (section 202(h) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 483(h)).


(g) Grants of easements by the General Services Administration pursuant to the Act of October 23, 1962, (40 U.S.C. 319-319(c), and grants by the General Services Administration of revocable licenses or permits to use or occupy Federal real property, if the consideration to the Government for such easement, licenses, or permits is less than estimated fair market value.


(h) Conveyance of real property or interests therein by the General Services Administration to States or political subdivisions for street widening purposes pursuant to the Act of July 7, 1960 (40 U.S.C. 345c), if the consideration to the Government is less than estimated fair market value.


(i) Allotment of space by the General Services Administration in Federal buildings to Federal Credit Unions, without charge for rent or services (section 25 of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1770).


(j) Donation of surplus property to the American National Red Cross (section 203(*l*) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 484(*l*)).


(k) Provision by the General Services Administration of free space and utilities for vending stands operated by blind persons (section 1 of the Randolph-Sheppard Act, 20 U.S.C. 107).


(l) Donation of forfeited distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages to eleemosynary institutions (26 U.S.C. 5688).


(m) Donation of surplus Federal records (Federal Records Disposal Act of 1943, 44 U.S.C. 366-380).


(n) Grants to State and local agencies and to nonprofit organizations and institutions for the collecting, describing, preserving and compiling, and publishing of documentary sources significant to the history of the United States (section 503 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended by Pub. L. 88-383).


(o) Loan of machine tools and industrial manufacturing equipment in the national industrial reserve to nonprofit educational institutions or training schools (section 7 of the National Industrial Reserve Act of 1948, 50 U.S.C. 456).


(p) District of Columbia grant-in-aid hospital program (60 Stat. 896, as amended).


(q) Disposal of surplus real property for use in the provision of rental or cooperative housing to be occupied by families or individuals of low or moderate income (section 414 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969, Pub. L. 91-152).


(r) Payments in lieu of taxes on certain real property transferred from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (Title VII of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, 40 U.S.C. 521-524).


(s) Conveyance of certain lands and property to the State of Hawaii without reimbursement (Pub. L. 88-233, 77 Stat. 472).



---

[N] [29 FR 16287, Dec. 4, 1964, as amended at 38 FR 17975, July 5, 1973]




