# § 60.54   Test methods and procedures.

(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).


(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standard in § 60.52 as follows: 


(1) The concentration (c_12_) of particulate matter, corrected to 12 percent CO_2_, shall be computed for each run using the following equation:


(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c_s_). The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf). 


(3) The emission rate correction factor, integrated or grab sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B shall be used to determine CO_2_ concentration (%CO_2_). 


(i) The CO_2_ sample shall be obtained simultaneously with, and at the same traverse points as, the particulate run. If the particulate run has more than 12 traverse points, the CO_2_ traverse points may be reduced to 12 if Method 1 is used to locate the 12 CO_2_ traverse points. If individual CO_2_ samples are taken at each traverse point, the CO_2_ concentration (%CO_2_) used in the correction equation shall be the arithmetic mean of the sample CO_2_ concentrations at all traverse points. 


(ii) If sampling is conducted after a wet scrubber, an “adjusted” CO_2_ concentration [(%CO_2_)_adj_], which accounts for the effects of CO_2_ absorption and dilution air, may be used instead of the CO_2_ concentration determined in this paragraph. The adjusted CO_2_ concentration shall be determined by either of the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) The owner or operator may use either of the following procedures to determine the adjusted CO_2_ concentration.


(1) The volumetric flow rates at the inlet and outlet of the wet scrubber and the inlet CO_2_ concentration may be used to determine the adjusted CO_2_ concentration [(%CO_2_)_adj_] using the following equation:


(i) At the outlet, Method 5 is used to determine the volumetric flow rate (Q_do_) of the effluent gas.


(ii) At the inlet, Method 2 is used to determine the volumetric flow rate (Q_di_) of the effluent gas as follows: Two full velocity traverses are conducted, one immediately before and one immediately after each particulate run conducted at the outlet, and the results are averaged.


(iii) At the inlet, the emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B is used to determine the CO_2_ concentration [(%CO_2_)_di_] as follows: At least nine sampling points are selected randomly from the velocity traverse points and are divided randomly into three sets, equal in number of points; the first set of three or more points is used for the first run, the second set for the second run, and the third set for the third run. The CO_2_ sample is taken simultaneously with each particulate run being conducted at the outlet, by traversing the three sampling points (or more) and sampling at each point for equal increments of time.


(2) Excess air measurements may be used to determine the adjusted CO_2_ concentration [(%CO_2_)_adj_] using the following equation:


(i) A gas sample is collected as in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section and the gas samples at both the inlet and outlet locations are analyzed for CO_2_, O_2_, and N_2_.


(ii) Equation 3B-3 of Method 3B is used to compute the percentages of excess air at the inlet and outlet of the wet scrubber.



---

[N] [54 FR 6665, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 5212, Feb. 14, 1990; 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000]




