# ยง 751.509   Other prohibitions and restrictions on the manufacturing, processing, distribution in commerce and commercial use of chrysotile asbestos.

(a) After May 27, 2026, all persons are prohibited from manufacturing (including importing), processing, distributing in commerce, and commercial use of chrysotile asbestos, including any chrysotile asbestos-containing products or articles, for use in sheet gaskets for chemical production, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Any sheet gaskets for chemical production which are already installed for use on May 27, 2026 are not subject to the distribution in commerce and commercial use prohibitions.


(b) Any person may commercially use chrysotile asbestos sheet gaskets for titanium dioxide production until May 28, 2029.


(c)(1)(i) Any person may commercially use chrysotile asbestos sheet gaskets for processing nuclear material until May 28, 2029.


(ii) Any person may commercially use chrysotile asbestos sheet gaskets for processing nuclear material at the Savannah River Site until December 31, 2037.


(2) After November 25, 2024, any person commercially using chrysotile asbestos sheet gaskets for processing nuclear material pursuant to (c)(1)(i) and (ii) must have in place exposure controls expected to reduce exposure of potentially exposed persons to asbestos, and provide potentially exposed persons in the regulated area where chrysotile asbestos sheet gasket replacement is being performed a full-face air purifying respirator with a P-100 (HEPA) cartridge (providing an assigned protection factor of 50), or other respirator that provides a similar or higher level of protection to the wearer.


(3)(i) Any sheet gaskets for processing nuclear material which are already installed for use on May 28, 2029 are not subject to the distribution in commerce and commercial use prohibitions in paragraphs (a) of this section.


(ii) Any sheet gaskets for processing nuclear material at the Savannah River Site which are already installed for use on December 31, 2037, are not subject to the distribution in commerce and commercial use prohibitions in paragraphs (a) of this section.


(d) After November 25, 2024, all persons are prohibited from manufacturing (including importing), processing, distribution in commerce and commercial use of chrysotile asbestos, including any chrysotile asbestos-containing products or articles, for commercial use of:


(1) Oilfield brake blocks;


(2) Aftermarket automotive brakes and linings;


(3) Other vehicle friction products; and


(4) Other gaskets.


(e) After November 25, 2024, all persons are prohibited from the manufacturing (including importing), processing, and distribution in commerce of chrysotile asbestos, including any chrysotile asbestos-containing products or articles, for consumer use of:


(1) Aftermarket automotive brakes and linings; and


(2) Other gaskets.


(f) On November 25, 2024:


(1) Any aftermarket automotive brakes and linings, other vehicle friction products, and other gaskets which are already installed for commercial use are not subject to the prohibitions on distribution in commerce and commercial use under paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) Any aftermarket automotive brakes and linings, and other gaskets which are already installed for consumer use are not subject to the distribution in commerce prohibition under paragraph (e) of this section.






