# § 4284.1003   Definitions.

These are the definitions for terms used in this subpart. Additional terms used in this subpart are found in the applicable laws and regulations, in particular 2 CFR part 200 and 7 CFR part 11.


*Adverse Decision* has the meaning located at 7 CFR 11.1.


*Adverse Decision Letter* means a letter issued by the Agency to the Applicant or Recipient that explains the Adverse Decision.


*Agency* means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS or the Agency), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), or a successor agency.


*Agricultural Commodity* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Agricultural Commodity Organization* means an organization that exclusively represents a single Agricultural Commodity or group of similar commodities either on behalf of the commodity itself or on behalf of the Agricultural Producers who grow or raise it. The representation can be at a local, State, regional, or national level. Examples are Agricultural Commodity Marketing Boards established by States, a national association representing corn growers, and a regional association representing fruit and vegetable growers.


*Agricultural Food Product* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Agricultural Producer* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Applicant* means the entity that is applying for funding through the AIC program.


*Board of Directors* means the group of individuals who govern the Center.


*Business Plan* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Center* means the Agriculture Innovation Center to be established and operated by a Recipient of the AIC program. It must be governed by a Qualified Board of Directors.


*Change in Physical State* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Commercial Organization* means any business that sells goods or services for the purpose of making a profit.


*Equipment* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Family Farm* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Farm or Ranch* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Farm- or Ranch-Based Renewable Energy* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Feasibility Study* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Federal Award* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Financial Assistance Agreement* means Form RD 4280-2 and any attachments, as executed by RBCS and the Recipient.


*General Agricultural Organization* means an organization that represents agriculture in general, without restriction to any specific group, commodity, or sector. The sole purpose of the organization must be representing agriculture through policymaking, education, and/or marketing. The organization must represent Agricultural Producers, although it may represent processors and other stakeholders as well. The representation can occur at the State, regional, or national level. Examples include organizations that represent farmers and ranchers and organizations that represent organic or sustainable farming. Note that credit organizations are not included in this definition.


*Harvester* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Indian Tribe* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Indirect Costs* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Institutions of Higher Education* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Key Personnel* means the employees and/or contractors of the Center who provide Producer Services. It also includes the Project Director.


*Letter of Conditions* means the letter that the Agency issues to an entity whose application is selected for funding. The letter outlines all the conditions of the award that must be met before the award can be approved. Other agencies may call this letter an award letter or award notice.


*Local Government* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Local Agricultural Producer* means an Agricultural Producer located within 400 miles of the Center or in the same State.


*Locally-Produced Agricultural Food Product* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Matching Funds* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Nonprofit Organization* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Period of Performance* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Physical Segregation* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Produced in a Manner That Enhances the Value of the Agricultural Commodity* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.


*Producer Services* means services provided by the Centers to Agricultural Producers seeking to develop and market Value-Added Agricultural Products. The services provided must directly assist the Agricultural Producer with the process of developing and/or marketing a Value-Added Agricultural Product. The services include the following:


(1) Business development services, such as Feasibility Studies, Business Plans, and other types of technical assistance that supports business development.


(2) Market development services, such as marketing plans, branding, and customer identification.


(3) Organizational assistance, such as legal and technical advisory services related to the development, expansion, or operation of a business.


(4) Financial advisory services related to the development, expansion, or operation of a business, such as assistance with obtaining credit for operating costs, training on using financial management software, and guidance on use of cash flow.


(5) Process development services, such as the following:


(i) Engineering services, including scale-up of production systems (not to include cost of renovating or constructing a facility or system);


(ii) Scale production assessments, which are studies that analyze processing facilities to determine the size that optimizes construction and other cost efficiencies associated with manufacturing or processing a Value-Added Agricultural Product;


(iii) Systems development; and


(iv) Other technical assistance and applied research related to development, implementation, improvement and operations of processes and systems to develop and market a Value-Added Agricultural Product.


(6) Product development, such as idea generation, concept testing, feasibility and cost analysis, product taste-testing, demographic and other types of consumer analysis, production analysis, recipe development, evaluation of packaging and labeling options, and brand development for a Value-Added Agricultural Product.


(7) Value chain coordination, or directly working with an Agricultural Producer to connect that producer to a distribution system, processing facility, or commercial kitchen.


(8) Grants to Agricultural Producers for the services in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition, where the individual award does not exceed $5,000 and the aggregate amount of grants made by the Center does not exceed $50,000. Note that these grants are considered pass-through awards. Therefore, Centers and subrecipients must comply with all Federal and programmatic requirements for pass-through entities and awards, as described in 2 CFR part 200. Additionally, subrecipients of these grants must be eligible to receive a Federal Award, use grant and Matching Funds for allowable costs, provide at least one-third of the Project Cost in Matching Funds, and meet all other Federal and program requirements for the AIC program.


*Program Income* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Project Cost* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Qualified Board of Directors* means a Board of Directors that includes, but is not limited to, representatives from each of the groups identified in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition. It should be noted that no representative may represent more than one group or organization and Board of Director representatives must not have any conflicts of interest. See § 4284.1006 for additional information on conflicts of interest.


(1) Two General Agricultural Organizations with the greatest number of members in the State in which the Center is located;


(2) The department of agriculture, or similar State department or agency, or a State legislator, of the State in which the Center is located; and


(3) Four Agricultural Commodity Organizations representing different Agricultural Commodities produced in the State in which the Center is located.


*Real Property* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Recipient* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*State* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*State Office* means the USDA Rural Development (RD) offices located in each State.


*Third-Party In-Kind Contributions* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Underserved and Economically Distressed Area* means an area so designated on the program website.


*Value-Added Agricultural Product* has the meaning located at § 4284.903.






