# § 292.13   Application requirements.

(a) Statewide application. By 2025, the Summer EBT agency must make a Summer EBT application available to households whose children are enrolled in NSLP- or SBP-participating schools and who do not already have an individual eligibility determination.


(b) Contracting application processes. Summer EBT agencies may not delegate to LEAs the responsibility of making a Summer EBT application available. However, a Summer EBT agency may contract with another entity into order to fulfill the requirement in this paragraph (b).


(c) *Household applications.* The application must be clear and simple in design and the required information must be limited to what is required to demonstrate that the household does, or does not, meet the eligibility criteria for Summer EBT benefits at § 292.5(a). The application or associated instructions must also include the income eligibility guidelines and an explanation that households with incomes at or below the income limit may be eligible for Summer EBT. Summer EBT agencies are encouraged to include optional questions on the application to improve customer service including, but not limited to:


(1) Preferred method of communication (*e.g.,* mail, email, phone, text message);


(2) Preferred contact information;


(3) Preferred language of communication;


(4) Preferred method of benefit issuance (*e.g.,* EBT card, electronic benefit);


(5) Interest in receiving information about how to access other assistance program benefits (*e.g.,* Summer Food Service Program, NSLP/SBP, Child and Adult Care Food Program, SNAP, WIC, TANF, FDPIR, Medicaid);


(6) Membership in an ITO; and


(7) Other program options where a household may have preferences, receipt of information that households may find useful, or information that would aid Summer EBT agencies in successful program implementation.


(d) *Understandable communications.* Any communication with households for eligibility determination purposes must be in an understandable and uniform format and, to the maximum extent practicable, in a language that parents and guardians can understand.


(e) *Availability of applications.* Summer EBT agencies must ensure that a Summer EBT application is available throughout the period of eligibility, as defined in § 292.2.


(f) *Timely certifications.* Summer EBT agencies must follow-up with a household that submits an incomplete application within 10 operational days of receipt of the application. See notice of approval at § 292.12(f) for additional requirements for complete applications that are approved for benefits, and providing benefits to participants at § 292.15(c) for requirements around timely issuance of benefits for eligible children.


(g) *Deadline for applications.* Households must submit an application for Summer EBT benefits by the last day of the summer operational period in order to receive benefits for that summer. Applications that are submitted after the last day of the summer operational period may be used to establish eligibility for the following summer. Summer EBT agencies may encourage households to apply prior to the application deadline, however applications must be accepted and processed up until the application deadline, and benefits must be issued if the application is approved.


(h) *Electronic applications.* In addition to the distribution of information, applications, and descriptive materials in paper form, the Summer EBT agency may establish a system for executing household applications electronically and using electronic signatures. The electronic submission system must comply with the same requirements as paper applications. Descriptive materials may also be made available electronically by the Summer EBT or local educational agency. If the application is made available electronically, a paper version must also be available.


(i) *Application content requirements.* Summer EBT applications must contain the following elements:


(1) *Required income information.* The information requested on the application with respect to the current income of the household must be limited to:


(i) The income received by each member identified by the household member who received the income or an indication which household members had no income; and


(ii) The source of the income (such as earnings, wages, welfare, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security and other cash income). Other cash income includes cash amounts received or withdrawn from any source, including savings, investments, trust accounts, and other resources which are available to pay for a child's meals.


(2) *Household members.* The application must require applicants to provide the names of all household members. However, the application must allow the household to provide a case number if they participate in SNAP, or another means-tested program that has been approved by the Secretary, in lieu of names of all household members and household income information.


(3) *Name of school where child is enrolled.* A State- or ITO-wide application must contain a space for the household to indicate the name of the school or district where each eligible child is enrolled.


(4) *Mailing address.* The application must contain a space for the household to list their mailing address. However, the application must be accepted and processed as complete even if the field was not completed by the applicant. The instructions should communicate that it will be used to mail their EBT card, as applicable, and therefore should be the address that will be used by the household at the time the Summer EBT agency issues benefits.


(5) *Adult member's signature.* The application must be signed by an adult member of the household.


(j) *Attesting to information on the application.* The application must also include a statement, immediately above the space for signature, that the person signing the application certifies that all information furnished in the application is true and correct, that the application is being made in connection with the receipt of Federal funds, that the applicant is not already receiving Summer EBT benefits in another State or ITO, that Summer EBT agencies may verify the information on the application, and that deliberate misrepresentation of the information may subject the applicant to prosecution under applicable State and Federal criminal statutes.


(k) *Race and ethnicity.* The application must contain space for collection of information on race and ethnicity of applicants. The questions should be labeled as optional, and incomplete responses cannot be used as the basis for the denial of benefits.


(l) *Accompanying instructions.* The application must contain clear instructions is with respect to the completion and submission of the application to the Summer EBT agency to make eligibility determinations. The instructions should inform households that if they intend to move, or have recently moved, that they should apply for benefits in the State where their child will complete or completed the school year immediately preceding the summer operational period.


(m) *Required statements for the application.* The application and descriptive materials must include substantially the following statements:


(1) “The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act requires that we use information from this application to determine who qualifies for Summer EBT benefits. We can only approve complete forms. We may share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs to help them deliver program benefits to your household. Inspectors and law enforcement may also use your information to make sure that program rules are met. Some children qualify for Summer EBT without an application. Please contact your State or ITO to get Summer EBT for a foster child, and children who are homeless, migrant, or runaway.”


(2) When either the Summer EBT agency or the LEA plans to use or disclose children's eligibility information for non-program purposes, additional information, as specified in § 245.6(h) of this chapter, must be added to this statement. State agencies and LEAs are responsible for drafting the appropriate statement.


(3) The application must contain the USDA nondiscrimination statement for Child Nutrition Programs.


(4) The Summer EBT agency must inform applicants and prospective applicants that a non-household member may be designated as the authorized representative for application processing purposes if they have difficulty completing the application process.


(n) *Calculating income.* The Summer EBT agency must use the income information provided by the household on the application to calculate the household's total current income. When a household submits a complete application, and the household's total current income is at or below the eligibility limits specified in the Income Eligibility Guidelines, the children in that household must be approved for Summer EBT benefits.


(o) *Persons authorized to receive eligibility information.* Only persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in this section may have access to children's eligibility information, without parent or guardian consent. Persons considered directly connected with administration or enforcement of a program or activity are Federal, State, ITO, or local program operators responsible for the ongoing operation of the program or activity or responsible for program compliance. Program operators may include persons responsible for carrying out program requirements and monitoring, reviewing, auditing, or investigating the program. Program operators may include contractors, to the extent those persons have a need to know the information for program administration or enforcement. Contractors may include evaluators, auditors, and others with whom Federal or State agencies, ITOs, and program operators contract with to assist in the administration or enforcement of their program in their behalf.


(p) *Disclosure of all eligibility information in addition to eligibility status.* In addition to children's names and eligibility status, the Summer EBT agency, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, all eligibility information obtained through the Summer EBT eligibility process (including all information on the application or obtained through streamlined certification) to:


(1) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, or the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. This means that all eligibility information obtained for the Summer EBT Program may be disclosed to persons directly connected with administering or enforcing regulations under the Summer EBT Program, National School Lunch or School Breakfast Programs (7 CFR parts 210 and 220, respectively), Child and Adult Care Food Program (7 CFR part 226), Summer Food Service Program (7 CFR part 225), the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) (7 CFR part 246), and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) (7 CFR parts 271 through 285);


(2) Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of the programs listed in § 292.16(b)(1)(iii); and


(3) The Comptroller General of the United States for purposes of audit and examination.


(q) *Phase-in flexibility.* For 2024, alternative income applications that do not meet the criteria in paragraph (i) of this section can be used to confer eligibility for Summer EBT if the information provided on the alternative application is sufficient for the Summer EBT agency or LEA to determine that the household meets the income eligibility guidelines for Summer EBT. In 2024, Summer EBT agencies may delegate application processing to LEAs. If a Summer EBT agency delegates application processing to LEAs, then it must cover all administrative costs incurred by the LEAs with respect to Summer EBT application processing.






