# ยง 1271.1   Definitions.

Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, the terms used in this subpart shall conform, in the following order, to: Regulations of FHFA, the Uniform Commercial Code, regulations of the Federal Reserve System, and general banking usage. As used in this subpart:


*Account processing* includes charging, crediting, and settling of member or eligible institution accounts, excluding individual customer accounts.


*Assets* includes furniture and equipment, leasehold improvements, and capitalized start-up costs.


*Data communication* means transmitting and receiving of data to or from Banks, Federal Reserve offices, clearinghouse associations, depository institutions or their service bureaus, and other direct sending entities; arrangement for delivery of information; and telephone inquiry service.


*Data processing* includes capture, storage, and assembling of, and computation of, data from payment instruments received from Federal Reserve offices, Banks, clearinghouse associations, depository institutions, and other direct lending entities.


*Eligible institution* means any institution that is eligible to make application to become a member of a Bank under section 4 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424), including any building and loan association, savings and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association, insurance company, savings bank, community development financial institution, or any insured depository institution (as defined in section 2(9) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422(9))), regardless of whether the institution applies for or would be approved for membership.


*Issuance of forms* means the designation and distribution of standardized forms for use in collection, processing, and settlement services.


*Presentment* means a demand for acceptance or payment made upon the maker, acceptor, drawee or other payor by or on behalf of the holder, and may involve the use of electronic transmission of an instrument or item or transmission of data from the instrument or item by electronic or mechanical means.


*Statement packaging* includes receiving statement information from members or eligible institutions or their service bureaus on respective customer cycle dates; printing statements; matching customer account statements; packaging the statements with appropriate items and informational materials, as authorized by individual members and eligible institutions, for distribution to their customers; sending the packages to the members or eligible institutions or mailing the packages directly to their customers.


*Storage services* includes filing, storage, and truncation of items.


*Transportation of items* includes transporting items from Federal Reserve offices, other Banks' clearinghouse associations, depository institutions, and other direct sending entities to a Bank; forwarding items to financial institutions after sorting; and forwarding cash items or return items to Federal Reserve offices and other sending entities.




