# ยง 300.704   Considering individuals for appointment.

(a) An executive agency must request a written statement of Selective Service registration status from each covered individual at an appropriate time during the consideration process prior to appointment, and from each covered employee who becomes 18 after appointment. The individual must complete, sign, and date in ink the statement on a form provided by the agency unless the applicant furnishes other documentation as provided by paragraph (c) of this section. 


(b) *Statement of Selective Service registration status.* Agencies should reproduce the following statement, which has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget for use through October 31, 1989, under OMB Control No. 3206-0166: 


(c) At his option, a covered individual may submit, in lieu of the statement described above, a copy of his Acknowledgment Letter or other proof of registration or exemption issued by the Selective Service System. The individual must sign and date the document and add a note stating it is submitted as proof of Selective Service registration or exemption. 


(d) An executive agency will give no further consideration for appointment to individuals who fail to provide the information requested above on registration status.


(e) An agency considering employment of a covered individual who is a current or former Federal employee is not required to request a statement when it determines that the individual's Official Personnel Folder contains evidence indicating the individual is registered or currently exempt from registration. 




