# ยง 755.102   Procedures for submitting appeals.

(a) *Filing an appeal and time limits.* An employee may file an appeal to the Director, U.S. Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW, Room 7H28 (Attention: Accountability and Workforce Relations), Washington, DC 20415 or by email to *employeeaccountability@opm.gov,* within seven business days after the date of issuance of the order pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 721(a)(3). OPM, for good cause shown, may accept an untimely appeal.


(b) *Content of appeals.* An appeal must be submitted by the employee in writing and must be signed by the employee or their representative. While no specific form is required, the appeal must include:


(1) A copy of the notice of proposed order received pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 721(a)(2)(A);


(2) A copy of the employee's response to the proposed order, if any;


(3) A copy of the order received pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 721(a)(3);


(4) A statement explaining why the employee believes the order received pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 721(a)(3) is in error;


(5) The name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address of the employee and their representative (if applicable); and


(6) The name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address of the VA official who issued the order pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 721(a)(3).


(c) *VA submission of evidence file.* OPM will notify the VA upon receipt of a complete, timely appeal. The VA must provide OPM a copy of the evidence file as soon as possible but no later than five business days. If necessary, OPM may request VA provide information in addition to the evidence file. Any additional information requested by OPM must be provided to OPM within five business days after OPM's request. VA must also furnish a copy of any additional information requested by and provided to OPM to the employee. VA's failure to provide the evidence file or any requested additional information to OPM will result in a finding against VA.


(d) *Employee representative.* An employee may select a representative of their choice to assist in the preparation and submission of an appeal. An appeal filed by their representative must be supported by a duly executed power of attorney or other written documentation by the employee designating the representative. OPM may disallow as an employee's representative an individual whose activities as representative would cause a conflict of interest or position; an employee of any agency who cannot be released from official duties because of the priority needs of the Government; or an employee of any agency whose release would give rise to unreasonable costs to the Government.






