# § 745.324   Authorization of State or Tribal programs.

(a) *Application content and procedures.* (1) Any State or Indian Tribe that seeks authorization from EPA to administer and enforce the provisions of subpart E or subpart L of this part must submit an application to the Administrator in accordance with this paragraph.


(2) Before developing an application for authorization, a State or Indian Tribe shall disseminate a public notice of intent to seek such authorization and provide an opportunity for a public hearing.


(3) A State or Tribal application shall include:


(i) A transmittal letter from the State Governor or Tribal Chairperson (or equivalent official) requesting program approval.


(ii) A summary of the State or Tribal program. This summary will be used to provide notice to residents of the State or Tribe.


(iii) A description of the State or Tribal program in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(iv) An Attorney General's or Tribal Counsel's (or equivalent) statement in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(v) Copies of all applicable State or Tribal statutes, regulations, standards, and other materials that provide the State or Indian Tribe with the authority to administer and enforce a lead-based paint program.


(4) After submitting an application, the Agency will publish a _Federal Register_ notice that contains an announcement of the receipt of the State or Tribal application, the summary of the program as provided by the State or Tribe, and a request for public comments to be mailed to the appropriate EPA Regional Office. This comment period shall last for no less than 45 days. EPA will consider these comments during its review of the State or Tribal application.


(5) Within 60 days of submission of a State or Tribal application, EPA will, if requested, conduct a public hearing in each State or Indian Country seeking program authorization and will consider all comments submitted at that hearing during the review of the State or Tribal application.


(b) *Program description.* A State or Indian Tribe seeking to administer and enforce a program under this subpart must submit a description of the program. The description of the State or Tribal program must include:


(1)(i) The name of the State or Tribal agency that is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the program, the name of the official in that agency designated as the point of contact with EPA, and addresses and phone numbers where this official can be contacted.


(ii) Where more than one agency is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the program, the State or Indian Tribe must designate a primary agency to oversee and coordinate administration and enforcement of the program and serve as the primary contact with EPA.


(iii) In the event that more than one agency is or will be responsible for administering and enforcing the program, the application must also include a description of the functions to be performed by each agency. The desciption shall explain and how the program will be coordinated by the primary agency to ensure consistency and effective administration of the within the State or Indian Tribe.


(2) To demonstrate that the State or Tribal program is at least as protective as the Federal program, fulfilling the criteria in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the State or Tribal application must include:


(i) A description of the program that demonstrates that the program contains all of the elements specified in § 745.325, § 745.326, or both; and


(ii) An analysis of the State or Tribal program that compares the program to the Federal program in subpart E or subpart L of this part, or both. This analysis must demonstrate how the program is, in the State's or Indian Tribe's assessment, at least as protective as the elements in the Federal program at subpart E or subpart L of this part, or both. EPA will use this analysis to evaluate the protectiveness of the State or Tribal program in making its determination pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) To demonstrate that the State or Tribal program provides adequate enforcement, fulfilling the criteria in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the State or Tribal application must include a description of the State or Tribal lead-based paint compliance and enforcement program that demonstrates that the program contains all of the elements specified at § 745.327. This description shall include copies of all policies, certifications, plans, reports, and other materials that demonstrate that the State or Tribal program contains all of the elements specified at § 745.327.


(4)(i) The program description for an Indian Tribe shall also include a map, legal description, or other information sufficient to identify the geographical extent of the territory over which the Indian Tribe exercises jurisdiction.


(ii) The program description for an Indian Tribe shall also include a demonstration that the Indian Tribe:


(A) Is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.


(B) has an existing government exercising substantial governmental duties and powers.


(C) has adequate civil regulatory jurisdiction (as shown in the Tribal legal certification in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) over the subject matter and entities regulated.


(D) is reasonably expected to be capable of administering the Federal program for which it is seeking authorization.


(iii) If the Administrator has previously determined that an Indian Tribe has met the prerequisites in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section for another EPA program, the Indian Tribe need provide only that information unique to the lead-based paint program required by paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section.


(c) *Attorney General's statement.* (1) A State or Indian Tribe must submit a written statement signed by the Attorney General or Tribal Counsel (or equivalent) certifying that the laws and regulations of the State or Indian Tribe provide adequate legal authority to administer and enforce the State or Tribal program. This statement shall include citations to the specific statutes and regulations providing that legal authority.


(2) The Tribal legal certification (the equivalent to the Attorney General's statement) may also be submitted and signed by an independent attorney retained by the Indian Tribe for representation in matters before EPA or the courts pertaining to the Indian Tribe's program. The certification shall include an assertion that the attorney has the authority to represent the Indian Tribe with respect to the Indian Tribe's authorization application.


(3) If a State application seeks approval of its program to operate in Indian Country, the required legal certification shall include an analysis of the applicant's authority to implement its provisions in Indian Country. The applicant shall include a map delineating the area over which it seeks to operate the program.


(d) *Program certification.* (1) At the time of submitting an application, a State may also certify to the Administrator that the State program meets the requirements contained in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(2) If this certification is contained in a State's application, the program shall be deemed to be authorized by EPA until such time as the Administrator disapproves the program application or withdraws the program authorization. A program shall not be deemed authorized pursuant to this subpart to the extent that jurisdiction is asserted over Indian Country, including non-member fee lands within an Indian reservation.


(3) If the application does not contain such certification, the State program will be authorized only after the Administrator authorizes the program in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(4) This certification shall take the form of a letter from the Governor or the Attorney General to the Administrator. The certification shall reference the program analysis in paragraph (b)(3) of this section as the basis for concluding that the State program is at least as protective as the Federal program, and provides adequate enforcement.


(e) *EPA approval.* (1) EPA will fully review and consider all portions of a State or Tribal application.


(2) Within 180 days of receipt of a complete State or Tribal application, the Administrator shall either authorize the program or disapprove the application. The Administrator shall authorize the program, after notice and the opportunity for public comment and a public hearing, only if the Administrator finds that:


(i) The State or Tribal program is at least as protective of human health and the environment as the corresponding Federal program under subpart E or subpart L of this part, or both; and


(ii) The State or Tribal program provides adequate enforcement.


(3) EPA shall notify in writing the State or Indian Tribe of the Administrator's decision to authorize the State or Tribal program or disapprove the State's or Indian Tribe's application.


(4) If the State or Indian Tribe applies for authorization of State or Tribal programs under both subpart E and subpart L, EPA may, as appropriate, authorize one program and disapprove the other.


(f) *EPA administration and enforcement.* (1) If a State or Indian Tribe does not have an authorized program to administer and enforce subpart L of this part in effect by August 31, 1998, the Administrator shall, by such date, establish and enforce the provisions of subpart L of this part as the Federal program for that State or Indian Country.


(2) If a State or Indian Tribe does not have an authorized program to administer and enforce the pre-renovation education requirements of subpart E of this part by August 31, 1998, the Administrator will, by such date, enforce those provisions of subpart E of this part as the Federal program for that State or Indian Country. If a State or Indian Tribe does not have an authorized program to administer and enforce the training, certification and accreditation requirements and work practice standards of subpart E of this part by April 22, 2009, the Administrator will, by such date, enforce those provisions of subpart E of this part as the Federal program for that State or Indian Country.


(3) Upon authorization of a State or Tribal program, pursuant to paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, it shall be an unlawful act under sections 15 and 409 of TSCA for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any requirements of such program.


(g) *Oversight.* EPA shall periodically evaluate the adequacy of a State's or Indian Tribe's implementation and enforcement of its authorized programs.


(h) *Reports.* Beginning 12 months after the date of program authorization, the primary agency for each State or Indian Tribe that has an authorized program shall submit a written report to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the State or Indian Tribe is located. This report shall be submitted at least once every 12 months for the first 3 years after program authorization. If these reports demonstrate successful program implementation, the Agency will automatically extend the reporting interval to every 2 years. If the subsequent reports demonstrate problems with implementation, EPA will require a return to annual reporting until the reports demonstrate successful program implementation, at which time the Agency will extend the reporting interval to every 2 years. The report shall include the following information:


(1) Any significant changes in the content or administration of the State or Tribal program implemented since the previous reporting period; and


(2) All information regarding the lead-based paint enforcement and compliance activities listed at § 745.327(d) “Summary on Progress and Performance.”


(i) *Withdrawal of authorization.* (1) If EPA concludes that a State or Indian Tribe is not administering and enforcing an authorized program in compliance with the standards, regulations, and other requirements of sections 401 through 412 of TSCA and this subpart, the Administrator shall notify the primary agency for the State or Indian Tribe in writing and indicate EPA's intent to withdraw authorization of the program.


(2) The Notice of Intent to Withdraw shall:


(i) Identify the program aspects that EPA believes are inadequate and provide a factual basis for such findings.


(ii) Include copies of relevant documents.


(iii) Provide an opportunity for the State or Indian Tribe to respond either in writing or at a meeting with appropriate EPA officials.


(3) EPA may request that an informal conference be held between representatives of the State or Indian Tribe and EPA officials.


(4) Prior to issuance of a withdrawal, a State or Indian Tribe may request that EPA hold a public hearing. At this hearing, EPA, the State or Indian Tribe, and the public may present facts bearing on whether the State's or Indian Tribe's authorization should be withdrawn.


(5) If EPA finds that deficiencies warranting withdrawal did not exist or were corrected by the State or Indian Tribe, EPA may rescind its Notice of Intent to Withdraw authorization.


(6) Where EPA finds that deficiencies in the State or Tribal program exist that warrant withdrawal, an agreement to correct the deficiencies shall be jointly prepared by the State or Indian Tribe and EPA. The agreement shall describe the deficiencies found in the program, specify the steps the State or Indian Tribe has taken or will take to remedy the deficiencies, and establish a schedule, no longer than 180 days, for each remedial action to be initiated.


(7) If the State or Indian Tribe does not respond within 60 days of issuance of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw or an agreement is not reached within 180 days after EPA determines that a State or Indian Tribe is not in compliance with the Federal program, the Agency shall issue an order withdrawing the State's or Indian Tribe's authorization.


(8) By the date of such order, the Administrator will establish and enforce the provisions of subpart E or subpart L of this part, or both, as the Federal program for that State or Indian Country.



---

[N] [61 FR 45825, Aug. 29, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 21767, Apr. 22, 2008]




