# ยง 761.12   Ships: Group authorizations.

Ships or other craft in the following categories, except those ships which have been denied individual authorization or have had a prior authorization revoked, may enter the defense areas indicated without individual authorizations:


(a) U.S. Public vessels, to enter all defense areas.


(b) U.S. private vessels which are: (1) Under charter to the Department of Defense (including the Military Sealift Command), or (2) operating under a contract or charter with the Department of Defense providing for the employment of such vessels, or (3) routed by a Naval Control of Shipping Office, or (4) employed exclusively in support of and in connection with a Department of Defense construction, maintenance, or repair contract and whose crews carry individual entry clearances, to enter defense areas as authorized by controlling Defense Department agency.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) Privately owned local craft, registered with and licensed by appropriate local U.S. Government authorities, and owned and operated by local inhabitants who have been granted an authorization to enter the local defense area at the discretion of the local commanders.


(e) Foreign flag ships traveling on diplomatic or other special clearance or for which special arrangements have been made under international agreements or treaties.


(f) Ships operating under a group authorization issued by the Chief of Naval Operations.


(g) Ships in distress, subject to local clearances and control by senior officer present.



---

[N] [28 FR 13778, Dec. 18, 1963, as amended at 36 FR 21890, Nov. 17, 1971]




