# § 1.953-3   Risks deemed to be United States risks.

(a) *Artificial arrangements.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of § 1.953-1, the term “United States risks” also includes under section 953(a)(1)(B) risks which are deemed to be United States risks. They are risks (other than United States risks described in section 953(a)(1)(A) and § 1.953-2) which a controlled foreign corporation reinsures under an insurance or annuity contract, or with respect to which a controlled foreign corporation issues any insurance or annuity contract, in accordance with any arrangement whereby another corporation which is not a controlled foreign corporation receives an amount of premiums (for reinsuring or issuing any insurance or annuity contract in connection with the United States risks described in section 953(a)(1)(A) and § 1.953-2) which is substantially equal to the amount of premiums which the controlled foreign corporation receives under its contracts. Arrangements to which this rule applies include those entered into by the controlled foreign corporation, by its United States shareholders, or by a related person.


(b) *Evidence of arrangements.* The determination of the existence of an arrangement referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall depend on all the facts and circumstances in each case. In making this determination, it will be recognized that arrangements of this type generally are orally entered into outside the United States and that direct evidence of such an arrangement is not ordinarily available. Therefore, in determining the existence of such an arrangement, consideration will be given to whether or not there is substantial similarity between the type, location, profit margin expected, and loss experience of the risks which the corporation which is not a controlled foreign corporation insures or reinsures and the risks which the controlled foreign corporation insures or reinsures. Further, consideration will be given to the existence of prior similar arrangements between, and the identity of the directors or shareholders of, the corporation which is not a controlled foreign corporation, its shareholders, or related persons and the controlled foreign corporation, its shareholders, or related persons. However, the absence of such prior arrangements or identity of directors or shareholders will not of itself establish the nonexistence of an arrangement referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. In determining whether the amounts received by the controlled foreign corporation and the corporation which is not a controlled foreign corporation are substantially equal, the period in which the controlled foreign corporation receives premiums need not be the same as, or identical in length with, that of the corporation which is not a controlled foreign corporation nor limited to a taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation.


(c) *Illustrations.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 6781, 29 FR 18207, Dec. 23, 1964]




