# § 3931.10   Exploration plans and plans of development for mining and in situ operations.

(a) The POD must provide for reasonable protection and reclamation of the environment and the protection and diligent development of the oil shale resources in the lease. 


(b) The operator must submit to the proper BLM office an exploration plan or POD describing in detail the proposed exploration, testing, development, or mining operations to be conducted. Exploration plans or PODs must be consistent with the requirements of the lease or exploration license and protect nonmineral resources and provide for the reclamation of the lands affected by the operations on Federal lease(s) or exploration license(s). All PODs and exploration plans must be submitted to the proper BLM office. 


(c) The lessee or operator must submit 3 copies of the POD to the proper BLM office or submit it in an acceptable electronic format. Contact the proper BLM office for detailed information on submitting copies electronically (*see* § 3931.40 for submission of exploration plans). 


(d) The BLM will consult with any other Federal, state, or local agencies involved and review the plan. The BLM may require additional information or changes in the plan before approving it. If the BLM denies the plan, it will set forth why it was denied.


(e) All development and exploration activities must comply with the BLM-approved POD or exploration plan. 


(f) Activities under §§ 3931.11 and 3931.40, other than casual use, may not begin until appropriate NEPA analysis is completed and the BLM approves an exploration plan or POD. 




