# § 810.107   Special grades and special grade requirements.

A special grade serves to draw attention to a special factor or condition present in the grain and, when applicable, is supplemental to the grade assigned under § 810.106. Except for the special grade “infested,” the special grades are identified and requirements are established in each respective grain standards.


(a) *Infested wheat, rye, and triticale.* Tolerances for live insects responsible for infested wheat, rye, and triticale are defined according to sampling designations as follows:


(1) *Representative sample.* The representative sample consists of the work portion, and the file sample if needed and when available. These grains will be considered infested if the representative sample (other than shiplots) contains two or more live weevils, or one live weevil and one or more other live insects injurious to stored grain, or two or more live insects injurious to stored grain.


(2) *Lot as a whole (stationary).* The lot as a whole is considered infested when two or more live weevils, or one live weevil and one or more other live insects injurious to stored grain, or two or more other live insects injurious to stored grain are found in, on, or about the lot (excluding submitted samples and shiplots).


(3) *Sample as a whole (continuous loading/unloading of shiplots and bargelots).* The minimum sample size for bargelots and shiplots is 500 grams per each 2,000 bushels of grain. The sample as a whole is considered infested when a component (as defined in FGIS instructions) contains two or more live weevils, or one live weevil and one or more other live insects injurious to stored grain, or two or more other live insects injurious to stored grain.


(b) *Infested barley, canola, corn, oats, sorghum, soybeans, sunflower seed, and mixed grain.* Tolerances for live insects responsible for infested barley, canola, corn, oats, sorghum, soybeans, sunflower seed, and mixed grain are defined according to sampling designations as follows:


(1) *Representative sample.* The representative sample consists of the work portion, and the file sample if needed and when available. These grains will be considered infested if the representative sample (other than shiplots) contains two or more live weevils, or one live weevil and five or more other live insects injurious to stored grain, or ten or more other live insects injurious to stored grain.


(2) *Lot as a whole (stationary).* The lot as a whole is considered infested when two or more live weevils, or one live weevil and five or more other live insects injurious to stored grain, or ten or more other live insects injurious to stored grain are found in, on, or about the lot (excluding submitted samples and shiplots).


(3) *Sample as a whole (continuous loading/unloading of shiplots and bargelots).* The minimum sample for shiplots and bargelots is 500 grams per each 2,000 bushels of grain. The sample as a whole is considered infested when a component (as defined in FGIS instructions) contains two or more live weevils, or one live weevil and five or more other live insects injurious to stored grain, or ten or more other live insects injurious to stored grain.



---

[N] [52 FR 24441, June 30, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 3274, Jan. 29, 1992]




