# § 83.2   Definitions.

As used in this part the term— 


(a) *Act* means the Public Health Service Act. 


(b) *Administrative law judge* means a person appointed by the Reviewing Authority to preside over a hearing held under this part. 


(c) *Assurance commitment clause* means a clause in an invitation for a contract offer extended by the Federal Government under title VII or VIII of the Act which, when executed by an entity as part of such offer, becomes, upon acceptance of such offer by the Federal Government, a contractual obligation of such entity to comply with its assurance submitted to the Director under this part. 


(d) *Department* means the Department of Health and Human Services. 


(e) *Director* means the Director of the Office for Civil Rights of the Department. 


(f) *Entity* means (1) a school of medicine, school of dentistry, school of osteopathy, school of pharmacy, school of optometry, school of podiatry, school of veterinary medicine, or school of public health, as defined by section 724 of the Act; 


(2) A school of nursing, as defined by section 843 of the Act; 


(3) A school or college of a training center for an allied health profession, as defined by section 795 of the Act, or of another institution of undergraduate education which school or college can provide a training program; 


(4) An affiliated hospital, as defined by section 724 or 795 of the Act; and 


(5) Any other institution, organization, consortium, or agency which is eligible to receive Federal support. 


(g) *Federal support* means assistance extended after November 18, 1971, under title VII or VIII of the Act to an entity by means of a grant to, a contract with, or a loan guarantee or interest subsidy payment made on behalf of, such entity. 


(h) *Federally supported entity* means an entity which receives Federal support. 


(i) *Reviewing authority* means that component of the Department to which the Secretary delegates authority to review the decision of an administrative law judge in a proceeding arising under this part. 


(j) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 


(k) *Training program* means a program of training described by section 724(4) of the Act, a program of education described by, or specified by regulations pursuant to, section 795(1) of the Act, a program of education described by section 843(c), 843(d), or 843(e) of the Act, and a program leading to any license or certification requisite to the practice of a health profession for which a degree specified in any such section is granted. 




