# ยง 1903.4   Vehicles and traffic safety.

(a) *Open container of alcoholic beverage.* (1) Each person within the vehicle is responsible for complying with the provisions of this section that pertain to carrying an open container. The operator of the vehicle is the person responsible for complying with the provisions of this section that pertain to the storage of an open container.


(2) Carrying or storing a bottle, can, or other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage that is open or has been opened, or whose seal is broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed, within a vehicle on an Agency installation is prohibited.


(3) This section does not apply to: 


(i) An open container stored in the trunk of a vehicle or, if a vehicle is not equipped with a trunk, to an open container stored in some other portion of the vehicle designated for the storage of luggage and not normally occupied by or readily accessible to the operator or passenger; or


(ii) An open container stored in the living quarters of a motor home or camper. 


(4) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, a utility compartment or glove compartment is deemed to be readily accessible to the operator and passengers of a vehicle.


(b) *Operating under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or controlled substances.* (1) *Prohibited conduct.* Operating or being in actual physical control of a vehicle is prohibited:


(i) While under the influence of alcohol;


(ii) While under the influence of any narcotic drug or any other self-administered intoxicant or drug of whatsoever nature, or any combination of such drugs, to a degree that impairs one's ability to drive or operate any motor vehicle;


(iii) While under the combined influence of alcohol and any drugs or drugs to a degree that impairs one's ability drive or operate any motor vehicle; or


(iv) While the alcohol concentration in the operator's blood is 0.08 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or 0.08 grams or more alcohol per 210 liters of breath. Provided, however, that if the applicable State law that applies to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol establishes more restrictive limits of alcohol concentration in the operator's blood or breath, those limits supersede the limits specified in this section. 


(2) *Applicability.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall also apply to an operator who is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol or another drug.


(3) *Test.* (i) At the request or direction of an authorized person who has probable cause to believe that an operator of a vehicle within an Agency installation has violated a provision of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the operator shall submit to one or more tests of blood, breath, saliva, or urine for the purpose of determining blood alcohol, drug, and controlled substance content. 


(ii) Refusal by an operator to submit to a test is prohibited and may result in detention and citation by an authorized person. Proof of refusal many be admissible in any related judicial proceeding.


(iii) Any test or tests for the presence of alcohol, drugs, and controlled substances shall be determined by and administered at the direction of an officer of the Security Protective Service. 


(iv) Any test shall be conducted by using accepted scientific methods and equipment of proven accuracy and reliability and operated by personnel certified in its use.


(4) *Presumptive levels.* (i) The results of chemical or other quantitative tests are intended to supplement the elements of probable cause used as the basis for the arrest of an operator charged with a violation of this section. If the alcohol concentration in the operator's blood or breath at the time of the testing is less than the alcohol concentration specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section this fact does not give rise to any presumption that the operator is or is not under the influence of alcohol. 


(ii) The provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section are not intended to limit the introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the question of whether the operator, at the time of the alleged violation, was under the influence of alcohol, a drug or drugs, or a controlled substance, or any combination thereof.



---

[N] [63 FR 44786, Aug. 21, 1998; 64 FR 27041, May 18, 1999, as amended at 88 FR 20762, Apr. 7, 2023]




