# § 1.1461-2   Adjustments for overwithholding or underwithholding of tax.

(a) *Adjustments of overwithheld tax*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(1), a withholding agent that has overwithheld under chapter 3 of the Internal Revenue Code, and made a deposit of the tax as provided in § 1.6302-2(a), may adjust the overwithheld amount either pursuant to the reimbursement procedure described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or pursuant to the set-off procedure described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The rules in the preceding sentence do not apply to partnerships or nominees required to withhold under section 1446(a), other than on a distribution by a publicly traded partnership subject to withholding under § 1.1446-4(a) and a payment of an amount realized on the transfer of an interest in a publicly traded partnership subject to § 1.1446(f)-4.


(2) *Reimbursement of tax*—(i) *General rule.* Under the reimbursement procedure, the withholding agent repays the beneficial owner or payee for the amount of tax overwithheld. In such a case, the withholding agent may reimburse itself by reducing, by the amount of tax actually repaid to the beneficial owner or payee, the amount of any deposit of tax made by the withholding agent under § 1.6302-2(a)(1)(iii) for any subsequent payment period occurring before the end of the calendar year following the calendar year of overwithholding. Any such reduction that occurs for a payment period in the calendar year following the calendar year of overwithholding shall be allowed only if—


(A) The repayment to the beneficial owner or payee occurs before the earlier of the due date (not including extensions) for filing Form 1042-S for the calendar year of overwithholding or the date the Form 1042-S is actually filed with the IRS; and


(B) The withholding agent states on a timely filed (not including extensions) Form 1042 for the calendar year of overwithholding, that the filing of the Form 1042 constitutes a claim for credit in accordance with § 1.6414-1.


(ii) *Record maintenance.* If the beneficial owner is repaid an amount of withholding tax under the provisions of this paragraph (a)(2), the withholding agent shall keep as part of its records a receipt showing the date and amount of repayment and the withholding agent must provide a copy of such receipt to the beneficial owner. For this purpose, a canceled check or an entry in a statement is sufficient provided that the check or statement contains a specific notation that it is a refund of tax overwithheld.


(3) *Set-offs.* Under the set-off procedure, the withholding agent may repay the beneficial owner or payee by applying the amount overwithheld against any amount which otherwise would be required under chapter 3 of the Code or the regulations thereunder to be withheld from income paid by the withholding agent to such person before the earlier of the due date (without regard to extensions) for filing the Form 1042-S for the calendar year of overwithholding or the date that the Form 1042-S is actually filed with the IRS. For purposes of making a return on Form 1042 or 1042-S (or an amended form) for the calendar year of overwithholding and for purposes of making a deposit of the amount withheld, the reduced amount shall be considered the amount required to be withheld from such income under chapter 3 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.


(4) *Examples.* The principles of this paragraph (a) are illustrated by the following examples:


(b) *Withholding of additional tax when underwithholding occurs.* A withholding agent may withhold from future payments (including distributions of effectively connected income subject to withholding under § 1.1446-4 and the amount realized from the transfer of an interest in a publicly traded partnership subject to § 1.1446(f)-4) made to a beneficial owner the tax that should have been withheld from previous payments to that beneficial owner under chapter 3 of the Code. In the alternative, the withholding agent may satisfy the tax from property that it holds in custody for the beneficial owner or property over which it has control. Such additional withholding or satisfaction of the tax owed may only be made before the date that the Form 1042 is required to be filed (not including extensions) for the calendar year in which the underwithholding occurred. See § 1.6302-2 for making deposits of tax or § 1.1461-1(a) for making payment of the balance due for a calendar year. See also §§ 1.1461-1, 1.1461-3, and 1.1446-1 through 1.1446-7 for rules relating to withholding under section 1446. 


(c) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, the term *payment period* means the period for which the withholding agent is required by § 1.6302-2(a)(1) to make a deposit of tax withheld under chapter 3 of the Code.


(d) *Applicability date.* This section applies to payments made on or after January 1, 2022. For payments made before January 1, 2022, see this section as in effect and contained in 26 CFR part 1, as revised April 1, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 8734, 62 FR 53470, Oct. 14, 1997, as amended by T.D. 8804, 63 FR 72188, Dec. 31, 1998; T.D. 8856, 64 FR 73412, Dec. 30, 1999; T.D. 9200, 70 FR 28741, May 18, 2005; T.D. 9658, 79 FR 12792, Mar. 6, 2014; T.D. 9808, 82 FR 2105, Jan. 6, 2017; T.D. 9926, 85 FR 76946, Nov. 30, 2020]




