# § 1602.1   General provisions.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This part contains the rules that the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (“CSB” or “Board”) follows under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a. These rules should be read together with the Privacy Act, which provides additional information about records maintained on individuals. The rules in this part apply to all records in systems of records maintained by the CSB that are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. They describe the procedures by which individuals may request access to records about themselves, request amendment or correction of those records, and request an accounting of disclosures of those records by the CSB. In addition, the CSB processes all Privacy Act requests for access to records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, following the rules contained in part 1601 of this chapter, which gives requests the benefit of both statutes. 


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this part: 


*Requester* means an individual who makes a request for access, a request for amendment or correction, or a request for an accounting under the Privacy Act. 


*Request for access to a record* means a request made as described in subsection (d)(1) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. 


*Request for amendment or correction of a record* means a request made as described in subsection (d)(2) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. 


*Request for an accounting* means a request made as described in subsection (c)(3) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. 




