# § 179.16   Tank-head puncture-resistance systems.

(a) *Performance standard.* When the regulations in this subchapter require a tank-head puncture-resistance system, the system shall be capable of sustaining, without any loss of lading, coupler-to-tank-head impacts at relative car speeds of 29 km/hour (18 mph) when:


(1) The weight of the impact car is at least 119,295 kg (263,000 pounds);


(2) The impacted tank car is coupled to one or more backup cars that have a total weight of at least 217,724 kg (480,000 pounds) and the hand brake is applied on the last “backup” car; and


(3) The impacted tank car is pressurized to at least 6.9 Bar (100 psig).


(b) *Verification by testing.* Compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be verified by full-scale testing according to appendix A of this part.


(c) *Alternative compliance by other than testing.* As an alternative to requirements prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may be met by installing full-head protection (shields) or full tank-head jackets on each end of the tank car conforming to the following:


(1) The full-head protection (shields) or full tank-head jackets must be at least 1.27 cm (0.5 inch) thick, shaped to the contour of the tank head and made from steel having a tensile strength greater than 379.21 N/mm
2 (55,000 psi).


(2) The design and test requirements of the full-head protection (shields) or full tank-head jackets must meet the impact test requirements in Section 5.3 of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(3) The workmanship must meet the requirements in Section C, Part II, Chapter 5, of the AAR Specifications for Design, Fabrication, and Construction of Freight Cars (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).



---

[N] [Amdt. 179-50, 60 FR 49077, Sept. 21, 1995, as amended by Amdt. 179-50, 61 FR 33255, June 26, 1996; 66 FR 45390, Aug. 28, 2001; 68 FR 75759, Dec. 31, 2003]




