# § 19.1   Purpose.

(a) The purpose of investigations made under this part is to promote the development of electric cap lamps that may be used in mines, especially in mines that may contain dangerous concentrations of methane. Lists of such lamps will be published from time to time in order that State mine-inspection departments, compensation bureaus, mine operators, miners, and others interested in safe equipment for mines may have information in regard to available permissible electric cap lamps. This part supersedes Schedule 6C issued under date of December 21, 1935, and goes into effect August 26, 1939. 


(b) Any electric cap lamp that meets the requirements set forth in this part will be termed “permissible” by MSHA and, if actively marketed, will be listed as such in publications relating to permissible electric cap lamps. MSHA will test only electrical equipment that in the opinion of its qualified representatives is constructed of suitable materials, is of good quality workmanship, is based on sound engineering principles, and is safe for its intended use. MSHA reserves the right to modify design, construction, and test requirements to obtain the same degree of protection as provided by the tests described in this part.


(c) *Definition of permissible.* Completely assembled and conforming in every respect with the design formally approved by the MSHA under this part. (Approvals under this part are given only to equipment for use in gassy and dusty mines.) 



---

[N] [Sched. 6D, 4 FR 4003, Sept. 21, 1939, as amended by Supp. 1, 20 FR 2718, Apr. 23, 1955; 47 FR 11369, Mar. 16, 1982]




