# § 721.5185   2-Propen-1-one, 1-(4-morpholinyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propen-1-one, 1-(4-morpholinyl)- (PMN P-95-169; SNUN S-08-7; SNUN S-14-1; and SNUN S-17-10; CAS No. 5117-12-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the chemical substance after it has been completely reacted (cured) because 2-propen-1-one, 1-(4-morpholinyl)- will no longer exist.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (iv), (a)(3)(i) and (ii), (a)(6)(v), (b), and (c).


(A) Safety 4/4H EVOH/PE laminate, Ansell Edmont Neoprene number 865, and Solvex Nitrile Rubber number 275 gloves have been tested in accordance with the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) F739 method and found by EPA to satisfy the consent orders and § 721.63(a)(2)(i) requirements for dermal protection to 100 percent PMN substance. Gloves and other dermal protection may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift. For additional dermal protection materials, a company must submit all test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for each type of material tested prior to use of that material as worker dermal protection. However, for the purposes of determining the imperviousness of gloves, up to 1 year after the commencement of commercial manufacture or import, the employer may use the method described in § 721.63(a)(3)(ii), thereafter, they must use the method described in § 721.63(a)(3)(i). For purposes of § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(B) Additional requirements for use as a monomer for stereolithography: Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4) and (5), (a)(6)(v), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health assigned protection factor of at least 50.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(y)(1). It is a significant new use to use the chemical substance for any use other than as a monomer for use in ultraviolet ink jet applications or stereolithography, unless the chemical substance is processed and used in an enclosed process.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 100).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this chemical substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 371, Jan. 5, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 27914, May 13, 2011; 80 FR 37165, June 30, 2015; 85 FR 68000, Oct. 27, 2020]




