# § 383.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:


(a) *Bundled Contracts* means contracts between the Licensee and a Provider in which the Service is not the only content licensed by the Licensee to the Provider.


(b) *Copyright Owner* means a sound recording copyright owner, or a rights owner under 17 U.S.C. 1401(l)(2), who is entitled to receive royalty payments made under this part pursuant to the statutory licenses under 17 U.S.C. 112(e) and 114.


(c) *License Period* means the period commencing January 1, 2021, and continuing through December 31, 2025.


(d) *Licensee* is a person that has obtained statutory licenses under 17 U.S.C. 112(e) and 114, and the implementing regulations, to make digital audio transmissions as part of a Service (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section), and ephemeral recordings for use in facilitating such transmissions.


(e) *Provider* means a “multichannel video programming distributor” as that term is defined in 47 CFR 76.1000(e); notwithstanding such definition, for purposes of this part, a Provider shall include only a distributor of programming to televisions, such as a cable or satellite television provider.


(f) A *Service* is a non-interactive (consistent with the definition of “interactive service” in 17 U.S.C. 114(j)(7)) audio-only subscription service (including accompanying information and graphics related to the audio) that is transmitted to residential subscribers of a television service through a Provider which is marketed as and is in fact primarily a video service where


(1) Subscribers do not pay a separate fee for audio channels.


(2) The audio channels are delivered by digital audio transmissions through a technology that is incapable of tracking the individual sound recordings received by any particular consumer.


(3) However, paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall not apply to the Licensee's current contracts with Providers that are in effect as of the effective date of this part if such Providers become capable in the future of tracking the individual sound recordings received by any particular consumer, provided that the audio channels continued to be delivered to Subscribers by digital audio transmissions and the Licensee remains incapable of tracking the individual sound recordings received by any particular consumer.


(g) *Subscriber* means every residential subscriber to the underlying service of the Provider who receives Licensee's Service in the United States for all or any part of a month; provided, however, that for any Licensee that is not able to track the number of subscribers on a per-day basis, “Subscribers” shall be calculated based on the average of the number of subscribers on the last day of the preceding month and the last day of the applicable month, unless the Service is paid by the Provider based on end-of-month numbers, in which event “Subscribers” shall be counted based on end-of-month data.


(h) *Stand-Alone Contracts* means contracts between the Licensee and a Provider in which the only content licensed to the Provider is the Service.



---

[N] [72 FR 72254, Dec. 20, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 14075, Mar. 24, 2010; 80 FR 36928, June 29, 2015; 84 FR 32313, July 8, 2019; 85 FR 9664, Feb. 20, 2020]




