# ยง 2610.0-5   Definitions.

As used in the regulations of this part:


(a) *Actual settler* means a person who establishes a primary residence on the land.


(b) *Cultivation* means tilling or otherwise preparing the land and keeping the ground in a state favorable for the growth of ordinary agricultural crops, and requires irrigation as an attendant act.


(c) *Desert lands* means unreclaimed lands which will not, without irrigation, produce any reasonably remunerative agricultural crop by usual means or methods of cultivation. This includes lands which will not, without irrigation, produce paying crops during a series of years, but on which crops can be successfully grown in alternate years by means of the so-called dry-farming system. Lands which produce native grasses sufficient in quantity, if ungrazed by grazing animals, to make an ordinary crop of hay in usual seasons, are not desert lands. Lands which will produce an agricultural crop of any kind without irrigation in amount sufficient to make the cultivation reasonably remunerative are not desert. Lands containing sufficient moisture to produce a natural growth of trees are not to be classed as desert lands. 


(d) *Economic feasibility* means the capability of an entry to provide an economic return to the settler sufficient to provide a viable farm enterprise and assure continued use of the land for farming purposes. Factors considered in determining feasibility may include the cost of developing or acquiring water, land reclamation costs, land treatment costs, the cost of construction or acquisition of a habitable residence, acquisition of farm equipment, fencing and other costs associated with a farm enterprise, such as water delivery, seed, planting, fertilization, harvest, etc.


(e) *Grant contract* means the contract between a State and the United States which sets the terms and conditions which the State or its assignees shall comply with before lands shall be patented.


(f) *Irrigation* means the application of water to the land for the purpose of growing crops.


(g) *Ordinary agricultural crops* means any agricultural product to which the land under consideration is generally adapted, and which would return a fair reward for the expense of producing them. Ordinary agricultural crops do not include forest products, but may include orchards and other plants which cannot be grown on the land without irrigation and from which a profitable crop may be harvested.


(h) *Reclamation* means the establishment of works for conducting water in adequate volume and quantity to the land so as to render it available for distribution when needed for irrigation and cultivation.


(i) *Segregation* means the action under the Act of August 19, 1894 (39 Stat. 422), as amended (43 U.S.C. 641), by which the lands are reserved from the public domain and closed to application or entry under the public land laws, including location under the mining laws.


(j) *Smallest legal subdivision* means a quarter quarter section (40 acres).




