# ยง 51.20   Recognition of a State home.

(a) *How to apply for recognition.* To apply for recognition of a home for purposes of receiving per diem from VA, a State must submit a letter requesting recognition to the Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care in VA Central Office, 810 Vermont Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20420. The letter must be signed by the State official authorized to make the request. The letter will be reviewed by VA, in accordance with this section.


(b) *Survey and recommendation by Director.* (1) After receipt of a letter requesting recognition, VA will survey the home in accordance with ยง 51.31 to determine whether the facility and program of care meet the applicable requirements of subpart C and the applicable standards in subpart D, E, or F of this part. For purposes of the recognition process including the survey, references to State homes in the standards apply to homes that are being considered by VA for recognition as State homes.


(2) If the Director of the VA Medical Center of jurisdiction determines that the applicable requirements and standards are met, the Director will submit a written recommendation for recognition to the Under Secretary for Health.


(3) If the Director does not recommend recognition, the Director will submit a written recommendation against recognition to the Under Secretary for Health and will notify in writing the State official who signed the letter submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and the State official authorized to oversee operations of the home. The notification will state the following:


(i) The specific standard(s) not met; and


(ii) The State's right to submit a response to the Under Secretary for Health, including any additional evidence, no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the notification to the State.


(c) *Decision by the Under Secretary for Health.* After receipt of a recommendation from the Director, and allowing 30 calendar days for the state to respond to a negative recommendation and to submit evidence, the Under Secretary for Health will award or deny recognition based on all available evidence. The applicant will be notified of the decision in writing. Adverse decisions may be appealed to the Board of Veterans' Appeals (see 38 CFR part 20).


(d) *Effect of recognition.* (1) Recognition of a State home means that, at the time of recognition, the facility and its program of care meet the applicable requirements of this part. The State home must obtain certification after recognition in accordance with ยง 51.30.


(2) After a State home is recognized, any new annex, new branch, or other expansion in the size or capacity of a home or any relocation of the home to a new facility must be separately recognized.


