# § 711.3   Definitions.

The definitions in this section and the definitions in TSCA section 3 apply to this part. In addition, the definitions in 40 CFR 704.3 also apply to this part, except the definitions *manufacture* and *manufacturer* in 40 CFR 704.3.


*CDX* or *Central Data Exchange* means EPA's centralized electronic document receiving system, or its successors.


*Commercial use* means the use of a chemical substance or a mixture containing a chemical substance (including as part of an article) in a commercial enterprise providing saleable goods or services.


*Consumer use* means the use of a chemical substance or a mixture containing a chemical substance (including as part of an article) when sold to or made available to consumers for their use.


*e-CDRweb* means the electronic, web-based tool provided by EPA for the completion of Form U and submission of the CDR data.


*Highest-level parent company* means the highest-level company of the site's ownership hierarchy as of the start of the submission period during which data are being reported according to the following instructions. The highest-level U.S. parent company is located within the United States while the highest-level foreign parent company is located outside the United States. The following rules govern how to identify the highest-level U.S. parent company and highest-level foreign parent company (if applicable):


(1) If the site is entirely owned by a single U.S. company that is not owned by another company, that single company is the U.S. parent company.


(2) If the site is entirely owned by a single U.S. company that is, itself, owned by another U.S.-based company (*e.g.,* it is a division or subsidiary of a higher-level company), the highest-level domestic company in the ownership hierarchy is the United States parent company. If there is a higher-level parent company that is outside of the United States, the highest-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy is the foreign parent company.


(3) If the site is owned by more than one company (*e.g.,* company A owns 40 percent, company B owns 35 percent, and company C owns 25 percent), the company with the largest ownership interest in the site is the parent company. If a higher-level company in the ownership hierarchy owns more than one ownership company, then determine the entity with the largest ownership by considering the lower-level ownerships in combination (*e.g.,* corporation x owns companies B and C, for a total ownership of 60 percent for the site).


(i) If the parent company is a U.S. company owned by another U.S. company, then the highest-level domestic company in the ownership hierarchy is the U.S. parent company. If the U.S. parent company has a higher-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy, then the highest-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy is the foreign parent company.


(ii) If the parent company is a foreign company, then the site is its own U.S. parent company and the foreign parent company is the highest-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy.


(4) If the site is owned by a 50:50 joint venture or a cooperative, the joint venture or cooperative is its own parent company. If the site is owned by a U.S. joint venture or cooperative, the highest level of the joint venture or cooperative is the U.S. parent company. If the site is owned by a joint venture or cooperative outside the United States, the highest level of the joint venture or cooperative outside the United States is the foreign parent company.


(5) If the site is entirely owned by a foreign company (*i.e.,* without a U.S.-based subsidiary within the site's ownership hierarchy), the highest-level foreign company in the ownership hierarchy is the site's foreign parent company.


(6) If the site is federally owned, the highest-level federal agency or department is the U.S. parent company.


(7) If the site is owned by a non-federal public entity, that entity (such as a municipality, State, or tribe) is the U.S. parent company.


*Industrial function* means the intended physical or chemical characteristic for which a chemical substance or mixture is consumed as a reactant; incorporated into a formulation, mixture, reaction product, or article; repackaged; or used.


*Industrial use* means use at a site at which one or more chemical substances or mixtures are manufactured (including imported) or processed.


*Intended for use by children* means the chemical substance or mixture is used in or on a product that is specifically intended for use by children age 14 or younger. A chemical substance or mixture is intended for use by children when the submitter answers “yes” to at least one of the following questions for the product into which the submitter's chemical substance or mixture is incorporated:


(1) Is the product commonly recognized (i.e., by a reasonable person) as being intended for children age 14 or younger?


(2) Does the manufacturer of the product state through product labeling or other written materials that the product is intended for or will be used by children age 14 or younger?


(3) Is the advertising, promotion, or marketing of the product aimed at children age 14 or younger?


*Manufacture* means to manufacture, produce, or import, for commercial purposes. Manufacture includes the extraction, for commercial purposes, of a component chemical substance from a previously existing chemical substance or complex combination of chemical substances. A chemical substance is co-manufactured by the person who physically performs the manufacturing and the person contracting for such production when that chemical substance, manufactured other than by import, is:


(1) Produced exclusively for another person who contracts for such production, and


(2) That other person dictates the specific chemical identity of the chemical substance and controls the total amount produced and the basic technology for the manufacturing process.


*Manufacturer* means a person who manufactures a chemical substance.


*Master Inventory File* means EPA's comprehensive list of chemical substances which constitutes the TSCA Inventory compiled under TSCA section 8(b). It includes chemical substances reported under 40 CFR part 710 and substances reported under 40 CFR part 720 for which a Notice of Commencement of Manufacture or Import has been received under 40 CFR 720.120.


*Principal reporting year* means the latest complete calendar year preceding the submission period.


*Reasonably likely to be exposed* means an exposure to a chemical substance which, under foreseeable conditions of manufacture (including import), processing, distribution in commerce, or use of the chemical substance, is more likely to occur than not to occur. Such exposures would normally include, but would not be limited to, activities such as charging reactor vessels, drumming, bulk loading, cleaning equipment, maintenance operations, materials handling and transfers, and analytical operations. Covered exposures include exposures through any route of entry (inhalation, ingestion, skin contact, absorption, etc.), but excludes accidental or theoretical exposures.


*Repackaging* means the physical transfer of a chemical substance or mixture, as is, from one container to another container or containers in preparation for distribution of the chemical substance or mixture in commerce.


*Reportable chemical substance* means a chemical substance described in § 711.5.


*Site* means a contiguous property unit. Property divided only by a public right-of-way shall be considered one site. More than one manufacturing plant may be located on a single site.


(1) For chemical substances manufactured under contract, *i.e.,* by a co-manufacturer, the site is the location where the chemical substance is physically manufactured.


(2) The site for an importer who imports a chemical substance described in § 711.5 is the U.S. site of the operating unit within the person's organization that is directly responsible for importing the chemical substance. The import site, in some cases, may be the organization's headquarters in the United States. If there is no such operating unit or headquarters in the United States, the site address for the importer is the U.S. address of an agent acting on behalf of the importer who is authorized to accept service of process for the importer.


(3) For portable manufacturing units sent to different locations from a single distribution center, the distribution center shall be considered the site.


*Site-limited* means a chemical substance is manufactured and processed only within a site and is not distributed for commercial purposes as a chemical substance or as part of a mixture or article outside the site. Imported chemical substances are never site-limited. Although a site-limited chemical substance is not distributed for commercial purposes outside the site at which it is manufactured and processed, the chemical substance is considered to have been manufactured and processed for commercial purposes.


*Submission period* means the period in which the manufacturing, processing, and use data are submitted to EPA.


*Use* means any utilization of a chemical substance or mixture that is not otherwise covered by the terms manufacture or process. Relabeling or redistributing a container holding a chemical substance or mixture where no repackaging of the chemical substance or mixture occurs does not constitute use or processing of the chemical substance or mixture.



---

[N] [76 FR 54933, Sept. 6, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 20138, Apr. 9, 2020]




