# § 457.204   Withholding of payment for failure to comply with Federal requirements.

(a) *Basis for withholding.* CMS withholds payments to the State, in whole or in part, only if, after giving the State notice, a reasonable opportunity for correction, and an opportunity for a hearing, the Administrator finds—


(1) That the State plan is in substantial noncompliance with the requirements of Title XXI of the Act or the regulations in this part; or


(2) That the State is conducting its program in substantial noncompliance with either the State plan or the requirements of Title XXI of the Act or the regulations in this part. (Hearings are generally not called until a reasonable effort has been made to resolve the issues through conferences and discussions. These efforts may be continued even if a date and place have been set for the hearing.)


(3) For purposes of this paragraph (a), substantial non-compliance includes, but is not limited to, failure to comply with requirements that significantly affect federal or state oversight or state reporting.


(b) *Noncompliance of the plan.* A question of noncompliance of a State plan may arise from an unapprovable change in the approved State plan or the failure of the State to change its approved plan to conform to a new Federal requirement for approval of State plans. 


(c) *Noncompliance in practice.* A question of noncompliance in practice may arise from the State's failure to actually comply with a Federal requirement, regardless of whether the plan itself complies with that requirement. 


(d) *Notice, reasonable opportunity for correction, and implementation of withholding.* If the Administrator makes a finding of noncompliance under paragraph (a) of this section, the following steps apply: 


(1) *Preliminary notice.* The Administrator provides a preliminary notice to the State— 


(i) Of the findings of noncompliance; 


(ii) The proposed enforcement actions to withhold payments; and


(iii) If enforcement action is proposed, that the State has a reasonable opportunity for correction, described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, before the Administrator takes final action. 


(2) *Opportunity for corrective action.* If enforcement actions are proposed, the State must submit evidence of corrective action related to the findings of noncompliance to the Administrator within 30 days from the date of the preliminary notification. Corrective action is action to ensure that the plan is, and will be, administered consistent with applicable law and regulations, to ameliorate past deficiencies in plan administration, or to ensure that enrollees will be treated equitably. 


(3) *Final notice.* Taking into account any evidence submitted by the State under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the Administrator makes a final determination related to the findings of noncompliance, and provides a final notice to the State— 


(i) Of the final determination on the findings of noncompliance; 


(ii) If enforcement action is appropriate— 


(A) No further payments will be made to the State (or that payments will be made only for those portions or aspects of the programs that are not affected by the noncompliance); and 


(B) The total or partial withholding will continue until the Administrator is satisfied that the State's plan and practice are, and will continue to be, in compliance with Federal requirements. 


(4) *Hearing.* An opportunity for a hearing will be provided to the State prior to withholding under paragraph (d)(5) of this section. 


(5) Withholding. CMS withholds payments, in whole or in part, until the Administrator is satisfied regarding the State's compliance. 



---

[N] [65 FR 33622, May 24, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 2674, Jan. 11, 2001; 81 FR 27897, May 6, 2016]




