# § 1200.52   Institution of proceeding.

(a) *Filing and service of petitions.* Any person subject to an order desiring to complain that such order or any provision of such order or any obligation imposed in connection with an order is not in accordance with law, shall file with the hearing clerk, in quintuplicate, a petition in writing addressed to the Secretary. Promptly upon receipt of the petition in writing the hearing clerk shall transmit a true copy thereof to the Administrator and the General Counsel, respectively. 


(b) *Contents of petitions.* A petition shall contain: 


(1) The correct name, address, and principal place of business of the petitioner. If the petitioner is a corporation, such fact shall be stated, together with the name of the State of incorporation, the date of incorporation, and the names, addresses, and respective positions held by its officers and directors; if an unincorporated association, the names and addresses of its officers, and the respective positions held by them; if a partnership, the name and address of each partner; 


(2) Reference to the specific terms or provisions of the order, or the interpretation or application of such terms or provisions, which are complained of; 


(3) A full statement of the facts, avoiding a mere repetition of detailed evidence, upon which the petition is based, and which it is desired that the Secretary consider, setting forth clearly and concisely the nature of the petitioner's business and the manner in which petitioner claims to be affected by the terms or provisions of the order or the interpretation or application thereof, which are complained of; 


(4) A statement of the grounds on which the terms or provisions of the order, or the interpretation or application thereof, which are complained of, are challenged as not in accordance with law; 


(5) Requests for the specific relief which the petitioner desires the Secretary to grant; and 


(6) An affidavit by the petitioner, or, if the petitioner is not an individual, by an officer of the petitioner having knowledge of the facts stated in the petition, verifying the petition and stating that it is filed in good faith and not for purposes of delay. 


(c) *A motion to dismiss a petition: filing, contents, and responses to a petition.* If the Administrator is of the opinion that the petition, or any portion thereof, does not substantially comply, in form or content, with the Act or with requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator may, within 30 days after the service of the petition, file with the hearing clerk a motion to dismiss the petition, or any portion of the petition, on one or more of the grounds stated in this paragraph. Such motion shall specify the grounds for objection to the petition and if based, in whole or in part, on allegations of fact not appearing on the face of the petition, shall be accompanied by appropriate affidavits or documentary evidence substantiating such allegations of fact. The motion may be accompanied by a memorandum of law. Upon receipt of such motion, the hearing clerk shall cause a copy thereof to be served upon the petitioner, together with a notice stating that all papers to be submitted in opposition to such motion, including any memorandum of law, must be filed by the petitioner with the hearing clerk not later than 20 days after the service of such notice upon the petitioner. Upon the expiration of the time specified in such notice, or upon receipt of such papers from the petitioner, the hearing clerk shall transmit all papers which have been filed in connection with the motion to the judge for the judge's consideration. 


(d) *Further proceedings.* Further proceedings on petitions to modify or to be exempted from the Order shall be governed by §§ 900.52(c)(2) through 900.71 of the Rules of Practice Governing Proceedings on Petitions To Modify or To Be Exempted From Marketing Orders. However, each reference to *marketing order* in the title shall mean *order.*


---

[N] [47 FR 44684, Oct. 8, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 10830, Mar. 11, 2002]




