# ยง 410.132   Medical nutrition therapy.

(a) *Conditions for coverage of MNT* services. Medicare Part B pays for MNT services provided by a registered dietitian or nutrition professional as defined in ยง 410.134 when the beneficiary is referred for the service by a physician.


(b) *Limitations on coverage of MNT services.* (1) MNT services based on a diagnosis of renal disease as described in this subpart are not covered for beneficiaries receiving maintenance dialysis for which payment is made under section 1881 of the Act.


(2) A beneficiary may only receive the maximum number of hours covered under the DSMT benefit for both DSMT and MNT during the initial DSMT training period unless additional hours are determined to be medically necessary under the national coverage determination process.


(3) In years when the beneficiary is eligible for MNT and follow-up DSMT, the beneficiary may only receive the maximum number of hours covered under MNT unless additional hours are determined to be medically necessary under the national coverage determination process.


(4) If a beneficiary has both diabetes and renal disease, the beneficiary may only receive the maximum number of hours covered under the renal MNT benefit in one episode of care unless he or she is receiving initial DSMT services, in which case the beneficiary would receive whichever is greater.


(5) An exception to the maximum number of hours in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section may be made when a physician determines that there is a change of diagnosis, medical condition, or treatment regimen related to diabetes or renal disease that requires a change in MNT during an episode of care.


(c) *Referrals*. Referral may only be made by a physician when the beneficiary has been diagnosed with diabetes or renal disease as defined in this subpart with documentation noted by a referring physician in the beneficiary's medical record.



---

[N] [66 FR 55331, Nov. 1, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 66400, Nov. 27, 2007; 86 FR 65667, Nov. 19, 2021]




