# § 74.1104   D&C Blue No. 4.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive D&C Blue No. 4 is principally the diammonium salt of ethyl[4-[*p*[ethyl(*m-* sulfobenzyl)ami-no]-α-(*o-* sulfophenyl)benzylidene]-2,5-cyclo-hexadien-1-ylidene] (*m-* sulfobenzyl) ammonium hydroxide inner salt with smaller amounts of the isomeric diammonium salts of ethyl [4-[*p-*[ethyl(*p-* sulfobenzyl) amino]-α-(*o-* sulfophenyl) benzylidene]-2,5-cyclohexadien - 1-ylidene](*p-* sulfobenzyl) ammonium hydroxide inner salt and ethyl[4-[*p-*[ethyl (*o-* sulfobenzyl)amino]-α-(*o-* sulfophenyl) benzylidene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene] (*o-* sulfobenzyl) ammonium hydroxide inner salt.


(2) Color additive mixtures for use in externally applied drugs made with D&C Blue No. 4 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter for use in color additive mixtures for coloring externally applied drugs.


(b) *Specifications.* D&C Blue No. 4 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* D&C Blue No. 4 may be safely used in externally applied drugs in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Certification.* All batches of D&C Blue No. 4 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.




