# § 229.703   (Item 703) Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchasers.

(a) In the following tabular format, provide the information specified in paragraph (b) of this Item with respect to any purchase made by or on behalf of the issuer or any “affiliated purchaser,” as defined in § 240.10b-18(a)(3) of this chapter of shares or other units of any class of the issuer's equity securities that is registered by the issuer pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78*1*).


(b) The table shall include the following information for each class or series of securities for each month included in the period covered by the report:


(1) The total number of shares (or units) purchased (column (a));


*Instruction to paragraph (b)(1) of Item 703:* Include in this column all issuer repurchases, including those made pursuant to publicly announced plans or programs and those not made pursuant to publicly announced plans or programs. Briefly disclose, by footnote to the table, the number of shares purchased other than through a publicly announced plan or program and the nature of the transaction (*e.g.,* whether the purchases were made in open-market transactions, tender offers, in satisfaction of the company's obligations upon exercise of outstanding put options issued by the company, or other transactions).


(2) The average price paid per share (or unit) (column (b));


(3) The total number of shares (or units) purchased as part of publicly announced repurchase plans or programs (column (c)); and


(4) The maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares (or units) that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (column (d)).


Instructions to paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of Item 703:


1. In the table, disclose this information in the aggregate for all plans or programs publicly announced.


2. By footnote to the table, indicate:


a. The date each plan or program was announced;


b. The dollar amount (or share or unit amount) approved;


c. The expiration date (if any) of each plan or program;


d. Each plan or program that has expired during the period covered by the table; and


e. Each plan or program the issuer has determined to terminate prior to expiration, or under which the issuer does not intend to make further purchases.


*Instruction to Item 703:* Disclose all purchases covered by this Item, including purchases that do not satisfy the conditions of the safe harbor of § 240.10b-18 of this chapter.



---

[N] [89 FR 24373, Apr. 8, 2024]












