# § 239.9   Conversion or liquidation of mutual holding companies.

(a) *Conversion*—(1) *Generally.* A mutual holding company may convert to the stock form in accordance with the rules and regulations set forth in subpart E of this part.


(2) Exchange of subsidiary savings association or subsidiary holding company stock. Any stock issued by a subsidiary savings association, or by a subsidiary holding company pursuant to § 239.24, of a mutual holding company to persons other than the parent mutual holding company may be exchanged for the stock issued by the successor to parent mutual holding company in connection with the conversion of the parent mutual holding company to stock form. The parent mutual holding company and the subsidiary holding company must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board that the basis for the exchange is fair and reasonable.


(3) If a subsidiary holding company or subsidiary savings association has issued shares to an entity other than the mutual holding company, the conversion of the mutual holding company to stock form may not be consummated unless a majority of the shares issued to entities other than the mutual holding company vote in favor of the conversion. This requirement applies in addition to any otherwise required account holder or shareholder votes.


(b) *Involuntary liquidation.* (1) The Board may file a petition with the federal bankruptcy courts requesting the liquidation of a mutual holding company pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1467a(o)(9) and title 11, United States Code, upon the occurrence of any of the following events:


(i) The default of the resulting association, any acquiree association, or any subsidiary savings association of the mutual holding company that was in the mutual form when acquired by the mutual holding company;


(ii) The default of the parent mutual holding company or its subsidiary holding company; or


(iii) Foreclosure on any pledge by the mutual holding company of subsidiary savings association stock or subsidiary holding company stock.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the net proceeds of any liquidation of any mutual holding company shall be transferred to the members of the mutual holding company and, if applicable, the stock holders of the subsidiary holding company in accordance with the charter of the mutual holding company and, if applicable, the charter of the subsidiary holding company.


(3) If the FDIC incurs a loss as a result of the default of any subsidiary savings association of a mutual holding company and that mutual holding company is liquidated pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the FDIC shall succeed to the membership interests of the depositors of such savings association in the mutual holding company to the extent of the FDIC's loss.


(c) *Voluntary liquidation.* The provisions of § 239.16 shall apply to mutual holding companies.




