# ยง 964.230   Audit and administrative requirements.

(a) *TOP grant recipients.* The HUD Inspector General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any duly authorized representative shall have access to all records required to be retained by this subpart or by any agreement with HUD for the purpose of audit or other examinations. 


(1) Grant recipients must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, as applicable. 


(2) A final audit shall be required of the financial statements made pursuant to this subpart by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), in accordance with generally accepted government audit standards. A written report of the audit must be forwarded to HUD within 60 days of issuance. 


(b) *Resident management corporations.* Resident management corporations who have entered into a contract with a HA with respect to management of a development(s) must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, as applicable. Resident management corporations managing a development(s) must be audited annually by a licensed certified public accountant, designated by the corporation, in accordance with generally accepted government audit standards. A written report of each audit must be forwarded to HUD and the HA within 30 days of issuance. These requirements are in addition to any other Federal law or other requirement that would apply to the availability and audit of books and records of resident management corporations under this part.



---

[N] [59 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]




