# § 206.37   Credit standing.

(a) Each borrower shall have a general credit standing satisfactory to the Commissioner.


(b) *Required Financial Assessment*—(1) *Requirement for Financial Assessment prior to loan approval.* Prior to loan approval, the mortgagee shall assess the financial capacity of the borrower to comply with the terms of the mortgage and evaluate whether the HECM is a sustainable solution for the borrower, in accordance with instructions established by the Commissioner through notice. The Financial Assessment shall consider the borrower's credit history, cash flow and residual income, extenuating circumstances, and compensating factors.


(i) *Credit history.* In accordance with FHA guidelines in existence at the time of FHA Case Number assignment, mortgagees shall conduct an in-depth credit history analysis to determine if the borrower has demonstrated the willingness to meet his or her financial obligations.


(ii) *Cash flow and residual income analysis.* In accordance with FHA guidelines in existence at the time of FHA Case Number assignment, mortgagees shall conduct a cash flow and residual income analysis to determine the capacity of the borrower to meet his or her documented financial obligations with his or her documented income.


(iii) *Extenuating circumstances.* Where the borrower's credit history does not meet the criteria set by the mortgagee based on FHA guidelines in existence at the time of FHA Case Number assignment, mortgagees shall consider and document, as part of the Financial Assessment, extenuating circumstances that led to the credit issues.


(iv) *Compensating factors.* The mortgagee shall document and identify in the Financial Assessment any considered compensating factors.


(2) *Completion and approval of Financial Assessment.* The Financial Assessment shall be completed and approved by a DE Underwriter registered in HUD's system of record by the underwriting mortgagee.


(3) *Nondiscrimination.* (i) The Financial Assessment shall be conducted in a uniform manner that shall not discriminate because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, disability, marital status, actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, source of income of the borrower, location of the property, or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*).


(ii) The Financial Assessment shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the following:


(A) Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 *et seq.*);


(B) Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 *et seq.*);


(C) Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691 *et seq.*); and


(D) Regulation B (12 CFR part 1002).




