# § 1010.810   Enforcement.

(a) Overall authority for enforcement and compliance, including coordination and direction of procedures and activities of all other agencies exercising delegated authority under this chapter, is delegated to the Director, FinCEN.


(b) Authority to examine institutions to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter is delegated as follows:


(1) To the Comptroller of the Currency with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by national bank examiners;


(2) To the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by Federal Reserve bank examiners;


(3) To the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by FDIC bank examiners;


(4) To the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by FHLBB bank examiners;


(5) To the Chairman of the Board of the National Credit Union Administration with respect to those financial institutions regularly examined for safety and soundness by NCUA examiners.


(6) To the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to brokers and dealers in securities and investment companies as that term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80-1 *et seq.*);


(7) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to §§ 1010.340 and 1010.830;


(8) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with respect to all financial institutions, except brokers or dealers in securities, mutual funds, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors, not currently examined by Federal bank supervisory agencies for soundness and safety; and


(9) To the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with respect to futures commission merchants, introducing brokers in commodities, and commodity trading advisors.


(10) To the Federal Housing Finance Agency with respect to the housing government sponsored enterprises, as defined in § 1010.100(mmm) of this part.


(c) Authority for investigating criminal violations of this chapter is delegated as follows:


(1) To the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection with respect to § 1010.340;


(2) To the Commissioner of Internal Revenue except with respect to § 1010.340.


(d) Authority for the imposition of civil penalties for violations of this chapter lies with the Director of FinCEN.


(e) Periodic reports shall be made to the Director, FinCEN by each agency to which compliance authority has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section. These reports shall be in such a form and submitted at such intervals as the Director, FinCEN may direct. Evidence of specific violations of any of the requirements of this chapter may be submitted to the Director, FinCEN at any time.


(f) The Director, FinCEN or his delegate, and any agency to which compliance has been delegated under paragraph (b) of this section, may examine any books, papers, records, or other data of domestic financial institutions relevant to the recordkeeping or reporting requirements of this chapter.


(g) The authority to enforce the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 5314 and §§ 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter has been redelegated from FinCEN to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue by means of a Memorandum of Agreement between FinCEN and IRS. Such authority includes, with respect to 31 U.S.C. 5314 and 1010.350 and 1010.420 of this chapter, the authority to: assess and collect civil penalties under 31 U.S.C. 5321 and 31 CFR 1010.820; investigate possible civil violations of these provisions (in addition to the authority already provided at paragraph (c)(2)) of this section); employ the summons power of subpart I of this part 1010; issue administrative rulings under subpart G of this part 1010; and take any other action reasonably necessary for the enforcement of these and related provisions, including pursuit of injunctions.



---

[N] [75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 103755, Feb. 25, 2014]




