# ยง 633.2   Definitions.

The following definitions shall be applicable to this part:


*Adjacent land* means land on a farm which adjoins designated types 1 through 7 wetlands and is considered essential for the protection of the wetland or for the nesting, breeding, or feeding of migratory waterfowl. Adjacent land need not be contiguous to the land designated as wetland, but cannot be located more than one quarter of a mile away.


*Agreement* means the document that specifies the obligations and rights of any person who has been accepted for participation in the WBP.


*Annual payment* means the consideration paid to a participant each year for entering an agreement with the NRCS under the WBP.


*Chief* means the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service or the person delegated authority to act for the Chief.


*Conservation District* is a subdivision of a State government organized pursuant to applicable State law to promote and undertake actions for the conservation of soil, water, and other natural resources.


*Conservation plan* means a written record of the land user's decision on the use and management of the wetland and adjacent areas covered by the agreement.


*Cost-share payment* means the payment made by the NRCS to achieve the protection of the wetland functions and values of the agreement area in accordance with the conservation plan.


*Landowner* means a person or persons having legal ownership of farmland, including those who may be buying farmland under a purchase agreement. Landowner may include all forms of collective ownership including joint tenants, tenants in common, and life tenants and remaindermen in a farm property.


*Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)* is an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, formerly called the Soil Conservation Service.


*Operator* means the person who is in general control of the farming operations on the farm during the crop year.


*Person* means one or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, estates or trusts, or other business enterprises or other legal entities and, whenever applicable, an Indian tribe, a State, a political subdivision of a State, or any agency thereof.


*Practice* means a measure necessary or desirable to accomplish the desired program objectives.


*Privately-owned* means owned or operated by a person other than a State, a political subdivision of a State, or any agency thereof.


*State Technical Committee* means a committee established by the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture in a State pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 3861. The State Conservationist will be the chairperson of the State Technical Committee.


*U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service* is an agency of the United States Department of the Interior.


*Wetlands* mean the inland fresh areas defined under 16 U.S.C. 1302 and described as types 1 through 7 in Circular 39, Wetlands of the United States, as published by the United States Department of the Interior.


*Wetlands functions and values* mean the hydrological and biological characteristics of wetlands and the social worth placed upon these characteristics, including:


(1) Habitat for migratory birds and other wildlife, in particular at risk species;


(2) Protection and improvement of water quality;


(3) Attenuation of water flows due to flooding;


(4) The recharge of ground water;


(5) Protection and enhancement of open space and aesthetic quality;


(6) Protection of flora and fauna which contributes to the Nation's natural heritage; and


(7) Contribution to educational and scientific scholarship.


*WBP* means the Water Bank Program.



---

[N] [62 FR 48472, Sept. 16, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 32440, June 9, 2015]




