# § 2519.200   How may grant funds be used?

Funds under a higher education program grant may be used for the following activities: (a) Enabling an institution of higher education, a higher education partnership or a consortium to create or expand an organized community service program that—


(1) Engenders a sense of social responsibility and commitment to the community in which the institution is located; and


(2) Provides projects for the participants described in § 2519.300.


(b) Supporting student-initiated and student-designed community service projects.


(c) Strengthening the leadership and instructional capacity of teachers at the elementary, secondary, and postsecondary levels with respect to service-learning by—


(1) Including service-learning as a key component of the preservice teacher education of the institution; and


(2) Encouraging the faculty of the institution to use service-learning methods throughout the curriculum.


(d) Facilitating the integration of community service carried out under the grant into academic curricula, including integration of clinical programs into the curriculum for students in professional schools, so that students may obtain credit for their community service projects.


(e) Supplementing the funds available to carry out work-study programs under part C of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 2751 *et seq.*) to support service-learning and community service.


(f) Strengthening the service infrastructure within institutions of higher education in the United States that supports service-learning and community service.


(g) Providing for the training of teachers, prospective teachers, related education personnel, and community leaders in the skills necessary to develop, supervise, and organize service-learning.




