# ยง 63.621   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart are defined in ยง 63.2 of the Clean Air Act and in this section as follows:


*Diammonium and/or monoammonium phosphate process line* means any process line manufacturing granular diammonium and/or monoammonium phosphate by reacting ammonia with phosphoric acid that has been derived from or manufactured by reacting phosphate rock and acid. A diammonium and/or monoammonium phosphate process line includes: Reactors, granulators, dryers, coolers, screens, and mills.


*Equivalent P*_2_O_5_*feed* means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as phosphorus pentoxide (P_2_O_5_), fed to the process.


*Equivalent P*_2_O_5_*stored* means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as phosphorus pentoxide, being cured or stored in the affected facility.


*Evaporative cooling tower* means an open-water, re-circulating device that uses fans or natural draft to draw or force ambient air through the device to remove heat from process water by direct contact.


*Exceedance* means a departure from an indicator range established for monitoring under this subpart, consistent with any averaging period specified for averaging the results of the monitoring.


*Existing source* depends on the date that construction or reconstruction of an affected source commenced. A phosphate fertilizer process line (*e.g.,* diammonium and/or monoammonium phosphate process line), granular triple superphosphate process line, or granular triple superphosphate storage is an existing source if construction or reconstruction of the affected source commenced on or before December 27, 1996.


*Fresh granular triple superphosphate* means granular triple superphosphate produced within the preceding 72 hours.


*Granular triple superphosphate process line* means any process line, not including storage buildings, that manufactures granular triple superphosphate by reacting phosphate rock with phosphoric acid. A granular triple superphosphate process line includes: mixers, curing belts (dens), reactors, granulators, dryers, coolers, screens, and mills.


*Granular triple superphosphate storage building* means any building curing or storing fresh granular triple superphosphate. A granular triple superphosphate storage building includes: storage or curing buildings, conveyors, elevators, screens, and mills.


*New source* depends on the date that construction or reconstruction of an affected source commences. A phosphate fertilizer process line (*e.g.,* diammonium and/or monoammonium phosphate process line), granular triple superphosphate process line, or granular triple superphosphate storage is a new source if construction or reconstruction of the affected source commenced after December 27, 1996.


*Phosphate fertilizer process line* means any process line that manufactures a granular phosphate fertilizer by reacting phosphoric acid with ammonia. A phosphate fertilizer process line includes: reactors, granulators, dryers, coolers, screens, and mills.


*Phosphate fertilizer production plant* means any production plant that manufactures a granular phosphate fertilizer by reacting phosphoric acid with ammonia.


*Research and development facility* means research or laboratory operations whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development into new processes and products, where the operations are under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and where the facility is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale in commerce or other off-site distribution, except in a de minimis manner.


*Shutdown* commences when feed materials cease to be added to an affected source and ends when the affected source is deactivated, regardless of whether feed material is present in the affected source.


*Startup* commences when any feed material is first introduced into an affected source and ends when feed material is fully loaded into the affected source.


*Total fluorides* means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds, including the HAP hydrogen fluoride, as measured by reference methods specified in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 13 A or B, or by equivalent or alternative methods approved by the Administrator pursuant to ยง 63.7(f).




