# ยง 3560.58   Site requirements.

(a) *Location.* (1) New construction section 515 loans will be made only in designated places selected by the Agency in accordance with the requirements of ยง 3560.57.


(2) Agency-financed MFH must be located in residential areas as part of established rural communities, except as permitted in ยง 3560.58(b), and for farm labor housing units financed under sections 514 and 516, which may be developed in any area where a need for farm labor housing exists.


(3) Communities in which Agency-financed MFH is located must have adequate facilities and services to support the needs of tenants.


(4) Housing complexes will not be located in areas where there are undesirable influences such as high activity railroad tracks; adjacent to or near industrial sites; bordering sites or structures which are not decent, safe, or sanitary; or bordering sites which have potential environmental concerns such as processing plants. Sites which are not an integral part of a residential community and do not have reasonable access, either by location or terrain, to essential community facilities such as water, sewerage removal, schools, shopping, employment opportunities, medical facilities, may not be acceptable. Consistent with Federal law and Departmental Regulation, the Agency must conduct an environmental assessment and a civil rights impact analysis before a site can be accepted. Sites may be determined by the Agency to be unacceptable if any of the adverse conditions described in this paragraph exist.


(b) *Structures located in central business areas.* The Agency will consider financing construction or the purchase and substantial rehabilitation of an existing structure located in the central business area of a rural community. With prior consent from the Agency, a portion of such a structure may be designated for commercial use on a lease basis. RHS funds may not be used to finance any cost associated with the commercial space.


(c) *Site development costs and standards.* The cost of site development must be less than or comparable to the cost of site development at other available sites in the community and the site must be developed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subpart C and any applicable standards imposed by a state or local government.


(d) *Densities.* Allowable site densities will be determined based on the following criteria:


(1) Compatibility and consistency with the community in which the MFH is located;


(2) Impact on the total development costs; and


(3) Size sufficient to accommodate necessary site features.


(e) *Flood or mudslide-prone areas.* (1) The Agency will not approve sites subject to 100-year floods when non-floodplain sites exist. The environmental review process will assess the availability of a reasonable site outside the 100-year floodplain.


(2) Sites located within the 100 year floodplain are not eligible for federal financial assistance unless flood insurance is available through the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The Agency will complete Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Form 81-93, Standard Flood Hazard Determination, to document the site's location in relation to the floodplain and the availability of insurance under NFIP. 




