# § 107.1560   Distributions by Licensee—required Distributions to private investors and SBA.

You must make Distributions under this § 107.1560 if you have outstanding Participating Securities or Earmarked Assets and you satisfy the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section. Distributions under this section are determined as of the end of each fiscal year. You must notify SBA of any planned distribution under this section 10 business days before the distribution date, unless SBA permits otherwise.


(a) *Conditions for making Distributions.* Distributions under this section are subject to the following conditions: 


(1) You must have paid all Prioritized Payments, Adjustments and Charges, so that the balance in both your Distribution Account and your Accumulation Account is zero (see §§ 107.1520 and 107.1540).


(2) You must have made any permitted tax Distribution that you choose to make under § 107.1550. 


(3) You must satisfy the liquidity requirement in § 107.1505. 


(4) The amount you distribute under this section must not exceed your remaining Retained Earnings Available for Distribution.


(b) *Total amount you must distribute.* Unless SBA permits otherwise, the total amount you must distribute equals the result (if greater than zero) of the following computation:


(1) Your Retained Earnings Available for Distribution as of the end of your fiscal year, after giving effect to any Distribution under §§ 107.1540 and 107.1550; minus


(2) All previous Distributions under this section and § 107.1570(a) that were applied as redemptions or repayments of Leverage; plus


(3) All previous Distributions under § 107.1570(b) that reduced your Retained Earnings Available for Distribution.


(c) *When you must make Distributions.* You must make the required Distributions on either the first or second Payment Date following the end of your fiscal year. 


(d) *Effect of Distributions on Retained Earnings Available for Distribution.* Distributions under this § 107.1560 have the following effect on your Retained Earnings Available for Distribution: 


(1) All Distributions to private investors reduce Retained Earnings Available for Distribution. 


(2) Distributions to SBA, or its designated agent or Trustee, reduce Retained Earnings Available for Distribution if they are applied as payments of Profit Participation or distributions on Preferred Securities (see paragraph (g) of this section). 


(3) Distributions to SBA, or its designated agent or Trustee, do not reduce Retained Earnings Available for Distribution if they are applied as a repayment or redemption of Leverage (see paragraph (g) of this section). 


(e) *SBA's share of the total Distribution.* Use the following table to determine the percentage share of the total Distribution (from paragraph (b) of this section) that goes to SBA (or its designated agent or Trustee): 


(f) *Exceptions to the Distribution requirement.* (1) With SBA's prior written approval, you may withhold from distribution reasonable reserves necessary to protect your investments or relative position in Loans and Investments and to meet contingent liabilities. 


(i) If you submit a written request for SBA approval, you may consider it approved unless SBA notifies you otherwise within 30 days from receipt. 


(ii) Reserves that you withhold from distribution may not be used to make investments in additional portfolio companies. 


(iii) Withholding of reserves under this paragraph (f)(1) is not a “payment failure” in violation of § 107.1820(e)(6). 


(2) SBA may restrict Distributions under this § 107.1560 if SBA determines that the value of your assets is materially overstated. SBA must give you notice of such a determination in advance of your proposed Distribution. 


(g) *How SBA will apply your Distributions.* Your Distributions to SBA (or its designated agent or Trustee) under this § 107.1560 will be applied in the following order: 


(1) First, to Profit Participation; 


(2) Second, to the extent there remain any Retained Earnings Available for Distribution, to distributions on Preferred Securities; 


(3) Third, as a redemption of Participating Securities in order of issue; 


(4) Fourth, as a redemption of Preferred Securities; and 


(5) Fifth, as the repayment of principal of any outstanding Debentures, with such repayment to be made into escrow on terms and conditions SBA determines. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 5872, Feb. 5, 1998]




