# ยง 842.803   Conditions for coverage.

(a) *Rigorous positions.* (1) An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the employing agency head to be a rigorous law enforcement officer or firefighter position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).


(2) An employee who is not in a rigorous position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a rigorous position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).


(3) A first-level supervisor position may be determined to be a rigorous position if it satisfies the conditions set forth in ยง 842.802.


(b) *Secondary positions.* (1) An employee's service in a position that has been determined by the employing agency head to be a secondary law enforcement officer or firefighter position is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d), if all of the following criteria are met:


(i) The employee, while covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C 8412(d), moves directly (that is, without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a rigorous position to a secondary position;


(ii) The employee has completed 3 years of service in a rigorous position, including any such service during which no FERS deductions were withheld; and


(iii) The employee has been continuously employed in a secondary position or positions since moving from a rigorous position without a break in service exceeding 3 days, except that a break in employment in secondary positions that begins with an involuntary separation (not for cause), within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 8414(b)(1)(A), is not considered in determining whether the service in secondary positions is continuous for this purpose.


(2) An employee who is not a rigorous position, nor covered while in a secondary position, and who is detailed or temporarily promoted to a secondary position is not covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(d).


(c) *Air traffic controller.* An employee's service in a position that has been determined to be an air traffic controller position by the employing agency head is covered under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8412(e). 


(d) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, an agency head's authority under this section cannot be delegated.



---

[N] [52 FR 2069, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 32690, July 23, 1992]




