# ยง 62.72   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in ยง 62.2 of this part, the following definitions will apply for purposes of this subpart:


*Eligible defaulters* means those individuals who, as of November 1, 1987, were:


(1) In breach of a written contract entered into under section 338A of the Act and liable to the United States under section 338E(b) of the Act and/or in breach of a written contract entered into under section 225 of the Act (as in effect on September 30, 1977) and liable to the United States under section 225(f)(1) of the Act (as in effect on September 30, 1977); and


(2) Not already serving their obligations on December 1, 1987, under a judgment, forbearance agreement, or other written agreement to serve.


*HPOL* means the Health Manpower Shortage Area Placement Opportunity List described in section 204(b) of Pub. L. 100-177.


*Match* means that the Secretary has received documentation of:


(1) An offer of employment from a HPOL or SHPOL site which specifies at least the agreed upon salary and start date; and


(2) The Program participant's acceptance of that offer. Provided, however, that if the Program participant would be self-employed, a *match* means that the Secretary has approved a program participant's private practice option application under section 338D(a) of the Act.


*Prior approved service* means service performed prior to a Program participant's service start date under the Special Repayment Program:


(1) As a member of the National Health Service Corps pursuant to an assignment by the Secretary under section 333 of the Act;


(2) Under a written private practice option agreement signed by the Secretary pursuant to section 338D of the Act; or


(3) In compliance with section 338C(e) of the Act.


*Program participant* means an eligible defaulter whose contract under section 204 of Pub. L. 100-177 has been accepted and signed by the Secretary.


*Scholarship amount* means the sum of any amounts paid to, or on the behalf of, a scholarship recipient under the PH/NHSC Scholarship Training Program and/or the Scholarship Program.


*SHPOL* means the Supplemental Health Manpower Shortage Area Placement Opportunity List described in section 204(d) of Pub. L. 100-177.


*Special Repayment Program* or *Program* means the program authorized by section 204 of Pub. L. 100-177.


*Total debt* means the debt that would be owed by a Program participant under section 225(f)(1) of the Act, as in effect on September 30, 1977, and/or section 338E(b) of the Act, as if no payments had been made on the debt.




