# § 907.11   Actions that normally require an environmental assessment.

If a proposal or action is not one that normally requires an environmental impact statement, and does not qualify for categorical exclusion, PADC will prepare or have prepared an environmental assessment.


(a) *Criteria.* Criteria used to determine those categories of action that normally require an environmental assessment, but not necessarily an environmental impact statement, include:


(1) Potential for minor degradation of environmental quality;


(2) Potential for cumulative impact on environmental quality; and


(3) Potential for impact on protected resources.


(b) *Categories of action.* The following categories of action normally require the preparation of an environmental assessment.


(1) Amendments to the Plan that do not constitute a “substantial change” to the Plan.


(2) Regulations promulgated by the Corporation that have significant environmental impact on the public or persons residing in the development area including businesses.


(3) Development proposals submitted to the Corporation by private developers that are consistent with the Plan and General Guidelines prepared by the Corporation.


(4) Activities related to the Public Improvements Program of the Corporation for which no previous environmental assessment or EIS has been prepared.


(5) Contracts, work authorizations, and master agreements related to and implementing programs, policies, and proposals not categorically excluded and for which no environmental assessments or for which no environmental assessment and EIS have been previously prepared.


(6) Street closures and other rearrangements of public space which were not covered in the Plan or the Final EIS.


(7) Acquisition/disposal of personal property by the Corporation not related to any specific decision, plan, or program adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation for which an environmental assessment or an environmental assessment and an EIS is required to be prepared.


(8) Proposed construction of any public building within the development area by any executive agency of the United States Government, any agency or department of the District of Columbia Government, or any other public or quasi-public entity.




