# ยง 146.37   Operator admission responsibilities.

(a) *Maintenance of admission documentation.* The operator shall maintain either:


(1) *Lot file.* The operator shall open and maintain a lot file containing a copy of the Customs Form 214, the examination invoice, and all other documentation necessary to account for the merchandise covered by each Customs Form 214. The lot file will be maintained in sequential order by using the unique number assigned to each Customs Form 214 as the file reference number; or


(2) *Authorized inventory method.* Where a Customs authorized inventory method other than a lot system (specific identification of merchandise) is used, e.g., First-In-First-Out (FIFO), no lot file is required but the operator shall maintain a file of all Customs Form's 214 in sequential order.


(b) *Examination invoice.* The operator shall give a copy of the examination invoice to the person making entry to transfer the merchandise from the zone upon request of that person or the port director.


(c) *Liability for merchandise.* The operator will be held liable under its bond for the receipt of merchandise admitted in the quantity and condition as described on the Customs Form 214, except as modified by a discrepancy report:


(1) Signed jointly by the operator and carrier on the Customs Form 214 or other approved form within 15 days after admission of the merchandise, and reported to the port director within 2 working days thereafter; or


(2) Submitted on Customs Form 5931 under the provisions of subpart A, part 158, of this chapter within 20 days after admission of the merchandise. The operator may file a Customs Form 5931 on behalf of the person who applied for admission of merchandise to the zone.


(d) *Supervision of merchandise.* The port director may authorize the receipt of zone status merchandise at a zone without physical supervision by a Customs officer (see ยง 146.3). In that case, the operator shall supervise the receipt of merchandise into the zone, report the receipt and condition of the merchandise, and mark packages with the unique Customs Form 214 number so that the merchandise can be traced to a particular Customs Form 214. Packages that are accounted for under a Customs-authorized inventory method other than specific identification, need not be marked with a unique Customs Form 214 number but must be adequately identified so Customs can conduct an inventory count. The operator shall submit the Custom Form 214 to Customs at the location specified by the port director.




