# § 206.431   Definitions.

*Activity* means any mitigation measure, project, or action proposed to reduce risk of future damage, hardship, loss or suffering from disasters.


*Applicant* means the non-Federal entity consisting of a State or Indian Tribal government, applying to FEMA for a Federal award under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Upon award, the applicant becomes the recipient and may also be a pass-through entity.


*Enhanced State Mitigation Plan* is the hazard mitigation plan approved under 44 CFR part 201 as a condition of receiving increased funding under the HMGP.


*Grant application* means the request to FEMA for HMGP funding, as outlined in § 206.436, by a State or Tribal government that will act as recipient.


*Grant award* means total of Federal and non-Federal contributions to complete the approved scope of work.


*Indian Tribal government* means any Federally recognized governing body of an Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian Tribe under the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5131. This does not include Alaska Native corporations, the ownership of which is vested in private individuals. Indian Tribal governments have the option to apply as an applicant or subapplicant.


*Local Mitigation Plan* is the hazard mitigation plan required of a local government acting as a subrecipient as a condition of receiving a project subaward under the HMGP as outlined in 44 CFR 201.6.


*Pass-through entity* means a recipient that provides a subaward to a subrecipient.


*Recipient* means the State or Indian Tribal government that receives a Federal award directly from FEMA. A recipient may also be a pass-through entity. The term recipient does not include subrecipients. The recipient is the entire legal entity even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document. Generally, the State is the recipient. However, an Indian Tribal government may choose to be a recipient, or may act as a subrecipient under the State. An Indian Tribal government acting as recipient will assume the responsibilities of a “State”, as described in this part, for the purposes of administering the grant.


*Standard State Mitigation Plan* is the hazard mitigation plan approved under 44 CFR part 201, as a condition of receiving Stafford Act assistance as outlined in § 201.4 of this chapter.


*State Administrative Plan for the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program* means the plan developed by the State to describe the procedures for administration of the HMGP.


*Subapplicant* means the State agency, local government, eligible private nonprofit organization, or Indian Tribal government submitting a subapplication to the applicant for financial assistance under HMGP. Upon award, the subapplicant becomes the subrecipient.


*Subaward* means an award provided by a pass-through entity to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to carry out part of a Federal award.


*Subaward application* means the request to the recipient for HMGP funding by the eligible subrecipient, as outlined in § 206.436.


*Subrecipient* means the government or other legal entity to which a subaward is awarded and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided. Subrecipients can be a State agency, local government, private nonprofit organization, or Indian Tribal government as outlined in § 206.433. Indian Tribal governments acting as a subrecipient are accountable to the State recipient.


*Tribal Mitigation Plan* is the hazard mitigation plan required of an Indian Tribal government acting as a recipient or subrecipient as a condition of receiving a project award or subaward under the HMGP as outlined in 44 CFR 201.7.



---

[N] [86 FR 50676, Sept. 10, 2021]




