# § 762.130   Loan approval and issuing the guarantee.

(a) *Processing timeframes.* (1) *Standard eligible lenders.* Complete applications from Standard Eligible Lenders will be approved or rejected, and the lender notified in writing, no later than 30 calendar days after receipt.


(2) CLP and PLP lenders.


(i) Complete applications from CLP or PLP lenders will be approved or rejected not later than 14 calendar days after receipt.


(ii) For PLP lenders, if the 14 day time frame is not met, the proposed guaranteed loan will automatically be approved, subject to funding, and receive an 80 or 95 percent guarantee for FO or OL loans, and 80 or 90 percent guarantee for CL, as appropriate.


(3) Complete applications. For purposes of determining the application processing timeframes, an application will be not be considered complete until all information required to make an approval decision, including the information for an environmental review, is received by the Agency.


(4) The Agency will confirm the date an application is received with a written notification to the lender.


(b) *Funding preference.* Loans are approved subject to the availability of funding. When it appears that there are not adequate funds to meet the needs of all approved applicants, applications that have been approved will be placed on a preference list according to the date of receipt of a complete application. If approved applications have been received on the same day, the following will be given priority:


(1) An application from a veteran


(2) An application from an Agency direct loan borrower


(3) An application from a applicant who:


(i) Has a dependent family, 


(ii) Is an owner of livestock and farm implements necessary to successfully carry out farming operations, or 


(iii) Is able to make down payments.


(4) Any other approved application.


(c) *Conditional commitment.* (1) The lender must meet all of the conditions specified in the conditional commitment to secure final Agency approval of the guarantee.


(2) The lender, after reviewing the conditions listed on the conditional commitment, will complete, execute, and return the form to the Agency. If the conditions are not acceptable to the lender, the Agency may agree to alternatives or inform the lender and the applicant of their appeal rights.


(d) *Lender requirements prior to issuing the guarantee*—(1) *Lender certification.* The lender will certify as to the following on the appropriate Agency form:


(i) No major changes have been made in the lender's loan or line of credit conditions and requirements since submission of the application (except those approved in the interim by the Agency in writing);


(ii) Required hazard, flood, crop, worker's compensation, and personal life insurance (when required) are in effect;


(iii) Truth in lending requirements have been met;


(iv) All equal employment and equal credit opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements have been or will be met at the appropriate time;


(v) The loan or line of credit has been properly closed, and the required security instruments have been obtained, or will be obtained, on any acquired property that cannot be covered initially under State law;


(vi) The borrower has marketable title to the collateral owned by the borrower, subject to the instrument securing the loan or line of credit to be guaranteed and subject to any other exceptions approved in writing by the Agency. When required, an assignment on all USDA crop and livestock program payments has been obtained;


(vii) When required, personal, joint operation, partnership, or corporate guarantees have been obtained; 


(viii) Liens have been perfected and priorities are consistent with requirements of the conditional commitment;


(ix) Loan proceeds have been, or will be disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the conditional commitment and as specified on the loan application. In line of credit cases, if any advances have occurred, advances have been disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the conditional commitment and line of credit agreements;


(x) There has been no material adverse change in the borrower's condition, financial or otherwise, since submission of the application; and 


(xi) All other requirements specified in the conditional commitment have been met.


(2) *Inspections.* The lender must notify the Agency of any scheduled inspections during construction and after the guarantee has been issued. The Agency may attend these field inspections. Any inspections or review performed by the Agency, including those with the lender, are solely for the benefit of the Agency. Agency inspections do not relieve any other parties of their inspection responsibilities, nor can these parties rely on Agency inspections for any purpose.


(3) *Execution of lender's agreement.* The lender must execute the Agency's lender's agreement and deliver it to the Agency.


(4) *Closing report and guarantee fees.* (i) The lender must complete an Agency closing report form and return it to the Agency along with any guarantee fees.


(ii) The guarantee fee is established by the Agency at the time the guarantee is obligated. The current fee schedule is available at *http://www.fsa.usda.gov* and any FSA office. Guaranteed fees may be adjusted annually based on factors that affect program costs. The nonrefundable fee is paid to the Agency by the lender. The fee may be passed on to the borrower and included in loan funds. The guarantee fee for the loan type will be calculated as follows:


(A) FO guarantee fee = Loan Amount × % guaranteed × (FO percentage established by FSA).


(B) OL guarantee fee = Loan Amount × % guaranteed × (OL percentage established by FSA).


(C) CL guarantee fee = Loan Amount × % guaranteed × (CL percentage established by FSA).


(iii) The following guaranteed loan transactions are not charged a fee:


(A) Loans involving interest assistance;


(B) Loans where a majority of the funds are used to refinance an Agency direct loan; and 


(C) Loans to beginning, socially disadvantaged, or veteran farmers involved in the direct Down payment Loan Program or beginning farmers participating in a qualified State Beginning Farmer Program.


(e) *Promissory notes, line of credit agreements, mortgages, and security agreements.* The lender will use its own promissory notes, line of credit agreements, real estate mortgages (including deeds of trust and similar instruments), and security agreements (including chattel mortgages), provided:


(1) The forms meet Agency requirements;


(2) Documents comply with State law and regulation;


(3) The principal and interest repayment schedules are stated clearly in the notes and are consistent with the conditional commitment;


(4) The note is executed by the individual liable for the loan. For entity applicants, the promissory note will be executed to evidence the liability of the entity, any embedded entities, and the individual liability of all entity members. Individual liability can be waived by the Agency for members holding less than 10 percent ownership in the entity if the collectability of the loan will not be impaired; and


(5) When the loan purpose is to refinance or restructure the lender's own debt, the lender may continue to use the existing debt instrument and attach an allonge that modifies the terms of the original note.


(f) *Replacement of loan guarantee, or assignment guarantee agreement.* If the guarantee or assignment guarantee agreements are lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced, except where the evidence of debt was or is a bearer instrument, the Agency will issue a replacement to the lender or holder upon receipt of acceptable documentation including a certificate of loss and an indemnity bond.



---

[N] [64 FR 7378, Feb. 12, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 63297, Nov. 8, 2007; 73 FR 74345, Dec. 8, 2008; 75 FR 54014, Sept. 3, 2010; 76 FR 58094, Sept. 20, 2011; 79 FR 60744, Oct. 8, 2014; 79 FR 78693, Dec. 31, 2014; 86 FR 43391, Aug. 9, 2021; 87 FR 13124, Mar. 9, 2022]




