# ยง 1.964   Waiver; loan guaranty.

(a) *General.* Any indebtedness of a veteran or the indebtedness of the spouse shall be waived only when the following factors are determined to exist:


(1) Following default there was a loss of the property which constituted security for the loan guaranteed, insured or made under chapter 37 of title 38 United States Code;


(2) There is no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, or bad faith on the part of the person or persons having an interest in obtaining the waiver; and


(3) Collection of such indebtedness would be against equity and good conscience.


(b) *Spouse.* The waiver of a veteran's indebtedness shall inure to the spouse of such veteran insofar as concerns said indebtedness, unless the obligation of the spouse is specifically excepted. However, the waiver of the indebtedness of the veteran's spouse shall not inure to the benefit of the veteran unless specifically provided for in the waiver decision. 


(c) *Surviving spouse or former spouse.* A surviving spouse of a veteran or the former spouse of a veteran may be granted a waiver of the indebtedness provided the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met. 


(d) *Preservation of Government rights.* In cases in which it is determined that waiver may be granted, the action will take such form (covenant not to sue, or otherwise) as will preserve the rights of the Government against obligors other than the veteran or the spouse. 


(e) *Application.* A request for waiver of an indebtedness under this section shall be made within one year after the date on which the debtor receives, by Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested, written notice from VA of the indebtedness. If written notice of indebtedness is sent by means other than Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested, then there is no time limit for filing a request for waiver of indebtedness under this section.


(f) *Exclusion.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, the indebtedness of a nonveteran obligor under the loan program is excluded from waiver.



---

[N] [39 FR 26400, July 19, 1974, as amended at 44 FR 59907, Oct. 17, 1979; 57 FR 33875, July 31, 1992; 58 FR 3840, Jan. 12, 1993] 




