# ยง 73.762   Time of operation.

(a) All international broadcasting stations shall operate in accordance with the times indicated on their seasonal schedules.


(b) In the event that causes beyond a licensee's control make it impossible to adhere to the seasonal schedule or to continue operating, the station may limit or discontinue operation for a period of not more than 10 days, without further authority from the FCC. However, in such cases, the FCC shall be immediately notified by electronic filing in the International Communications Filing System (ICFS) of such limitation or discontinuance of operation and shall subsequently be notified by electronic filing in ICFS when the station resumes regular operation.


(c) In the event that causes beyond a licensee's control make it impossible to adhere to the seasonal schedule or to continue operating for a temporary period of more than 10 days, the station may not limit or discontinue operation until it requests and receives specific authority to do so from the FCC by electronic filing in ICFS. When the station subsequently resumes regular operation after such limited operation or discontinuance of operation, it shall notify the FCC in Washington, DC by electronic filing in ICFS. The license of a broadcasting station that fails to transmit broadcast signals for any consecutive 12-month period expires as a matter of law at the end of that period, notwithstanding any provision, term, or condition of the license to the contrary.



---

[N] [38 FR 18895, July 16, 1973, as amended at 47 FR 40174, Sept. 13, 1982; 61 FR 28767, June 6, 1996. Redesignated at 70 FR 46677, Aug. 10, 2005; 86 FR 54401, Oct. 1, 2021; 88 FR 21447, Apr. 10, 2023]




