# § 54.9815-2715A1   Transparency in coverage—definitions.

(a) *Scope and definitions*—(1) *Scope.* This section sets forth definitions for the price transparency requirements for group health plans and health insurance issuers offering group health insurance coverage established in this section and §§ 54.9815-2715A2 and 54.9815-2715A3.


(2) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section and §§ 54.9815-2715A2 and 54.9815-2715A3, the following definitions apply:


(i) *Accumulated amounts* means:


(A) The amount of financial responsibility a participant or beneficiary has incurred at the time a request for cost-sharing information is made, with respect to a deductible or out-of-pocket limit. If an individual is enrolled in other than self-only coverage, these accumulated amounts shall include the financial responsibility a participant or beneficiary has incurred toward meeting his or her individual deductible or out-of-pocket limit, as well as the amount of financial responsibility that all the individuals enrolled under the plan or coverage have incurred, in aggregate, toward meeting the other than self-only deductible or out-of-pocket limit, as applicable. Accumulated amounts include any expense that counts toward a deductible or out-of-pocket limit (such as a copayment or coinsurance), but exclude any expense that does not count toward a deductible or out-of-pocket limit (such as any premium payment, out-of-pocket expense for out-of-network services, or amount for items or services not covered under the group health plan or health insurance coverage); and


(B) To the extent a group health plan or health insurance issuer imposes a cumulative treatment limitation on a particular covered item or service (such as a limit on the number of items, days, units, visits, or hours covered in a defined time period) independent of individual medical necessity determinations, the amount that has accrued toward the limit on the item or service (such as the number of items, days, units, visits, or hours the participant or beneficiary, has used within that time period).


(ii) *Beneficiary* has the meaning given the term under section 3(8) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).


(iii) *Billed charge* means the total charges for an item or service billed to a group health plan or health insurance issuer by a provider.


(iv) *Billing code* means the code used by a group health plan or health insurance issuer or provider to identify health care items or services for purposes of billing, adjudicating, and paying claims for a covered item or service, including the Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code, Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code, Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) code, National Drug Code (NDC), or other common payer identifier.


(v) *Bundled payment arrangement* means a payment model under which a provider is paid a single payment for all covered items and services provided to a participant or beneficiary for a specific treatment or procedure.


(vi) *Copayment assistance* means the financial assistance a participant or beneficiary receives from a prescription drug or medical supply manufacturer towards the purchase of a covered item or service.


(vii) *Cost-sharing liability* means the amount a participant or beneficiary is responsible for paying for a covered item or service under the terms of the group health plan or health insurance coverage. Cost-sharing liability generally includes deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments, but does not include premiums, balance billing amounts by out-of-network providers, or the cost of items or services that are not covered under a group health plan or health insurance coverage.


(viii) *Cost-sharing information* means information related to any expenditure required by or on behalf of a participant or beneficiary with respect to health care benefits that are relevant to a determination of the participant's or beneficiary's cost-sharing liability for a particular covered item or service.


(ix) *Covered items or services* means those items or services, including prescription drugs, the costs for which are payable, in whole or in part, under the terms of a group health plan or health insurance coverage.


(x) *Derived amount* means the price that a group health plan or health insurance issuer assigns to an item or service for the purpose of internal accounting, reconciliation with providers, or submitting data in accordance with the requirements of 45 CFR 153.710(c).


(xi) *Historical net price* means the retrospective average amount a group health plan or health insurance issuer paid for a prescription drug, inclusive of any reasonably allocated rebates, discounts, chargebacks, fees, and any additional price concessions received by the plan or issuer with respect to the prescription drug. The allocation shall be determined by dollar value for non-product specific and product-specific rebates, discounts, chargebacks, fees, and other price concessions to the extent that the total amount of any such price concession is known to the group health plan or health insurance issuer at the time of publication of the historical net price in a machine-readable file in accordance with § 54.9815-2715A3. However, to the extent that the total amount of any non-product specific and product-specific rebates, discounts, chargebacks, fees, or other price concessions is not known to the group health plan or health insurance issuer at the time of file publication, then the plan or issuer shall allocate such rebates, discounts, chargebacks, fees, and other price concessions by using a good faith, reasonable estimate of the average price concessions based on the rebates, discounts, chargebacks, fees, and other price concessions received over a time period prior to the current reporting period and of equal duration to the current reporting period, as determined under § 54.9815-2715A3(b)(1)(iii)(D)(*3*).


(xii) *In-network provider* means any provider of any item or service with which a group health plan or health insurance issuer, or a third party for the plan or issuer, has a contract setting forth the terms and conditions on which a relevant item or service is provided to a participant or beneficiary.


(xiii) *Items or services* means all encounters, procedures, medical tests, supplies, prescription drugs, durable medical equipment, and fees (including facility fees), provided or assessed in connection with the provision of health care.


(xiv) *Machine-readable file* means a digital representation of data or information in a file that can be imported or read by a computer system for further processing without human intervention, while ensuring no semantic meaning is lost.


(xv) *National Drug Code* means the unique 10- or 11-digit 3-segment number assigned by the Food and Drug Administration, which provides a universal product identifier for drugs in the United States.


(xvi) *Negotiated rate* means the amount a group health plan or health insurance issuer has contractually agreed to pay an in-network provider, including an in-network pharmacy or other prescription drug dispenser, for covered items and services, whether directly or indirectly, including through a third-party administrator or pharmacy benefit manager.


(xvii) *Out-of-network allowed amount* means the maximum amount a group health plan or health insurance issuer will pay for a covered item or service furnished by an out-of-network provider.


(xviii) *Out-of-network provider* means a provider of any item or service that does not have a contract under a participant's or beneficiary's group health plan or health insurance coverage to provide items or services.


(xix) *Out-of-pocket limit* means the maximum amount that a participant or beneficiary is required to pay during a coverage period for his or her share of the costs of covered items and services under his or her group health plan or health insurance coverage, including for self-only and other than self-only coverage, as applicable.


(xx) *Plain language* means written and presented in a manner calculated to be understood by the average participant or beneficiary.


(xxi) *Prerequisite* means concurrent review, prior authorization, and step-therapy or fail-first protocols related to covered items and services that must be satisfied before a group health plan or health insurance issuer will cover the item or service. The term prerequisite does not include medical necessity determinations generally or other forms of medical management techniques.


(xxii) *Underlying fee schedule rate* means the rate for a covered item or service from a particular in-network provider, or providers that a group health plan or health insurance issuer uses to determine a participant's or beneficiary's cost-sharing liability for the item or service, when that rate is different from the negotiated rate or derived amount.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72295, Nov. 12, 2020]




