# § 63.7143   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Bag leak detector system* (BLDS) is a type of PM detector used on FF to identify an increase in PM emissions resulting from a broken filter bag or other malfunction and sound an alarm.


*Belt conveyor* means a conveying device that transports *processed stone* from one location to another by means of an endless belt that is carried on a series of idlers and routed around a pulley at each end.


*Bucket elevator* means a *processed stone* conveying device consisting of a head and foot assembly which supports and drives an endless single or double strand chain or belt to which buckets are attached.


*Building* means any frame structure with a roof.


*Capture system* means the equipment (including enclosures, hoods, ducts, fans, dampers, etc.) used to capture and transport PM to a control device.


*Control device* means the air pollution control equipment used to reduce PM emissions released to the atmosphere from one or more process operations at an LMP.


*Conveying system* means a device for transporting *processed stone* from one piece of equipment or location to another location within a plant. Conveying systems include but are not limited to feeders, belt conveyors, bucket elevators and pneumatic systems.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source, subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limitation (including any operating limit);


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(g), fails to meet any emission limitation (including any operating limit) in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is allowed by this subpart.






*Dry sorbent injection (DSI)* means an add-on air pollution control system in which sorbent (*e.g.,* conventional activated carbon, brominated activated carbon, Trona, hydrated lime, sodium carbonate, etc.) is injected into the flue gas steam upstream of a PM control device to react with and neutralize acid gases (such as SO_2_ and HCl) or mercury in the exhaust stream forming a dry powder material that may be removed in a primary or secondary PM control device.






*Emission limitation* means any emission limit, opacity limit, operating limit, or VE limit.


*Emission unit* means a lime kiln, lime cooler, storage bin, conveying system transfer point, bulk loading or unloading operation, bucket elevator or belt conveyor at an LMP.


*Fugitive emission* means PM that is not collected by a capture system.


*Hydrator* means the device used to produce hydrated lime or calcium hydroxide via the chemical reaction of the lime product with water.


*Lime cooler* means the device external to the lime kiln (or part of the lime kiln itself) used to reduce the temperature of the lime produced by the kiln.


*Lime kiln* means the device, including any associated preheater, used to produce a lime product from stone feed by calcination. Kiln types include, but are not limited to, rotary kiln, vertical kiln, rotary hearth kiln, double-shaft vertical kiln, and fluidized bed kiln.


*Lime manufacturing plant (LMP)* means any plant which uses a lime kiln to produce lime product from limestone or other calcareous material by calcination.


*Lime produced* refers to the production of lime from the lime kiln consisting of high-calcium quick lime, dolomitic quick lime and/or dead burned dolomitic lime.




*Limestone* means the material comprised primarily of calcium carbonate (referred to sometimes as calcitic or high calcium limestone), magnesium carbonate, and/or the double carbonate of both calcium and magnesium (referred to sometimes as dolomitic limestone or dolomite).


*Monovent* means an exhaust configuration of a building or emission control device (*e.g.,* positive pressure FF) that extends the length of the structure and has a width very small in relation to its length (*i.e.,* length-to-width ratio is typically greater than 5:1). The exhaust may be an open vent with or without a roof, louvered vents, or a combination of such features.


*On-specification Lime Product* means lime product that has been sufficiently calcined to meet end use requirements.


*Particulate matter (PM) detector* means a system that is continuously capable of monitoring PM loading in the exhaust of FF or ESP in order to detect bag leaks, upset conditions, or control device malfunctions and sounds an alarm at a preset level. A PM detector system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effects to continuously monitor relative particulate loadings. A BLDS is a type of PM detector.


*Positive pressure FF or ESP* means a FF or ESP with the fan(s) on the upstream side of the control device.


*Process stone handling operations* means the equipment and transfer points between the equipment used to transport *processed stone,* and includes, storage bins, conveying system transfer points, bulk loading or unloading systems, screening operations, bucket elevators, and belt conveyors.


*Processed stone* means limestone or other calcareous material that has been processed to a size suitable for feeding into a lime kiln.


*Screening operation* means a device for separating material according to size by passing undersize material through one or more mesh surfaces (screens) in series and retaining oversize material on the mesh surfaces (screens).


*Shutdown* means the cessation of kiln operation. Shutdown begins when feed to the kiln is reduced below planned production quantities and ends when stone feed is halted and fuel combustion from the main burner ceases.


*Stack emissions* means the PM that is released to the atmosphere from a capture system or control device.


*Startup* means the beginning of kiln operation. Startup begins when a shutdown kiln begins firing fuel in the main burner. Startup ends when the lime kiln first generates on-specification lime product or 12 hours following first discharge from the kiln, whichever is earlier.


*Storage bin* means a manmade enclosure for storage (including surge bins) of *processed stone* prior to the lime kiln.


*TEQ* means the international method of expressing toxicity equivalents for dioxins and furans as defined in EPA/100/R-10/005, December 2010 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14). The TEFs used to determine the dioxin and furan TEQs are listed in table 11 to this subpart.


*Total Organic HAP* means, for the purposes of this subpart, the sum of the concentrations of compounds of formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, toluene, benzene, m-xylene, p-xylene, o-xylene, styrene, ethyl benzene, and naphthalene as measured by EPA Test Method 320 or Method 18 of appendix A to this part or a combination of these methods, as appropriate. If measurement results for any pollutant are reported as below the method detection level (*e.g.,* laboratory analytical results for one or more sample components are below the method defined analytical detection level), you must use the method detection level as the measured emissions level for that pollutant in calculating the total organic HAP value. The measured result for a multiple component analysis (*e.g.,* analytical values for multiple Method 18 fractions) may include a combination of method detection level data and analytical data reported above the method detection level. The owner or operator of an affected source may request the use of other test methods to make this determination under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f).












*Transfer point* means a point in a conveying operation where the material is transferred to or from a belt conveyor.


*Vent* means an opening through which there is mechanically induced air flow for the purpose of exhausting from a building air carrying PM emissions from one or more emission units.



---

[N] [69 FR 416, Jan. 5, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 44982, July 24, 2020; 89 FR 57757, July 16, 2024; 89 FR 96110, Dec. 4, 2024]









