# ยง 410.1401   Transportation of an unaccompanied child in ORR's care.

(a) ORR care provider facilities shall transport an unaccompanied child in a manner that is appropriate to the child's age and physical and mental needs, including proper use of car seats for young children, and consistent with ยง 410.1304.


(b) When ORR plans to release an unaccompanied child from its care to a sponsor under the provisions at subpart C of this part, ORR shall assist without undue delay in making transportation arrangements. In its discretion, ORR may require the care provider facility to transport an unaccompanied child. In these circumstances, ORR may, in its discretion, either reimburse the care provider facility or directly pay for the child and/or sponsor's transportation, as appropriate, to facilitate timely release.


(c) The care provider facility shall comply with all relevant State and local licensing requirements and state and Federal regulations regarding transportation of children, such as meeting or exceeding the minimum staff/child ratio required by the care provider facility's licensing agency, maintaining and inspecting all vehicles used for transportation, etc.


(d) If there is a potential conflict between ORR's regulations in this part and State law, ORR shall review the circumstances to determine how to ensure that it is able to meet its statutory responsibilities. If a State law or license, registration, certification, or other requirement conflicts with an ORR employee's duties within the scope of their ORR employment, the ORR employee is required to abide by their Federal duties, subject to applicable Federal religious freedom and conscience protections.


(e) The care provider facility or contractor shall conduct all necessary background checks for individuals transporting unaccompanied children, in compliance with ยง 410.1305(a).


(f) If a care provider facility is transporting an unaccompanied child, it shall assign at least one transport staff of the same gender as the child being transported, to the greatest extent possible under the circumstances.






