# ยง 882.804   Other Federal requirements.

(a) Participation in this program requires compliance with the Federal requirements set forth in 24 CFR 5.105, with the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*), and with the regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).


(b) In order to facilitate emergency transfers for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, covered housing providers have discretion to adopt and modify any existing admission preferences or transfer waitlist priorities for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.


(c) Covered housing providers must develop and implement an emergency transfer plan that meets the requirements in 24 CFR 5.2005(e), and when a safe unit is not immediately available for a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who qualifies for an emergency transfer, covered housing providers must, at a minimum:


(1) Review the covered housing provider's existing inventory of units and determine when the next vacant unit may be available; and


(2) Provide a listing of nearby HUD subsidized rental properties, with or without preference for persons of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, and contact information for the local HUD field office.


(d) Each year, the covered housing provider must submit to HUD data on all emergency transfers requested under 24 CFR 5.2005(e), pertaining to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including data on the outcomes of such requests.


(e) For agreements covering nine or more assisted units, the following requirements for labor standards apply: 


(1) Not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor under the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a through 276a-5), must be paid to all laborers and mechanics employed in the development of the project, other than volunteers under the conditions set out in 24 CFR part 70; 


(2) The employment of laborers and mechanics is subject to the provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-333); and 


(3) HAs, owners, contractors, and subcontractors must comply with all related rules, regulations, and requirements. 


(f) The environmental review requirements of 24 CFR part 58, implementing the National Environmental Policy Act and related environmental laws and authorities, apply to this program. 



---

[N] [61 FR 48057, Sept. 11, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 80812, Nov. 16, 2016]




