# ยง 680.10   Definitions; cross-references to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.

(a) *Definitions.* Under this subpart, unless a provision plainly indicates otherwise:


(1) *Award* means any grant, contract, cooperative agreement, loan, or other arrangement made by the Government.


(2) *Employee* includes, in addition to any individual defined in 5 CFR 2635.102(h), any individual working at NSF under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act. It includes any part-time or intermittent employee, temporary consultant; but not a special Government employee, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(a).


(3) *Institution* means any university, college, business firm, research institute, professional society, or other organization. It includes all parts of a university or college, including all institutions in a multi-institution State or city system. It includes any university consortium or joint corporation; but not the universities that belong to such a consortium. Those universities shall be considered separate institutions for purposes of this part.


(4) *Proposal* means an application for an award and includes a bid.


(b) *Cross-references to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.* Members of the National Science Board and other employees of the National Science Foundation (NSF), including special Government employees, should refer to the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch at 5 CFR part 2635, the National Science Foundation's regulations at 5 CFR part 5301 which supplement the executive branch Standards, and the executive branch financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634.




