# § 390.7   Deposits into the fund.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Source of deposits.* 46 U.S.C. 53505 provides ceilings within which fund deposits may be made. This section provides rules for the qualification of depositories, timing of deposits, the type of property which may be deposited and the level of deposits.


(2) *Tax aspects of deposits.* For the Federal Income Tax aspects of deposits into a fund, see 46 U.S.C. 53507 and § 3.3 of the joint regulations (§ 391.3 of this chapter).


(b) *Depositories*—(1) *In general.* 46 U.S.C. 53506 provides that amounts in a fund must be kept in the depository or depositories specified in the agreement and be subject to such trustee or other fiduciary requirements as the Maritime Administrator may specify.


(2) *Qualifications.* The Maritime Administrator has established general qualifications for depositories for all maritime programs authorized under the Act, including the capital construction fund program. The general qualifications are published in part 351 of this title.


(3) *Fiduciary requirements.* Except in unusual circumstances, the Maritime Administrator will not impose special trustee or other fiduciary requirements upon depositories of a fund. For rules relating to a fund held in trust for investment purposes, see paragraph (h) of this section.


(4) *Type and name of accounts.* Unless otherwise specified in the agreement, the party may select the type or types of accounts in which assets of the fund may be deposited. For example, the party may select a savings account for cash and a trust account for intangible property which is held in the fund. Each account shall be in the name of the party and identified as a capital construction fund account.


(5) *Compensating balances.* The obligation of the assets in the fund as a compensating balance shall constitute a material breach of the agreement.


(c) *Timing of deposits*—(1) *In general.* 46 U.S.C. 53507(b) provides that deposits shall not be taxable only when they are made in accordance with the agreement and not later than the time provided in the joint regulations.


(2) *Deposits prior to the time provided in joint regulations.* The party may make deposits for any taxable year prior to the time provided in joint regulations in accordance with the following rules:


(i) Amounts representing taxable income attributable to the operation of agreement vessels for a taxable year may be deposited at any time during such taxable year, and thereafter within the time provided for in the joint regulations, based upon the party's estimated Federal taxable income for such vessels for the entire taxable year;


(ii) Amounts representing net proceeds from the sale or other disposition (including mortgaging) with respect to agreement vessels may be deposited when accrued and thereafter within the time provided for in the joint regulations;


(iii) Amounts representing receipts from the investment or reinvestment of amounts held in a fund may be deposited when accrued and thereafter within the time provided for in the joint regulations; and


(iv) Amounts representing depreciation with respect to agreement vessels for a taxable year may be deposited at any time during such taxable year, and thereafter within the time provided for in the joint regulations.


(3) *Deposits required prior to the time provided in joint regulations.* The Maritime Administrator may require that deposits be made earlier than the latest time provided for in the joint regulations. Generally, the Maritime Administrator will require early deposits only when necessary for the party to meet its agreed upon obligations. 


(d) *Types of property which may be deposited into a fund*—(1) *Form of deposits.* Deposits may be made into a fund only in the form of money or intangible property of the type in which assets of the fund may be invested pursuant to 46 U.S.C. 53506, the Agreement, and these regulations, other than the securities or common and preferred stock of the party or a company related to the party within the meaning of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, except that in the case of deposits representing net proceeds from the sale or other disposition of any agreement vessel to other than a purchaser or transferee related to the party (within the meaning of paragraph (d)(2) of this section) or deposits representing receipts from the investment or reinvestment of amounts held in a fund, any intangible property received may be deposited.


(2) *Related purchaser.* For purposes of this paragraph a purchaser or transferee is a related person to the party if—


(i) The relationship between purchaser or transferee and the party would result in disallowance of losses under section 267 or 707 of the Code, or


(ii) The purchaser or transferee and the party are members of the same controlled group of corporations (as defined in section 1563(a) of the Code, except that “more than 50 percent” shall be substituted for “at least 80 percent” each place it appears therein).


(e) *Level of deposits*—(1) *In general.* 46 U.S.C. 53504 states that the agreement must provide for the deposit in the fund of amounts agreed upon but only to the extent necessary or appropriate to provide for qualified withdrawals to accomplish the program set forth in the agreement.


(2) *Maximum level of deposits.* The party shall not be permitted to deposit more than is necessary to complete its program. See § 390.4 (relating to description of the agreement).


(3) *Minimum level of deposits.* Each agreement shall contain an agreed upon minimum deposit schedule applicable to each three-year period under the agreement. The minimum deposit shall be calculated taking into consideration the scheduling of the anticipated qualified withdrawals. The purpose of the minimum deposit is to insure that the party has made a sufficient commitment to accomplish its program. See § 390.13 (relating to failure to fulfill a substantial obligation under the agreement).


(4) *Determination of minimum deposits.* The minimum deposit shall be set by the Maritime Administrator. In determining the minimum deposit, the Maritime Administrator shall give consideration to the anticipated ceilings, financial history, current conditions and future business expectations of the party.


(5) *Waiver of minimum deposit.* The Maritime Administrator shall waive a failure to meet the minimum deposit schedule when the party has deposited all allowable taxable income as specified in Article 5(c) of this agreement attributable to the operation of agreement vessels, net proceeds from all sales or other dispositions of agreement vessels, all receipts from the investment or reinvestment of amounts held in the fund and all earned depreciation on agreement vessels. The Maritime Administrator may also waive the minimum deposit schedule in any case where the party can demonstrate that such deposits will adversely affect its ability to operate its agreement vessels. In the event of a waiver, the Maritime Administrator may require modification of the schedules. See § 390.6 (relating to administration of the agreement).


(6) *Selection of ceiling.* Except as may be otherwise provided in the agreement or these rules and regulations, the party may choose the ceilings with respect to which deposits are made.


(f) *Allocation of depreciation deposits*—(1) *In general.* 46 U.S.C. 53505(b) provides that in the case of a lessee of an eligible agreement vessel the maximum amount which may be deposited with respect to such vessel, under the depreciation ceiling, shall be reduced by any amount which the owner is required or permitted to deposit with respect to such vessel under its depreciation ceiling.


(2) *Method of allocation.* When an agreement vessel is leased, the party's agreement shall fix a percentage of the annual depreciation which the party may deposit. The percentage shall be that agreed upon between the lessors and the lessees unless the Maritime Administrator determines that the agreed upon percentage will result in an accumulation of assets in the fund or funds which is greater than or less than an amount necessary or appropriate to carry out the party's program. See paragraph (e) of this section (relating to level of deposits).


(g) [Reserved]


(h) *Funds held in trust for investment purposes.* A fund may be transferred in whole or in part to the control of an unrelated trustee for investment purposes with the prior written permission of the Maritime Administrator. The Maritime Administrator shall approve such a transfer when:


(1) The trustee meets the requirements for a depository under paragraph (b) of this section;


(2) The trust instrument provides that all investment restrictions stated in 46 U.S.C. 53506 and § 390.8 of these regulations will be observed;


(3) The trust instrument provides that the trustee will give consideration to the party's withdrawal requirements under the agreement when investing the fund;


(4) The trustee agrees to be bound by all rules and regulations which have been or will be promulgated governing the investment or management of the fund.


(i) *Federal ship mortgage guarantee or insurance.* A fund may serve in lieu of a Restricted Fund required in connection with Federal Ship Mortgage Guarantee or Insurance under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 537 and the regulations thereunder upon approval by the Maritime Administrator. Approval by the Maritime Administrator shall be conditioned upon the execution by the party of an agreement, satisfactory in form and substance to the Maritime Administrator, governing the dual use of the fund. Applications for permission to use the fund in this dual capacity should be made in writing to the Secretary, Maritime Administration.



---

[N] [41 FR 4265, Jan. 29, 1976, as amended at 73 FR 56740, Sept. 30, 2008]




