# § 24.242   Authority to use greater quantities of decolorizing material in juice or wine.

(a) *Proprietor's notice.* If the proprietor desires to remove color from juice prior to fermentation or if color in excess of that normally present in wine develops during the production or storage of a particular lot or lots, and if the proprietor desires to use activated carbon in excess of twenty-five pounds per 1,000 gallons (3.0 grams per liter) of juice or wine to remove this color, the proprietor, prior to starting the treatment, shall submit to the appropriate TTB officer a written notice for each lot of juice or wine to be treated for decolorization. The written notice will state


(1) The reason for the treatment;


(2) The volume, kind, and type of juice or wine to be treated;


(3) The kind and quantity of decolorizing material to be used; and,


(4) The length of time the decolorizing material is in contact with the juice or wine.


(b) *Action by the appropriate TTB officer on proprietor's notice.* Upon receipt of the proprietor's notice, the appropriate TTB officer may require the proprietor to submit samples representative of the lot of juice or wine for examination by the TTB laboratory.


(c) *Samples and chemical analysis*—(1) *Samples.* If the appropriate TTB officer requires samples under paragraph (b) of this section, the proprietor shall prepare samples representative of the lot of juice or wine for examination. The samples will consist of:


(i) The juice or wine before treatment with decolorizing material,


(ii) The juice or wine after treatment with decolorizing material, and


(iii) The decolorizing material used.


(2) *Chemical analysis.* If the TTB chemical analyses of the samples shows that the proposed treatment would remove only color and will not remove the vinous characteristics of the wine, the appropriate TTB officer will return an approved copy of the proprietor's written notice. If the TTB chemical analysis shows that the proposed treatment is not acceptable, the appropriate TTB officer will send the proprietor a letter stating the reason(s) for disallowing the proposed treatment. 



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, Mar. 22, 1999]




