# § 52.380   Rules and regulations.

(a) All facilities owned, operated or under contract with the Connecticut Transportation Authority shall comply in all respects with Connecticut Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution sections 19-508-1 through 19-508-25 inclusive, as approved by the Administrator.


(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section the word “Administrator” shall be substituted for the word “Commissioner” wherever that word appears in Connecticut Regulations for the Abatement of Air Pollution sections 19-508-1 through 19-508-25 inclusive, as approved by the Administrator.


(c) The June 27 and December 28, 1979, February 1, May 1, September 8 and November 12, 1980, revisions are approved as satisfying Part D requirements under the following conditions:


(1)-(2) [Reserved]


(d) Non-Part D-No Action: EPA is neither approving nor disapproving the following elements of the revisions:


(1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) The program to review new and modified major stationary sources in attainment areas (prevention of significant deterioration).


(4) Permit fees


(5) Stack height regulations


(6) Interstate pollution requirements


(7) Monitoring requirements


(8) Conflict of interest provisions.


(9) Use of 1 percent sulfur content fuel by the following residual oil burning sources, identified under § 52.370, paragraph (c)(18).


(i) Northeast Utilities, HELCO Power Station in Middletown,


(10) Emergency Fuel Variance provisions of Regulation 19-508-19 (a)(2)(ii) identified under § 52.370 paragraph (c)(18).


(e) *Disapprovals.* (1) Regulation 19-508-19(a)(9) concerning coal use at educational and historical exhibits and demonstrations, identified under § 52.370, (c)(18).


(2) Regulation 19-508-19, subsection (a)(4)(iii)(C) and (a)(4)(iii)(E) concerning fuel merchants, identified under § 52.370, paragraph (c)(18).


(f) *Connecticut General Statutes Section 1-85. (Formerly Sec. 1-68). Interest in conflict with discharge of duties:* A public official, including an elected state official, or state employee has an interest which is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties or employment in the public interest and of his responsibilities as prescribed in the laws of this state, if he has reason to believe or expect that he, his spouse, a dependent child, or a business with which he is associated will derive a direct monetary gain or suffer a direct monetary loss, as the case may be, by reason of his official activity. A public official, including an elected state official, or state employee does not have an interest which is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in the public interest and of his responsibilities as prescribed by the laws of this state, if any benefit or detriment accrues to him, his spouse, a dependent child, or a business with which he, his spouse or such dependent child is associated as a member of a profession, occupation or group to no greater extent than any other member of such profession, occupation or group. A public official, including an elected state official or state employee who has a substantial conflict may not take official action on the matter.


(g) *Connecticut General Statutes Section 22a-171. (Formerly Sec. 19-507). Duties of Commissioner of Energy and Environmental Protection:* The Commissioner of Energy and Environmental Protection of the State of Connecticut shall:


(1) Initiate and supervise programs for the purposes of determining the causes, effect and hazards of air pollution;


(2) Initiate and supervise state-wide programs of air pollution control education;


(3) Cooperate with and receive money from the Federal Government and, with the approval of the Governor, from any other public or private source;


(4) Adopt, amend, repeal and enforce regulations as provided in Connecticut General Statutes Section 22a-174 and do any other act necessary to enforce the provisions of Connecticut General Statutes Chapter 446c and Connecticut General Statutes Section 14-164c;


(5) Advise and consult with agencies of the United States, agencies of the state, political subdivisions and industries and any other affected groups in furtherance of the purposes of Connecticut General Statutes Chapter 446c.


(h) [Reserved]



---

[N] [40 FR 23280, May 29, 1975, as amended at 45 FR 84787, Dec. 23, 1980; 46 FR 34801, July 6, 1981; 46 FR 56615, Nov. 18, 1981; 46 FR 62062, Dec. 22, 1981; 47 FR 763, Jan. 7, 1982; 47 FR 36823, Aug. 24, 1982; 47 FR 41959, Sept. 23, 1982; 47 FR 49646, Nov. 2, 1982; 47 FR 51129, Nov. 12, 1982; 48 FR 5724, Feb. 8, 1983; 50 FR 50907, Dec. 13, 1985; 65 FR 62623, Oct. 19, 2000; 81 FR 35639, June 3, 2016; 83 FR 37439, Aug. 1, 2018]




