# ยง 407.48   Termination of coverage under a State buy-in agreement.

An individual's coverage under a buy-in agreement terminates with the earliest of the following events:


(a) *Death.* Coverage ends on the last day of the month in which the individual dies.


(b) *Loss of entitlement to hospital insurance benefits before age 65.* If an individual loses entitlement to hospital insurance benefits before attaining age 65, coverage ends on the last day of the last month for which he or she is entitled to hospital insurance.


(c) *Loss of eligibility for the buy-in group.* If an individual loses eligibility for inclusion in the buy-in group, buy-in coverage ends as follows:


(1) On the last day of the last month for which he or she is eligible for inclusion in the buy-in group, if CMS determines ineligibility or receives a State ineligibility notice by a processing cut-off date as described in paragraph (e) of this section, by the second month after the month in which the individual becomes ineligible for inclusion in the buy-in group.


(2) On the last day of the second month before the month in which CMS receives a State ineligibility notice later than the time specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If CMS receives a notice after the processing cut-off date conveyed under paragraph (e) of this section, CMS considers it to have been received the following month.






(d) *Termination or modification of buy-in agreement.* If the State's buy-in agreement is terminated, or modified to substitute a narrower buy-in group, coverage ends on the last day of the last month for which the agreement was in effect, or covered the broader buy-in group.


(e) *Processing cut-off dates for each calendar month.* On a quarterly basis, CMS is to prospectively convey to States a schedule of processing cut-off dates for each calendar month.





---

[N] [53 FR 47204, Nov. 22, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 38082, Aug. 12, 1991; 87 FR 66508, Nov. 3, 2022]




