# § 10.625   Refunds of excess customs duties.

(a) *Applicability.* Section 205 of the Dominican Republic—Central America—United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, as amended by section 1634(d) of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, provides for the retroactive application of the Agreement and payment of refunds for any excess duties paid with respect to entries of textile and apparel goods of eligible CAFTA-DR countries that meet certain conditions and requirements. Those conditions and requirements are set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *General.* Notwithstanding 19 U.S.C. 1514 or any other provision of law, and subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a textile or apparel good of an eligible CAFTA-DR country that was entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after January 1, 2004, and before January 1, 2009, will be liquidated or reliquidated at the applicable rate of duty for that good set out in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement, and CBP will refund any excess customs duties paid with respect to such entry, with interest accrued from the date of entry, provided:


(1) The good would have qualified as an originating good under section 203 of the Act if the good had been entered after the date of entry into force of the Agreement for that country; and


(2) Customs duties in excess of the applicable rate of duty for that good set out in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement were paid.


(c) *Request for liquidation or reliquidation.* Liquidation or reliquidation may be made under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to an entry of a textile or apparel good of an eligible CAFTA-DR country only if a request for liquidation or reliquidation is filed with the CBP port where the entry was originally filed by April 1, 2009, and the request contains sufficient information to enable CBP:


(1) To locate the entry or to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located; and


(2) To determine that the good satisfies the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Eligible CAFTA-DR country defined.* For purposes of this section, the term “eligible CAFTA-DR country” means a country that the United States Trade Representative has determined, by notice published in the _Federal Register,_ to be an eligible country for purposes of section 205 of the Act.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50700, Aug. 17, 2010]




