# § 251.2   Administration.

(a) *Food and Nutrition Service.* Within the United States Department of Agriculture (the “Department”), the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) shall have responsibility for the distribution of USDA Foods and allocation of funds under the part.


(b) *State agencies.* Within the States, distribution to eligible recipient agencies and receipt of payments for storage and distribution shall be the responsibility of the State agency which has: (1) Been designated for such responsibility by the Governor or other appropriate State executive authority; and (2) entered into an agreement with the Department for such distribution and receipt in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Agreements*—(1) *Agreements between Department and States.* Each State agency that distributes USDA Foods to eligible recipient agencies or receives payments for storage and distribution costs in accordance with § 251.8 must perform those functions pursuant to an agreement entered into with the Department. This agreement will be considered permanent, with amendments initiated by State agencies, or submitted by them at the Department's request, all of which will be subject to approval by the Department.


(2) *Agreements between State agencies and eligible recipient agencies, and between eligible recipient agencies.* Prior to making USDA Foods or administrative funds available, State agencies must enter into a written agreement with eligible recipient agencies to which they plan to distribute USDA Foods and/or administrative funds. State agencies must ensure that eligible recipient agencies in turn enter into a written agreement with any eligible recipient agencies to which they plan to distribute USDA Foods and/or administrative funds before USDA Foods or administrative funds are transferred between any two eligible recipient agencies. All agreements entered into must contain the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section, and be considered permanent, with amendments to be made as necessary, except that agreements must specify that they may be terminated by either party upon 30 days' written notice. State agencies must ensure that eligible recipient agencies provide, on a timely basis, by amendment to the agreement, or other written documents incorporated into the agreement by reference if permitted under paragraph (d) of this section, any information on changes in program administration, including any changes resulting from amendments to Federal regulations or policy.


(d) *Contents of agreements between State agencies and eligible recipient agencies and between eligible recipient agencies.* (1) Agreements between State agencies and eligible recipient agencies and between eligible recipient agencies must provide:


(i) That eligible recipient agencies agree to operate the program in accordance with the requirements of this part, and, as applicable, part 250 of this chapter; and


(ii) The name and address of the eligible recipient agency receiving USDA Foods and/or administrative funds under the agreement.


(2) The following information must also be identified, either in the agreement or other written documents incorporated by reference in the agreement:


(i) If the State agency delegates the responsibility for any aspect of the program to an eligible recipient agency, each function for which the eligible recipient agency will be held responsible; except that in no case may State agencies delegate responsibility for establishing eligibility criteria for organizations in accordance with § 251.5(a), establishing eligibility criteria for recipients in accordance with § 251.5(b), or conducting reviews of eligible recipient agencies in accordance with § 251.10(e);


(ii) If the receiving eligible recipient agency is to be allowed to further distribute USDA Foods and/or administrative funds to other eligible recipient agencies, the specific terms and conditions for doing so, including, if applicable, a list of specific organizations or types of organizations eligible to receive USDA Foods or administrative funds;


(iii) If the use of administrative funds is restricted to certain types of expenses pursuant to § 251.8(e)(2), the specific types of administrative expenses eligible recipient agencies are permitted to incur;


(iv) Any other conditions set forth by the State agency.



---

[N] [51 FR 12823, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 17933, May 13, 1987; 59 FR 16974, Apr. 11, 1994; 62 FR 53731, Oct. 16, 1997; 64 FR 72902, 72903, Dec. 29, 1999; 89 FR 87249, Oct. 31, 2024]




