# § 488.810   General provisions.

(a) *Purpose of sanctions.* The purpose of sanctions is to ensure prompt compliance with program requirements in order to protect the health and safety of individuals under the care of an HHA.


(b) *Basis for imposition of sanctions.* When CMS chooses to apply one or more sanctions specified in § 488.820, the sanctions are applied on the basis of noncompliance with one or more conditions of participation found through a survey and may be based on failure to correct previous deficiency findings as evidenced by repeat deficiencies.


(c) *Number of sanctions.* CMS may apply one or more sanctions for each deficiency constituting noncompliance or for all deficiencies constituting noncompliance.


(d) *Extent of sanctions imposed.* When CMS imposes a sanction, the sanction applies to the parent HHA and its respective branch offices.


(e) *Plan of correction requirement.* Regardless of which sanction is applied, a non-compliant HHA must submit a plan of correction for approval by CMS.


(f) *Notification requirements*—(1) *Notice.* CMS provides written notification to the HHA of the intent to impose the sanction.


(2) *Date of enforcement action.* The notice periods specified in § 488.825(b) and § 488.830(b) begin the day after the HHA receives the notice.


(g) *Appeals.* (1) The provisions of part 498 of this chapter apply when the HHA requests a hearing on a determination of noncompliance leading to the imposition of a sanction, including termination of the provider agreement.


(2) A pending hearing does not delay the effective date of a sanction, including termination, against an HHA. Sanctions continue to be in effect regardless of the timing of any appeals proceedings.




