# ยง 1130.8   Recordkeeping and notification requirements.

(a) Each manufacturer of a durable infant or toddler product shall maintain a record of registrants for each product manufactured that includes all of the information provided by each consumer registered.


(b) Each manufacturer of a durable infant or toddler product shall use the information provided by the registrant to notify the registrant in the event of a voluntary or involuntary recall of, or safety alert regarding, such product.


(c) Each manufacturer of a durable infant or toddler product shall maintain a record of the information provided by the registrant for a period of not less than 6 years after the date of manufacture of the product.


(d) Records required under this section shall be made available within 24 hours, upon the request of any officer, employee, or agent acting on behalf of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission.


(e) *Optional barcode.* (1) A manufacturer may include a barcode, or other machine readable data, that when scanned would provide a direct link for the consumer to register the product.


(2) Such a link must comply with all the requirements of this part 1130, including those in ยง 1130.7 and the restriction that the manufacturer shall not use or disseminate the consumer registration information for any purpose other than notifying the consumer of a safety alert or recall.



---

[N] [74 FR 68676, Dec. 29, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 77 FR 9525, Feb. 17, 2012]







