# ยง 2422.23   What election procedures are followed?

(a) *Regional Director conducts or supervises election.* The Regional Director will decide to either conduct or supervise the election. In supervised elections, agencies will perform all acts as specified in the Election Agreement or Direction of Election.


(b) *Notice of election.* Before the election the activity posts a notice of election, prepared by the Regional Director. The notice is posted in places where notices to employees are customarily posted and/or distributed in a manner by which notices are normally distributed. The notice of election contains the details and procedures of the election, including the appropriate unit, the eligibility period, the date(s), hour(s) and location(s) of the election, a sample ballot, and the effect of the vote.


(c) *Sample ballot.* The reproduction of any document that claims to be a copy of the official ballot and that suggests either directly or indirectly to employees that the Authority endorses a particular choice in the election may constitute grounds for setting aside an election if objections are filed under ยง 2422.26.


(d) *Secret ballot.* All elections are by secret ballot.


(e) *Intervenor withdraws from ballot.* When two or more labor organizations are included as choices in an election, an intervening labor organization may, before the approval of an election agreement or before the direction of an election, file a written request with the Regional Director to remove its name from the ballot. If the Regional Director does not receive the request before the approval of an election agreement or before the direction of an election, the intervening labor organization will remain on the ballot, unless the parties and the Regional Director agree otherwise. The Regional Director's decision on the request is final, and no party may file an application for review with the Authority.


(f) *Incumbent withdrawal from ballot in an election to decertify an incumbent representative.* When there is no intervening labor organization, an election to decertify an incumbent exclusive representative is not held if the incumbent provides the Regional Director with a written disclaimer of any representation interest in the unit. When there is an intervenor, an election is held if the intervening labor organization proffers a thirty percent (30%) showing of interest within the time period established by the Regional Director.


(g) *Petitioner withdraws from ballot in an election.* When there is no intervening labor organization, an election is not held if the petitioner provides the Regional Director with a written request to withdraw the petition. When there is an intervenor, an election is held if the intervening labor organization presents a thirty percent (30%) showing of interest within the time period established by the Regional Director.


(h) *Observers.* Subject to the Regional Director's approval, all parties may select representatives to observe at the polling location(s).


(1) A party who wants to name observers must file a written request with specific names with the Regional Director. This must be filed at least fifteen (15) days before an election. The Regional Director may grant an extension of time to file a request for named observers for good cause where a party requests an extension or on the Regional Director's own motion. The request must name and identify the observers requested.


(2) An agency or activity may use as its observers any employees who are not eligible to vote in the election, except:


(i) Supervisors or management officials;


(ii) Employees who have any official connection with any of the labor organizations involved; or


(iii) Non-employees of the Federal government.


(3) A labor organization may use as its observers any employees eligible to vote in the election, except:


(i) Employees on leave without pay status who are working for the labor organization involved; or


(ii) Employees who hold an elected office in the union.


(4) Within five (5) days after service of the request for observers, any party that objects must file an objection with the Regional Director that states the reasons.


(5) The Regional Director's ruling on requests for and objections to observers is final and binding, and parties may not file an application for review with the Authority.




