# ยง 422.904   Notice of the ban.

If an agency manager makes a decision in writing that you pose a threat to the safety of our personnel, visitors, office, or the operational effectiveness of the agency, we will send you a notice banning you from our offices. The notice will contain the following information:


(a) *Type of restriction.* If we ban you from entering our offices, the ban will apply to all of our offices, and you must obtain all future service through alternate means. We will provide you in-person service only if you establish that there are no alternate means available. You must direct your request for in-person service to the manager of the office you are requesting to visit. If we determine that an office visit is warranted, we will schedule an appointment for you and send you a certified letter notifying you of the date, time, and location of the appointment.


(b) *Prohibited conduct.* We will provide you with specific details of the prohibited conduct that served as the basis for our decision to ban you.


(c) *Alternate means of service.* If you are banned from entering our offices, you still have several means to receive services:


(1) You may use the online services available through our Web site at *http://www.socialsecurity.gov;*

(2) You may call your local office. Your notice will include the contact information for your local office. You should ask to speak with the office manager or a supervisor;


(3) You may call our national toll-free number at 1-800-772-1213 between the hours of 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., Monday through Friday. You should not attempt to schedule an in-person appointment through this number. If you are deaf or hard of hearing, you may call our toll-free TTY number at 1-800-325-0778;


(4) You may write to your local office. You should address all correspondence to the attention of the office manager;


(5) With your written consent, another person may call, write, or visit us to conduct business on your behalf.


(d) *Appeal rights.* The notice will provide you with information on how to appeal the ban.


(e) *Periodic request for review of ban decision.* The notice will provide you with information on how to request review of the ban determination every three years from the date of the ban notice, or if you appeal the ban, the date of the appeal decision.




