# ยง 2808.11   What will BLM do if it determines that I am in trespass?

(a) BLM will notify you in writing of the trespass and explain your liability. Your liability includes:


(1) Reimbursing the United States for all costs incurred in investigating and terminating the trespass;


(2) Paying the rental for the lands, as provided for in subpart 2806 of this part, for the current and past years of trespass, or, where applicable, the cumulative value of the current use fee, amortization fee, and maintenance fee for unauthorized use of any BLM-administered road; and


(3) Rehabilitating and restoring any damaged lands or resources. If you do not rehabilitate and restore the lands and resources within the time set by BLM in the notice, you will be liable for the costs the United States incurs in rehabilitating and restoring the lands and resources.


(b) In addition to amounts you owe under paragraph (a) of this section, BLM may assess penalties as follows:


(1) For willful or repeated non-willful trespass, the penalty is two times the rent. For roads, the penalty is two times the charges for road use, amortization, and maintenance which have accrued since the trespass began.


(2) For non-willful trespass not resolved within 30 calendar days after receiving the written notice under paragraph (a) of this section, the penalty is an amount equal to the rent. To resolve the trespass you must meet one of the conditions identified in 43 CFR 9239.7-1. For roads, the penalty is an amount equal to the charges for road use, amortization, and maintenance which have accrued since the trespass began.


(c) The penalty will not be less than the fee for a Processing Category 2 application (*see* ยง 2804.14 of this part) for non-willful trespass or less than three times this amount for willful or repeated non-willful trespass. You must pay whichever is the higher of:


(1) The amount computed in paragraph (b) of this section; or


(2) The minimum penalty amount in paragraph (c) of this section.


(d) In addition to civil penalties under paragraph (b) of this section, you may be tried before a United States magistrate judge and fined no more than $1,000 or imprisoned for no more than 12 months, or both, for a knowing and willful trespass, as provided at 43 CFR 9262.1 and 43 U.S.C. 1733(a).


(e) Until you comply with the requirements of 43 CFR 9239.7-1, BLM will not process any of your applications for any activities on BLM lands.


(f) You may appeal a trespass decision under ยง 2801.10 of this part.


(g) Nothing in this section limits your liability under any other Federal or state law.




