# § 1.1502-30   Stock basis after certain triangular reorganizations.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules for determining the basis of the stock of an acquiring corporation as a result of a triangular reorganization. The definitions and nomenclature contained in § 1.358-6 apply to this section.


(b) *General rules*—(1) *Forward triangular merger, triangular C reorganization, or triangular B reorganization. P* adjusts its basis in the stock of S as a result of a forward triangular merger, triangular C reorganization, or triangular B reorganization under § 1.358-6(c) and (d), except that § 1.358-6 (c)(1)(ii) and (d)(2) do not apply. Instead, *P* adjusts such basis by taking into account the full amount of—


(i) *T* liabilities assumed by *S* or the amount of liabilities to which the *T* assets acquired by *S* are subject, and 


(ii) The fair market value of any consideration not provided by *P* pursuant to the plan of reorganization.


(2) *Reverse triangular merger.* If *P* adjusts its basis in the *T* stock acquired as a result of a reverse triangular merger under § 1.358-6 (c)(2)(i) and (d), § 1.358-6 (c)(1)(ii) and (d)(2) do not apply. Instead, *P* adjusts such basis by taking into account the full amount of—


(i) *T* liabilities deemed assumed by *S* or the amount of liabilities to which the *T* assets deemed acquired by *S* are subject, and


(ii) The fair market value of any consideration not provided by *P* pursuant to the plan of reorganization.


(3) *Excess loss accounts.* Negative adjustments under this section may exceed *P*'s basis in its *S* or *T* stock. The resulting negative amount is *P*'s excess loss account in its *S* or *T* stock. See § 1.1502-19 for rules treating excess loss accounts as negative basis, and treating references to stock basis as including references to excess loss accounts.


(4) *Application of other rules of law.* If a transaction otherwise subject to this section is also a group structure change subject to § 1.1502-31, the provisions of § 1.1502-31 and not this section apply to determine stock basis. See § 1.1502-80(a) regarding the general applicability of other rules of law and a limitation on duplicative adjustments. See § 1.1502-80(d) for the non-application of section 357(c) to P.


(5) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (b) are illustrated by the following examples. For purposes of these examples, *P, S,* and *T* are domestic corporations, *P* and *S* file consolidated returns, *P* owns all of the only class of *S* stock, the *P* stock exchanged in the transaction satisfies the requirements of the applicable triangular reorganization provisions, the facts set forth the only corporate activity, and tax liabilities are disregarded.


(c) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to reorganizations occurring on or after December 21, 1995. However, paragraph (b)(4) of this section applies to reorganizations occurring on or after September 17, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 8648, 60 FR 66082, Dec. 21, 1995, as amended by T.D. 9424, 73 FR 53949, Sept. 17, 2008]




