# § 413.337   Methodology for calculating the prospective payment rates.

(a) *Data used.* (1) To calculate the prospective payment rates, CMS uses—


(i) Medicare data on allowable costs from freestanding and hospital-based SNFs for cost reporting periods beginning in fiscal year 1995. SNFs that received “new provider” exemptions under § 413.30(e)(2) are excluded from the data base used to compute the Federal payment rates. In addition, allowable costs related to exceptions payments under § 413.30(f) are excluded from the data base used to compute the Federal payment rates;


(ii) An appropriate wage index to adjust for area wage differences;


(iii) The most recent projections of increases in the costs from the SNF market basket index;


(iv) Resident assessment and other data that account for the relative resource utilization of different resident types; and


(v) Medicare Part B SNF claims data reflecting amounts payable under Part B for covered SNF services (other than those services described in § 411.15(p)(2) of this chapter) furnished during SNF cost reporting periods beginning in fiscal year 1995 to individuals who were residents of SNFs and receiving Part A covered services.


(b) *Methodology for calculating the per diem Federal payment rates*—(1) *Determining SNF costs.* In calculating the initial unadjusted Federal rates applicable for services provided during the period beginning July 1, 1998 through September 30, 1999, CMS determines each SNF's costs by summing its allowable costs for the cost reporting period beginning in fiscal year 1995 and its estimate of Part B payments (described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(v) of this section).


(2) *Use of market basket index.* The SNF market basket index is used to adjust the SNF cost data to reflect cost increases occurring between cost reporting periods represented in the data and the initial period (beginning July 1, 1998 and ending September 30, 1999) to which the payment rates apply. For each year, the cost data are updated by a factor equivalent to the annual market basket index percentage minus 1 percentage point.


(3) *Calculation of the per diem cost.* For each SNF, the per diem cost is computed by dividing the cost data for each SNF by the corresponding number of Medicare days.


(4) *Standardization of data for variation in area wage levels and case-mix.* The cost data described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are standardized to remove the effects of geographic variation in wage levels and facility variation in case-mix.


(i) The cost data are standardized for geographic variation in wage levels using the wage index. The application of the wage index is made on the basis of the location of the facility in an urban or rural area as defined in § 413.333.


(ii) Starting on October 1, 2022, CMS applies a cap on decreases to the wage index such that the wage index applied to a SNF is not less than 95 percent of the wage index applied to that SNF in the prior FY.


(iii) The cost data are standardized for facility variation in case-mix using the case-mix indices and other data that indicate facility case-mix.




(5) *Calculation of unadjusted Federal payment rates.* CMS calculates the national per diem unadjusted payment rates by urban and rural classification in the following manner:


(i) By computing the average per diem standardized cost of freestanding SNFs weighted by Medicare days.


(ii) By computing the average per diem standardized cost of freestanding and hospital-based SNFs combined weighted by Medicare days.


(iii) By computing the average of the amounts determined under paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (b)(5)(ii) of this section.


(c) *Calculation of adjusted Federal payment rates for case-mix and area wage levels.* The Federal rate is adjusted to account for facility case-mix using a resident classification system and associated case-mix indices that account for the relative resource utilization of different patient types. This classification system utilizes the resident assessment instrument completed by SNFs as described at § 483.20 of this chapter, according to the assessment schedule described in § 413.343(b). The Federal rate is also adjusted to account for geographic differences in area wage levels using an appropriate wage index.


(d) *Annual updates of Federal unadjusted payment rates.* CMS updates the unadjusted Federal payment rates on a fiscal year basis.


(1) *Update formula.* The unadjusted Federal payment rate shall be updated as follows:


(i) For the initial period beginning on July 1, 1998, and ending on September 30, 1999, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed under paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for such period minus 1.0 percentage point.


(ii) For fiscal year 2000, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the initial period described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for that period minus 1.0 percentage point.


(iii) For fiscal year 2001, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year.


(iv) For fiscal years 2002 and 2003, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year involved minus 0.5 percentage points.


(v) For each subsequent fiscal year, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a factor equal to the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year involved, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section.


(vi) For fiscal year 2018, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a SNF market basket index percentage change of 1 percent (after application of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section).


(vii) For fiscal year 2019, the unadjusted Federal payment rate is equal to the rate computed for the previous fiscal year increased by a SNF market basket index percentage change of 2.4 percent (after application of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section).


(2) *Forecast error adjustment.* Beginning with fiscal year 2004, an adjustment to the annual update of the previous fiscal year's rate will be computed to account for forecast error. The initial adjustment (in fiscal year 2004) to the update of the previous fiscal year's rate will take into account the cumulative forecast error between fiscal years 2000 and 2002. Subsequent adjustments in succeeding fiscal years will take into account the forecast error from the most recently available fiscal year for which there is final data. The forecast error adjustment applies whenever the difference between the forecasted and actual percentage change in the SNF market basket index exceeds the following threshold:


(i) 0.25 percentage points for fiscal years 2004 through 2007; and


(ii) 0.5 percentage points for fiscal year 2008 and subsequent fiscal years.


(3) *Multifactor productivity (MFP) adjustment.* For fiscal year 2012 and each subsequent fiscal year, the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year (as modified by any applicable forecast error adjustment under paragraph (d)(2) of this section) shall be reduced by the MFP adjustment described in section 1886(b)(3)(B)(xi)(II) of the Act. The reduction of the market basket index percentage change by the MFP adjustment may result in the market basket index percentage change being less than zero for a fiscal year, and may result in the unadjusted Federal payment rates for a fiscal year being less than such payment rates for the preceding fiscal year.


(4) *Penalty for failure to report quality data.* For fiscal year 2018 and subsequent fiscal years—


(i) In the case of a SNF that does not meet the requirements in § 413.360, for a fiscal year, the SNF market basket index percentage change for the fiscal year (as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section, as modified by any applicable forecast error adjustment under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, reduced by the MFP adjustment specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and as specified for FY 2018 in section 1888(e)(5)(B)(iii) of the Act), is further reduced by 2.0 percentage points.


(ii) The application of the 2.0 percentage point reduction specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section to the SNF market basket index percentage change may result in such percentage being less than zero for a fiscal year, and may result in payment rates for that fiscal year being less than such payment rates for the preceding fiscal year.


(iii) Any 2.0 percentage point reduction applied pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section will apply only to the fiscal year involved and will not be taken into account in computing the payment amount for a subsequent fiscal year.


(e) Pursuant to section 101 of the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 (BBRA) as revised by section 314 of the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA), using the best available data, the Secretary will issue a new regulation with a newly refined case-mix classification system to better account for medically complex patients. Upon issuance of the new regulation, the temporary increases in payment for certain high cost patients will no longer be applicable.


(f) *Adjustments to payment rates under the SNF Value-Based Purchasing Program.* Beginning with payment for services furnished on October 1, 2018, the adjusted Federal per diem rate (as defined in § 413.338(a)) otherwise applicable to a SNF for the fiscal year is reduced by the applicable percent (as defined in § 413.338(a)). The resulting amount is then adjusted by the value-based incentive payment amount (as defined in § 413.338(a)) based on the SNF performance score calculated for the SNF for that fiscal year under § 413.338.



---

[N] [63 FR 26309, May 12, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 39600, July 31, 2001; 68 FR 46070, Aug. 4, 2003; 76 FR 48539, Aug. 8, 2011; 82 FR 36633, Aug. 4, 2017; 83 FR 39289, Aug. 8, 2018; 87 FR 47616, Aug. 3, 2022; 89 FR 64160, Aug. 6, 2024]






