# § 890.503   Reserves.

(a) The enrollment charge consists of the rate approved by OPM for payment to the plan for each enrollee, plus 4 percent, of which one part is for an administrative reserve and 3 parts are for a contingency reserve for the plan. 


(b) The administrative reserve is credited with the one one-hundred-and-fourth of the enrollment charge set aside for the administrative reserve. The administrative reserve is available for payment of administrative expenses of OPM incurred under this part, and for such other purposes as may be authorized by law. 


(c)(1) *Contingency reserve.* The contingency reserve for each plan is credited with—


(i) The three one-hundred-and-fourths of the enrollment charge set aside for the contingency reserve from the enrollment charges for employees and annuitants enrolled for that plan; 


(ii) Amounts transferred in accordance with law from other contingency reserves and the administrative reserve; 


(iii) Income from investment of the reserve;


(iv) Its proportionate share of the income from investment of the administrative reserve; and


(v) Any return of reserves of the plan.


(2) *Contingency reserve minimum balance.* The preferred minimum balance for the contingency reserve for community-rated plans is 1 month's subscription charges at the average recurring monthly rate paid from the Employees Health Benefits Fund for the plan during the most recent contract period. The preferred minimum balance for the contingency reserve for experience-rated plans is 1
1/2 times an amount equal to the sum of an average month's paid claims plus an average month's administrative expenses and retentions, as determined under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Amounts in excess of the preferred minimum balance for a contingency reserve account may be used with respect to the plan from which the reserve derives: To defray increases in future rates; to increase plan benefits, or to reduce contributions of eligible subscribers and the Government under the program through devices such as temporary suspension of, or reduction in, required contributions or a refund of contributions to eligible subscribers and the Government.


(3) *OPM/carrier reserve transfers.* The target level for total reserves of an experience-rated plan is 3
1/2 times an amount equal to the sum of an average month's paid claims plus an average month's administrative expenses and retentions. Reserves include funds set aside for incurred-but-unpaid benefit claims and the “special” reserve representing the cumulative difference between income to the plan (subscription income plus interest on investments) and plan expenses (benefit costs plus administrative expenses and retentions). Included as carrier reserves is the balance in the letter of credit (LOC) account maintained by OPM for the plan. For the purposes of this section, an average month's paid claims is one-sixth of the total claims paid during the last 6 months of the most recent contract period, and an average month's administrative expenses and retentions is one-twelfth of the administrative expenses and retentions for the most recent contract period.


(i) When, as of the end of a contract period, the total of all the reserves for an experience-rated plan is less than the target level described in the first four sentences of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the carrier is entitled to payment from the contingency reserve. Such contingency reserve payment shall equal the lesser of: An amount equal to the difference between the target level for the plan's reserves and the total of the reserves for the plan, or an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the contingency reserve over the preferred minimum balance. OMP must authorize this payment promptly after accepting the accounting statement for the contract period. The contingency reserve payment so authorized will be made available to the carrier's LOC account.


(ii) When, as of the end of a contract period, the total of all reserves of an experience-rated plan amounts to more than the plan's target level, the excess over the plan's target level must be credited to the contingency reserve maintained by OPM for the plan. OPM will withdraw the excess amount from the plan's LOC account, based on reporting in the annual accounting statement for the year, no sooner than May 1, of the following year. If the accounting statement is not filed by the time limit specified in the plan's contract with OPM, OPM will estimate the amount of the excess reserves and may withdraw that amount from the plan's LOC account, or begin the process of offsetting that amount from subscription payments, no sooner than May 1. The amount withdrawn from the plan's LOC account, or offset from subscription payments, will be credited to that plan's contingency reserve.


(4) OPM may, by agreement with the carrier, approve community rating for a comprehensive plan. If the contingency reserve of the carrier of a community-rated plan exceeds the preferred minimum balance, as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the carrier may request OPM to pay to the plan a portion of the reserve not greater than the excess of the contingency reserve over the preferred minimum balance. The carrier shall state the reason for the request. OPM will decide whether to allow the request in whole or in part and will advise the plan of its decision. 


(5) *Special contingency reserve transfers.* In addition to those amounts, if any, paid under paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section, OPM may authorize such other payments from the contingency reserve as in the judgment of OPM may be in the best interest of employees and annuitants enrolled in the program. A carrier for a plan may apply to OPM at any time for a payment from the contingency reserve when the carrier has good cause, such as unexpected claims experience and variations from expected community rates. In the administration of this part, OPM will accord a high priority to deciding whether to allow requests under this paragraph in whole or in part and will promptly advise the carrier of its decision. Amounts paid from the contingency reserve under paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section shall be reported as subscription income in the year in which paid. By agreement with the carrier and where good cause exists, OPM may accept payment from carrier reserves for credit to the contingency reserve in an amount and under conditions other than those specified in paragraph (c) of this section. For carriers funded by LOC, the returned amount will be withdrawn from the plan's LOC account.


(6) *Subsidization penalty reserve.* This reserve account shall be credited with all subsidization penalties levied against community rated plans outlined in 48 CFR 1615.402(c)(3)(ii)(B). The funds in this account shall be annually distributed to the contingency reserves of all community rated plans subject to the FEHB-specific medical loss ratio threshold on a pro-rata basis. The funds will not be used for one specific carrier or plan.



---

[N] [33 FR 12510, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 37 FR 20668, Oct. 3, 1972; 43 FR 52460, Nov. 13, 1978; 51 FR 7430, Mar. 4, 1985; 52 FR 3212, Feb. 3, 1987; 54 FR 52339, Dec. 21, 1989; 55 FR 22891, June 5, 1990; 57 FR 14324, Apr. 20, 1992; 76 FR 38284, June 29, 2011] 




