# ยง 1303.30   Responsibility for responding to requests.

(a) *Search cutoff date.* In determining which records are responsive to a request, OMB ordinarily will include only records in its possession as of the date that it begins its search. If any other date is used, OMB will inform the requester of that date.


(b) *Transfer of records to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA).* Permanent records of OMB which have been transferred to the control of NARA under the Federal Records Act are not in the control of OMB and are therefore not accessible by a FOIA request to OMB. Requests for such records should be directed to NARA.


(c) *Consultation and referral.* When reviewing records, OMB will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, OMB will proceed in one of the following ways:


(1) *Consultation.* When records contain information of interest to another agency, OMB typically will consult with that agency prior to making a release determination.


(2) *Referral.* (i) When OMB believes that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, OMB will refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency, will notify the requester, and will inform them of the agency which will be processing the record, including that agency's FOIA contact information. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record is best situated to make the disclosure determination. However, if OMB and the originating agency jointly agree that OMB is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then OMB may respond to the requester.


(ii) When OMB believes that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, but also believes that disclosure of the identity of the different agency could harm an interest protected by an applicable FOIA exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests, OMB will coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record and convey the release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination to the requester. For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if an agency locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms.



---

[N] [84 FR 22951, May 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 48825, June 10, 2024]




