# § 29.1043   Cooling tests.

(a) *General.* For the tests prescribed in § 29.1041(c), the following apply: 


(1) If the tests are conducted under conditions deviating from the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the recorded powerplant temperatures must be corrected under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, unless a more rational correction method is applicable. 


(2) No corrected temperature determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may exceed established limits. 


(3) The fuel used during the cooling tests must be of the minimum grade approved for the engines, and the mixture settings must be those used in normal operation. 


(4) The test procedures must be as prescribed in §§ 29.1045 through 29.1049. 


(5) For the purposes of the cooling tests, a temperature is “stabilized” when its rate of change is less than 2 °F per minute. 


(b) *Maximum ambient atmospheric temperature.* A maximum ambient atmospheric temperature corresponding to sea level conditions of at least 100 degrees F. must be established. The assumed temperature lapse rate is 3.6 degrees F. per thousand feet of altitude above sea level until a temperature of −69.7 degrees F. is reached, above which altitude the temperature is considered constant at −69.7 degrees F. However, for winterization installations, the applicant may select a maximum ambient atmospheric temperature corresponding to sea level conditions of less than 100 degrees F. 


(c) *Correction factor (except cylinder barrels).* Unless a more rational correction applies, temperatures of engine fluids and powerplant components (except cylinder barrels) for which temperature limits are established, must be corrected by adding to them the difference between the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature and the temperature of the ambient air at the time of the first occurrence of the maximum component or fluid temperature recorded during the cooling test. 


(d) *Correction factor for cylinder barrel temperatures.* Cylinder barrel temperatures must be corrected by adding to them 0.7 times the difference between the maximum ambient atmospheric temperature and the temperature of the ambient air at the time of the first occurrence of the maximum cylinder barrel temperature recorded during the cooling test.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55473, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 29-15, 43 FR 2327, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 29-26, 53 FR 34218, Sept. 2, 1988] 




