# § 9.83   Lake Erie.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Lake Erie.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the Lake Erie viticultural area are four U.S.G.S. maps. They are titled:


(1) “Toledo,” scale 1:250,000 (1956, revised 1978);


(2) “Cleveland,” scale 1:250,000 (1956, revised 1972);


(3) “Erie,” scale 1:250,000 (1959, revised 1972); and


(4) “Buffalo,” scale 1:250,000 (1962).


(c) *Boundaries.* The Lake Erie viticultural area is located along the shore and on the islands of Lake Erie across the States of New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio. The beginning point is where Buffalo Creek empties into Lake Erie at Buffalo Harbor.


(1) From the beginning point the boundary proceeds up Buffalo Creek to the confluence of Cazenovia Creek.


(2) The boundary proceeds up Cazenovia Creek and thence up the west branch of Cazenovia Creek to a point approximately one mile north of Colden, New York, exactly 12 statute miles inland from any point on the shore of Lake Erie.


(3) The boundary proceeds southwestward and along a line exactly 12 statute miles inland from any point on the shore of Lake Erie to a point approximately one mile north of Dayton, New York, where it intersects the 1,300-foot contour line.


(4) The boundary proceeds generally southwestward along the 1,300-foot contour line to a point almost two miles north-northwest of Godard, Pennsylvania, exactly six statute miles inland from any point on the shore of Lake Erie.


(5) The boundary proceeds southwestward along a line exactly six statute miles inland from any point on the shore of Lake Erie to the point where it intersects Ohio Route 45 near the intersection with Interstate 90.


(6) The boundary proceeds southward along Ohio Route 45 to a point exactly 14 statute miles inland from any point on the shore of Lake Erie approximately one mile north of Rock Creek, Ohio.


(7) The boundary proceeds southwestward, then westward, then northwestward along a line 14 statute miles inland from any point on the shore of Lake Erie to the point where it intersects the Ohio-Michigan boundary just north of Centennial, Ohio.


(8) The boundary then follows the Ohio-Michigan border in an easterly direction to the shoreline of Lake Erie. Thence in a generally southeasterly direction along the shoreline of Lake Erie to the mouth of the Portage River just north of Port Clinton. Thence due north in a straight line to the United States-Canada border. Thence in a southeasterly and then an easterly direction along the United States-Canada border until a point is reached which is due north of the easternmost point of Kelleys Island.


(9) The boundary then proceeds due south until it reaches the shoreline of Lake Erie. Thence the boundary follows the lakeshore in a generally northeasterly direction to the beginning point at the mouth of Buffalo Creek.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-156, 48 FR 48819, Oct. 21, 1983]




