# § 75.1   Programs to which part 75 applies.

(a) *General.* (1) The regulations in this part apply to each direct grant program of the Department of Education, except as specified in these regulations for direct formula grant programs, as referenced in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) The Department administers two kinds of direct grant programs. A direct grant program is either a discretionary grant program or a formula grant program other than a State-administered formula grant program covered by 34 CFR part 76.


(3) If a direct grant program does not have implementing regulations, the Secretary implements the program under the applicable statutes and regulations and, to the extent consistent with the applicable statutes and regulations, under the General Education Provisions Act and the regulations in this part. With respect to the Impact Aid Program (Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965), see 34 CFR 222.19 for the limited applicable regulations in this part.


(b) *Discretionary grant programs.* A discretionary grant program is one that permits the Secretary to use discretionary judgment in selecting applications for funding.


(c) *Formula grant programs.* (1) A formula grant program is one that entitles certain applicants to receive grants if they meet the requirements of the program. Applicants do not compete with each other for the funds, and each grant is either for a set amount or for an amount determined under a formula.


(2) The Secretary applies the applicable statutes and regulations to fund projects under a formula grant program.


(3) For specific regulations in this part that apply to the selection procedures and grant-making processes for direct formula grant programs, see §§ 75.215 and 75.230.


*Note 1 to § 75.1:* See 34 CFR part 76 for the general regulations that apply to programs that allocate funds by formula among eligible States.



---

[N] [89 FR 70320, Aug. 29, 2024]












