# ยง 404.16   Requirements of request for access.

(a) *Form.* Requests for access must be made in writing and must be signed by the requester. Requests should be addressed to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office at the address in ยง 404.14(e) and should contain both the return address and telephone number of the requester.


(b) *Description of records sought.* A request for access must describe the records sought in sufficient detail so as to enable Ex-Im Bank personnel to locate the system of records containing the records with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent practicable, such description should include the nature of the record sought, the date of the record or the period in which the record was compiled, and the name or identifying number of the system of records in which the requester believes the record is kept. A requester may include his or her social security number in the request in order to facilitate the identification and location of the requested records.


(c) *Fee statement.* The request must contain a statement expressing willingness to pay fees for processing the request or a request for a fee waiver (see ยง 404.18(d)).


(1) Whenever a requester submits a request for access that does not contain a fee statement or a request for a fee waiver, Ex-Im Bank shall advise the requester of the requirements of this section. If the requester fails to respond within ten working days of such notification, then the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall notify the requester, in writing, that Ex-Im Bank will not process the request.


(2) A general statement by the requester expressing willingness to pay all applicable fees shall be deemed an agreement to pay up to $25.00. If Ex-Im Bank estimates that the fees for a request will exceed $25.00, then Ex-Im Bank shall notify the requester. Ex-Im Bank shall offer the requester the opportunity to agree, in writing, either to pay a greater fee or to modify the request as a means of limiting the cost.


(3) Whenever the estimated fee chargeable under this section exceeds $25.00, Ex-Im Bank reserves the right to require a requester to make an advance payment prior to processing the request.


(4) Ex-Im Bank shall not process a request by a requester who has failed to pay a fee for a previous request unless and until such requester had paid the full amount owed and also has paid, in advance, the total estimated charges for the new request.


(d) *Verification of identity.* An individual who submits a request for access must verify his or her identity. The request must include the requesters full name, current address, and date and place of birth. In addition, such requester must provide a notarized statement attesting to his or her identity.


(e) *Verification of guardianship.* When a parent or guardian of a minor or the guardian of a person judicially determined to be incompetent submits a request for access to records that relate to the minor or incompetent, such parent or guardian must establish:


(1) His or her own identity and the identity of the subject of the record in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and


(2) Parentage or guardianship of the subject of the record, either by providing a copy of the subject's birth certificate showing parentage or by providing a court order establishing guardianship.


(f) *Written notice of amendment.* The requester must provide any amendment to the original request in writing to Ex-Im Bank.


(g) *Requester assistance.* Ex-Im Bank shall make reasonable efforts to assist a requester in complying with the requirements of this section.


(h) *Date of receipt.* Requests for access shall be deemed to have been received on the date that the request is received by the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office, provided that all the requirements of this section have been met. Ex-Im Bank shall notify the requester of the date on which it officially received a request.



---

[N] [64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41041, July 11, 2022]




