# ยง 199.109   Review of drug testing results.

(a) *MRO appointment.* Each operator shall designate or appoint a medical review officer (MRO). If an operator does not have a qualified individual on staff to serve as MRO, the operator may contract for the provision of MRO services as part of its anti-drug program.


(b) *MRO qualifications.* Each MRO must be a licensed physician who has the qualifications required by DOT Procedures.


(c) *MRO duties.* The MRO must perform functions for the operator as required by DOT Procedures.


(d) *MRO reports.* The MRO must report all drug test results to the operator in accordance with DOT Procedures.


(e) Evaluation and rehabilitation may be provided by the operator, by a substance abuse professional under contract with the operator, or by a substance abuse professional not affiliated with the operator. The choice of substance abuse professional and assignment of costs shall be made in accordance with the operator/employee agreements and operator/employee policies.


(f) The operator shall ensure that a substance abuse professional, who determines that a covered employee requires assistance in resolving problems with drug abuse, does not refer the covered employee to the substance abuse professional's private practice or to a person or organization from which the substance abuse professional receives remuneration or in which the substance abuse professional has a financial interest. This paragraph does not prohibit a substance abuse professional from referring a covered employee for assistance provided through:


(1) A public agency, such as a State, county, or municipality;


(2) The operator or a person under contract to provide treatment for drug problems on behalf of the operator;


(3) The sole source of therapeutically appropriate treatment under the employee's health insurance program; or 


(4) The sole source of therapeutically appropriate treatment reasonably accessible to the employee. 



---

[N] [53 FR 47096, Nov. 21, 1988, as amended by Amdt. 199-2, 54 FR 51850, Dec. 18, 1989; Amdt. 199-15, 63 FR 13000, Mar. 17, 1998; Amdt. 199-15, 63 FR 36863, July 8, 1998. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 199-19, 66 FR 47118, Sept. 11, 2001]




