# ยง 158.300   Definitions.

The following terms are defined for the purposes of this subpart:


*Active ingredient* means any substance (or group of structurally similar substances, if specified by the Agency) that will prevent, destroy, repel or mitigate any pest, or that functions as a plant regulator, desiccant, defoliant, or nitrogen stabilizer, within the meaning of FIFRA sec. 2(b).


*End-use product* means a pesticide product whose labeling:


(1) Includes directions for use of the product (as distributed or sold, or after combination by the user with other substances) for controlling pests or defoliating, desiccating or regulating growth of plants, or as a nitrogen stabilizer, and


(2) does not state that the product may be used to manufacture or formulate other pesticide products.


*Formulation* means:


(1) The process of mixing, blending, or dilution of one or more active ingredients with one or more other active or inert ingredients, without an intended chemical reaction, to obtain a manufacturing-use product or an end-use product, or


(2) The repackaging of any registered product.


*Impurity* means any substance (or group of structurally similar substances if specified by the Agency), in a pesticide product other than an active ingredient or an inert ingredient, including unreacted starting materials, side reaction products, contaminants, and degradation products.


*Impurity associated with an active ingredient* means:


(1) Any impurity present in the technical grade of active ingredient; and


(2) Any impurity which forms in the pesticide product through reactions between the active ingredient and any other component of the product or packaging of the product.


*Inert ingredient* means any substance (or group of structurally similar substances if designated by the Agency), other than the active ingredient, which is intentionally included in a pesticide product.


*Integrated system* means a process for producing a pesticide product that:


(1) Contains any active ingredient derived from a source that is not an EPA-registered product; or


(2) Contains any active ingredient that was produced or acquired in a manner that does not permit its inspection by the Agency under FIFRA sec. 9(a) prior to its use in the process.


*Manufacturing-use product* means any pesticide product other than an end-use product. A product may consist of the technical grade of active ingredient only, or may contain inert ingredients, such as stabilizers or solvents.


*Nominal concentration* means the amount of an ingredient which is expected to be present in a typical sample of a pesticide product at the time the product is produced, expressed as a percentage by weight.


*Starting material* means a substance used to synthesize or purify a technical grade of active ingredient (or the practical equivalent of the technical grade ingredient if the technical grade cannot be isolated) by chemical reaction.


*Technical grade of active ingredient* means a material containing an active ingredient:


(1) Which contains no inert ingredient, other than one used for purification of the active ingredient; and


(2) Which is produced on a commercial or pilot plant production scale (whether or not it is ever held for sale).




