# § 721.11762   Nonanamide, N,N-dimethyl-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as nonanamide, N,N-dimethyl- (PMN P-20-70; CAS RN 6225-08-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(3), (5), (6)(v) and (vi), (7) and (8), (b), and (c). For purposes of §  721.63(b), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), and (g)(1), (3)(iii) and (5). For purposes of §  721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin irritation; eye irritation; specific target organ toxicity; reproductive toxicity; aspiration hazard. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as a solvent for use in formulated pesticide products. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance other than by import into the United States (*i.e.,* no domestic manufacture) using 20,000 kg International Organization for Standardization tank containers (ISOtainers) or 1,000 kg intermediate bulk containers (IBCs).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4), where N=96.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 87351, Dec. 18, 2023]






