# § 147.2050   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of South Carolina, except for those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on July 10, 1984; the effective date of this program is July 24, 1984. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of South Carolina. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective July 24, 1984.


(1) Pollution Control Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 48-1-10, 48-1-90, 48-1-100, 48-1-110 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).


(2) South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, Ground-Water Protection Division, Underground Injection Control Regulations, R-61-87, Effective Date: June 24, 1983 Published in South Carolina State Register, Volume 7, Issue 6; Amended Date: March 23, 1984, as amended by notice in South Carolina State Register, Volume 8, Issue 3.


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations although not incorporated by reference, also are part of the approved State-Administered program:


(1) Pollution Control Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 48-1-10 to 48-1-350 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).


(2) State Safe Drinking Water Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 44-55-10 to 44-55-100 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).


(3) Administrative Procedures Act, S.C. Code Ann. Sections 1-23-10 *et seq.,* and 1-23-310 to 1-23-400 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).


(4) S.C. Code Ann. Sections 15-5-20, 15-5-200 (Law. Co-op. 1976 and Supp. 1983).


(c)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IV and the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 29, 1984.


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) “Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement for Class I, II, III, IV and VA and VB Wells,” signed by the Attorney General of South Carolina on April 27, 1984.


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 28058, July 10, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43090, Oct. 25, 1988]




