# ยง 52i.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 201 *et seq.*).


*Center of Excellence* means, for purposes of grants authorized by section 464z-3(h) of the Act, an institution designated as a Center of Excellence and receiving a grant under section 736 (42 U.S.C. 293) or section 464z-4 (42 U.S.C. 285t-1) of the Act.


*Director* means the Director, NIMHD, of the National Institutes of Health.


*Endowment fund* means a fund that is established by state law, by an institution, or by a foundation associated with an institution that is exempt from taxation and is maintained for the purpose of generating income for the support of minority and health disparities research or research training if the funds are from a grant made under section 464z-3 of the Act. The principal or corpus of the fund may not be spent except as noted in ยง 52i.8(b).


*Endowment fund corpus* means an amount equal to the total grant funds awarded under this part or equal to the amount designated as endowment under section 464z-4 of the Act.


*Endowment fund income* means the income generated from investing the corpus, *i.e.,* the amount of which exceeds the endowment fund corpus.


*Health disparities research* means basic, clinical, and behavioral research on health disparity populations (including individual members and communities of such populations) that relates to health disparities, including the causes of such disparities and methods to prevent, diagnose, and treat such disparities.


*Health disparity population* means a population that, as determined by the Director of the NIMHD after consultation with the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, has a significant disparity in the overall rate of disease incidence, prevalence, morbidity, mortality, or survival rates in the population as compared to the health status of the general population.


*Health disparity students* means students of minority health disparity populations or other health disparities populations.


*Institutional endowment (IE)* means the corporate or system-wide endowment fund that is the sum total of the endowment assets of all campuses and their components. This includes, but is not limited to, endowments managed by an institution's foundations/associations as well as state university systems.


*Institution system-wide* means all campuses and components.


*Minority health conditions* means, with respect to individuals who are members of minority groups, all diseases, disorders, and conditions (including with respect to mental health and substance abuse):


(1) Unique to, more serious, or more prevalent in such individuals;


(2) For which the factors of medical risk or types of medical intervention may be different for such individuals, or for which it is unknown whether such factors or types are different for such individuals; or


(3) With respect to which there has been insufficient research involving such individuals as subjects or insufficient data on such individuals.


*Minority health disparities research* means basic, clinical, and behavioral research on minority health conditions, including research to prevent, diagnose, and treat such conditions.


*Racial and ethnic minority or minority group* means American Indians (including Alaska Natives, Eskimos, and Aleuts), Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders, Blacks, and Hispanics. Hispanic means individuals whose origin is Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American, or other Spanish culture or origin.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved has been delegated.




