# § 235.15   Inadmissible aliens and expedited removal during emergency border circumstances.

(a) *Applicability.* Notwithstanding §§ 235.3(b)(2)(i) and 235.3(b)(4)(i) (but not § 235.3(b)(4)(ii)), the provisions of this section apply to any alien described in § 235.3(b)(1)(i) through (ii) if the alien is described in § 208.13(g) and is not described in section 3(b) of the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h).


(b) *Expedited removal.*

(1) [Reserved]


(2) *Determination of inadmissibility*—(i) *Record of proceeding.* (A) A noncitizen who is arriving in the United States, or other alien as designated pursuant to § 235.3(b)(1)(ii), who is determined to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(6)(C) or 212(a)(7) of the Act (except an alien for whom documentary requirements are waived under § 211.1(b)(3) or § 212.1 of this chapter) shall be ordered removed from the United States in accordance with section 235(b)(1) of the Act. In every case in which the expedited removal provisions will be applied and before removing an alien from the United States pursuant to this section, the examining immigration officer shall create a record of the facts of the case and statements made by the alien.


(B) The examining immigration officer shall advise the alien of the charges against him or her on Form I-860, Notice and Order of Expedited Removal, and the alien shall be given an opportunity to respond to those charges. After obtaining supervisory concurrence in accordance with § 235.3(b)(7), the examining immigration official shall serve the alien with Form I-860 and the alien shall sign the form acknowledging receipt. Interpretative assistance shall be used if necessary to communicate with the alien.


(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Claim of asylum or fear of persecution or torture.* (i) If an alien subject to the expedited removal provisions manifests a fear of return, or expresses an intention to apply for asylum or protection, expresses a fear of persecution or torture, or expresses a fear of return to his or her country or the country of removal, the inspecting officer shall not proceed further with removal of the alien until the alien has been referred for an interview by an asylum officer in accordance with part 208 of this chapter.


(A) The inspecting immigration officer shall document whether the alien has manifested or affirmatively expressed such intention, fear, or concern.


(B) The referring officer shall provide the alien with a written disclosure describing the purpose of the referral and the credible fear interview process; the right to consult with other persons prior to the interview and any review thereof at no expense to the United States Government; the right to request a review by an immigration judge of the asylum officer's credible fear determination; and the consequences of failure to establish a credible fear of persecution or torture.


(ii) [Reserved]


(c)-(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Severability.* The Department intends that in the event that any provision of paragraphs (a), (b)(2)(i), and (b)(4) of this section, § 208.35, or the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h), is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, the provisions of this section and § 208.35 should be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to those provisions permitted by law, unless such holding is that a provision is wholly invalid and unenforceable, in which event the provision should be severed from the remainder of this section and the holding should not affect the remainder of this section or the application of the provision to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances.



---

[N] [89 FR 48770, June 7, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 81285, Oct. 7, 2024]






