# ยง 105-53.132   Civilian Board of Contract Appeals.

(a) *Creation and authority.* The Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, headed by the Chairman, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, was established on January 6, 2007, pursuant to section 847 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006, Pub. L. 109-163, 119 Stat. 3391.


(b) *Functions.* The CBCA hears, considers, and decides contract disputes between Government contractors and Executive agencies (other than the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of the Army, the U.S. Department of the Navy, the U.S. Department of the Air Force, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the U.S. Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, and the Tennessee Valley Authority) under the provisions of the Contract Disputes Act, 41 U.S.C. 7101-7109, and regulations and rules issued thereunder. The Board also conducts other proceedings as required or permitted under statutes or regulations. Such other proceedings include the resolution of disputes involving grants and contracts under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, 25 U.S.C. 450, *et seq.;* the resolution of disputes between insurance companies and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Risk Management Agency (RMA) involving actions of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) pursuant to the Federal Crop Insurance Act, 7 U.S.C. 1501, *et seq.;* requests by carriers or freight forwarders to review actions taken by the Audit Division of the U.S. General Services Administration's Office of Transportation and Property Management pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3726(i)(1); claims by Federal civilian employees against the United States for reimbursement of expenses incurred while on official temporary duty travel, and expenses incurred in connection with relocation to a new duty station pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3702; and requests of agency disbursing or certifying officials, or agency heads, on questions involving payment of travel or relocation expenses pursuant to section 204 of the U.S. General Accounting Office Act of 1996, Public Law 104-316.


(c) *Regulations.* Regulations pertaining to CBCA programs are published in 48 CFR Chapter 61. Information on availability of the regulations is provided in ยง 105-53.116.



---

[N] [78 FR 29246, May 20, 2013]




