# § 721.9750   2-Chloro-4,6-bis(substituted)-1,3,5-triazine, dihydrochloride.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-chloro-4,6-bis(substituted)-1,3,5-triazine, dihydrochloride (PMN P-91-659) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The following additional statements shall appear on each label and SDS required by this paragraph: This substance may be toxic to terrestrial organisms and plants. Notice to users: Release to water restrictions apply. 


(ii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85. A significant new use of this substance is any release of this substance to land. 


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 10 ppb).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [59 FR 27485, May 27, 1994]




