# ยง 224.1   Authority, purpose, and scope.

(a) *Authority and purpose.* Regulation X (this part) is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Act) (15 U.S.C. 78a *et seq.*). This part implements section 7(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78g(f)), the purpose of which is to require that credit obtained within or outside the United States complies with the limitations of the Board's Margin Regulations T and U (12 CFR parts 220 and 221, respectively).


(b) *Scope and exemptions.* The Act and this part apply the Board's margin regulations to United States persons and foreign persons controlled by or acting on behalf of or in conjunction with United States persons (hereinafter borrowers), who obtain credit outside the United States to purchase or carry United States securities, or within the United States to purchase or carry any securities (both types of credit are hereinafter referred to as purpose credit). The following borrowers are exempt from the Act and this part:


(1) Any borrower who obtains purpose credit within the United States, unless the borrower willfully causes the credit to be extended in contravention of Regulations T or U.


(2) Any borrower whose permanent residence is outside the United States and who does not obtain or have outstanding, during any calendar year, a total of more than $100,000 in purpose credit obtained outside the United States; and


(3) Any borrower who is exempt by Order upon terms and conditions set by the Board.



---

[N] [Reg. X, 48 FR 56572, Dec. 22, 1983, as amended by Reg. X, 63 FR 2839, Jan. 16, 1998]




