# § 124.515   Compliance alternative for community health centers, migrant health centers and certain National Health Service Corps sites.

(a) *Period of effectiveness.* For each fiscal year for which a facility that receives a grant to operate a community health center under section 330 of the Act or a migrant health center under section 329 of the Act is in substantial compliance with the terms and conditions of such grant relating to the provision of services at a discount, the facility shall be certified as having met its annual compliance level in accordance with the requirements of this subpart and shall not be required otherwise to comply with the requirements of this subpart for that fiscal year. This provision also applies to any facility that has signed a memorandum of agreement with the Secretary under section 334 of the Act if the services provided by the National Health Service Corps professional(s) assigned pursuant to that agreement constitute all of the medical services provided by the facility.


(b) *Deficits*—(1) *Title VI-assisted facilities with assessed deficits.* Where a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has been assessed as having a deficit under § 124.503(b) that has not been made up prior to certification under this section, the facility may make up that deficit by either—


(i) Demonstrating to the Secretary's satisfaction that it met the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for each year in which a deficit was assessed; or


(ii) Providing an additional period of service under this section on the basis of one (or portion of a) year of certification for each year (or portion of a year) of deficit assessed. The period of obligation applicable to the facility under § 124.501(b) shall be extended until the deficit is made up in accordance with the preceding sentence.


(2) *Title VI-assisted facilities which have not been assessed.* Where any period of compliance under this subpart of a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has not been assessed, the facility will be presumed to have no allowable credit for such period. The facility may either—


(i) Make up such deficit in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or


(ii) Submit an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to § 124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) *Title XVI-assisted facilities.* (i) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act which has an assessed deficit which was not made up prior to certification under this section shall make up that deficit in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. If it cannot make the showing required by that paragraph, it shall make up the deficit when it is no longer certified under this section.


(ii) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act whose compliance with this subpart has not been completely assessed will be presumed to have no allowable credit for the unassessed period. The facility may make up the deficit by—


(A) Following the procedure of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section; or


(B) Submitting an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to § 124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [52 FR 46031, Dec. 3, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 48362, Dec. 21, 1987; 54 FR 52939, Dec. 26, 1989]




