# § 411.50   General provisions.

(a) *Limits on applicability.* The provisions of this subpart C do not apply to any services required because of accidents that occurred before December 5, 1980.


(b) *Definitions.*

*Automobile* means any self-propelled land vehicle of a type that must be registered and licensed in the State in which it is owned.


*Liability insurance* means insurance (including a self-insured plan) that provides payment based on legal liability for injury or illness or damage to property. It includes, but is not limited to, automobile liability insurance, uninsured motorist insurance, underinsured motorist insurance, homeowners' liability insurance, malpractice insurance, product liability insurance, and general casualty insurance.


*Liability insurance payment* means a payment by a liability insurer, or an out-of-pocket payment, including a payment to cover a deductible required by a liability insurance policy, by any individual or other entity that carries liability insurance or is covered by a self-insured plan.


*No-fault insurance* means insurance that pays for medical expenses for injuries sustained on the property or premises of the insured, or in the use, occupancy, or operation of an automobile, regardless of who may have been responsible for causing the accident. This insurance includes but is not limited to automobile, homeowners, and commercial plans. It is sometimes called “medical payments coverage”, “personal injury protection”, or “medical expense coverage”.


*Prompt* or *promptly,* when used in connection with payment by a liability insurer means payment within 120 days after the earlier of the following:


(1) The date a claim is filed with an insurer or a lien is filed against a potential liability settlement.


(2) The date the service was furnished or, in the case of inpatient hospital services, the date of discharge.


*Self-insured plan* means a plan under which an individual, or a private or governmental entity, carries its own risk instead of taking out insurance with a carrier. This term includes a plan of an individual or other entity engaged in a business, trade, or profession, a plan of a non-profit organization such as a social, fraternal, labor, educational, religious, or professional organization, and the plan established by the Federal government to pay liability claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act. An entity that engages in a business, trade, or profession is deemed to have a self-insured plan for purposes of liability insurance if it carries its own risk (whether by a failure to obtain insurance, or otherwise) in whole or in part.


*Underinsured motorist insurance* means insurance under which the policyholder's level of protection against losses caused by another is extended to compensate for inadequate coverage in the other party's policy or plan.


*Uninsured motorist insurance* means insurance under which the policyholder's insurer will pay for damages caused by a motorist who has no automobile liability insurance or who carries less than the amount of insurance required by law, or is underinsured.


(c) *Limitation on payment for services covered under no-fault insurance.* Except as provided under §§ 411.52 and 411.53 with respect to conditional payments. Medicare does not pay for the following:


(1) Services for which payment has been made or can reasonably be expected to be made under automobile no-fault insurance.


(2) Services furnished on or after November 13, 1989 for which payment has been made or can reasonably be expected to be made under any no-fault insurance other than automobile no-fault.



---

[N] [54 FR 41734, Oct. 11, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 1820, Jan. 19, 1990; 71 FR 9470, Feb. 24, 2006]




