# § 721.11174   Silane-treated aluminosilicate (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as silane-treated aluminosilicate (PMNs P-16-194, P-16-195, P-16-196, P-16-197, P-16-198, P-16-199, P-16-460, P-16-461, P-16-462, P-16-463, P-16-464, P-18-193, P-18-194, P-18-195, P-18-196, P-19-124, P-19-125, P-19-126, P-19-127, P-19-128, and P-19-129) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substances after they have been completely incorporated into a polymer matrix.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4), (5) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health assigned protection factor of at least 50) and (6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 0.1%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1%), (f), (g)(1)(ii) through (ix), (2)(i) through (v), and (5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture the substances without sampling and analyzing the immediate precursor used to manufacture the substances according to the terms specified in the TSCA section 5(e) Order for the following elements: Arsenic, barium, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, copper, lead, manganese, mercury, nickel, selenium, silver, vanadium, and zinc. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substances at facilities other than those equipped with pollution controls, such as a bag house, that remove particulates from the air at 99% or greater efficiency. It is a significant new use to process the substances other than in an enclosed system that does not allow for the release of particulates or at facilities equipped with pollution controls, such as a bag house, that remove particulates from the air at 99% or greater efficiency.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 66596. Dec. 5, 2019]




