# § 301.87-1   Definitions.

Terms used in the singular form in this subpart shall be construed as the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this subpart, shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


*Certificate.* A document which is issued for a regulated article by an inspector or by a person operating under a compliance agreement, and which represents that the article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.87-5(a). 

*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between Plant Protection and Quarantine and a person engaged in the business of growing, handling, or moving regulated articles, in which the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart and any conditions imposed pursuant to such provisions. 


*Deputy Administrator.* The Deputy Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture for Plant Protection and Quarantine, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority to act in his or her stead has been or may hereafter be delegated. 


*Gummosis disease.* A dangerous plant disease of sugarcane which is caused by the highly infectious bacterium, *Xanthomonas vasculorum* (Cobb) Dowson, and which is not widely prevalent or distributed within and throughout the United States. 


*Inspector.* Any employee of Plant Protection and Quarantine, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or other person, authorized by the Deputy Administrator in accordance with law to enforce the provisions of the quarantine and regulations in this subpart. 


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State. 


*Leaf scald disease.* A dangerous plant disease of sugarcane which is caused by the highly infectious bacterium, *Xanthomonas albilineans* (Ashby) Dowson, and which is not widely prevalent or distributed within and throughout the United States. 


*Limited permit.* A document which is issued for a regulated article by an inspector or by a person operating under a compliance agreement, and which represents that the regulated article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.87-5(b). 


*Moved (movement, move).* Shipped, offered for shipment to a common carrier, received for transportation or transported by a common carrier, or carried, transported, moved, or caused or allowed to be moved by any means. “Movement” and “move” shall be construed in accordance with this definition. 


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, or other organized group. 


*Plant Protection and Quarantine.* The organizational unit within the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, delegated responsibility for enforcing provisions of the Plant Protection Act and related legislation, quarantines, and regulations.


*Regulated area.* Any quarantined State, or any portion thereof, listed as a regulated area in accordance with § 301.87-3, or otherwise designated as a regulated area in accordance with § 301.87-3(b).




*Regulated article.* Any article identified as a regulated article under § 301.87-2 as follows: listed as of January 30, 2023, added in accordance with § 301.87-2(b), or otherwise designated in accordance with § 301.87-2(c).






*State.* Any State, Territory, or District of the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 


*Sugarcane disease.* This means leaf scald disease with respect to activities in Hawaii, and means gummosis disease or leaf scald disease with respect to activities in Puerto Rico. 



---

[N] [48 FR 50059, Oct. 31, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 31374, Aug. 20, 1987; 66 FR 21052, Apr. 27, 2001; 87 FR 80015, Dec. 29, 2022]




