# ยง 352.1   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms and concepts are defined:


(a) *Deputy Administrator* means the Deputy Administrator, National Preparedness Directorate, FEMA or designee.


(b) *Administrator* means the Administrator, FEMA or designee.


(c) *EPZ* means Emergency Planning Zone.


(d) *FEMA* means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.


(e) *NRC* means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.


(f) *Regional Administrator* means the Regional Administrator of FEMA or designee.


(g) *Local government* means boroughs, cities, counties, municipalities, parishes, towns, townships or other local jurisdictions within the plume and ingestion exposure pathway EPZs that have specific roles in emergency planning and preparedness.


(h) *Decline or fail* means a situation where State or local governments do not participate in preparing offsite emergency plans or have significant planning or preparedness inadequacies and have not demonstrated the commitment or capabilities to correct those inadequacies in a timely manner so as to satisfy NRC licensing requirements.


(i) *Governor* means the Governor of a State or his/her designee.


(j) *Certification* means the written justification by a licensee of the need for Federal compensatory assistance. This certification is required to activate the Federal assistance under this part.


(k) *Responsible local official* means the highest elected official of an appropriate local government.


(l) *Technical assistance* means services provided by FEMA and other Federal agencies to facilitate offsite radiological emergency planning and preparedness such as: Provision of support for the preparation off site radiological emergency response plans and procedures; FEMA coordination of services from other Federal agencies; provision and interpretation of Federal guidance; provision of Federal and contract personnel to offer advice and recommendations for specific aspects of preparedness such as alert and notification and emergency public information.


(m) *Federal facilities and resources* means personnel, property (land, buildings, vehicles, equipment), and operational capabilities controlled by the Federal government related to establishing and maintaining radiological emergency response preparedness.


(n) *Licensee* means the utility which has applied for or has received a license from the NRC to operate a commercial nuclear power plant.


(o) *Reimbursement* means the payment to FEMA/Federal agencies, jointly or severally, by a licensee and State and local governments for assistance and services provided in processing certifications and implementing Federal compensatory assistance under this part 352.


(p) *Host FEMA Regional Office* means the FEMA Regional Office that has primary jurisdiction by virtue of the nuclear power plant being located within its geographic boundaries.


(q) *Command and control* means making and issuing protective action decisions and directing offsite emergency response resources, agencies, and activities.




