# ยง 51-11.14   Fees.

(a) *Generally.* The General Counsel may condition the production of records or appearance for testimony upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the costs to the Committee.


(b) *Fees for records.* Fees for producing records will include fees for searching, reviewing, and duplicating records, costs of attorney time spent in reviewing the demand or request, and expenses generated by materials and equipment used to search for, produce, and copy the responsive information. Costs for employee time will be calculated on the basis of the hourly pay of the employee (including all pay, allowance, and benefits). Fees for duplication will be the same as those charged by the Committee in its Freedom of Information Act regulations at 41 CFR part 51-8.


(c) *Witness fees.* Fees for attendance by a witness will include fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules. If no such fees are prescribed, witness fees will be determined based upon the rule of the Federal district court closest to the location where the witness will appear. Such fees will include cost of time spent by the witness to prepare for testimony, travel time and expenses, and for attendance in the legal proceeding.


(d) *Payment of fees.* Witness fees for current Committee employees and any records certification fees shall be paid by check or money order presented to the Committee made payable to the United States Department of Treasury. Applicable fees for former Committee employees' testimony must be paid directly to the former employee in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable statutes.


(e) *Certification (authentication) of copies of records.* The Committee Records Manager may certify that records are true copies in order to facilitate their use as evidence. Certification requests require 45 calendar days for processing and a fee of $15.00 for each document certified.


(f) *Waiver or reduction of fees.* The General Counsel, in his or her sole discretion, may, upon a showing of reasonable cause, waive or reduce any fees in connection with the testimony, production, or certification of records.


(g) *De minimis fees.* Fees will not be assessed if the total charge would be $10.00 or less.




