# § 401.309   PRA term and termination provisions; other provisions.

(a) *1-year term with renewals.* The PRA will have a term of 1 year, to be renewed for successive terms of 1 year with the mutual agreement of both parties. The PRA will provide for HUD to pay final compensation to the PAE and to assign responsibility for continuing activities if the PRA is not renewed. 


(b) *Termination for cause or convenience of Federal Government*—(1) *Termination for cause.* HUD may terminate a PRA at any time for cause, with payment required by HUD as provided in the PRA only for matters authorized by the PRA and performed by the PAE to the date of termination. HUD will retain the right of set-off against any payments due as well as such other rights afforded at law and in equity. 


(2) *Termination for convenience of Federal Government.* HUD may terminate a PRA, and may remove an eligible property from a PRA, at any time in accordance with the PRA or applicable law, regardless of whether the PAE is in default of any of its obligations under the PRA, if such termination is in the best interests of the Federal Government. The PRA will provide for payment to the PAE of a specified percentage of the base fee authorized by § 401.304(a) and amounts for reimbursement of third-party vendors to the PAE authorized by § 401.304(c).


(3) *Transfer to another PAE; temporary waiver of rights.* If a PRA is terminated: 


(i) HUD may order an immediate transfer of some or all of the PAE's duties to another PAE designated by HUD; and 


(ii) HUD may temporarily waive its right of immediate termination in order to allow an orderly transfer of duties and responsibilities under a PRA, without waiving the right of termination after the transfer has been completed to HUD's satisfaction. 


(c) *Liability for damages.* During the term of a PRA, and notwithstanding any termination of a PRA, HUD may seek its actual, direct, and consequential damages from any PAE for failure to comply with its obligations under PRA.


(d) *Cumulative remedies.* The remedies under this section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies or rights HUD may have under the terms of the PRA, at law, or otherwise. 



---

[N] [65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007]




