# ยง 1280.64   Requesting to use our public areas.

(a) This section provides a general description of the process that different NARA facilities use to review and respond to requests to use their public areas. You should contact a facility before submitting a formal request, to check on availability and to obtain any forms, procedures, or rules that are specific to that facility.


(b) *National Archives Building and the National Archives at College Park.* (1) If you are interested in hosting an official governmental event or meeting at the National Archives Building, you should contact NARA Special Events by phone at 202.357.5164 or by email at *specialevents@nara.gov.* If you are interested in hosting a private group event at the National Archives Building, you should contact the National Archives Foundation by phone at 202.357.5404, toll-free at 844.723.2155, or by email at *events@archivesfoundation.org.* Additional information is in subpart D of this part and online at *https://www.archives.gov/dc/host-an-event.*

(2) If you are interested in hosting an event or meeting at the National Archives at College Park, you should contact NARA Special Events by phone at 301.837.1504 or by email at *specialeventsa2@nara.gov.* Additional information is in subpart D of this part.


(3) You will need to submit a written request at least 30 calendar days before the proposed date of your event. Your request will need to include such information as the name of your group and any other organization that is participating, point-of-contact information, the date and time you are requesting, number of attendees, type of event, description of the event, other arrangements you would like to include, and other information about the event to enable us to determine whether we can accommodate it. We may also request additional information. OMB control number 3095-0043 covers this information collection.


(c) *Presidential libraries and museums.* (1) You should contact the Presidential library and museum where you wish to hold your event (see contact information in 36 CFR 1253.3).


(2) Depending on what kind of event you want to host, you may be referred to the foundation that supports the library to make the event arrangements and to pay any event fees and costs that apply. Some Presidential libraries are located at shared-use facilities where their library foundations own certain areas and spaces used for private group events and operate those areas and spaces under their rules rather than the rules in this part 1280.


(3) For events held in Presidential library areas or spaces that are considered NARA property, you will need to submit a written, signed request to the library you wish to use (see *36 CFR 1253.3* for the address) and complete NA Form 16011, Application for Use of Space in Presidential Libraries. OMB control number 3095-0024 covers this information collection.


(d) *Archival research facilities and Federal records centers (FRCs).* (1) Most archival research facilities and the FRCs do not have any public use areas or spaces.


(2) If you wish to request use of public areas at an archival research facility, you must submit a written, signed request to the director of the facility you wish to use (see *36 CFR 1253.5* for a list of addresses) at least 30 days before the proposed date of your event. GSA's rules for requesting use of the facility will also apply if the facility is located on GSA property (see 41 CFR part 102-74, subpart D, Occasional Use of Public Buildings).


(3) Your request will need to include such information as the name of your group and any other organization that is participating, point-of-contact information, the date and time you are requesting, number of attendees, type of event, description of the event, and other information about the event to enable us to determine whether we can accommodate it. We may also request additional information. OMB control number 3095-0043 covers this information collection.


(e) *NARA facilities located on GPO property.* None of the NARA facilities that are located on GPO property have spaces available for public use.






