# § 67.171   Deletion; requirement and procedure.

(a) A Certificate of Documentation together with any endorsement(s) thereon is invalid, except as provided in § 67.161, and the vessel is subject to deletion from the roll of actively documented vessels when:


(1) The vessel is placed under foreign flag;


(2) The vessel is sold or transferred in whole or in part to a person who is not a citizen of the United States within the meaning of subpart C of this part;


(3) Any owner of the vessel ceases to be a citizen of the United States within the meaning of subpart C of this part;


(4) The owner no longer elects to document the vessel;


(5) The vessel no longer measures at least five net tons;


(6) The vessel ceases to be capable of transportation by water;


(7) The owner fails to exchange the Certificate as required by § 67.167;


(8) The owner fails to maintain the markings required by subpart I of this part;


(9) The endorsements on the Certificate are revoked because the vessel owner is the subject of an outstanding civil penalty assessed by the Coast Guard; or


(10) The owner fails to:


(i) Renew the endorsement(s) as required by § 67.163; or


(ii) Comply with the provisions of § 67.165.


(b) Where a cause for deletion arises for any reason under paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, the owner must send to the National Vessel Documentation Center a statement setting forth the reason(s) deletion is required.




(c) When a Certificate of Documentation is required to be deleted because the vessel has been placed under foreign flag or has been sold or transferred in whole or in part to a non-citizen of the United States, the owner of that vessel must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and file:


(1) Evidence of the sale or transfer, if any; and


(2) Evidence that the Maritime Administration has consented to the sale or transfer, except for vessels identified in § 67.11(b) and vessels for which the Maritime Administration has granted approval for unrestricted sale or transfer pursuant to regulations set forth in 46 CFR part 221.


(d) A certificate evidencing deletion from U.S. documentation will be issued upon request of the vessel owner to the National Vessel Documentation Center upon compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart.



---

[N] [CGD 89-007, CGD 89-007a, 58 FR 60266, Nov. 15, 1993, as amended by CGD 94-008, 59 FR 49847, Sept. 30, 1994; CGD 95-014, 60 FR 31605, June 15, 1995; USCG-2023-0584, 89 FR 101500, Dec. 16, 2024]








