# ยง 392.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Active-duty status* means full-time duty in the active military service of the United States, and includes full-time training duty, which constitutes qualifying service under section 329(a) of the Act. Active service in the United States Coast Guard during one of the periods of hostilities specified herein shall constitute service in the military, air, or naval forces of the United States. Active-duty status also includes annual training duty and attendance, while in the active military service, at a service school designated by the military authorities under 10 U.S.C. 101(22). The order of a national guardsman into active duty for training under 10 U.S.C. 672 constitutes service in active-duty status in the military forces of the United States. Active duty in a noncombatant capacity is qualifying service.


*Decedent* means the person on whose behalf an application for a certificate of posthumous citizenship is made.


*Induction, enlistment,* and *reenlistment,* refer to the decedent's place of entry into active duty military service.


*Korean Hostilities* relates to the period from June 25, 1950, to July 1, 1955, inclusive.


*Lodge Act* means the Act of June 30, 1950, which qualified for naturalization nonresident aliens who served honorably for 5 years in the United States Army during specified periods, notwithstanding that they never formally became lawful permanent residents of the United States.


*Next-of-kin* means the closest surviving blood or legal relative of the decedent in the following order of succession:


(1) The surviving spouse;


(2) The decedent's surviving son or daughter, if the decedent has no surviving spouse;


(3) The decedent's surviving parent, if the decedent has no surviving spouse or sons or daughters; or,


(4) The decedent's surviving brother or sister, if none of the persons described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition survive the decedent.


*Other periods of military hostilities* means any period designated by the President under Executive Order as a period in which Armed Forces of the United States are or were engaged in military operations involving armed conflict with a hostile foreign force.


*Representative* means:


(1) The duly appointed executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, including a special administrator appointed for the purpose of seeking the decedent's naturalization; or,


(2) The duly appointed guardian, conservator, or committee of the decedent's next-of-kin; or,


(3) A service organization listed in 38 U.S.C. 3402, or chartered by Congress, or State, or other service organization recognized by the Department of Veterans Affairs.


*Vietnam Hostilities* relates to the period from February 28, 1961, to October 15, 1978, inclusive.


*World War I* relates to the period from April 6, 1917, to November 11, 1918, inclusive.


*World War II* relates to the period from September 1, 1939, to December 31, 1946, inclusive.




