# § 1068.95   Incorporation by reference.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Environmental Protection Agency must publish a document in the _Federal Register_ and the material must be available to the public. All approved materials are available for inspection at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (Air Docket) in the EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC) at Rm. 3334, EPA West Bldg., 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC The EPA/DC Public Reading Room hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number of the EPA/DC Public Reading Room is (202) 566-1744, and the telephone number for the Air Docket is (202) 566-1742. These approved materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.\n*. In addition, these materials are available from the sources listed below.


(b) SAE International, 400 Commonwealth Dr., Warrendale, PA 15096-0001, (724) 776-4841, or *http://www.sae.org*:


(1) SAE J1930, Electrical/Electronic Systems Diagnostic Terms, Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms, revised October 2008 (“SAE J1930”), IBR approved for § 1068.45(f).


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [81 FR 74222, Oct. 25, 2016]




