# § 60.703a   What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(5) through (7) of this section, if you use a non-flare control device or recovery system to comply with the TOC emission limit specified in table 1 to this subpart, then you must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (4), (b), and (c) of this section.


(1) Install a continuous parameter monitoring system(s) (CPMS) and monitor the operating parameter(s) applicable to the control device or recovery system as specified in table 2 to this subpart or established according to paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) Establish the applicable minimum, maximum, or range for the operating parameter limit as specified in Table 3 to this subpart or established according to paragraph (c) of this section by calculating the value(s) as the arithmetic average of operating parameter measurements recorded during the three test runs conducted for the most recent performance test. You may operate outside of the established operating parameter limit(s) during subsequent performance tests in order to establish new operating limits. You must include the updated operating limits with the performance test results submitted to the Administrator pursuant to § 60.705a(b). Upon establishment of a new operating limit, you must thereafter operate under the new operating limit. If the Administrator determines that you did not conduct the performance test in accordance with the applicable requirements or that the operating limit established during the performance test does not correspond to the conditions specified in § 60.704a(a), then you must conduct a new performance test and establish a new operating limit.


(3) Monitor, record, and demonstrate continuous compliance using the minimum frequencies specified in Table 3 to this subpart or established according to paragraph (c) of this section.


(4) Comply with the calibration and quality control requirements as specified in table 4 to this subpart or established according to paragraph (c) of this section that are applicable to the CPMS used.


(5) Any vent stream introduced with primary fuel into a boiler or process heater is exempt from the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(6) If you vent emissions through a closed vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then you must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section in addition to the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.


(ii) Monitor the TOC concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(B) of this section. You must measure the concentration of TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part using methane, propane, or isobutylene as the calibration gas or Method 25A of appendix A-7 of this part using methane or propane as the calibration gas.


(iii) Comply with paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A) of this section and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(B) of this section.


(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 60.611a, is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A), “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. You must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.


(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.


(7) If you install a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) to demonstrate compliance with the TOC standard in Table 1 of this subpart, you must comply with the requirements specified in § 60.704a(g) in lieu of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) and (c) of this section.


(b) If you vent emissions through a closed vent system to a boiler or process heater, then the vent stream must be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.


(c) If you seek to demonstrate compliance with the standards specified under § 60.702a with control devices other than an incinerator, boiler, process heater, or flare; or recovery devices other than an absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber, you shall provide to the Administrator prior to conducting the initial performance test information describing the operation of the control device or recovery device and the parameter(s) which would indicate proper operation and maintenance of the device and how the parameter(s) are indicative of control of TOC emissions. The Administrator may request further information and will specify appropriate monitoring procedures or requirements, including operating parameters to be monitored, averaging times for determining compliance with the operating parameter limits, and ongoing calibration and quality control requirements.






