# ยง 683.105   What award document authorizes the expenditure of funds under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act?

(a) *Agreement.* All WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds are awarded by grant or cooperative agreement, as defined in the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards regulations at 2 CFR 200.51 and 200.24 respectively, or contract, as defined in 2 CFR 200.22. All grant or cooperative agreements are awarded by the Grant Officer through negotiation with the recipient (the non-Federal entity). The agreement describes the terms and conditions applicable to the award of WIOA title I and Wagner-Peyser Act funds and will conform to the requirements of 2 CFR 200.210. Contracts are issued by the Contracting Officer in compliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations.


(b) *Grant funds awarded to States and outlying areas.* The Federal funds allotted to the States and outlying areas each program year in accordance with secs. 127(b) and 132(b) of WIOA will be obligated by grant agreement.


(c) *Native American programs.* Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements for the WIOA Native American program will be made to eligible entities on a competitive basis every 4 program years for a 4-year period, in accordance with the provisions of sec. 166 of WIOA.


(d) *Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs.* Awards of grants or contracts for the Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker Program will be made to eligible entities on a competitive basis every 4 program years for a 4-year period, in accordance with the provisions of sec. 167 of WIOA.


(e) *Awards for evaluation and research under sec. 169 of WIOA.* (1) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements will be made to eligible entities for programs or activities authorized under WIOA sec. 169. These funds are for:


(i) Evaluations;


(ii) Research;


(iii) Studies;


(iv) Multi-State projects; and


(v) Dislocated worker projects.


(2) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section in amounts that exceed $100,000 will be awarded on a competitive basis, except that a noncompetitive award may be made in the case of a project that is funded jointly with other public or private sector entities that provide a substantial portion of the assistance under the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for the project.


(3) Awards of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements for carrying out projects in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section may not be awarded to the same organization for more than 3 consecutive years unless:


(i) Such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement is competitively reevaluated within such period;


(ii) The initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement was issued on a non-competitive basis because it was for less than $100,000, and:


(A) The non-competitive continuation is for less than $100,000;


(B) The scope of work is essentially the same as the initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement;


(C) Progress in meeting performance objectives is satisfactory; and


(D) Other terms and conditions established by the Department have been met; or


(iii) The initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement was issued on a non-competitive basis because the project was funded jointly with other public or private sector entities that provide a substantial portion of the assistance, and:


(A) The non-competitive continuation maintains a substantial portion of joint funding;


(B) The scope of work is essentially the same as the initial grant, contract, or cooperative agreement;


(C) Progress in meeting performance objectives is satisfactory; and


(D) Other terms and conditions established by the Department have been met.


(4) Entities with recognized expertise in the methods, techniques, and knowledge of workforce investment activities will be provided priority in awarding funds for the projects under paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section. The duration of such projects will be specified in the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.


(5) A peer review process will be used to review and evaluate projects under this paragraph (e) for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements that exceed $500,000, and to designate exemplary and promising programs.


(f) *Termination.* Each grant, cooperative agreement, or contract terminates as indicated in the terms of the agreement or when the period of performance has expired. The grants and cooperative agreements must be closed in accordance with the closeout provisions at 2 CFR 200.343 and 2 CFR part 2900 as applicable.




