# § 103.6   Penalties.

(a) *Civil penalties*—(1) *Civil penalty for refusal to permit entry or inspection.* Any person that is determined to have willfully failed or refused to permit entry or inspection, or to have willfully disrupted, delayed or otherwise impeded an authorized inspection, as set forth in § 103.5(a), shall pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $48,119 for each violation. Each day the violation continues constitutes a separate violation.


(2) *Civil penalty for failure to establish or maintain records.* Any person that is determined to have willfully failed or refused to establish or maintain any record, or to submit any report, notice, or other information required by the CWCIA or the CWCR, or to permit access to or copying of any record exempt from disclosure under the CWCIA or CWCR as set forth in § 103.5(b), shall pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $9,624 for each violation.


(b) *Criminal penalties.* Any person that knowingly violates the CWCIA by willfully failing or refusing to permit entry or inspection; or by disrupting, delaying or otherwise impeding an inspection authorized by the CWCIA; or by willfully failing or refusing to establish or maintain any required record, or to submit any required report, notice, or other information; or by willfully failing or refusing to permit access to or copying of any record exempt from disclosure under the CWCIA or CWCR, shall, in addition to or in lieu of any civil penalty that may be imposed, be fined under Title 18 of the United States Code, or be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.


(c) *Other remedial action*—(1) *Injunction.* The United States may, in a civil action, obtain an injunction against:


(i) The conduct prohibited under 18 U.S.C. 229 or 229C; or


(ii) The preparation or solicitation to engage in conduct prohibited under 18 U.S.C. 229 or 229D.


(2) In addition, the United States may, in a civil action, restrain any violation of section 306 or section 405 of the CWCIA, or compel the taking of any action required by or under the CWCIA or the Convention.



---

[N] [64 FR 73813, Dec. 30, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 36793, June 8, 2016; 82 FR 3170, Jan. 11, 2017; 83 FR 237, Jan. 3, 2018; 84 FR 9959, Mar. 19, 2019; 85 FR 2022, Jan. 14, 2020; 86 FR 7806, Feb. 2, 2021; 87 FR 1074, Jan. 10, 2022; 88 FR 1507, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 702, Jan. 5, 2024; 90 FR 1868, Jan. 10, 2025]




