# § 362.12   Service corporations of insured State savings associations.

(a) *Prohibition.* A service corporation of an insured state savings association may not engage in any activity that is not permissible for a service corporation of a Federal savings association, unless it meets one of the exceptions in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Exceptions*—(1) *Consent obtained through application.* A service corporation of an insured state savings association may conduct activities prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section if the savings association obtains the FDIC's prior written consent and the insured state savings association meets and continues to meet the applicable capital standards set by the appropriate Federal banking agency. Consent will be given only if the FDIC determines that the activity poses no significant risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. Applications for consent should be filed in accordance with § 303.141 of this chapter and will be processed under § 303.142(b) of this chapter. Approvals granted under § 303.142(b) of this chapter may be made subject to any conditions or restrictions found by the FDIC to be necessary to protect the Deposit Insurance Fund from risk, to prevent unsafe or unsound banking practices, and/or to ensure that the activity is consistent with the purposes of Federal deposit insurance and other applicable law. The activities covered by this paragraph may include, but are not limited to, acquiring and retaining equity securities of a company engaged in the public sale distribution or underwriting of securities.


(2) *Service corporations conducting unrestricted activities.* The FDIC has determined that the following activities do not represent a significant risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund:


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) A service corporation of an insured state savings association may acquire and retain equity securities of a company engaged in the following activities, if the service corporation controls the company or the company is controlled by insured depository institutions, and the association continues to meet the applicable capital standards as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency. The FDIC consents that such activity may be conducted by a service corporation of an insured state savings association without first obtaining the FDIC's consent. The fact that prior consent is not required by this subpart does not preclude the FDIC from taking any appropriate action with respect to the activities if the facts and circumstances warrant such action.


(A) *Equity securities of a company that engages in permissible activities.* A service corporation may own the equity securities of a company that engages in any activity permissible for a Federal savings association.


(B) *Equity securities of a company that acquires and retains adjustable-rate and money market preferred stock.* A service corporation may own the equity securities of a company that engages in any activity permissible for an insured state savings association under § 362.11(b)(2)(iii) so long as instruments held under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B), paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, and § 362.11(b)(2)(iii) in the aggregate do not exceed the limit set by § 362.11(b)(2)(iii).


(C) *Equity securities of a company acting as an insurance agency.* A service corporation may own the equity securities of a company that acts as an insurance agency.


(iii) *Activities that are not conducted “as principal*”. A service corporation controlled by the insured state savings association may engage in activities which are not conducted “as principal” such as acting as an agent for a customer, acting in a brokerage, custodial, advisory, or administrative capacity, or acting as trustee, or in any substantially similar capacity.


(iv) *Acquiring and retaining adjustable-rate and money market preferred stock.* A service corporation may engage in any activity permissible for an insured state savings association under § 362.11(b)(2)(iii) so long as instruments held under this paragraph (b)(2)(iv), paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, and § 362.11(b)(2)(iii) in the aggregate do not exceed the limit set by § 362.11(b)(2)(iii).


(3)-(4) [Reserved]


(c) *Investment and transaction limits.* The restrictions detailed in § 362.4(d) apply to transactions between an insured state savings association and any service corporation engaging in activities which are not permissible for a service corporation of a Federal savings association if specifically required by this part or FDIC order. For purposes of applying the investment limits in § 362.4(d)(2), the term “investment” includes only those items described in § 362.4(d)(2)(ii)(A)(*3*) and (*4*). For purposes of applying § 362.4(d)(2), (3), and (4) to this paragraph (c), references to the terms “insured State bank” and “subsidiary” in § 362.4(d)(2), (3), and (4), shall be deemed to refer, respectively, to the insured state savings association and the service corporation. For purposes of applying § 362.4(d)(5), references to the terms “insured State bank” and “subsidiary” in § 362.4(d)(5) shall be deemed to refer, respectively, to the insured state savings association and the service corporations or subsidiaries.


(d) *Capital requirements.* If specifically required by this part or by FDIC order, an insured state savings association that wishes to conduct as principal activities through a service corporation which are not permissible for a service corporation of a Federal savings association must:


(1) Be well-capitalized after deducting from its capital any investment in the service corporation, both equity and debt.


(2) Use such regulatory capital amount for the purposes of the insured state savings association's assessment risk classification under part 327 of this chapter.



---

[N] [63 FR 66326, Dec. 1, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 1029, Jan. 5, 2001; 71 FR 20527, Apr. 21, 2006]




