# § 192.452   How does this subpart apply to converted pipelines and regulated onshore gathering pipelines?

(a) *Converted pipelines.* Notwithstanding the date the pipeline was installed or any earlier deadlines for compliance, each pipeline which qualifies for use under this part in accordance with § 192.14 must meet the requirements of this subpart specifically applicable to pipelines installed before August 1, 1971, and all other applicable requirements within 1 year after the pipeline is readied for service. However, the requirements of this subpart specifically applicable to pipelines installed after July 31, 1971, apply if the pipeline substantially meets those requirements before it is readied for service or it is a segment which is replaced, relocated, or substantially altered. 


(b) *Type A and B onshore gathering lines.* For any Type A or Type B regulated onshore gathering line under § 192.9 existing on April 14, 2006, that was not previously subject to this part, and for any onshore gathering line that becomes a regulated onshore gathering line under § 192.9 after April 14, 2006, because of a change in class location or increase in dwelling density:


(1) The requirements of this subpart specifically applicable to pipelines installed before August 1, 1971, apply to the gathering line regardless of the date the pipeline was actually installed; and


(2) The requirements of this subpart specifically applicable to pipelines installed after July 31, 1971, apply only if the pipeline substantially meets those requirements.


(c) *Type C onshore regulated gathering lines.* For any Type C onshore regulated gathering pipeline under § 192.9 existing on May 16, 2022, that was not previously subject to this part, and for any Type C onshore gas gathering pipeline that becomes subject to this subpart after May 16, 2022, because of an increase in MAOP, change in class location, or presence of a building intended for human occupancy or other impacted site:


(1) The requirements of this subpart specifically applicable to pipelines installed before August 1, 1971, apply to the gathering line regardless of the date the pipeline was actually installed; and


(2) The requirements of this subpart specifically applicable to pipelines installed after July 31, 1971, apply only if the pipeline substantially meets those requirements.


(d) *Regulated onshore gathering lines generally.* Any gathering line that is subject to this subpart per § 192.9 at the time of construction must meet the requirements of this subpart applicable to pipelines installed after July 31, 1971.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-30, 42 FR 60148, Nov. 25, 1977, as amended by Amdt. 192-102, 71 FR 13303, Mar. 15, 2006; Amdt. 192-129, 86 FR 63298, Nov. 15, 2021]




