# ยง 990.190   Other formula expenses (add-ons).

In addition to calculating operating subsidy based on the PEL and UEL, a PHA's eligible formula expenses shall be increased by add-ons. The allowed add-ons are:


(a) *Self-sufficiency.* A PHA may request operating subsidy for the reasonable cost of program coordinator(s) and associated costs in accordance with HUD's self-sufficiency program regulations and notices.


(b) *Energy loan amortization.* A PHA may qualify for operating subsidy for payments of principal and interest cost for energy conservation measures described in ยง 990.185(a)(3).


(c) *Payments in lieu of taxes (PILOT).* Each PHA will receive an amount for PILOT in accordance with section 6(d) of the 1937 Act, based on its cooperation agreement or its latest actual PILOT payment.


(d) *Cost of independent audits.* A PHA is eligible to receive operating subsidy equal to its most recent actual audit costs for the Operating Fund Program when an audit is required by the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507) (see 2 CFR part 200, subpart F) or when a PHA elects to prepare and submit such an audit to HUD. For the purpose of this rule, the most recent actual audit costs include the associated costs of an audit for the Operating Fund Program only. A PHA whose operating subsidy is determined to be zero based on the formula is still eligible to receive operating subsidy equal to its most recent actual audit costs. The most recent actual audit costs are used as a proxy to cover the cost of the next audit. If a PHA does not have a recent actual audit cost, the PHA working with HUD may establish an audit cost. A PHA that requests funding for an audit shall complete an audit. The results of the audit shall be transmitted in a time and manner prescribed by HUD.


(e) *Funding for resident participation activities.* Each PHA's operating subsidy calculation shall include $25 per occupied unit per year for resident participation activities, including, but not limited to, those described in 24 CFR part 964. For purposes of this section, a unit is eligible to receive resident participation funding if it is occupied by a public housing resident or it is occupied by a PHA employee, or a police officer or other security personnel who is not otherwise eligible for public housing. In any fiscal year, if appropriations are not sufficient to meet all funding requirements under this part, then the resident participation component of the formula will be adjusted accordingly.


(f) *Asset management fee.* Each PHA with at least 250 units shall receive a $4 PUM asset management fee. PHAs with fewer than 250 units that elect to transition to asset management shall receive an asset management fee of $2 PUM. PHAs with fewer than 250 units that elect to have their entire portfolio treated and considered as a single project as described in ยง 990.260(b) or PHAs with only one project will not be eligible for an asset management fee. For all PHAs eligible to receive the asset management fee, the fee will be based on the total number of ACC units. PHAs that are not in compliance with asset management as described in subpart H of this part by FY 2011 will forfeit this fee.


(g) *Information technology fee.* Each PHA's operating subsidy calculation shall include $2 PUM for costs attributable to information technology. For all PHAs, this fee will be based on the total number of ACC units.


(h) *Asset repositioning fee.* (1) A PHA that transitions projects or entire buildings of a project out of its inventory is eligible for an asset-repositioning fee. This fee supplements the costs associated with administration and management of demolition or disposition, tenant relocation, and minimum protection and service associated with such efforts. The asset-repositioning fee is not intended for individual units within a multi-unit building undergoing similar activities.


(2) Projects covered by applications approved for demolition or disposition shall be eligible for an asset repositioning fee on the first day of the next quarter six months after the date the first unit becomes vacant after the relocation date included in the approved relocation plan. When this condition is met, the project and all associated units are no longer considered an EUM as described in ยง 990.155. Each PHA is responsible for accurately applying and maintaining supporting documentation on the start date of this transition period or is subject to forfeiture of this add-on.


(3) Units categorized for demolition and which are eligible for an asset repositioning fee are eligible for operating subsidy at the rate of 75 percent PEL per unit for the first twelve months, 50 percent PEL per unit for the next twelve months, and 25 percent PEL per unit for the next twelve months.


(4) Units categorized for disposition and which are eligible for an asset repositioning fee are eligible for operating subsidy at the rate of 75 percent PEL per unit for the first twelve months and 50 percent PEL per unit for the next twelve months.


(5) The following is an example of how eligibility for an asset-repositioning fee is determined:


(i) A PHA has HUD's approval to demolish (or dispose of) a 100-unit project from its 1,000 unit inventory. On January 12th, in conjunction with the PHA's approved Relocation Plan, a unit in that project becomes vacant. Accordingly, the demolition/disposition-approved project is eligible for an asset-repositioning fee on October 1st. (This date is calculated as follows: January 12th + six months = July 12th. The first day of the next quarter is October 1st.)


(ii) Although payment of the asset-repositioning fee will not begin until October 1st, the PHA will receive its full operating subsidy based on the 1,000 units through September 30th. On October 1st the PHA will begin to receive the 36-month asset-repositioning fee in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section for the 100 units approved for demolition. (Asset repositioning fee requirements for projects approved for disposition are found in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.) On October 1st, the PHA's units will be 900.


(i) *Costs attributable to changes in Federal law, regulation, or economy.* In the event that HUD determines that enactment of a Federal law or revision in HUD or other Federal regulations has caused or will cause a significant change in expenditures of a continuing nature above the PEL and UEL, HUD may, at HUD's sole discretion, decide to prescribe a procedure under which the PHA may apply for or may receive an adjustment in operating subsidy.



---

[N] [70 FR 54997, Sept. 19, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 75943, Dec. 7, 2015]




