# ยง 92.602   Eligible activities.

(a) *Eligible activities.* ADDI funds may only be used for:


(1) Downpayment assistance towards the purchase of single family housing by low-income families who are first-time homebuyers; and


(2) Rehabilitation that is completed in conjunction with the home purchase assisted with ADDI funds. The rehabilitation assisted with ADDI funds, including the reduction of lead paint hazards and the remediation of other home health hazards, must be completed within one year of the purchase of the home. Total rehabilitation shall not exceed 20 percent of the participating jurisdiction's ADDI fiscal year formula allocation. FY2003 ADDI funds may not be used for rehabilitation.


(3) *Manufactured housing.* ADDI funds may be used to purchase a manufactured housing unit and purchase a manufactured housing lot. The manufactured housing unit must, at the time of project completion, be connected to permanent utility hook-ups and be located on land that is owned by the manufactured housing owner, owned as a cooperative, or is subject to a leasehold interest with a term equal to at least the term of the mortgage financing on the unit or the period of affordability (whichever is greater). 


(b) *Eligible project costs.* ADDI funds may be used for the following eligible costs:


(1) *Acquisition costs.* The costs of acquiring single family housing.


(2) *Rehabilitation costs.* The eligible development hard costs for rehabilitation projects described in ยง 92.206(a) and the costs for reduction of lead paint hazards and the remediation of other home health hazards. FY2003 ADDI funds may not be used for rehabilitation.


(3) *Related soft costs.* Reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the homebuyer or participating jurisdiction and associated with the financing of single family housing acquisition and rehabilitation. These costs include, but are not limited to:


(i) Costs to process and settle the financing for purchase of a home, such as private lender origination fees, credit report fees, fees for title evidence, fees for recordation and filing of legal documents, attorneys fees, and private appraisal fees.


(ii) Architectural, engineering, or related professional services required to prepare plans, drawings, specifications, or work write-ups.


(iii) Costs to provide information services, such as fair housing information to prospective homeowners.


(iv) Staff and overhead costs directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing inspections, and other services related to assisting a potential homebuyer (*e.g.,* housing counseling), which may be charged to project costs only if the individual purchases single family housing with ADDI assistance.


(v) Costs of environmental review and release of funds (in accordance with 24 CFR part 58) that are directly related to the project.


(4) *Ineligible costs.* ADDI funds may not be used for the development costs (hard costs or soft costs) of new construction of housing or for rental assistance.


(c) *Forms of investment.* A participating jurisdiction may invest ADDI funds as interest-bearing loans or advances, non-interest bearing loans or advances, interest subsidies consistent with the purposes of this subpart, deferred payment loans, grants, or other forms of assistance that HUD determines to be consistent with this subpart. Each participating jurisdiction has the right to establish the terms of assistance, subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(d) *Minimum amount of assistance.* The minimum amount of ADDI funds in combination with HOME funds that must be invested in a project is $1,000.


(e) *Maximum amount of assistance.* The amount of ADDI funds provided to any family shall not exceed the greater of six percent of the purchase price of the single family housing or $10,000. This limitation does not apply to FY2003 ADDI funds.


(f) *Limitation on subrecipients and contractors.* A participating jurisdiction may not provide ADDI funds to an entity or organization that provides downpayment assistance, if the activities of that entity or organization are financed in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by contributions, service fees, or other payments from the sellers of housing, whether or not made in conjunction with the sale of specific housing acquired with ADDI funds.



---

[N] [69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007]




