# § 1.613   What are the requirements for service of documents?

(a) *Filed documents.* Any document related to a case under §§ 1.610 through 1.660 must be served at the same time the document is delivered or sent for filing. Copies must be served as follows:


(1) A complete copy of any request for a hearing under § 1.621 must be delivered or sent to FERC and each license party, using one of the methods of service in paragraph (c) of this section or under 18 CFR 385.2010(f)(3) for license parties that have agreed to receive electronic service.


(2) A complete copy of any notice of intervention and response under § 1.622 must be:


(i) Delivered or sent to FERC, the license applicant, any person who has filed a request for hearing under § 1.621, and the Forest Service office that submitted the preliminary conditions to FERC, using one of the methods of service in paragraph (c) of this section; and


(ii) Delivered or sent to any other license party using one of the methods of service in paragraph (c) of this section or under 18 CFR 385.2010(f)(3) for license parties that have agreed to receive electronic service, or by regular mail.


(3) A complete copy of any answer or notice under § 1.625 and any other document filed by any party to the hearing process must be delivered or sent to every other party to the hearing process, using one of the methods of service in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Documents issued by the Hearing Clerk or ALJ.* A complete copy of any notice, order, decision, or other document issued by the Hearing Clerk or the ALJ under §§ 1.610 through 1.660 must be served on each party, using one of the methods of service in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Method of service.* Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties and ordered by the ALJ, service must be accomplished by one of the following methods:


(1) By hand delivery of the document;


(2) By sending the document by express mail or courier service for delivery on the next business day;


(3) By sending the document by facsimile if:


(i) The document is 20 pages or less, including all attachments;


(ii) The sending facsimile machine confirms that the transmission was successful; and


(iii) The document is sent by regular mail on the same day; or


(4) By sending the document, including all attachments, by electronic means if the party to be served has consented to that means of service in writing. However, if the serving party learns that the document did not reach the party to be served, the serving party must re-serve the document by another method set forth in paragraph (c) of this section (including another electronic means, if the party to be served has consented to that means in writing).


(d) *Certificate of service.* A certificate of service must be attached to each document filed under §§ 1.610 through 1.660. The certificate must be signed by the party's representative and include the following information:


(1) The name, address, and other contact information of each party's representative on whom the document was served;


(2) The means of service, including information indicating compliance with paragraph (c)(3) or (c)(4) of this section, if applicable; and


(3) The date of service.


