# ยง 662.200   Who are the required One-Stop partners?

(a) WIA section 121(b)(1) identifies the entities that are required partners in the local One-Stop systems. 


(b) The required partners are the entities that are responsible for administering the following programs and activities in the local area: 


(1) Programs authorized under title I of WIA, serving: 


(i) Adults; 


(ii) Dislocated workers; 


(iii) Youth; 


(iv) Job Corps; 


(v) Native American programs; 


(vi) Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs; and


(vii) Veterans' workforce programs; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(i)); 


(2) Programs authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 *et seq.*); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(ii)); 


(3) Adult education and literacy activities authorized under title II of WIA; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(iii)); 


(4) Programs authorized under parts A and B of title I of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 720 *et seq.*); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(iv)); 


(5) [Reserved] 


(6) Senior community service employment activities authorized under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 *et seq.*); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(vi)); 


(7) Postsecondary vocational education activities under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 *et seq.*); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(vii)); 


(8) Trade Adjustment Assistance and NAFTA Transitional Adjustment Assistance activities authorized under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2271 *et seq.*) and Section 123(c)(2) of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-210), respectively; see (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(viii));


(9) Activities authorized under chapter 41 of title 38, U.S.C. (local veterans' employment representatives and disabled veterans outreach programs); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(ix)); 


(10) Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant (42 U.S.C. 9901 *et seq.*); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(x)); 


(11) Employment and training activities carried out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(xi)); and


(12) Programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws (in accordance with applicable Federal law); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(xii).) 



---

[N] [65 FR 49398, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35523, June 21, 2006]




