# ยง 918.2   Definitions.

(a) *Marine environment.* The term *Marine Environment* means any or all of the following: the coastal zone, as defined in section 304(1) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453(1)); the seabed, subsoil and waters of the territorial sea of the United States, including the Great Lakes; the waters of any zone over which the United States asserts exclusive fishery management authority; the waters of the high seas; and the seabed and subsoil of and beyond the Outer Continental Shelf. 


(b) *Ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources.* The term *ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources* means any resource (whether living, nonliving, manmade, tangible, intangible, actual, or potential) which is located in, derived from, or traceable to, the marine environment. Such term includes the habitat of any such living resource, the coastal space, the ecosystems, the nutrient-rich areas, and the other components of the marine environment which contribute to or provide (or which are capable of contributing to or providing) recreational, scenic, aesthetic, biological, habitational, commercial, economic, or conservation values. Living resources include natural and cultured plant life, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, and wildlife. Nonliving resources include energy sources, minerals, and chemical substances. 


(c) *Person.* The term *Person* means any public or private corporation, partnership, or other association or entity (including any Sea Grant College, Sea Grant Regional Consortium, institution of higher education, institute, or laboratory); or any State, political subdivision of a State, or agency or officer thereof. 


(d) *Sea Grant College.* The term *Sea Grant College* means any public or private institution of higher education or confederation of such institutions which is designated as such by the Secretary under section 207 of the National Sea Grant Program Act. Included in this term are all campuses (or other administrative entities) of a designated Sea Grant College, working through the established management structure of the Sea Grant College. 


(e) *Sea Grant Program.* The term *Sea Grant Program* means any program which: 


(1) Is administered by a Sea Grant College, Sea Grant Regional Consortium, institution of higher education, institute, laboratory, or State or local agency; and 


(2) Includes two or more Sea Grant projects involving one or more of the following activities in fields related to ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources: 


(i) Research, 


(ii) Education and training, and 


(iii) Advisory services. 


(f) *Sea Grant project.* A Sea Grant project is any separately described activity which has been proposed to the National Sea Grant College Program, and has subsequently been approved. 


(g) *Sea Grant Regional Consortium.* The term *Sea Grant Regional Consortium* means any association or other alliance of two or more persons as defined above (other than individuals) established for the purpose of pursuing programs in marine research education, training, and advisory services on a regional basis (*i.e.*, beyond the boundaries of a single state) and which is designated as a consortium by the Secretary under section 207 of the National Sea Grant Program Act. 


(h) *Field related to Ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources.* The term *field related to Ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources* means any discipline or field (including marine sciences and the physical, natural, and biological sciences, and engineering, included therein, marine technology, education, economics, sociology, communications, planning law, international affairs, public administration, humanities, and the arts) which is concerned with, or likely to improve the understanding, assessment, development, utilization, or conservation of, ocean, Great Lakes, and coastal resources. 




