# 247.571   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Corrective and preventive maintenance or repair* means—


(1) Maintenance or repair actions performed as a result of a failure in order to return or restore equipment to acceptable performance levels; and


(2) Scheduled maintenance or repair actions to prevent or discover functional failures.


*Covered vessel* means a vessel—


(1) Owned, operated, or controlled by the offeror; and


(2) Qualified to engage in the carriage of cargo in the coastwise or noncontiguous trade under 46 U.S.C. 12112 and 50501 and 46 U.S.C. chapter 551.


*Foreign-flag vessel* means any vessel that is not a U.S.-flag vessel.


*Ocean transportation* means any water-borne transportation aboard a ship, vessel, boat, barge, ferry, or the like outside the internal waters of the United States (as defined in 33 CFR 2.24).


*Overhaul, repair, and maintenance work* means work requiring a shipyard period greater than or equal to 5 calendar days.


*Reflagging or repair work* means work performed on a vessel—


(1) To enable the vessel to meet applicable standards to become a vessel of the United States; or


(2) To convert the vessel to a more useful military configuration.


*Supplies* means supplies that are clearly identifiable for eventual use by or owned by DoD at the time of transportation by sea, or are otherwise transported by DoD, regardless of ownership or use by DoD. An item is clearly identifiable for eventual use by DoD if, for example, the contract documentation contains a reference to a DoD contract number or a military destination.


*U.S.-flag vessel* means either a vessel belonging to the United States or a vessel of the United States as that term is defined in 46 U.S.C. 116.





---

[N] [89 FR 78994, Sept. 26, 2024]
















