# § 98.507   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section for each calcium carbide process unit, as applicable.


(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO2 emissions according to the requirements in § 98.503(a), then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37 and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Monthly calcium carbide process unit production quantity (tons).


(2) Number of calcium carbide processing unit operating hours each month.


(3) Number of calcium carbide processing unit operating hours in a calendar year.


(b) If the carbon mass balance procedure is used to determine CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements in § 98.503(b)(2), then you must retain records for the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Monthly calcium carbide process unit production quantity (tons).


(2) Number of calcium carbide process unit operating hours each month.


(3) Number of calcium carbide process unit operating hours in a calendar year.


(4) Monthly material quantity consumed, used, or produced for each material included for the calculations of annual process CO_2_ emissions (tons).


(5) Average carbon content determined and records of the supplier provided information or analyses used for the determination for each material included for the calculations of annual process CO_2_ emissions.


(c) You must keep records that include a detailed explanation of how company records of measurements are used to estimate the carbon input and output to each calcium carbide process unit, including documentation of specific input or output materials excluded from equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1) that contribute less than 1 percent of the total carbon into or out of the process. You also must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of materials fed, charged, or placed in a calcium carbide process unit including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.


(d) The applicable verification software records as identified in this paragraph (d). You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) Carbon content in reducing agent (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).


(2) Annual mass of reducing agent fed, charged, or otherwise introduced into the calcium carbide process unit (tons) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).


(3) Carbon content of carbon electrode (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).


(4) Annual mass of carbon electrode consumed in the calcium carbide process unit (tons) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).


(5) Carbon content in product (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).


(6) Annual mass of product produced/tapped in the calcium carbide process unit (tons) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).


(7) Carbon content in non-product outgoing material (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).


(8) Annual mass of non-product outgoing material removed from calcium carbide process unit (tons) (equation 1 to § 98.503(b)(1)).






