# § 263.85   Establishment of increased capital level for specific institutions.

(a) *Establishment of capital levels for specific institutions.* The Board may establish a capital level higher than the minimum specified in the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines for a specific bank or bank holding company pursuant to:


(1) A written agreement or memorandum of understanding between the Board or the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank and the bank or bank holding company;


(2) A temporary or final cease-and-desist order issued pursuant to section 8(b) or (c) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(b) or (c));


(3) A condition for approval of an application or issuance of a notice of intent not to disapprove a proposal;


(4) Or other similar means; or


(5) The procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Procedure to establish higher capital requirement*—(1) *Notice.* When the Board determines that capital levels above those in the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines may be necessary and appropriate for a particular bank or bank holding company under the circumstances, or when the Board determines that the current capital level of a savings and loan holding company is not adequate, the Board shall give the bank or bank holding company notice of the proposed higher capital requirement and shall permit the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company an opportunity to comment upon the proposed capital level, whether it should be required and, if so, under what time schedule. The notice shall contain the Board's reasons for proposing a higher level of capital.


(2) *Response.* The bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company shall be allowed at least 14 days to respond, unless the Board determines that a shorter period is necessary because of the financial condition of the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company. Failure by the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company to file a written response to the notice within the time set by the Board shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to issuance of a directive containing the required minimum capital level.


(3) *Board decision.* After considering the response of the institution, the Board may issue a written directive to the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company setting an appropriate capital level and the date on which this capital level will become effective. The Board may require the bank, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company to submit and adhere to a plan for achieving such higher capital level as the Board may set.


(4) *Enforcement of higher capital level.* The Board may enforce the capital level established pursuant to the procedures described in this section and any plan submitted to achieve that capital level through the procedures set forth in § 263.84 of this subpart. 



---

[N] [56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56604, Sept. 13, 2011]




