# § 2932.5   Definitions.

*Actual expenses* means money spent directly on the permitted activity. These may include costs of such items as food, rentals of group equipment, transportation, and permit or use fees. Actual expenses do not include the rental or purchase of personal equipment, amortization of equipment, salaries or other payments to participants, bonding costs, or profit. 


*Commercial use* means recreational use of the public lands and related waters for business or financial gain. 


(1) The activity, service, or use is commercial if—


(i) Any person, group, or organization makes or attempts to make a profit, receive money, amortize equipment, or obtain goods or services, as compensation from participants in recreational activities occurring on public lands led, sponsored, or organized by that person, group, or organization; 


(ii) Anyone collects a fee or receives other compensation that is not strictly a sharing of actual expenses, or exceeds actual expenses, incurred for the purposes of the activity, service, or use; 


(iii) There is paid public advertising to seek participants; or 


(iv) Participants pay for a duty of care or an expectation of safety. 


(2) Profit-making organizations and organizations seeking to make a profit are automatically classified as commercial, even if that part of their activity covered by the permit is not profit-making or the business as a whole is not profitable. 


(3) Use of the public lands by scientific, educational, and therapeutic institutions or non-profit organizations is commercial and subject to a permit requirement when it meets any of the threshold criteria in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition. The non-profit status of any group or organization does not alone determine that an event or activity arranged by such a group or organization is noncommercial. 


*Competitive use means*—


(1) Any organized, sanctioned, or structured use, event, or activity on public land in which 2 or more contestants compete and either or both of the following elements apply: 


(i) Participants register, enter, or complete an application for the event; 


(ii) A predetermined course or area is designated; or 


(2) One or more individuals contesting an established record such as for speed or endurance. 


*Organized group activity* means a structured, ordered, consolidated, or scheduled event on, or occupation of, public lands for the purpose of recreational use that is not commercial or competitive.


*Special area means:*

(1) An area officially designated by statute, or by Presidential or Secretarial order; 


(2) An area for which BLM determines that the resources require special management and control measures for their protection; or 


(3) An area covered by joint agreement between BLM and a State under Title II of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670a *et seq.*) 


*Vending* means the sale of goods or services, not from a permanent structure, associated with recreation on the public lands or related waters, such as food, beverages, clothing, firewood, souvenirs, photographs or film (video or still), or equipment repairs. 




