# ยง 250.735   What associated systems and related equipment must all BOP systems include?

All BOP systems must include the following associated systems and related equipment:


(a) An accumulator system (as specified in API Standard 53, incorporated by reference in ยง 250.198). Your accumulator system must have the fluid volume capacity and appropriate pre-charge pressures in accordance with API Standard 53. If you supply the accumulator regulators by rig air and do not have a secondary source of pneumatic supply, you must equip the regulators with manual overrides or other devices to ensure capability of hydraulic operations if rig air is lost;


(b) An automatic backup to the primary accumulator-charging system. The power source must be independent from the power source for the primary accumulator-charging system. The independent power source must possess sufficient capability to close and hold closed all BOP components under MASP conditions as defined for the operation;


(c) At least two full BOP control stations. One station must be on the rig floor. You must locate the other station in a readily accessible location away from the rig floor;


(d) The choke line(s) installed above the bottom well-control ram;


(e) The kill line must be installed beneath at least one well-control ram, and may be installed below the bottom ram;


(f) A fill-up line above the uppermost BOP;


(g) Locking devices for all BOP sealing rams (*i.e.*, blind shear rams, pipe rams and variable bore rams), as follows:


(1) For subsea BOPs, hydraulic locking devices must be installed on all sealing rams;


(2) For surface BOPs:


(i) Remotely-operated locking devices must be installed on blind shear rams no later than April 29, 2019;


(ii) Manual or remotely-operated locking devices must be installed on pipe rams and variable bore rams; and


(h) A wellhead assembly with a RWP that exceeds the maximum anticipated wellhead pressure.



---

[N] [81 FR 26022, Apr. 29, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 21981, May 15, 2019]




