# § 63.1544   Standards for fugitive dust sources.

(a) Each owner or operator of a primary lead processor must prepare, and at all times operate according to, a standard operating procedures manual that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place to control fugitive dust emissions from the sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section that incorporates each of the specific work practices listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section:


(1) *Plant roadways.* (i) Paved plant roadways must be cleaned using a wet sweeper unless the temperature falls below 39 degrees Fahrenheit or when the application of water results in the formation of ice. During periods when the temperature is below 39 degrees Fahrenheit, paved plant roadways must be cleaned using a high efficiency dry sweeper.


(ii) Continuously operate a sprinkler system to wet plant roadways to prevent fugitive dust entrainment. This sprinkler system must be operated except during periods when the temperature is less than 39 degrees Fahrenheit or when the application of water results in formation of ice.


(2) *Material storage and handling area(s).* (i) Chemically stabilize inactive concentrate storage piles a minimum of once every month to reduce particulate from wind born re-suspension.


(ii) Finished sinter must be sufficiently wetted to ensure fugitive dust emissions are minimized prior to loading to railcars.


(3) *Sinter machine area(s).* (i) Personnel doors must be kept closed during operations except when entering or exiting the furnace building by the aid of door weights or similar device for automatic closure.


(ii) Large equipment doors must remain closed except when entering or existing the building using an automatic closure system or equivalent lock-and-key method.


(iii) It may be necessary to open doors subject to the requirements in § 63.1544(a)(3)(i) and (ii) to prevent heat stress or exhaustion of workers inside the sinter plant building. Records of such periods must be included in the report required under § 63.1549(e)(8).


(4) *Furnace area(s).* (i) Personnel doors must be kept closed during operations except when entering or exiting the furnace building by the aid of door weights or similar device for automatic closure.


(ii) Large equipment doors must remain closed except when entering or existing the building using an automatic closure system or equivalent lock-and-key method.


(iii) It may be necessary to open doors subject to the requirements in § 63.1544(a)(4)(i) and (ii) to prevent heat stress or exhaustion of workers inside the blast furnace building. Records of such periods must be included in the report required under § 63.1549(e)(8).


(5) *Refining and casting area(s).* (i) Personnel doors must be kept closed during operations except when entering or exiting the furnace building by the aid of door weights or similar device for automatic closure.


(ii) Large equipment doors must remain closed except when entering or existing the building using an automatic closure system or equivalent lock-and-key method.


(iii) It may be necessary to open doors subject to the requirements in § 63.1544(a)(5)(i) and (ii) to prevent heat stress or exhaustion of workers inside the refining and casting building. Records of such periods must be included in the report required under § 63.1549(e)(8).


(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the standard operating procedures manual shall be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval.


(c) Existing manuals that describe the measures in place to control fugitive dust sources required as part of a State implementation plan for lead shall satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section provided they include all the work practices as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section and provided they address all the sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(d) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.



---

[N] [76 FR 70853, Nov. 15, 2011]




