# § 35.120   Options.

(a) *Standard treatments.* Where interim controls are required by this part, the designated party has the option to presume that lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards or both are present throughout the residential property. In such a case, evaluation is not required. Standard treatments shall then be conducted in accordance with § 35.1335 on all applicable surfaces, including soil. Standard treatments are completed only when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.


(b) *Abatement.* Where abatement is required by this part, the designated party may presume that lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards or both are present throughout the residential property. In such a case, evaluation is not required. Abatement shall then be conducted on all applicable surfaces, including soil, in accordance with § 35.1325, and completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340. This option is not available in public housing, where inspection is required.


(c) *Lead hazard screen.* Where a risk assessment is required, the designated party may choose first to conduct a lead hazard screen in accordance with § 35.1320(b). If the results of the lead hazard screen indicate the need for a full risk assessment (e.g., if the environmental measurements exceed levels established for lead hazard screens in § 35.1320(b)(2)), a complete risk assessment shall be conducted. Environmental samples collected for the lead hazard screen may be used in the risk assessment. If the results of the lead hazard screen do not indicate the need for a follow-up risk assessment, a risk assessment is not required.


(d) *Paint testing.* Where paint stabilization or interim controls of deteriorated paint surfaces are required by this rule, the designated party has the option to conduct paint testing of all surfaces with non-intact paint. If paint testing indicates the absence of lead-based paint on a specific surface, paint stabilization or interim controls are not required on that surface.




