# ยง 424.540   Deactivation of Medicare billing privileges.

(a) *Reasons for deactivation.* CMS may deactivate the Medicare billing privileges of a provider or supplier for any of the following reasons:


(1) The provider or supplier does not submit any Medicare claims for 6 consecutive calendar months. The 6 month period will begin the 1st day of the 1st month without a claims submission through the last day of the 6th month without a submitted claim.


(2) The provider or supplier does not report a change to the information supplied on the enrollment application within the applicable time period required under this title.


(3) The provider or supplier does not furnish complete and accurate information and all supporting documentation within 90 calendar days of receipt of notification from CMS to submit an enrollment application and supporting documentation, or resubmit and certify to the accuracy of its enrollment information.


(4) The provider or supplier is not in compliance with all enrollment requirements in this title.


(5) The provider's or supplier's practice location is non-operational or otherwise invalid.


(6) The provider or supplier is deceased.


(7) The provider or supplier is voluntarily withdrawing from Medicare.


(8) The provider is the seller in an HHA change of ownership under ยง 424.550(b)(1).


(b) *Reactivation of billing privileges.*

(1) In order for a deactivated provider or supplier to reactivate its Medicare billing privileges, the provider or supplier must recertify that its enrollment information currently on file with Medicare is correct, furnish any missing information as appropriate, and be in compliance with all applicable enrollment requirements in this title.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, CMS may, for any reason, require a deactivated provider or supplier to, as a prerequisite for reactivating its billing privileges, submit a complete Form CMS-855 application.


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, reactivation of Medicare billing privileges does not require a new certification of the provider or supplier by the State survey agency or the establishment of a new provider agreement.


(i) An HHA whose Medicare billing privileges are deactivated under the provisions found at paragraph (a) of this section must obtain an initial State survey or accreditation by an approved accreditation organization before its Medicare billing privileges can be reactivated.


(ii) [Reserved]


(c) *Effect of deactivation.* The deactivation of Medicare billing privileges does not have any effect on a provider's or supplier's participation agreement or any conditions of participation.


(d) *Effective dates.* (1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the effective date of a deactivation is the date on which the deactivation is imposed under this section.


(ii) A retroactive deactivation effective date (based on the date that the provider's or supplier's action or non-compliance occurred or commenced (as applicable)) may be imposed in the following instances:


(A) For the deactivation reasons in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section, the effective date is the date on which the provider or supplier became non-compliant.


(B) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the effective date is the date on which the provider's or supplier's practice location became non-operational or otherwise invalid.


(C) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the effective date is the date of death of the provider or supplier.


(D) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, the effective date is the date on which the provider or supplier voluntarily withdrew from Medicare.


(E) For the deactivation reason in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, the effective date is the date of the sale.


(2) The effective date of a reactivation of billing privileges under this section is the date on which the Medicare contractor received the provider's or supplier's reactivation submission that was processed to approval by the Medicare contractor.


(e) *Payment prohibition.* A provider or supplier may not receive payment for services or items furnished while deactivated under this section.



---

[N] [71 FR 20776, Apr. 21, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 58134, Nov. 10, 2009; 77 FR 29030, May 16, 2012; 84 FR 47856, Sept. 10, 2019; 86 FR 62420, Nov. 9, 2021; 88 FR 77878, Nov. 13, 2023]










