# § 402.60   How does SSA process FOIA requests?

(a) *Acknowledgement.* (1) If we receive a FOIA request that will take longer than 10 working days to process, we will provide an acknowledgment. The acknowledgement email or letter restates the FOIA request and provides the requester with the request's tracking number.


(2) If we require clarification to process the FOIA request, we will contact the requester either via email, U.S. postal mail, or phone call. We attempt to contact requesters twice. If we do not receive a response to our clarification attempts within 30 calendar days from the date of our first contact to the requester, we will close the FOIA request due to insufficient information.


(b) *Perfected requests.* FOIA requests are considered “perfected,” *i.e.,* the 20-working day statutory time begins, when the request meets the requirements of the proper FOIA request listed in § 402.30. There may be times that we require more information from the requester after perfecting a request. The 20-working day period may be extended in unusual circumstances by written notice to the requester. See paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Multi-tracking procedures.* FOIA requests are categorized simple, complex, or expedited. Unless granted expedited processing, we process FOIA requests in each track according to a first-in, first-out basis.


(1) *Simple.* For most non-expedited requests, we make a determination about release of the record(s) requested within 20-working days.


(2) *Complex.* We will place into a complex processing queue any request that cannot be completed within 20-working days due to the complex nature of the request, including consultation with components that may maintain records subject to the request. We make good faith efforts to notify requesters in writing if it is necessary for us to take additional time to process a request and of the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services with the Office of Government Information Services. See § 402.100.


(3) *Expedited processing.* Unless granted expedited processing, we process FOIA requests according to a first-in, first-out basis. See § 402.65 for information on expedited processing.


(d) *Unusual circumstances.* (1) Unusual circumstances exist when there is a need to:


(i) Search for and collect records from SSA components or field locations that are separate from OPD;


(ii) Search for, collect, and review a voluminous number of records that are part of a single request; or


(iii) Consult with two or more SSA components or another agency having substantial interest in the request before releasing the records.


(2) Within the unusual circumstances letter to the requester, we will provide an estimated date that we will contact the requester with the applicable fee notice and/or further correspondence. We will notify the requester of the date by which we estimate completing the request. We will also advise the requester that they may modify or narrow the scope of their request.


(3) When unusual circumstances exist, we will process the request under the complex track.


(e) *Aggregating requests.* We may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request, involving clearly related matters, which would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. In the event requests are aggregated, they will be treated as one request for estimating response time and calculating fees.


(f) *Fee notice.* FOIA requesters are issued a fee notice that informs them of the estimated search, review, and duplication time associated with processing their FOIA request. For more information on fees, see §§ 402.70 through 402.80.


(g) *Tolling.* (1) We may stop or toll the 20 working days in two circumstances:


(i) We may stop the clock once if we require additional information regarding the specifics of the request; and


(ii) We may stop the clock as many times as needed regarding fee assessments.


(2) The processing time will resume upon our receipt of the requester's response. There may be instances when we require multiple clarifications on a FOIA request. After the first request for clarification, any additional clarifications are performed without tolling the clock. If we do not receive a response to our clarification attempts within 30 calendar days from the date of our first contact to the requester, we will close the FOIA request.


(h) *Retrieving records.* We are required to furnish copies of records only when they are in our possession or we can retrieve them from storage. We will make reasonable efforts to search for records except when such efforts would significantly interfere with the operation of our automated information system(s). The Federal Government follows National Archives and Records Administration rules on record retention. Records are retained or destroyed under the guidelines of the Federal Records Act.


(i) *No records determinations.* We will search for records to satisfy a request using methods that can be reasonably expected to produce the requested records. Nevertheless, we may not be able to always find the records requested using the information provided by the requester, or they may not exist. If we advise that we have been unable to find the records despite a diligent search, the requester may appeal the no records determination to the Executive Director for OPD, as described in § 402.105.


(j) *Furnishing records.* We will furnish copies of records in whole or in-part, unless we reasonably foresee that disclosure would harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption or if disclosure is prohibited by law. When information within a responsive record(s) is exempt from disclosure, the information is redacted and the applicable FOIA exemption(s) are noted within the redacted cell. We will make reasonable efforts to provide the records in the form or format requested if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format. We may provide individual records as we process them on a rolling basis, or we may release all responsive records once the request is completed. See § 402.95 for more information on SSA's release of records.


(k) *Directing a requester to another agency.* If a request is for records that are not SSA records for purposes of the FOIA, and we believe the records may be maintained by another agency, we may advise the requester to submit their request to that other agency. In such cases, we will provide the requester with the other agency's name in our response letter. Our recommendation that the requester submit their request to the other agency is not a guarantee the other agency will have or disclose the records requested.


(l) *Burdensome requests.* The FOIA requires an agency to provide the record in any form or format requested by the person if the record is readily reproducible by the agency in that form or format. We will not search or produce records in response to a FOIA request that we determine would be unduly burdensome to process. FOIA requests are determined to be unreasonably burdensome when processing the FOIA request would significantly interfere with the ongoing operation of the agency's programs.






