# § 923.2   Definitions.

(a) The term *Act* means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended.


(b) The term *Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce and his/her designee.


(c) The term *Assistant Administrator* means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), or designee.


(d)(1) The term *relevant Federal agencies* means those Federal agencies with programs, activities, projects, regulatory, financing, or other assistance responsibilities in the following fields which could impact or affect a State's coastal zone:


(i) Energy production or transmission,


(ii) Recreation of a more than local nature,


(iii) Transportation,


(iv) Production of food and fiber,


(v) Preservation of life and property,


(vi) National defense,


(vii) Historic, cultural, aesthetic, and conservation values,


(viii) Mineral resources and extraction, and


(ix) Pollution abatement and control.


(2) The following are defined as relevant Federal agencies: Department of Agriculture; Department of Commerce; Department of Defense; Department of Education; Department of Energy; Department of Health and Human Services; Department of Housing and Urban Development; Department of the Interior; Department of Transportation; Environmental Protection Agency; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; General Services Administration, Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Federal Emergency Management Agency.


(e) The term *Federal agencies principally affected* means the same as “relevant Federal agencies.” The Assistant Administrator may include other agencies for purposes of reviewing the management program and environmental impact statement.


(f) The term *Coastal State* means a State of the United States in, or bordering on, the Atlantic, Pacific, or Arctic Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico, Long Island Sound, or one or more of the Great Lakes. Pursuant to section 304(3) of the Act, the term also includes Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa. Pursuant to section 703 of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, the term also includes the Northern Marianas.


(g) The term *management program* includes, but is not limited to, a comprehensive statement in words, maps, illustrations, or other media of communication, including an articulation of enforceable policies and citation of authorities providing this enforceability, prepared and adopted by the State in accordance with the provisions of this Act and this part, setting forth objectives, policies, and standards to guide public and private uses of lands and waters in the coastal zone.


(h) The following terms, as used in these regulations, have the same definition as provided in section 304 of the Act:


(1) Coastal zone;


(2) Coastal waters;


(3) Enforceable policy;


(4) Estuary;


(5) Land use; and


(6) Water use.


(i) The term *grant* means a financial assistance instrument and refers to both grants and cooperative agreements.




