# § 98.197   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(a) Annual operating hours in calendar year.


(b) Records of all analyses (e.g. chemical composition of lime products, by type) and calculations conducted.


(c) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section.


(1) Monthly calcium oxide content for each lime type, determined according to § 98.194(c) (metric tons CaO/metric ton lime) (Equation S-1 of § 98.193).


(2) Monthly magnesium oxide content for each lime type, determined according to § 98.194(c) (metric tons MgO/metric ton lime) (Equation S-1).


(3) Monthly calcium oxide content for each calcined lime byproduct or waste type sold (metric tons CaO/metric ton lime) (Equation S-2 of § 98.193).


(4) Monthly magnesium oxide content for each calcined lime byproduct or waste type sold (metric tons MgO/metric ton lime) (Equation S-2).


(5) Calcium oxide content for each calcined lime byproduct or waste type that is not sold (metric tons CaO/metric ton lime) (Equation S-3 of § 98.193).


(6) Magnesium oxide content for each calcined lime byproduct or waste type that is not sold (metric tons MgO/metric ton lime) (Equation S-3).


(7) Annual weight or mass of calcined byproducts or wastes for lime type that is not sold (tons) (Equation S-3).


(8) Monthly weight or mass of each lime type produced (tons) (Equation S-4 of § 98.193).


(9) Monthly weight or mass of each calcined byproducts or wastes sold (tons) (Equation S-4).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63792, Oct. 24, 2014]




