# ยง 604.30   Filing complaints.

(a) *Filing address.* Unless provided otherwise, the complainant shall file the complaint with the Office of the Chief Counsel, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Room E55-302, Washington, DC 20590 and file it electronically in the Charter Service Complaint docket number FTA-2007-0025 at *http://www.regulations.gov* or mail it to the docket by sending the complaint to 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, Washington, DC 20590.


(b) *Date and method of filing.* Filing of any document shall be by personal delivery, U.S. mail, or overnight delivery with receipt confirmation. Unless the date is shown to be inaccurate, documents to be filed with FTA shall be deemed filed, on the earliest of:


(1) The date of personal delivery;


(2) The mailing date shown on the certificate of service;


(3) The date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service; or


(4) The mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service and no postmark.


(c) *E-mail or fax.* A document sent by facsimile or e-mail shall not constitute service as described in ยง 604.31.


(d) *Number of copies.* Unless otherwise specified, an executed original shall be filed with FTA.


(e) *Form.* Documents filed with FTA shall be typewritten or legibly printed. In the case of docketed proceedings, the document shall include a title and the docket number, as established by the Chief Counsel or Presiding Official, of the proceeding on the front page.


(f) *Signing of documents and other papers.* The original of every document filed shall be signed by the person filing it or the person's duly authorized representative. Subject to the enforcement provisions contained in this subpart, the signature shall serve as a certification that the signer has read the document and, based on reasonable inquiry, to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief, the document is:


(1) Consistent with this part;


(2) Warranted by existing law or that a good faith argument exists for extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and


(3) Not interposed for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of the administrative process.




