# ยง 712.3   Definitions.

The following definitions are used in this part:


*Access* means:


(1) A situation that may provide an individual proximity to or control over Category I special nuclear material (SNM); or


(2) The proximity to a nuclear explosive and/or Category I SNM that allows the opportunity to divert, steal, tamper with, and/or damage the nuclear explosive or material in spite of any controls that have been established to prevent such unauthorized actions.


*Alcohol* means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohol.


*Alcohol abuse* means consumption of any beverage, mixture, or preparation, including any medication containing alcohol that results in impaired social or occupational functioning.


*Alcohol concentration* means the alcohol in a volume of breath expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as indicated by a breath test.


*Alcohol use disorder* means a maladaptive pattern in which a person's intake of alcohol is great enough to damage or adversely affect physical or mental health or personal, social, or occupational function; or when alcohol has become a prerequisite to normal function.




*Case chronology* means a written recitation of all actions that support a recommendation to revoke an individual's HRP certification under ยง 712.19.


*Certification* means the formal action the HRP certifying official takes that permits an individual to perform HRP duties after it is determined that the individual meets the requirements for certification under this part.


*Contractor* means contractors and subcontractors at all tiers and any industrial, educational, commercial, or other entity, grantee, or licensee, including an employee that has executed an agreement with the Federal government for the purpose of performing under a contract, license, or other arrangement.


*Designated Physician* means a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy who has been nominated by the Site Occupational Medical Director (SOMD) and approved by the Manager or designee, with the concurrence of the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee to provide professional expertise in occupational medicine for the HRP.


*Designated Psychologist* means a licensed Ph.D., or Psy.D., in clinical psychology who has been nominated by the SOMD and approved by the Manager or designee, with the concurrence of the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee to provide professional expertise in the area of psychological assessment for the HRP.


*Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders* means the current version of the American Psychiatric Association's manual containing definitions of psychiatric terms and diagnostic criteria of mental disorders.


*Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security* means the DOE individual with responsibility for policy and quality assurance for DOE occupational medical programs.


*Drug abuse* means use of an illegal drug or misuse of legal drugs.


*Evaluative report* means the document that sets forth the bases supporting the revocation of an individual's certification.


*Evidential-grade breath alcohol device* means a device that conforms to the model standards for an evidential breath-testing device as listed on the Conforming Products List of Evidential Breath Measurement Devices published by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).


*Flashback* means an involuntary, spontaneous recurrence of some aspect of a hallucinatory experience or perceptual distortion that occurs long after taking the hallucinogen that produced the original effect; also referred to as hallucinogen persisting perception disorder.


*Hallucinogen* means a drug or substance that produces hallucinations, distortions in perception of sights and sounds, and disturbances in emotion, judgment, and memory.


*HRP candidate* means an individual being considered for assignment to an HRP position.


*HRP-certified individual* means an individual who has successfully completed the HRP requirements.


*HRP certifying official* means the Manager or the Manager's designee who certifies, recertifies, temporarily removes, reviews the circumstances of an individual's removal from an HRP position, and directs reinstatement.


*HRP management official* means an individual designated by the DOE or a DOE contractor, as appropriate, who has programmatic responsibility for HRP positions.


*Illegal drug* means a controlled substance, as specified in Schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 811 and 812; the term does not apply to the use of a controlled substance in accordance with the terms of a valid prescription, or other uses authorized by Federal law.


*Impaired* or *impairment* means a decrease in functional capacity of a person that is caused by a physical, mental, emotional, substance abuse, or behavioral disorder.


*Incident* means an unplanned, undesired event that interrupts the completion of an activity and that may include property damage or injury.


*Job task analysis* means the formal process of defining the requirements of a position and identifying the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to effectively perform the duties of the position.


*Manager* means the senior Federal line manager at a departmental site or Federal office with HRP-designated positions.


*Material access area* means a type of Security Area that is authorized to contain a Category I quantity of special nuclear material and that has specifically defined physical barriers, is located within a Protected Area, and is subject to specific access controls.


*Medical assessment* means an evaluation of an HRP candidate and HRP-certified individual's present health status and health risk factors by means of:


(1) Medical history review;


(2) Job task analysis;


(3) Physical examination;


(4) Appropriate laboratory tests and measurements; and


(5) Appropriate psychological and psychiatric evaluations.


*Nuclear explosive* means an assembly of fissionable and/or fusionable materials and main charge high explosive parts or propellants that is capable of producing a nuclear detonation.


*Nuclear explosive duties* means work assignments that allow custody of a nuclear explosive or access to a nuclear explosive device or area.


*Occurrence* means any event or incident that is a deviation from the planned or expected behavior or course of events in connection with any DOE or DOE-controlled operation if the deviation has environmental, public health and safety, or national security protection significance, including (but not limited to) incidents involving:


(1) Injury or fatality to any person involving actions of a DOE employee or contractor employee;


(2) An explosion, fire, spread of radioactive material, personal injury or death, or damage to property that involves nuclear explosives under DOE jurisdiction;


(3) Accidental release of pollutants that results from, or could result in, a significant effect on the public or environment; or


(4) Accidental release of radioactive material above regulatory limits.


*Psychological assessment or test* means a scientifically validated instrument designed to detect psychiatric, personality, and behavioral tendencies that would indicate problems with reliability and judgment.


*Random alcohol testing* means the unscheduled, unannounced alcohol testing of randomly selected employees by a process designed to ensure that selections are made in a nondiscriminatory manner.


*Random drug testing* means the unscheduled, unannounced drug testing of randomly selected employees by a process designed to ensure that selections are made in a nondiscriminatory manner.


*Reasonable suspicion* means a suspicion based on an articulable belief that an individual uses illegal drugs or is under the influence of alcohol, drawn from reasonable inferences from particular facts, as detailed further in part 707 of this title.


*Recertification* means the action the HRP certifying official takes annually, not to exceed 12 months, that permits an employee to remain in the HRP and perform HRP duties.


*Reinstatement* means the action taken after it has been determined that an employee who has been temporarily removed from the HRP meets the certification requirements of this part and can be returned to HRP duties, contingent on the individual completing any and all components of the annual recertification process under ยง 712.11 and any other specific requirements that must be completed in order to return to full HRP duties.


*Reliability* means an individual's ability to adhere to security and safety rules and regulations.


*Restoration* means the actions necessary to restore an individual's HRP duties after a final decision has been made by the cognizant Under Secretary or his/her designee to overturn the revocation decision. The restoration of HRP duties is contingent on the individual completing any and all components of the annual recertification process under ยง 712.11 and any other specific requirements that must be completed in order to return to full HRP duties.


*Safety concern* means any condition, practice, or violation that causes a reasonable probability of physical harm, property loss, and/or environmental impact.


*Security concern* means the presence of information regarding an individual that raises a question as to whether HRP certification and recertification would endanger the common defense and security and would be clearly consistent with the national interest.


*Semi-structured interview* means an interview by a Designated Psychologist, or a psychologist under his or her supervision, who has the latitude to vary the focus and content of the questions depending on the interviewee's responses.


*Site Occupational Medical Director (SOMD)* means the physician responsible for the overall direction and operation of the occupational medical program at a particular site or program.


*Supervisor* means the individual who has oversight and organizational responsibility for a person holding an HRP position, and whose duties include evaluating the behavior and performance of the HRP-certified individual.


*Transfer* means an HRP-certified individual moving from one site to another site.


*Unacceptable damage* means an incident that could result in a nuclear detonation; high-explosive detonation or deflagration from a nuclear explosive; the diversion, misuse, or removal of Category I special nuclear material; or an interruption of nuclear explosive operations with a significant impact on national security.


*Unsafe practice* means either a human action departing from prescribed hazard controls or job procedures or practices, or an action causing a person unnecessary exposure to a hazard.



---

[N] [83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]




