# § 1211.11   Requirements for photoelectric sensors.

(a) *Normal operation test.* When installed as described in § 1211.10(a)(1) through (4), a photoelectric sensor of a vertically moving door shall sense an obstruction as described in paragraph (c) of this section that is to be placed on the floor at three points over the width of the door opening, at distances of 1 foot (305 mm) from each end and the midpoint.


(b) *Normal operation test—Horizontally moving door.* When installed as described in § 1211.10(a)(1) through (4), a photoelectric sensor of a horizontally moving door shall be tested per paragraph (c) of this section that is to be placed on a level surface within the path of the moving door. The sensor is to be tested with the obstruction at a total of five different locations over the height of the door. The locations shall include distances 1 in (25.4 mm) from each end, 1 ft (305 mm) from each end, and the midpoint.


(c) *Normal operation test—Obstruction.* The obstruction noted in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall consist of a white vertical surface 6 inches (152 mm) high by 12 inches (305 mm) long. The obstruction is to be centered in the opening perpendicular to the plane of the door when in the closed position. See Figure 3 to subpart A.


(d) *Sensitivity test.* (1) When installed as described in § 1211.10(a)(1) through (4), a photoelectric sensor shall sense the presence of a moving object when tested according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) The moving object is to consist of a 1
7/8 inch (47.6 mm) diameter cylindrical rod, 34
1/2 inches (876 mm) long, with the axis point being 34 inches (864 mm) from the end. The axis point is to be fixed at a point centered directly above the beam of the photoelectric sensor 36 inches (914 mm) above the level surface below the door. The rod is to be swung as a pendulum through the photoelectric sensor's beam from a position 45 degrees from the plane of the door when in the closed position. See figure 4 to this subpart.


(3) The test described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is to be conducted at three points over the width of the door opening, at distances of 1 foot (305 mm) from each end and the midpoint.


(4) When the test fixture of Figure 4 to subpart A, prior to conduct of the test, interferes with the photoelectric sensor detection zone, the tests per paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section may be conducted instead per paragraph (f)(4) of this section.


(e) *Ambient light test.* (1) A photoelectric sensor shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) and (c) when subjected to ambient light impinging at an angle of 15 to 20 degrees from the axis of the beam when tested according to paragraph (e)(2) of this section and, if appropriate, paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(2) To determine compliance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a 500 watt incandescent or equivalent minimum rated, 3600K or lower color rated flood lamp is to be energized from a 120-volt, 60-hertz source. The lamp is to be positioned 5 feet from the front of the receiver and aimed directly at the sensor at an angle of 15 to 20 degrees from the axis of the beam. See Figure 5 to subpart A.


(3) If the photoelectric sensor uses a reflector, this test is to be repeated with the lamp aimed at the reflector.


(4) During the test conditions described in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section, a photoelectric sensor shall comply with the normal operation test requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section, and


(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with sensitivity test requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section, and


(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the normal operation test requirements described in § 1211.12.


(f) *Photoelectric sensor vertical arrays.* (1) A vertical array shall be tested as required by paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, except as noted in paragraphs (f)(2) through (5) of this section.


(2) The array shall comply with the Normal Operation tests specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, with the solid obstruction placed on the floor. In addition, the obstruction shall be placed at various locations over the height of the light curtain array in accordance with the light curtain coverage area per the manufacturer's instructions.


(3) In conducting the tests specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, when the product includes a blanking function whereby the light array is located directly in-line with the path of the door travel, and the door system is intended to detect any obstruction other than one in the “next” successive position that the door is programmed to travel, the obstruction is placed at any location other than the next successive door position expected by the system.


(4) The array shall comply with the Sensitivity Test specified in paragraph (d) of this section, except that the edge of the pendulum nearest to the array is to be located 2 in. (50.8 mm) from one side of the plane of the array, rather than directly above one photoelectric sensor pair. For vertical arrays, this test need only be conducted with the test pendulum at the vertical height indicated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(5) When conducting the Ambient Light Test specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the position of the light source shall be aligned per paragraph (e)(2) of this section based on the axis of the lowest beam or detection zone. This arrangement shall be used to determine compliance with the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section (with the obstruction at the floor level) and paragraph (f)(4) of this section, which are the only conditions for which the ambient light is required to be applied.



---

[N] [81 FR 20232, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 18540, Mar. 14, 2024]




