# § 284.262   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


*Emergency* means:


(1) Any situation in which an actual or expected shortage of gas supply or capacity would require an interstate pipeline company, intrastate pipeline, local distribution company, or Hinshaw pipeline to curtail deliveries of gas or provide less than the projected level of service to any pipeline customer, including any situation in which additional supplies or capacity are necessary to ensure a pipeline's contracted level of service to any customer, but not including any situation in which additional supplies or capacity are needed to increase the contracted level of service to an existing customer or to provide service to a new customer; or


(2) A sudden unanticipated loss of natural gas supply or capacity; or


(3) An anticipated loss of natural gas supply or capacity due to a foreseeable facility outage resulting from a landslide or riverbed erosion or other natural forces beyond the participant's control. Participants may seek a temporary certificate under §§ 157.17 of this chapter if the facilities to remedy the emergency cannot be constructed automatically under § 2.55(b) or § 157.208(a) of this chapter.


(4) A situation in which the participant, in good faith, determines that immediate action is required or is reasonably anticipated to be required for protection of life or health or for maintenance of physical property.


Emergency does not mean any situation resulting from a failure by any person to transport natural gas under subpart B, C, or G of this part.


*Projected level of service* means the level of gas volumes to be delivered by the company for each customer and additional gas volumes needed by a customer due solely to a weather-induced increase in requirements.


*Emergency natural gas* means natural gas sold, transported, or exchanged in an emergency natural gas transaction.


*Emergency natural gas transaction* means the sale, transportation, or exchange of natural gas (including the construction and operation of necessary facilities) conducted pursuant to this subpart, that is:


(1) Necessary to alleviate an emergency; and


(2) Not anticipated to extend for more than 60 days in duration.


*Emergency facilities* means any facilities necessary to alleviate the emergency within the time frame established in § 284.264(b). Participants can seek permanent authority to operate the emergency facilities either under the temporary certificate provisions of § 157.17 of this chapter or the prior notice provisions of § 157.208(b) of this chapter.


*Participant* means any first seller, interstate pipeline, intrastate pipeline, local distribution company or Hinshaw pipeline that participates in an emergency natural gas transaction under this subpart.


*Recipient* means:


(1) In the case of a sale of emergency natural gas, the purchaser of such gas; or


(2) In the case of a transportation or exchange of natural gas when there is no sale of emergency natural gas under this subpart, the participant who receives the gas.


*Hinshaw pipeline* means a pipeline that is exempt from the Natural Gas Act jurisdiction of the Commission by reason of section 1(c) of the Natural Gas Act.



---

[N] [Order 603, 64 FR 26610, May 14, 1999]




