# § 63.11990   What records must I keep?

You must keep records as specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section, as applicable.


(a) *Copies of reports.* You must keep a copy of each notification and report that you submit to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any notification or report. You must also keep copies of the current versions of the site-specific performance evaluation test plan, site-specific monitoring plan, and the equipment leak detection and repair plan.


(b) *Storage vessels.* For storage vessels, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) You must keep a record of the dimensions of the storage vessel, an analysis of the capacity of the storage vessel and an identification of the liquid stored.


(2) Inspection records for fixed roofs complying with § 63.11910 including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Record the date of each inspection required by § 63.11910(a)(3).


(ii) For each defect detected during an inspection required by § 63.11910(a)(3), record the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with § 63.11910(a)(4)(ii), also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) For pressure vessels, you must keep the records specified in paragraph (c) of this section for each pressure vessel.


(5) For internal and external floating roof storage vessels, you must maintain the records required in § 63.1065 of subpart WW of this part.


(6) For fixed roof storage vessels that route emissions through a closed vent system to a control device, during periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, record the day and time at which planned routine maintenance periods begin and end, and the type of maintenance performed on the control device. If you need more than 240 hr/yr, keep a record that explains why additional time up to 360 hr/yr was needed and describes how you minimized the amount of additional time needed.


(c) *Equipment leaks.* For equipment leaks, you must maintain the records specified in § 63.1038 of subpart UU of this part for equipment leaks and a record of the information specified in § 63.11930(g)(4) for monitoring instrument calibrations conducted according to § 63.11930(e)(2).


(d) *Heat exchange systems.* For a heat exchange system subject to this subpart, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Identification of all heat exchangers at the facility and the measured or estimated average annual HAP concentration of process fluid or intervening cooling fluid processed in each heat exchanger.


(2) Identification of all heat exchange systems that are in HAP service. For each heat exchange system that is subject to this subpart, you must include identification of all heat exchangers within each heat exchange system, identification of the individual heat exchangers in HAP service within each heat exchange system, and for closed-loop recirculation systems, the cooling tower included in each heat exchange system.


(3) Identification of all heat exchange systems that are exempt from the monitoring requirements according to the provisions in § 63.11920(b) and the provision under which the heat exchange system is exempt.


(4) Results of the following monitoring data for each monitoring event:


(i) Date/time of event.


(ii) Heat exchange exit line flow or cooling tower return line flow at the sampling location, gallons/minute.


(iii) Monitoring method employed.


(iv) The measured cooling water concentration for each of target analyte (parts per billion by weight).


(v) Calibration and recovery information identified in the test method used.


(5) The date when a leak was identified and the date when the heat exchanger was repaired or taken out of service.


(6) If a repair is delayed, the reason for the delay, the schedule for completing the repair, and the estimate of potential emissions for the delay of repair.


(e) *Process vent monitoring.* You must include the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable, for process vent monitoring.


(1) Continuous records. Where this subpart requires a continuous record using CEMS or CPMS, you must maintain, at a minimum, the records specified in § 63.10(b)(2)(vii)(A).


(2) Excluded data. In any average computed to determine compliance, you must exclude monitoring data recorded during periods specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Periods of non-operation of the process unit (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.


(ii) Periods of no flow to a control device.


(iii) Monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities, as specified in § 63.11890(c)(2).


(3) Records of calculated emission and operating parameter values. You must retain for 5 years, a record of CEMS and CPMS data as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, retain for 5 years, the records of the average values for each continuously monitored operating parameter and pollutant specified in §§ 63.11925(e)(3)(ii) and 63.11925(e)(4)(ii)(B) for CEMS and CPMS.


(ii) In lieu of calculating and recording the average value specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) of this section, if all 1-hour averages specified in § 63.11935(e) demonstrate compliance with your parameter operating limit or the applicable pollutant emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for the block average period, you may record a statement that all recorded 1-hour averages met the operating limit or emission limit, as applicable, and retain for 5 years this statement and all recorded CPMS or CEMS data for the block average period.


(4) Information to be included in records. You must keep records of each operating scenario as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) You must keep a schedule or log of operating scenarios, updated each time a different operating scenario is put into effect.


(ii) A description of the process and the type of process components used.


(iii) An identification of related process vents including their associated emissions episodes.


(iv) The applicable control requirements of this subpart for process vents.


(v) The control device, including a description of operating and testing conditions.


(vi) Combined emissions that are routed to the same control device.


(vii) The applicable monitoring requirements of this subpart and any operating limit that assures compliance for all emissions routed to the control device.


(viii) Calculations and engineering analyses required to demonstrate compliance.


(f) *Process vents.* You must include the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable, for process vents.


(1) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii). You must also collect the applicable control device operating parameters required in § 63.11940 over the full period of the performance test.


(2) If you use a control device to comply with this subpart and you are required to use CPMS, then you must keep up-to-date and readily accessible records for your process vents as specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.


(i) If you use a flow indicator, then you must keep records of periods of no flow to the control device, including the start and stop time and dates of periods of flow and no flow.


(ii) If you use a catalytic oxidizer for which you have selected the alternative monitoring specified in § 63.11940(b)(3), then you must also maintain records of the results of the annual catalyst sampling and inspections required by § 63.11940(b)(3)(i) and (ii) including any subsequent corrective actions taken.


(iii) If you use a regenerative adsorber as specified in § 63.11940(d), then the records specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii)(A) through (H) of this section, as applicable, must be kept.


(A) Records of total regeneration stream mass flow for each adsorber-bed regeneration cycle.


(B) Records of the temperature of the adsorber bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle.


(C) For non-vacuum and non-steam regeneration systems, records of the temperature of the adsorber bed during each regeneration except during any temperature regulating (cooling or warming to bring bed temperature closer to vent gas temperature) portion of the regeneration cycle.


(D) If adsorber regeneration vacuum is monitored pursuant to § 63.11940(d)(4), then you must keep records of the vacuum profile over time and the amount of time the vacuum level is below the minimum vacuum target for each adsorber-bed regeneration cycle.


(E) Records of the regeneration frequency and duration.


(F) Daily records of the verification inspections, including the visual observations and/or any activation of an automated alarm or shutdown system with a written entry into a log book or other permanent form of record.


(G) Records of the maximum volatile organic compound or HAP outlet concentration observed over the last 5 minutes of the adsorption cycle for each adsorber bed. Records must be weekly or for every regeneration cycle if the regeneration cycle is greater than 1 week.


(H) Records of the date and time the adsorbent had last been replaced.


(iv) If you use a non-regenerative adsorber as specified in § 63.11940(e), then the records specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable, must be kept.


(A) A record of the average life of the bed, as determined by § 63.11940(e)(1), including the date the average life was determined.


(B) Daily, weekly, or monthly records of the maximum volatile organic compound or HAP outlet concentration, as specified by § 63.11940(e)(2).


(C) Records of bed replacement including the date and time the adsorbent had last been replaced, and the date and time in which breakthrough is detected.


(g) *Closed vent systems.* You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section, and you must record any additional information as specified in § 63.11930, as applicable.


(1) Each alarm triggered because flow was detected in a bypass as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(i).


(2) Inspections of seals or closure mechanisms as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(ii).


(3) Copies of compliance reports for closed vent system leak inspections as specified in § 63.11985(b)(9) and § 63.11930(g)(2) and (3).


(4) Instrument calibration records as specified in § 63.11930(g)(4).


(5) Unsafe-to-inspect equipment as specified in § 63.11930(g)(5).


(6) Pressure alarms as specified by § 63.11930(h)(2) and (3).


(h) *Resin strippers.* For resin strippers, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) All resin sampling data, including daily measurements of the concentration of vinyl chloride and monthly measurements of the total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP compounds in the stripped resin for each type and grade of resin produced. Each sample must be identified by the resin type and resin grade, the date and time the sample was taken, identification of the resin stripper from which the sample was taken, and the corresponding quantity (pounds) of resin processed by the stripper for the batch or over the time period represented by the sample.


(2) The total quantity (pounds) of each resin grade produced per day and the total quantity of resin processed by each resin stripper, identified by resin type and resin grade, per day.


(i) *Process wastewater.* For treatment processes, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) A description of the process wastewater generation activities and treatment process.


(2) Records of the treatment determinations specified in § 63.11965(b) for each wastewater stream and the type of treatment applied if required in § 63.11965(c).


(3) Records of the initial performance test specified in § 63.11970(a) and (b).


(4) All testing data, including monthly measurements of the concentrations of vinyl chloride and the concentration of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in each process wastewater stream required to be measured, as specified in § 63.11975.


(5) You must keep any other applicable records that are required by the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.147 of subpart G of this part.


(j) *Other emission sources.* You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) All engineering calculations, testing, sampling, and monitoring results and data specified in § 63.11955.


(2) Each occurrence that you do not comply with the requirements in § 63.11955.




