# § 1.1092(b)-5T   Definitions (temporary).

The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1.1092(b)-1T through 1.1092(b)-4T.


(a) *Disposing, disposes, or disposed.* The term *disposing, disposes,* or *disposed* includes the sale, exchange, cancellation, lapse, expiration, or other termination of a right or obligation with respect to personal property (as defined in section 1092(d)(1)).


(b) *Hedging transaction.* The term *hedging transaction* means a hedging transaction as defined in section 1256(e).


(c) *Identified straddle.* The term *identified straddle* means an identified straddle as defined in section 1092(a)(2)(B).


(d) *Loss.* The term *loss* means a loss otherwise allowable under section 165(a) (without regard to the limitation contained in section 165(f)) and includes a write-down in inventory.


(e) *Mixed straddle.* The term *mixed straddle* means a straddle—


(1) All of the positions of which are held as capital assets;


(2) At least one (but not all) of the positions of which is a section 1256 contract;


(3) For which an election under section 1256(d) has not been made; and


(4) Which is not part of a larger straddle.


(f) *Non-section 1256 position.* The term *non-section 1256 position* means a position that is not a section 1256 contract.


(g) *Offsetting position.* The term *offsetting position* means an offsetting position as defined in section 1092(c)(2).


(h) *Position.* The term *position* means a position as defined in section 1092(d)(2).


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Related person or flowthrough entity.* The term *related person or flowthrough entity* means a related person or flowthrough entity as defined in sections 1092(d)(4) (B) and (C) respectively.


(k) *Section 1256 contract.* The term *section 1256 contract* means a section 1256 contract as defined in section 1256(b).


(l) [Reserved]


(m) *Straddle.* The term *straddle* means a straddle as defined in section 1092(c)(1).


(n) *Successor position.* The term *successor position* means a position (“P”) that is or was at any time offsetting to a second position if—


(1) The second position was offsetting to any loss position disposed of; and


(2) P is entered into during a period commencing 30 days prior to, and ending 30 days after, the disposition of the loss position referred to in paragraph (n)(1) of this section.


(o) *Unrecognized gain.* The term *unrecognized gain* means unrecognized gain as defined in section 1092(a)(3)(A).


(p) *Substantially identical.* The term *substantially identical* has the same meaning as substantially identical in section 1091(a).


(q) *Securities.* The term *security* means a security as defined in section 1236(c).



---

[N] [T.D. 8007, 50 FR 3321, Jan. 24, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8070, 51 FR 1788, Jan. 15, 1986]




