# ยง 51d.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Federally recognized Indian Tribal government* means the governing body of any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Native village as defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians;


*Immediate award* means a short term award of up to $50,000, or such greater amount as determined by the Secretary on a case-by-case basis, to address the immediate needs resulting from a mental health or substance abuse emergency. Such funding may be provided for a period of up to 90 days.


*Intermediate award* means an award intended to meet the more ongoing needs resulting from a mental health or substance abuse emergency than is possible under an Immediate award. Intermediate awards may fund up to one year of services, although in some exceptional circumstances, and to the extent that funding is available, such funding may be continued for an additional period of up to one year.


*Public entity* means any State, any political subdivision of a State, any Federally recognized Indian tribal government or tribal organization.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or any other officer or employee of that Department to whom the authority involved has been delegated.


*State* means one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.


*Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities.



---

[N] [66 FR 51877, Oct. 11, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 56931, Sept. 6, 2002]




