# § 52.780   Review of new sources and modifications.

(a) The requirements of § 51.160(a) of this chapter are not met in that the plan does not contain procedures to enable the State to determine whether construction or modification of coal burning equipment having a heat input of between 350,000 Btu per hour and 1,500,000 Btu per hour will result in violations of applicable portions of the control strategy and section 4(a)(2)(iii) of APC-19 is disapproved to the extent that it exempts coal burning equipment having a heat input of between 350,000 Btu per hour and 1,500,000 Btu per hour from pre-construction/modification review.


(b)-(c) [Reserved]


(d) Limited regulation for the review of new sources and modifications. (1) This requirement is applicable to any coal burning equipment other than smokehouse generators, having a heat input of between 350,000 Btu per hour (88.2 Mg-cal/h) and 1,500,000 Btu per hour (378.0 MG cal/h), the construction of which was commenced after May 14, 1973.


(2) No owner or operator shall commence construction or modification of any coal burning equipment subject to this regulation without first obtaining approval from the Administrator of the location and design of such source.


(i) Application for approval to construct or modify shall be made on forms furnished by the Administrator,


(ii) A separate application is required for each source.


(iii) Each application shall be signed by the applicant.


(iv) Each application shall be accompanied by site information, plans, descriptions, specifications, and drawings showing the design of the source, the nature and amount of emissions, and the manner in which it will be operated and controlled.


(v) Any additional information, plans, specifications, evidence, or documentation that the Administrator may require shall be furnished upon request.


(3) No approval to construct or modify will be granted unless the applicant shows to the satisfaction of the Administrator that:


(i) The source will operate without causing a violation of any local, State, or Federal regulation which is part of the applicable plan; and


(ii) The source will not prevent or interfere with attainment or maintenance of any national standard.


(4) (i) Within twenty (20) days after receipt of an application to construct, or any addition to such application, the Administrator shall advise the owner or operator of any deficiency in the information submitted in support of the application. In the event of such a deficiency, the date of receipt of the application for the purpose of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, shall be the date on which all required information is received by the Administrator.


(ii) Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a complete application, the Administrator shall:


(*a*) Make a preliminary determination whether the source should be approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved.


(*b*) Make available in at least one location in each region in which the proposed source would be constructed, a copy of all materials submitted by the owner or operator, a copy of the Administrator's preliminary determination and a copy or summary of other materials, if any, considered by the Administrator in making his preliminary determination; and


(*c*) Notify the public, by prominent advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in each region in which the proposed source would be constructed, of the opportunity for written public comment on the information submitted by the owner or operator and the Administrator's preliminary determination on the approvability of the source.


(iii) A copy of the notice required pursuant to this paragraph shall be sent to the applicant and to state and local air pollution control agencies, having cognizance over the location where the source will be situated.


(iv) Public comments submitted in writing within thirty (30) days after the date such information is made available shall be considered by the Administrator in making his final decision on the application. No later than ten (10) days after the close of the public comment period, the applicant may submit a written response to any comment submitted by the public. The Administrator shall consider the applicant's response in making his final decision. All comments shall be made available for public inspection in at least one location in the region in which the source would be located.


(v) The Administrator shall take final action on an application within thirty (30) days after the close of the public comment period. The Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of his approval, conditional approval, or denial of the application, and shall set forth his reasons for conditional approval or denial. Such notification shall be made available for public inspection in at least one location in the region in which the source would be located.


(vi) The Administrator may extend each of the time periods specified in paragraph (d)(4) (ii), (iv) or (v) of this section by no more than 30 days, or such other period as agreed to by the applicant and the Administrator.


(5) The Administrator may impose any reasonable conditions upon an approval, including conditions requiring the source to be provided with:


(i) Sampling ports of a size, number, and location as the Administrator may require,


(ii) Safe access to each port,


(iii) Instrumentation to monitor and record emission data, and


(iv) Any other sampling and testing facilities.


(6) The Administrator may cancel an approval if the construction is not begun within 2 years from the date of issuance, or if during the construction, work is suspended for 1 year.


(7) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this regulation shall furnish the Administrator written notification as follows:


(i) A notification of the anticipated date of initial startup of a source not more than 60 days or less than 30 days prior to such date.


(ii) A notification of the actual date of initial startup of a source within 15 days after such date.


(8) Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the source will be operated but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such source, the owner or operator of such source shall conduct a performance test(s) in accordance with methods and under operating conditions approved by the Administrator and furnish the Administrator a written report of the results of such performance test.


(i) Such test shall be at the expense of the owner or operator.


(ii) The Administrator may monitor such test and may also conduct performance tests.


(iii) The owner or operator of a source shall provide the Administrator 15 days prior notice of the performance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.


(iv) The Administrator may waive the requirement of performance tests if the owner or operator of a source has demonstrated by other means to the Administrator's satisfaction that the source is being operated in compliance with all local, State, and Federal regulations which are part of the applicable plan.


(9) [Reserved]


(10) Approval to construct or modify shall not relieve any owner or operator of the responsibility to comply with all local, State, and Federal regulations which are part of the applicable plan.


(11) Any owner or operator who constructs, modifies, or operates a stationary source not in accordance with the application, as approved and conditioned by the Administrator, or any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to this paragraph who commences construction or modification without applying for and receiving approval hereunder, shall be subject to enforcement action under section 113 of the Act.


(e) The requirements of subpart I of this chapter are not met because the State failed to submit a plan for review of new or modified indirect sources.


(f) Regulation for review of new or modified indirect sources. The provisions of § 52.22(b) are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable implementation of the plan for the State of Indiana.


(g) Delegation of authority. (1) The Administrator shall have the authority to delegate responsibility for implementing the procedures for conducting source review pursuant to this section in accordance with paragraphs (f) (2), (3), and (4) of this section.


(2) Where the Administrator delegates the responsibility for implementing the procedures for conducting source review pursuant to this section to any Agency, other than a Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency, a copy of the notice pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section shall be sent to the Administrator through the appropriate Regional Office.


(3) In accordance with Executive Order 11752, the Administrator's authority for implementing the procedures for conducting source review pursuant to this section shall not be delegated, other than to a Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency, for new or modified sources which are owned or operated by the Federal Government or for new or modified sources located on Federal lands; except that, with respect to the latter category, where new or modified sources are constructed or operated on Federal lands pursuant to leasing or other Federal agreements, the Federal Land Manager may at his discretion, to the extent permissible under applicable statutes and regulations, require the lessee or permittee to be subject to new source review requirements which have been delegated to a State or local agency pursuant to this paragraph.


(4) The Administrator's authority for implementing the procedures for conducting source review pursuant to this section shall not be redelegated, other than to a Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency, for new or modified sources which are located in Indian reservations except where the State has assumed jurisdiction over such land under other laws, in which case the Administrator may delegate his authority to the States in accordance with paragraphs (g) (2), (3), and (4) of this section.


(h) On March 7, 1994, Indiana requested a revision to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for New Source Review (NSR) to satisfy the requirements of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. The Indiana 326 IAC regulations do not include a definition of “federally enforceable”. On July 13, 1994, Pamela Carter, Attorney General of the State of Indiana, sent a letter to USEPA clarifying Indiana's interpretation of the definition of federally enforceable. The letter states that federally enforceable, e.g. as used in 326 IAC 2-3-1, should be interpreted in accordance with the federal definition at 40 CFR 51.165(a)(1)(xiv). The USEPA took the opportunity of rulemaking on the State's submittal to recodify the permitting SIP to conform to Title 326 the Indiana Administrative Code. 



---

[N] [37 FR 10863, May 31, 1972, as amended at 38 FR 12698, May 14, 1973; 39 FR 4663, Feb. 6, 1974; 39 FR 7281, Feb. 25, 1974; 40 FR 50270, Oct. 29, 1975; 51 FR 40677, Nov. 7, 1986; 59 FR 51114, Oct. 7, 1994]




