# § 63.2182   What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Notification of Compliance Status and compliance report that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).


(2) Records of failures to meet a standard, specified in § 63.2181(c)(5) and (7).


(3) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii) and (ix).


(b) For each affected source that monitors brew ethanol, you must keep records demonstrating the calculation of the brew-to-exhaust correlations specified in § 63.2161.


(c) For each CEMS and brew ethanol monitor, you must keep the records listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi), (vii), (x), and (xi). The CEMS must allow the amount of excess zero (low-level) and high-level calibration drift measured at the interval checks to be quantified and recorded.


(2) Records described in § 63.10(c)(1) through (6).


(3) Records of the quality control program as specified in § 63.8(d), including the program of corrective action; the current version of the performance evaluation test plan, as specified in § 63.8(e)(3); and previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation test plan for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.


(4) Requests for alternatives to RATA for CEMS as required in § 63.8(f)(6)(i).


(5) Records of each deviation from monitoring requirements, including a description of the time period during which the deviation occurred, the nature and cause of the deviation, the corrective action taken or preventive measures adopted, and the nature of repairs or adjustments to the monitoring system.


(d) You must keep the records required to show continuous compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to the requirements in Table 4 to this subpart.


(e) You must also keep the records listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section for each batch in your affected source.


(1) Unique batch identification number.


(2) Fermentation stage for which you are using the fermenter.


(3) Unique CEMS equipment identification number.




