# ยง 19.6   Specific requirements for approval.

(a) *Design.* In the determination of the adequacy of the lamp, with respect to design, the following points will be considered: (1) The materials used; (2) construction; (3) weight; (4) amount of light; (5) distribution of light; and (6) exclusion of dust from the headpiece. The suitability of the materials and the construction shall be determined by preliminary inspection, by dropping tests, 
1 by durability tests of the cord and cord armor, 
2 and by the general behavior of the lamp equipment during the investigation. The amount and distribution of the light shall be judged both by observation of the illumination on a white screen and by photometric measurements.


(b) *Angle of light beam.* MSHA recommends that the angle of the light beam be at least 130 degrees horizontally to insure that the contrast edge of the beam is away from the more sensitive sector of the wearer's vision; however, to allow for manufacturing and assembly tolerances and the use of multiple filament bulbs, MSHA will approve lamps giving a minimum beam angle of 120 degrees. If the bulb has more than one major filament, the one giving the smaller angle will be used in the determination. 


(c) *Light distribution, visual.* Excepting special headpieces for inspection purposes, the area illuminated by the beam shall be free from sharp gradations in light intensity and spectral shadows. 


(d) *Light distribution, photometric.* (1) Excepting special headpieces for inspection purposes, the maximum candlepower of the light beam shall not be greater than 25 times the average or mean candlepower of the beam. 
3

(2) The minimum candlepower of the beam based upon readings at the design voltage of the bulb shall not be less than 1. 




