# § 50.36   Technical specifications.

(a)(1) Each applicant for a license authorizing operation of a production or utilization facility shall include in his application proposed technical specifications in accordance with the requirements of this section. A summary statement of the bases or reasons for such specifications, other than those covering administrative controls, shall also be included in the application, but shall not become part of the technical specifications.


(2) Each applicant for a design certification or manufacturing license under part 52 of this chapter shall include in its application proposed generic technical specifications in accordance with the requirements of this section for the portion of the plant that is within the scope of the design certification or manufacturing license application.


(b) Each license authorizing operation of a production or utilization facility of a type described in § 50.21 or § 50.22 will include technical specifications. The technical specifications will be derived from the analyses and evaluation included in the safety analysis report, and amendments thereto, submitted pursuant to § 50.34. The Commission may include such additional technical specifications as the Commission finds appropriate.


(c) Technical specifications will include items in the following categories:


(1) *Safety limits, limiting safety system settings, and limiting control settings.* (i)(A) Safety limits for nuclear reactors are limits upon important process variables that are found to be necessary to reasonably protect the integrity of certain physical  barriers that guard against the uncontrolled release of radioactivity. If any safety limit is exceeded, the reactor must be shut down. The licensee shall notify the Commission, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence. Operation must not be resumed until authorized by the Commission. The licensee shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission terminates the license for the reactor, except for nuclear power reactors licensed under § 50.21(b) or § 50.22 of this part. For these reactors, the licensee shall notify the Commission as required by § 50.72 and submit a Licensee Event Report to the Commission as required by § 50.73. Licensees in these cases shall retain the records of the review for a period of three years following issuance of a Licensee Event Report.


(B) Safety limits for fuel reprocessing plants are those bounds within which the process variables must be maintained for adequate control of the operation and that must not be exceeded in order to protect the integrity of the physical system that is designed to guard against the uncontrolled release or radioactivity. If any safety limit for a fuel reprocessing plant is exceeded, corrective action must be taken as stated in the technical specification or the affected part of the process, or the entire process if required, must be shut down, unless this action would further reduce the margin of safety. The licensee shall notify the Commission, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence. If a portion of the process or the entire process has been shutdown, operation must not be resumed until authorized by the Commission. The licensee shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission terminates the license for the plant.


(ii)(A) Limiting safety system settings for nuclear reactors are settings for automatic protective devices related to those variables having significant safety functions. Where a limiting safety system setting is specified for a variable on which a safety limit has been placed, the setting must be so chosen that automatic protective action will correct the abnormal situation before a safety limit is exceeded. If, during operation, it is determined that the automatic safety system does not function as required, the licensee shall take appropriate action, which may include shutting down the reactor. The licensee shall notify the Commission, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence. The licensee shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission terminates the license for the reactor except for nuclear power reactors licensed under § 50.21(b) or § 50.22 of this part. For these reactors, the licensee shall notify the Commission as required by § 50.72 and submit a Licensee Event Report to the Commission as required by § 50.73. Licensees in these cases shall retain the records of the review for a period of three years following issuance of a Licensee Event Report.


(B) Limiting control settings for fuel reprocessing plants are settings for automatic alarm or protective devices related to those variables having significant safety functions. Where a limiting control setting is specified for a variable on which a safety limit has been placed, the setting must be so chosen that protective action, either automatic or manual, will correct the abnormal situation before a safety limit is exceeded. If, during operation, the automatic alarm or protective devices do not function as required, the licensee shall take appropriate action to maintain the variables within the limiting control-setting values and to repair promptly the automatic devices or to shut down the affected part of the process and, if required, to shut down the entire process for repair of automatic devices. The licensee shall notify the Commission, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence. The licensee shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission terminates the license for the plant.


(2) *Limiting conditions for operation.* (i) Limiting conditions for operation are the lowest functional capability or performance levels of equipment required for safe operation of the facility. When a limiting condition for operation of a nuclear reactor is not met, the licensee shall shut down the reactor or follow any remedial action permitted by the technical specifications until the condition can be met. When a limiting condition for operation of any process step in the system of a fuel reprocessing plant is not met, the licensee shall shut down that part of the operation or follow any remedial action permitted by the technical specifications until the condition can be met. In the case of a nuclear reactor not licensed under § 50.21(b) or § 50.22 of this part or fuel reprocessing plant, the licensee shall notify the Commission, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence. The licensee shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission terminates the license for the nuclear reactor or the fuel reprocessing plant. In the case of nuclear power reactors licensed under § 50.21(b) or § 50.22, the licensee shall notify the Commission if required by § 50.72 and shall submit a Licensee Event Report to the Commission as required by § 50.73. In this case, licensees shall retain records associated with preparation of a Licensee Event Report for a period of three years following issuance of the report. For events which do not require a Licensee Event Report, the licensee shall retain each record as required by the technical specifications.


(ii) A technical specification limiting condition for operation of a nuclear reactor must be established for each item meeting one or more of the following criteria:


(A) *Criterion 1.* Installed instrumentation that is used to detect, and indicate in the control room, a significant abnormal degradation of the reactor coolant pressure boundary.


(B) *Criterion 2.* A process variable, design feature, or operating restriction that is an initial condition of a design basis accident or transient analysis that either assumes the failure of or presents a challenge to the integrity of a fission product barrier.


(C) *Criterion 3.* A structure, system, or component that is part of the primary success path and which functions or actuates to mitigate a design basis accident or transient that either assumes the failure of or presents a challenge to the integrity of a fission product barrier.


(D) *Criterion 4.* A structure, system, or component which operating experience or probabilistic risk assessment has shown to be significant to public health and safety.


(iii) A licensee is not required to propose to modify technical specifications that are included in any license issued before August 18, 1995, to satisfy the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) *Surveillance requirements.* Surveillance requirements are requirements relating to test, calibration, or inspection to assure that the necessary quality of systems and components is maintained, that facility operation will be within safety limits, and that the limiting conditions for operation will be met.


(4) *Design features.* Design features to be included are those features of the facility such as materials of construction and geometric arrangements, which, if altered or modified, would have a significant effect on safety and are not covered in categories described in paragraphs (c) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.


(5) *Administrative controls.* Administrative controls are the provisions relating to organization and management, procedures, recordkeeping, review and audit, and reporting necessary to assure operation of the facility in a safe manner. Each licensee shall submit any reports to the Commission pursuant to approved technical specifications as specified in § 50.4.




(6) *Decommissioning.* This paragraph applies only to nuclear power reactor facilities that have submitted the certifications required by § 50.82(a)(1) and to non-power production or utilization facilities which are not authorized to operate. Technical specifications involving safety limits, limiting safety system settings, and limiting control system settings; limiting conditions for operation; surveillance requirements; design features; and administrative controls will be developed on a case-by-case basis.




(7) *Initial notification.* Reports made to the Commission by licensees in response to the requirements of this section must be made as follows:


(i) Licensees that have an installed Emergency Notification System shall make the initial notification to the NRC Operations Center in accordance with § 50.72 of this part.


(ii) All other licensees shall make the initial notification by telephone to the Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office listed in appendix D, part 20, of this chapter.


(8) *Written Reports.* Licensees for nuclear power reactors licensed under § 50.21(b) and § 50.22 of this part shall submit written reports to the Commission in accordance with § 50.73 of this part for events described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. For all licensees, the Commission may require Special Reports as appropriate.


(d)(1) This section shall not be deemed to modify the technical specifications included in any license issued prior to January 16, 1969. A license in which technical specifications have not been designated shall be deemed to include the entire safety analysis report as technical specifications.


(2) An applicant for a license authorizing operation of a production or utilization facility to whom a construction permit has been issued prior to January 16, 1969, may submit technical specifications in accordance with this section, or in accordance with the requirements of this part in effect prior to January 16, 1969.


(3) At the initiative of the Commission or the licensee, any license may be amended to include technical specifications of the scope and content which would be required if a new license were being issued.


(e) The provisions of this section apply to each nuclear reactor licensee whose authority to operate the reactor has been removed by license amendment, order, or regulation.



---

[N] [33 FR 18612, Dec. 17, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 33860, July 26, 1983; 51 FR 40308, Nov. 6, 1986; 53 FR 19249, May 27, 1988; 60 FR 36959, July 19, 1995; 61 FR 39299, July 29, 1996; 72 FR 49493, Aug. 28, 2007; 73 FR 54932, Sept. 24, 2008; 84 FR 63568, Nov. 18, 2019; 89 FR 106251, Dec. 30, 2024]




