# § 721.10158   2-Pentanone, 3,5-dichloro-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-pentanone, 3,5-dichloro- (PMN P-06-16; CAS No. 58371-98-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. The following NIOSH-approved respirator with an APF of 50 meets the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-approved air-purifying, tight-fitting full facepiece respirator equipped with combination organic gas/vapor P100 cartridges (organic vapor, acid gas, or substance-specific).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4) (resulting in receiving stream levels exceeding 0.1 parts per billion (ppb)), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 0.1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [74 FR 47886, Sept. 18, 2009]




