# § 109.32   What are the coordinated party expenditure limits?

(a) *Coordinated party expenditures in Presidential elections.* (1) The national committee of a political party may make coordinated party expenditures in connection with the general election campaign of any candidate for President of the United States affiliated with the party. 


(2) The coordinated party expenditures shall not exceed an amount equal to two cents multiplied by the voting age population of the United States. See 11 CFR 110.18. This limitation shall be increased in accordance with 11 CFR 110.17. 


(3) Any coordinated party expenditure under paragraph (a) of this section shall be in addition to— 


(i) Any expenditure by a national committee of a political party serving as the principal campaign committee of a candidate for President of the United States; and 


(ii) Any contribution by the national committee to the candidate permissible under 11 CFR 110.1 or 110.2. 


(4) Any coordinated party expenditures made by the national committee of a political party pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or made by any other party committee under authority assigned by a national committee of a political party under 11 CFR 109.33, on behalf of that party's Presidential candidate shall not count against the candidate's expenditure limitations under 11 CFR 110.8. 


(b) *Coordinated party expenditures in other Federal elections.* (1) The national committee of a political party, and a State committee of a political party, including any subordinate committee of a State committee, may each make coordinated party expenditures in connection with the general election campaign of a candidate for Federal office in that State who is affiliated with the party. 


(2) The coordinated party expenditures shall not exceed: 


(i) In the case of a candidate for election to the office of Senator, or of Representative from a State which is entitled to only one Representative, the greater of— 


(A) Two cents multiplied by the voting age population of the State (see 11 CFR 110.18); or 


(B) Twenty thousand dollars. 


(ii) In the case of a candidate for election to the office of Representative, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner in any other State, $10,000. 


(3) The limitations in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be increased in accordance with 11 CFR 110.17. 


(4) Any coordinated party expenditure under paragraph (b) of this section shall be in addition to any contribution by a political party committee to the candidate permissible under 11 CFR 110.1 or 110.2. 




