# ยง 302.304   Order of consideration.

(a) *Consideration of priority reemployment candidates.* An agency must consider all qualified candidates on its priority reemployment list before it may refer candidates from its reemployment list, if any, or regular employment list. When a qualified candidate is available on the priority list, the agency may appoint an individual who is not on the priority list or who has lower standing than others on that list *only* when necessary to obtain an employee for duties that cannot be taken over without undue interruption to the agency by an individual who is entitled to reemployment priority or has higher standing on the priority reemployment list than the one appointed. The agency must notify each individual on the priority reemployment list who is adversely affected by an appointment under this paragraph of the reasons for the exception and must further notify each such individual who is a preference eligible of his or her right of appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board.


(b) *Consideration of other candidates.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section, an agency shall consider applicants on the reemployment and/or regular employment list who have been assigned eligible ratings for a given position in Order A, Order B, or Order C, as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section. Order A must be used when the agency has not established a reemployment list.


(1) *Order A.* (i) The name of each qualified preference eligible who has a compensable, service-connected disability of 10 percent or more and is entitled to 10-point preference under section 3309 of title 5, United States Code, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(ii) The name of each other qualified applicant in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(2) *Order B.* (i) The name of each qualified preference eligible who has a compensable, service-connected disability of 10 percent or more and is entitled to 10-point preference under section 3309 of title 5, United States Code, and whose name appears on the agency's reemployment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(ii) The name of each qualified preference eligible who has a compensable, service-connected disability of 10 percent or more and is entitled to 10-point preference under section 3309 of title 5, United States Code, and whose name appears on the agency's regular employment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(iii) The name of each other qualified applicant on the agency's reemployment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(iv) The name of each other qualified applicant on the agency's regular employment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(3) *Order C.* (i) The name of each qualified preference eligible who has a compensable, service-connected disability of 10 percent or more and is entitled to 10-point preference under section 3309 of title 5, United States Code, and whose name appears on the agency's reemployment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(ii) The name of each other qualified applicant on the agency's reemployment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(iii) The name of each qualified preference eligible who has a compensable, service-connected disability of 10 percent or more and is entitled to 10-point preference under section 3309 of title 5, United States Code, and whose name appears on the agency's regular employment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(iv) The name of each other qualified applicant on the agency's regular employment list, in the order of his/her numerical ranking.


(4) *Professional order.* An agency shall consider applicants who have been assigned eligible ratings for professional and scientific positions at the GS-9 level and above, or equivalent, in the following order:


(i) *Applicants on the agency's reemployment list, if any.* If numerical scores have been assigned, the applicants will be considered in the order of their augmented scores. If numerical scores have not been assigned, all preference eligibles will be considered together regardless of the type of preference, followed by all other priority reemployment candidates. 


(ii) *Applicants on the agency's regular employment list.* If numerical scores have been assigned, the applicants will be considered in the order of their augmented scores. If numerical scores have not been assigned, all preference eligibles will be considered together regardless of the type of preference, followed by all other candidates.


(5) *Unranked order.* When numerical scores are not assigned, the agency may consider applicants who have received eligible ratings for positions not covered by paragraph (b)(4) of this section in either of the following orders:


(i) *By preference status.* Under this method, preference eligibles having a compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more are considered first, followed, second, by other 10-point preference eligibles, third, by 5-point preference eligibles, fourth by sole survivorship preference eligibles, and last, by nonpreference eligibles. Within each category, applicants from the reemployment list will be placed ahead of applicants from the regular employment list.


(ii) *By reemployment/regular list status.* Under this method, all applicants on the reemployment list are considered before applicants on the regular employment list. On each list, preference eligibles having a compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more are considered first, followed, second, by other 10-point preference eligibles, third, by 5-point preference eligibles, fourth by sole survivorship preference eligibles, and last by nonpreference eligibles.



---

[N] [55 FR 9407, Mar. 14, 1990, as amended at 85 FR 63919, Oct. 7, 2020]






