# § 31.6001-3   Additional records under Railroad Retirement Tax Act.

(a) *Records of employers.* (1) Every employer liable for tax under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act shall keep records of all remuneration (whether in money or in something which may be used in lieu of money), other than tips, paid to his employees after 1954 for services rendered to him (including “time lost”) after 1954. Such records shall show with respect to each employee—


(i) The name and address of the employee.


(ii) The total amount and date of each payment of remuneration to the employee (including any sum withheld therefrom as tax or for any other reason) and the period of service (including any period of absence from active service) covered by such payment.


(iii) The amount of such remuneration payment with respect to which the tax is imposed.


(iv) The amount of employee tax collected with respect to such payment, and, if collected at a time other than the time such payment was made, the date collected.


(v) If the total payment of remuneration (paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) and the amount thereof with respect to which the tax is imposed (paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section) are not equal, the reason therefor.


(2) The employer shall keep records of the details of each adjustment or settlement of taxes under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act made pursuant to the regulations in this part.


(b) *Records of employee representatives.* Every individual liable for employee representative tax under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act shall keep records of all remuneration (whether in money or in something which may be used in lieu of money) paid to him after 1954 for services rendered (including “time lost”) by him as an employee representative after 1954. Such records shall show—


(1) The name and address of each employee organization employing him.


(2) The total amount and date of each payment of remuneration for services rendered as an employee representative (including any sum withheld therefrom as tax or for any other reason) and the period of service (including any period of absence from active service) covered by such payment.


(3) The amount of such remuneration payment with respect to which the employee representative tax is imposed.


(4) If the total payment of remuneration (paragraph (a)(2) of this section) and the amount thereof with respect to which the employee representative tax is imposed (paragraph (a)(3) of this section) are not equal, the reason therefor.




