# ยง 170.132   What Federal funds are available for a Tribe's transit program?

Title 23 U.S.C. authorizes use of TTP funds for transit facilities as defined in this part. There are many additional sources of Federal funds for Tribal transit programs, including the Federal programs listed in this section. Note that each program has its own terms and conditions of assistance. For further information on these programs and their use for transit, contact the FTA Regional Transit Assistance Program at *www.nationalrtap.org.* Section 170.627 of this part identifies how these funds, if provided to the Tribe from a State or county, can be made available.


(a) *Department of Transportation.* Formula Grants for Public Transportation on Indian Reservations under 49 U.S.C. 5311, Welfare-to-Work, Tribal Transportation Program, transportation and community and systems preservation, Federal transit capital improvement grants, public transportation for non-urbanized areas, capital assistance for elderly and disabilities transportation, education, and Even Start.


(b) *Department of Agriculture.* Community facilities loans; rural development loans; business and industrial loans; rural enterprise grants; commerce, public works and economic development grants; and economic adjustment assistance.


(c) *Department of Housing and Urban Development.* Community development block grants, supportive housing, Tribal housing loan guarantees, resident opportunity and support services.


(d) *Department of Labor.* Indian employment and training, welfare-to-work grants.


(e) *Department of Health and Human Services.* Programs for Indian elders, community service block grants, job opportunities for low-income individuals, Head Start (capital or operating), administration for Indian programs, Medicaid, HIV Care Grants, Healthy Start, and the Indian Health Service.




