# § 26.112   Returns for deferred payment of tax.

(a) *Returns.* The taxes imposed by 26 U.S.C. 7652(a), (equal to the taxes imposed in the United States by 26 U.S.C. 5001(a)(1), 5041, or 5051), the payment of which has been deferred under the provisions of §§ 26.80, 26.95 or 26.104 of this part, shall be paid pursuant to a return on TTB Form 5000.25 prepared in accordance with the instructions on the form.


(b) *Return periods*—(1) *Semimonthly return period.* Except in the case of a taxpayer who qualifies for, and chooses to use, annual or quarterly return periods as provided in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, all taxpayers must use semimonthly return periods for deferred payment of tax. The semimonthly return periods run from the 1st day through the 15th day of each month, and from the 16th day through the last day of each month, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) *Annual return period.* Subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a taxpayer may choose to use an annual return period if the taxpayer was not liable for more than $1,000 in taxes imposed by 26 U.S.C. 7652 in the preceding calendar year and if that taxpayer reasonably expects to be liable for not more than $1,000 in such taxes during the current calendar year. In such a case the last day for paying the tax and filing the return will be the 14th day after the last day of the calendar year. However, the taxpayer may not use the annual return period procedure for any portion of the calendar year following the first date on which the aggregate amount of tax due from the taxpayer during the calendar year exceeds $1,000, and any tax that has not been paid on that date will be due on the 14th day after the last day of the quarterly or semimonthly period in which that date occurs.


(3) *Quarterly return period.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a taxpayer may choose to use a quarterly return period if the taxpayer was not liable for more than $50,000 in taxes imposed by 26 U.S.C. 7652 in the preceding calendar year and if that taxpayer reasonably expects to be liable for not more than $50,000 in such taxes during the current calendar year. In such a case the last day for paying the tax and filing the return will be the 14th day after the last day of the calendar quarter. However, the taxpayer may not use the quarterly return period procedure for any portion of the calendar year following the first date on which the aggregate amount of tax due from the taxpayer during the calendar year exceeds $50,000, and any tax that has not been paid on that date will be due on the 14th day after the last day of the semimonthly period in which that date occurs.


(4) The following additional rules apply to the annual and quarterly return period procedures under this section:


(i) A “taxpayer” is an individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity that is assigned a single Employer Identification Number as defined in 26 CFR 301.7701-12;


(ii) “Reasonably expects” means that there is no existing or anticipated circumstance known to the taxpayer (such as an increase in production capacity) that would cause the taxpayer's tax liability to exceed the prescribed limit;


(iii) A taxpayer with multiple locations must combine the tax liability for all locations with respect to distilled spirits, wine, or beer tax liability to determine eligibility for the return procedures;


(iv) A taxpayer who has both domestic operations and import transactions must combine the tax liability on the domestic operations and the imports with respect to distilled spirits, wine, or beer tax liability to determine eligibility for the return procedures;


(v) The controlled group rules of 26 U.S.C. 5061(e), which concern treatment of controlled groups as one taxpayer, do not apply for purposes of determining eligibility for the return procedures. However, a taxpayer who is eligible for the return procedures, and who is a member of a controlled group that owes $5 million or more in distilled spirits, wine, or beer excise taxes per year, is required to pay taxes by electronic fund transfer (EFT). Quarterly payments via EFT must be transmitted in accordance with section 5061(e);


(vi) A new taxpayer is eligible to use the return procedures in the first year of business simply if the taxpayer reasonably expects to be liable for not more than $1,000 (in the case of the annual return procedure) or $50,000 (in the case of the quarterly return procedure) in distilled spirits, wine, or beer taxes during that calendar year; and


(vii) If a taxpayer becomes ineligible to use a return procedure described in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section because the taxpayer's liability exceeds $1,000 or $50,000, respectively, during a taxable year, that taxpayer may resume that return procedure only after a full calendar year has passed during which the taxpayer's liability did not exceed $1,000 or $50,000 as the case may be. A taxpayer may not use an annual or quarterly return procedure during any calendar year in which the taxpayer reasonably expects to be liable for more than $1,000 (in the case of the annual return procedure) or $50,000 (in the case of the quarterly return procedure) in distilled spirits, wine, or beer taxes.


(c) *Filing.* (1) The original of TTB Form 5000.25, with remittance covering the full amount of the tax, shall be filed with the appropriate TTB officer not later than the 14th day after the last day of the return period except as provided by paragraph (d) of this section. If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the return and remittance are due on the immediately preceding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) The tax shall be paid in full by remittance at the time the return is filed, unless the proprietor is required to make remittances by electronic fund transfer in accordance with § 26.112a.


(3) The remittance may be in any form that is authorized to be accepted under the provisions of § 70.61 of this chapter.


(4) When the return and remittance are delivered by U.S. mail to the office of the appropriate TTB officer, the date of the official postmark of the U.S. Postal Service stamped on the cover in which the return and remittance were mailed shall be treated as the date of delivery.


(d) *Special September rule for taxes due by semimonthly return.* (1) *Division of second semimonthly period.* (i) *General.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the second semimonthly period for the month of September is divided into two payment periods, from the 16th day through the 26th day, and from the 27th day through the 30th day. The taxpayer shall file a return on TTB Form 5000.25, and make remittance, for the period September 16-26, no later than September 29. The taxpayer shall file a return on TTB Form 5000.25, and make remittance, for the period September 27-30, no later than October 14.


(ii) *Taxpayment not by electronic fund transfer.* In the case of taxes for which remittance by electronic fund transfer (EFT) is not required by § 26.112a, the second semimonthly period of September is divided into two payment periods, from the 16th day through the 25th day, and from the 26th day through the 30th day. The taxpayer shall file a return on TTB Form 5000.25, and make remittance, for the period September 16-25, no later than September 28. The taxpayer shall file a return on TTB Form 5000.25, and make remittance, for the period September 26-30, no later than October 14.


(2) *Amount of payment—Safe harbor rule.* (i) *General.* Taxpayers are considered to have met the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section if the amount paid no later than September 29 is not less than 11/15ths (73.3 percent) of the tax liability incurred for the semimonthly period beginning on September 1 and ending on September 15, and if any underpayment of tax is paid by October 14.


(ii) *Taxpayment not by EFT.* Taxpayers are considered to have met the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section if the amount paid no later than September 28 is not less than 2/3rds (66.7 percent) of the tax liability incurred for the semimonthly period beginning on September 1 and ending on September 15, and if any underpayment of tax is paid by October 14.


(3) *Weekends and holidays.* If the required taxpayment due date for the period September 16-25 or September 16-26, as applicable, falls on a Saturday or legal holiday, the return and remittance are due on the immediately preceding day. If the required due date falls on a Sunday, the return and remittance are due on the immediately following day.


(e) *Default.* Where a taxpayer has defaulted in any payment of tax under this section, during the period of such default and until the appropriate TTB officer finds that the revenue will not be jeopardized by deferred payment of tax under this section, the tax shall be prepaid by such taxpayer in accordance with the provisions of § 26.113. During such period, distilled spirits, wine, or beer shall not be released from the proprietor's premises before the proprietor has paid the tax thereon. In the event of default, the appropriate TTB officer shall immediately notify the Secretary and the revenue agent at the premises that tax is to be prepaid until further notice, and upon a finding that the revenue will not be jeopardized by resumption of deferred payment or tax under this section, the appropriate TTB officer shall notify the Secretary and the revenue agent that deferred payment may be resumed.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-277, 53 FR 45268, Nov. 9, 1988, as amended by T.D. ATF-301, 55 FR 47658, Nov. 14, 1990; T.D. ATF-365, 60 FR 33674, June 28, 1995; T.D. ATF-451, 66 FR 21669, May 1, 2001. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-459, 66 FR 38550, 38551, July 25, 2001; T.D. TTB-41, 71 FR 5604, Feb. 2, 2006; T.D. TTB-89, 76 FR 3513, Jan. 20, 2011; T.D. TTB-94, 76 FR 52862, Aug. 24, 2011; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1133, Jan. 4, 2017]




