# § 1.6418-2   Rules for making transfer elections.

(a) *Transfer election*—(1) *In general.* An eligible taxpayer can make a transfer election as provided in this section. If a valid transfer election is made by an eligible taxpayer for any taxable year, the transferee taxpayer specified in such election (and not the eligible taxpayer) is treated as the taxpayer for purposes of the Code with respect to the specified credit portion. This paragraph (a) provides rules on the number of transfers permitted, rules for determining the eligible taxpayer in certain ownership situations, and rules describing circumstances under which no transfer election is allowed. Paragraph (b) of this section provides specific rules regarding the scope, manner, and timing of a transfer election. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules regarding limitations applicable to transfer elections. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding an eligible taxpayer's determination of an eligible credit. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the treatment of payments in connection with a transfer election. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules regarding a transferee taxpayer's treatment of an eligible credit following a transfer.


(2) *Multiple transfer elections permitted.* An eligible taxpayer may make multiple transfer elections to transfer one or more specified credit portion(s) to multiple transferee taxpayers, provided that the aggregate amount of specified credit portions transferred with respect to any single eligible credit property does not exceed the amount of the eligible credit determined with respect to the eligible credit property.


(3) *Transfer election in certain ownership situations*—(i) *Disregarded entities.* If an eligible taxpayer is the sole owner (directly or indirectly) of an entity that is disregarded as separate from such eligible taxpayer for Federal income tax purposes and such entity directly holds an eligible credit property, the eligible taxpayer may make a transfer election in the manner provided in this section with respect to any eligible credit determined with respect to such eligible credit property.


(ii) *Undivided ownership interests.* If an eligible taxpayer is a co-owner of an eligible credit property through an arrangement properly treated as a tenancy-in-common for Federal income tax purposes, or through an organization that has made a valid election under section 761(a) of the Code, then the eligible taxpayer's undivided ownership share of the eligible credit property will be treated for purposes of section 6418 as a separate eligible credit property owned by such eligible taxpayer, and the eligible taxpayer may make a transfer election in the manner provided in this section for any eligible credit(s) determined with respect to such eligible credit property.


(iii) *Members of a consolidated group.* A member of a consolidated group (as defined in § 1.1502-1) is required to make a transfer election in the manner provided in this section to transfer any eligible credit determined with respect to the member. *See* § 1.1502-77 (providing rules regarding the status of the common parent as agent for its members).


(iv) *Partnerships and S corporations.* A partnership or an S corporation that determines an eligible credit with respect to any eligible credit property held directly by such partnership or S corporation may make a transfer election in the manner provided in § 1.6418-3(d) with respect to eligible credits determined with respect to such eligible credit property.


(v) *Grantors or others treated as owners of a trust.* If an eligible taxpayer is a grantor or any other person that is treated as the owner of any portion of a trust as described in section 671 of the Code, then the eligible taxpayer may make a transfer election in the manner provided in this section for eligible credits determined with respect to any eligible credit property held directly by the portion of the trust that the eligible taxpayer is treated as owning under section 671.


(4) *Circumstances under which no transfer election can be made*—(i) *Prohibition on election or transfer with respect to progress expenditures.* No transfer election can be made with respect to any amount of an eligible credit that is allowed for progress expenditures pursuant to rules similar to the rules of section 46(c)(4) and (d) (as in effect on the day before the enactment of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990).


(ii) *No election allowed if eligible credit transferred for non-cash consideration.* No transfer election is allowed if an eligible taxpayer receives any consideration other than cash (as defined in § 1.6418-1(f)) in connection with the transfer of a specified credit portion.


(iii) *No election allowed if eligible credits not determined with respect to taxpayer.* No transfer election is allowed for eligible credits that are not determined with respect to an eligible taxpayer as described in paragraph (d) of this section. For example, a section 45Q credit allowable to an eligible taxpayer because of an election made under section 45Q(f)(3)(B), or a section 48 credit allowable to an eligible taxpayer because of an election made under section 50(d)(5) and § 1.48-4, although described in § 1.6418-1(c)(2), is not an eligible credit that can be transferred by the taxpayer because such credit is not determined with respect to the eligible taxpayer.


(b) *Manner and due date of making a transfer election*—(1) *In general.* An eligible taxpayer must make a transfer election to transfer a specified credit portion of an eligible credit on the basis of a single eligible credit property. For example, an eligible taxpayer that determines eligible credits with respect to two eligible credit properties would need to make a separate transfer election with respect to any specified credit portion of the eligible credit determined with respect to each eligible credit property. Any transfer election must be consistent with the eligible taxpayer's pre-filing registration under § 1.6418-4.


(2) *Specific rules for certain eligible credits.* In the case of any section 45 credit, section 45Q credit, section 45V credit, or section 45Y credit that is an eligible credit, the rules in paragraph (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(i) *Separate eligible credit property.* A transfer election must be made separately with respect to each eligible credit property described in § 1.6418-1(d)(2), (3), (5), and (7), as applicable, for which an eligible credit is determined.


(ii) *Time period.* A transfer election must be made for each taxable year an eligible taxpayer elects to transfer specified credit portions with respect to such an eligible credit property during the 10-year period beginning on the date such eligible credit property was originally placed in service (or, in the case of a section 45Q credit, for each taxable year during the 12-year period beginning on the date the single process train of carbon capture equipment was originally placed in service).


(3) *Manner of making a valid transfer election.* A transfer election is made by an eligible taxpayer on the basis of each specified credit portion with respect to a single eligible credit property that is transferred to a transferee taxpayer. To make a valid transfer election, an eligible taxpayer, as part of filing an annual tax return (or a return for a short year within the meaning of section 443 of the Code (short year return)), must include the following—


(i) A properly completed relevant source credit form for the eligible credit (such as Form 7207, *Advanced Manufacturing Production Credit,* if making a transfer election for a section 45X credit) for the taxable year that the eligible credit was determined, including the registration number received during the required pre-filing registration (as described in § 1.6418-4) related to the eligible credit property with respect to which a transferred eligible credit was determined;


(ii) A properly completed Form 3800, *General Business Credit* (or its successor), including reductions necessary because of the transferred eligible credit as required by the form and instructions and the registration number received during the required pre-filing registration (as described in § 1.6418-4) related to the eligible credit property with respect to which a transferred eligible credit was determined;


(iii) A schedule attached to the Form 3800 (or its successor) showing the amount of eligible credit transferred for each eligible credit property (such as for a section 45X election, the relevant lines that include the eligible credit property reported on Form 7207), except as otherwise provided in guidance;


(iv) A transfer election statement as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section; and


(v) Any other information related to the election specified in guidance.


(4) *Due date and original return requirement of a transfer election.* (i) *In general.* A transfer election by an eligible taxpayer with respect to a specified portion of an eligible credit must be made on an original return (including a superseding return or any revisions made on a superseding return) not later than the due date (including extensions of time) for the original return of the eligible taxpayer for the taxable year for which the eligible credit is determined. No transfer election may be made for the first time on an amended return, withdrawn on an amended return, or made or withdrawn by filing an administrative adjustment request under section 6227 of the Code. A numerical error with respect to a properly claimed transfer election may be corrected on an amended return or by filing an administrative adjustment request under section 6227 if necessary; however, the eligible taxpayer's original return, which must be signed under penalties of perjury, must contain all of the information, including a registration number, required by the section 6418 regulations. In order to correct an error on an amended return or administrative adjustment request under section 6227, an eligible taxpayer must have made an error in the information included on the original return such that there is a substantive item to correct; an eligible taxpayer cannot correct a blank item or an item that is described as being “available upon request.” There is no late-election relief available under §§ 301.9100-1 or 301.9100-3 of this chapter for a transfer election that is not timely filed; however, relief under § 301.9100-2(b) may apply if the eligible taxpayer has not received an extension of time to file a return after the original due date, has timely filed a return, takes corrective action under § 301.9100-2(c) within the six-month extension period, and meets the procedural requirements outlined in § 301.9100-2(d).


(ii) *Amending the amount of the eligible credit reported*—(A) *In general.* If an eligible taxpayer, after making a transfer election in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section on an original return in accordance with this paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, determines that the amount of the eligible credit reported on the eligible taxpayer's original return is incorrect, the eligible taxpayer may timely file an amended return, or administrative adjustment request under section 6227, if applicable, adjusting the amount of eligible credit.


(B) *Amending the amount of the credit determined to reflect an increased amount.* To the extent an eligible taxpayer corrects the amount of an eligible credit to reflect an increase in the amount of the eligible credit reported, such amount must be reflected on the credit source forms filed with the amended return, or administrative adjustment request under section 6227, if applicable, but cannot be reflected by either the eligible taxpayer or any transferee taxpayer as a transferred specified credit portion on the transfer election statement.


(C) *Amending the amount of the credit determined to reflect a decreased amount.* To the extent an eligible taxpayer corrects the amount of the eligible credit to reflect a decrease in the amount of the eligible credit reported, such amount must be reflected on the credit source forms filed with the amended return or administrative adjustment request, if applicable, and the transfer election statement reducing the amount of the credit reported in accordance with the following—


(I) The amount of such decrease first reduces the amount if any, of the eligible credit not transferred by the eligible taxpayer; and


(II) Any portion of the amount of such decrease that remains after applying the reduction described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(C)(I) of this section, reduces the amount reported by the transferee taxpayer, or if the eligible credit was transferred to more than one transferee taxpayer, reduces the amount of each transferee taxpayer's specified credit portion on a pro rata basis.


(D) *Treatment of cash consideration.* In the case of a decrease in the amount of the credit determined by the eligible taxpayer, any amount of the cash consideration retained by the eligible taxpayer after making an adjustment in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section that does not directly relate to the remaining specified credit portion must not be excluded from gross income as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(iii) *Examples.* The examples in this paragraph (b)(4)(iii) illustrate the application of paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(A) *Example 1.* A, a U.S. C corporation for Federal income tax purposes (as defined in section 1361(a)(2) of the Code), qualifies as an eligible taxpayer and determines a section 45V clean hydrogen tax credit of $100X in year 1. At the end of year 1, A transfers the entire $100X of the section 45V credit to B. A timely makes a transfer election and properly reports the transaction in accordance with § 1.6418-2(b) on its original return. In year 2, A concludes that the amount of section 45V credit determined in year 1 was $120X. A may file an amended return increasing the amount of the credit reported by $20X on the appropriate credit source forms. A cannot increase the amount of the credit reported on the transfer election statement, and B cannot increase the amount of credit claimed on its return.


(B) *Example 2.* Same facts as *Example 1* except that, in year 2, A concludes that the amount of section 45V credit determined in year 1 was $80X. On an amended return, A decreases the amount of the credit reported by $20X on the appropriate credit source forms. A should then reduce the amount of the credit reported on the transfer election statement. To avoid a determination of an excessive credit transfer, B should file a qualified amended return pursuant to § 1.6664-2(c)(3) reducing the amount of credit claimed on its return by $20X.


(C) *Example 3.* C, a U.S. C corporation for Federal income tax purposes (as defined in section 1361(a)(2) of the Code), qualifies as an eligible taxpayer and determines a section 45Y clean electricity production tax credit of $100X in year 1. At the end of year 1, C transfers $80X of the 45Y credit determined to D, E, and F, with D receiving $40X, E receiving $32X, and F receiving $80X. C timely makes the transfer election and properly reports the transaction in accordance with § 1.6418-2(b) on its original return. In year 2, C concludes that the amount of section 45Y credit determined in year 1 was $60X. C files an amended return decreasing the amount of the credit reported by $40X on the appropriate credit source forms to reflect $60X of section 45Y credit on its credit source forms. As a result of the $40X decrease in the credit determined, C reduces the $20X of section 45Y credit retained by C to $0X, and reduces the amount of section 45Y credit transferred to D, E, and F to $30X, $24X, and $6X, respectively (their respective pro rata shares of the reduced amount). Each of D, E, and F should file a qualified amended return under § 1.6664-2(c)(3) reducing the amount of the credit claimed on their returns to avoid a determination of an excessive credit transfer.


(5) *Transfer election statement*—(i) *In general.* A transfer election statement is a written document that describes the transfer of a specified credit portion between an eligible taxpayer and transferee taxpayer. Unless otherwise provided in guidance, an eligible taxpayer and transferee taxpayer must each attach a transfer election statement to their respective return as required under paragraphs (b)(3)(iv) and (f)(4)(ii) of this section. Unless otherwise provided in guidance, an eligible taxpayer and transferee taxpayer can use any document (such as a purchase and sale agreement) that meets the conditions in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section but must label the document a “Transfer Election Statement” before attaching such labeled document to their respective returns. The information required in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section does not otherwise limit any other information that the eligible taxpayer and transferee taxpayer may agree to provide in connection with the transfer of any specified credit portion. The statement must be signed under penalties of perjury by an individual with authority to legally bind the eligible taxpayer. The statement must also include the written consent of an individual with authority to legally bind the transferee taxpayer.


(ii) *Information required in transfer election statement.* A transfer election statement must, at a minimum, include each of the following:


(A) Name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the transferee taxpayer and the eligible taxpayer. If the transferee taxpayer or eligible taxpayer is a member of a consolidated group, then only include information for the group member that is the transferee taxpayer or eligible taxpayer (if different from the return filer).


(B) A statement that provides the necessary information and amounts to allow the transferee taxpayer to take into account the specified credit portion with respect to the eligible credit property, including—


(*1*) A description of the eligible credit (for example, advanced manufacturing production credit for a section 45X transfer election), the total amount of the credit determined with respect to the eligible credit property, and the amount of the specified credit portion;


(*2*) The taxable year of the eligible taxpayer and the first taxable year in which the specified credit portion will be taken into account by the transferee taxpayer;


(*3*) The amount(s) of the cash consideration and date(s) on which paid by the transferee taxpayer; and


(*4*) The registration number related to the eligible credit property.


(C) Attestation that the eligible taxpayer (or any member of its consolidated group) is not related to the transferee taxpayer (or any member of its consolidated group) within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1).


(D) A statement or representation from the eligible taxpayer that it has or will comply with all requirements of section 6418, the section 6418 regulations, and the provisions of the Code applicable to the eligible credit, including, for example, any requirements for bonus credit amounts described in § 1.6418-1(c)(3) (if applicable).


(E) A statement or representation from the eligible taxpayer and the transferee taxpayer acknowledging the notification of recapture requirements under section 6418(g)(3) and the section 6418 regulations (if applicable).


(F) A statement or representation from the eligible taxpayer that the eligible taxpayer has provided the required minimum documentation (as described in paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section) to the transferee taxpayer.


(iii) *Timing of transfer election statement.* A transfer election statement can be completed at any time after the eligible taxpayer and transferee taxpayer have sufficient information to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, but the transfer election statement cannot be completed for any year after the earlier of:


(A) The filing of the eligible taxpayer's return for the taxable year for which the specified credit portion is determined with respect to the eligible taxpayer; or


(B) The filing of the return of the transferee taxpayer for the year in which the specified credit portion is taken into account.


(iv) *Required minimum documentation.* The eligible taxpayer must provide to a transferee taxpayer the following minimum documentation—


(A) Information that validates the existence of the eligible credit property, which could include evidence prepared by a third party (such as a county board or other governmental entity, a utility, or an insurance provider);


(B) If applicable, documentation substantiating that the eligible taxpayer has satisfied the requirements to include any bonus credit amounts (as defined in § 1.6418-1(c)(3)) in the eligible credit that was part of the transferred specified credit portion; and


(C) Evidence of the eligible taxpayer's qualifying costs in the case of a transfer of an eligible credit that is part of the investment credit or the amount of qualifying production activities and sales amounts, as relevant, in the case of a transfer of an eligible credit that is a production credit.


(v) *Transferee recordkeeping requirement.* Consistent with § 1.6001-1(e), the transferee taxpayer must retain the required minimum documentation provided by the eligible taxpayer as long as the contents thereof may become material in the administration of any internal revenue law.


(c) *Limitations after a transfer election is made*—(1) *Irrevocable.* A transfer election with respect to a specified credit portion is irrevocable.


(2) *No additional transfers.* A specified credit portion may only be transferred pursuant to a transfer election once. A transferee taxpayer cannot make a transfer election of any specified credit portion transferred to the transferee taxpayer.


(d) *Determining the eligible credit*—(1) *In general.* An eligible taxpayer may only transfer eligible credits determined with respect to the eligible taxpayer (paragraph (a)(4) of this section disallows transfer elections in other situations). An eligible credit is determined with respect to an eligible taxpayer if the eligible taxpayer owns the underlying eligible credit property and conducts the activities giving rise to the credit or, in the case of section 45X (under which ownership of eligible credit property is not required), is considered (under the regulations under section 45X) the taxpayer with respect to which the section 45X credit is determined. All rules that relate to the determination of the eligible credit, such as the rules in sections 49 and 50(b) of the Code, apply to the eligible taxpayer and therefore can limit the amount of eligible credit determined with respect to an eligible credit property that can be transferred. Rules relating to the amount of an eligible credit that is allowed to be claimed by an eligible taxpayer, such as the rules in sections 38(c) or 469 of the Code, do not limit the eligible credit determined, but do apply to a transferee taxpayer as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(2) *Application of section 49 at-risk rules to determination of eligible credits for partnerships and S corporations.* Any amount of eligible credit determined with respect to investment credit property held directly by a transferor partnership or transferor S corporation that is eligible credit property (eligible investment credit property) must be determined by the partnership or S corporation taking into account the section 49 at-risk rules at the partner or shareholder level as of the close of the taxable year in which the eligible investment credit property is placed in service. Thus, if the credit base of an eligible investment credit property is limited to a partner or an S corporation shareholder by section 49, then the amount of the eligible credit determined by the transferor partnership or transferor S corporation is also limited. A transferor partnership or transferor S corporation that transfers any specified credit portion with respect to an eligible investment credit property must request from each of its partners or shareholders, respectively, that is subject to section 49, the amount of such partner's or shareholder's nonqualified nonrecourse financing with respect to the eligible investment credit property as of the close of the taxable year in which the property is placed in service. Additionally, the transferor partnership or transferor S corporation must attach to its tax return for the taxable year in which the eligible investment credit property is placed in service, the amount of each partner's or shareholder's section 49 limitation with respect to any specified credit portion transferred with respect to the eligible investment credit property. Changes to at-risk amounts under section 49 for partners or S corporation shareholders after the close of the taxable year in which the eligible investment credit property is placed in service do not impact the eligible credit determined by the transferor partnership or transferor S corporation, but do impact the partner(s) or S corporation shareholder(s) as described in § 1.6418-3(a)(6)(ii).


(e) *Treatment of payments made in connection with a transfer election*—(1) *In general.* An amount paid by a transferee taxpayer to an eligible taxpayer is in connection with a transfer election with respect to a specified credit portion only if it is paid in cash (as defined in § 1.6418-1(f)), directly relates to the specified credit portion, and is not described in § 1.6418-5(a)(3) (describing payments related to an excessive credit transfer).


(2) *Not includible in gross income.* Any amount paid to an eligible taxpayer that is described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is not includible in the gross income of the eligible taxpayer.


(3) *Not deductible.* No deduction is allowed under any provision of the Code with respect to any amount paid by a transferee taxpayer that is described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(4) *Anti-abuse rule*—(i) *In general.* A transfer election of any specified credit portion, and therefore the transfer of that specified credit portion to a transferee taxpayer, may be disallowed, or the Federal income tax consequences of any transaction(s) effecting such a transfer may be recharacterized, when the parties to the transaction have engaged in the transaction or a series of transactions with a principal purpose of avoiding any Federal tax liability beyond the intent of section 6418. For example, an amount of cash paid by a transferee taxpayer will not be considered as paid in connection with the transfer of a specified credit portion under paragraph (e)(1) of this section if a principal purpose of a transaction or series of transactions is to allow an eligible taxpayer to avoid gross income. Conversely, an amount of cash paid by a transferee taxpayer will be considered paid in connection with the transfer of a specified credit portion under paragraph (e)(1) of this section if a principal purpose of a transaction or series of transactions is to increase a Federal income tax deduction of a transferee taxpayer.


(ii) *Example 1.* Taxpayer A, an eligible taxpayer, generates $100 of an eligible credit with respect to an eligible credit property in the course of its trade or business. Taxpayer A also provides services to customers. Taxpayer A offers Customer B, a transferee taxpayer that cannot deduct the cost of the services, the opportunity to be transferred $100 of eligible credit for $100 while receiving Taxpayer A's services for free. Taxpayer A normally charges $20 for the same services without the purchase of the eligible credit, and an arm's length price of the eligible credit without regard to other commercial relationships is $80 paid in cash for $100 of the eligible credit. Taxpayer A is engaged in a transaction in which it is undercharging for services to Customer B to avoid recognizing $20 of gross income. This transaction is subject to recharacterization under the anti-abuse rule in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and Taxpayer A will be treated as transferring $100 of the eligible credit for $80, and have $20 of gross income from the services provided to Customer B.


(iii) *Example 2.* Taxpayer C, an eligible taxpayer, generates $100 of an eligible credit with respect to an eligible credit property in the course of its trade or business. Taxpayer C also sells property to customers. Taxpayer C offers Customer D, a transferee taxpayer that can deduct the purchase of property, the opportunity to receive the $100 of eligible credit for $20 while purchasing Taxpayer C's property for $80. Taxpayer C normally charges $20 for the same property without the transfer of the eligible credit, and an arm's length price of the eligible credit without regard to other commercial relationships is $80 paid in cash for $100 of the eligible credit. Taxpayer C is willing to accept the higher price for the property because Taxpayer C has a net operating loss carryover to offset any taxable income from the transaction. This transaction is subject to recharacterization under the anti-abuse rule under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and Taxpayer C will be treated as selling the property for $20 and transferring $100 of the eligible credit for $80, and Customer D will have a $20 deduction related to the purchase of the property instead of $80.


(f) *Transferee taxpayer's treatment of eligible credit*—(1) *Taxable year in which credit taken into account*—(i) *In general.* In the case of any specified credit portion transferred to a transferee taxpayer pursuant to a transfer election under this section, the transferee taxpayer takes the specified credit portion into account in the transferee taxpayer's first taxable year ending with or ending after the taxable year of the eligible taxpayer with respect to which the eligible credit was determined. Thus, to the extent the taxable years of an eligible taxpayer and a transferee taxpayer end on the same date, the transferee taxpayer will take the specified credit portion into account in that taxable year. To the extent the taxable years of an eligible taxpayer and a transferee taxpayer end on different dates, the transferee taxpayer will take the specified credit portion into account in the transferee taxpayer's first taxable year that ends after the taxable year of the eligible taxpayer.


(ii) *Rule for 52*-*53-week taxable years.* For purposes of determining the taxable year in which a credit is taken into account under section 6418(d) and paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, a 52-53-week taxable year of an eligible taxpayer and transferee taxpayer is deemed to end on or close on the last day of the calendar month nearest to the last day of the 52-53-week taxable year, as the case may be.


(2) *No gross income for a transferee taxpayer upon claiming a transferred specified credit portion.* A transferee taxpayer does not have gross income upon claiming a transferred specified credit portion even if the amount of cash paid to the eligible taxpayer was less than the amount of the transferred specified credit portion, assuming all other requirements of section 6418 are met. For example, a transferee taxpayer who paid $9X for $10X of a specified credit portion that the transferee taxpayer then claims on its return does not result in the $1X difference being included in the gross income of the transferee taxpayer.


(3) *Transferee treated as the eligible taxpayer*—(i) *In general.* A transferee taxpayer (and not the eligible taxpayer) is treated as the taxpayer for purposes of the Code with respect to the transferred specified credit portion. An eligible taxpayer must apply the rules necessary to determine the amount of an eligible credit prior to making the transfer election for a specified credit portion, and therefore a transferee taxpayer does not re-apply rules that relate to a determination of an eligible credit, such as the rules in sections 49 or 50(b). However, a transferee taxpayer must apply rules that relate to computing the amount of the specified credit portion that is allowed to be claimed in the taxable year by the transferee taxpayer, such as the rules in section 38 or 469, as applicable.


(ii) *Application of section 469.* A specified credit portion transferred to a transferee taxpayer is treated as determined in connection with the conduct of a trade or business and, if applicable, such transferred specified credit portion is subject to the rules in section 469. In applying section 469, unless a transferee taxpayer owns an interest in the eligible taxpayer's trade or business at the time the work was done, the fact that the specified credit portion is treated as determined in connection with the conduct of a trade or business does not cause the transferee taxpayer to be considered to own an interest in the eligible taxpayer's trade or business at the time the work was done and does not change the characterization of the transferee taxpayer's participation (or lack thereof) in the eligible taxpayer's trade or business by using any of the grouping rules under § 1.469-4(c).


(4) *Transferee taxpayer requirements to take into account a transferred specified credit portion.* In order for a transferee taxpayer to take into account in a taxable year (as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section) a specified credit portion that was transferred by an eligible taxpayer, as part of filing a return (or short year return), an amended return, or a request for an administrative adjustment under section 6227 of the Code, the transferee taxpayer must include the following—


(i) A properly completed Form 3800, *General Business Credit* (or its successor), to take into account the transferred specified credit portion as a current general business credit, and including all registration number(s) related to the transferred specified credit portion;


(ii) The transfer election statement described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section attached to the return; and


(iii) Any other information related to the transfer election specified in guidance.


(g) *Applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years ending on or after April 30, 2024. For taxable years ending before April 30, 2024, taxpayers, however, may choose to apply the rules of this section and §§ 1.6418-1, -3, and -5, provided the taxpayers apply the rules in their entirety and in a consistent manner.



---

[N] [T.D. 9993, 89 FR 34800, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 67860, Aug. 22, 2024]






