# § 1030.5   Subsequent disclosures.

(a) *Change in terms*—(1) *Advance notice required.* A depository institution shall give advance notice to affected consumers of any change in a term required to be disclosed under § 1030.4(b) of this part if the change may reduce the annual percentage yield or adversely affect the consumer. The notice shall include the effective date of the change. The notice shall be mailed or delivered at least 30 calendar days before the effective date of the change.


(2) *No notice required.* No notice under this section is required for:


(i) *Variable-rate changes.* Changes in the interest rate and corresponding changes in the annual percentage yield in variable-rate accounts.


(ii) *Check printing fees.* Changes in fees assessed for check printing.


(iii) *Short-term time accounts.* Changes in any term for time accounts with maturities of one month or less.


(b) *Notice before maturity for time accounts longer than one month that renew automatically.* For time accounts with a maturity longer than one month that renew automatically at maturity, institutions shall provide the disclosures described below before maturity. The disclosures shall be mailed or delivered at least 30 calendar days before maturity of the existing account. Alternatively, the disclosures may be mailed or delivered at least 20 calendar days before the end of the grace period on the existing account, provided a grace period of at least five calendar days is allowed.


(1) *Maturities of longer than one year.* If the maturity is longer than one year, the institution shall provide account disclosures set forth in § 1030.4(b) of this part for the new account, along with the date the existing account matures. If the interest rate and annual percentage yield that will be paid for the new account are unknown when disclosures are provided, the institution shall state that those rates have not yet been determined, the date when they will be determined, and a telephone number consumers may call to obtain the interest rate and the annual percentage yield that will be paid for the new account.


(2) *Maturities of one year or less but longer than one month.* If the maturity is one year or less but longer than one month, the institution shall either:


(i) Provide disclosures as set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or


(ii) Disclose to the consumer:


(A) The date the existing account matures and the new maturity date if the account is renewed;


(B) The interest rate and the annual percentage yield for the new account if they are known (or that those rates have not yet been determined, the date when they will be determined, and a telephone number the consumer may call to obtain the interest rate and the annual percentage yield that will be paid for the new account); and


(C) Any difference in the terms of the new account as compared to the terms required to be disclosed under § 1030.4(b) of this part for the existing account.


(c) *Notice before maturity for time accounts longer than one year that do not renew automatically.* For time accounts with a maturity longer than one year that do not renew automatically at maturity, institutions shall disclose to consumers the maturity date and whether interest will be paid after maturity. The disclosures shall be mailed or delivered at least 10 calendar days before maturity of the existing account.




