# ยง 2802.11   How does the BLM designate right-of-way corridors and designated leasing areas?

(a) The BLM may determine the locations and boundaries of right-of-way corridors or designated leasing areas during the land use planning process described in part 1600 of this chapter. During this process, the BLM coordinates with other Federal agencies, State, local, and tribal governments, and the public to identify resource-related issues, concerns, and needs. The process results in a resource management plan or plan amendment, which addresses the extent to which you may use public lands and resources for specific purposes.


(b) When determining which public lands may be suitable for right-of-way corridors or designated leasing areas, the BLM may consider various factors, including:




(1) Federal, State, Tribal, and local land use plans, and applicable Federal, State, Tribal, and local laws;




(2) Environmental impacts on cultural resources and natural resources, including air, water, soil, fish, wildlife, and vegetation;


(3) Physical effects and constraints on corridor placement or leasing areas due to geology, hydrology, meteorology, soil, or land forms;


(4) Costs of construction, operation, and maintenance and costs of modifying or relocating existing facilities in a proposed right-of-way corridor or designated leasing area (*i.e.,* the economic efficiency of placing a right-of-way within a proposed corridor or providing a lease inside a designated leasing area);


(5) Risks to national security;


(6) Potential health and safety hazards imposed on the public by facilities or activities located within the proposed right-of-way corridor or designated leasing area;


(7) Social and economic impacts of the right-of-way corridor or designated leasing area on public land users, adjacent landowners, and other groups or individuals;


(8) Transportation and utility corridor studies previously developed by user groups; and


(9) Engineering and technological compatibility of proposed and existing facilities.


(10) Access to electric transmission; and


(11) Whether there are areas for solar and wind energy development with low potential for conflict with resources or uses due to environmental, cultural, and other relevant criteria, which the BLM will identify by:


(i) Assessing the demand for new or expanded areas;


(ii) Applying environmental, cultural, and other screening criteria; and


(iii) Analyzing proposed areas through the land use planning process described in part 1600 of this chapter.




(c) BLM may designate any transportation and utility corridor existing prior to October 21, 1976, as a transportation and utility corridor without further review.


(d) The resource management plan or plan amendment may also identify areas where the BLM will not allow right-of-way corridors or designated leasing areas for environmental, safety, or other reasons.



---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92207, Dec. 20, 2016; 89 FR 35677, May 1, 2024]




