# ยง 955.35   Subpoenas.

(a) *General.* Upon written request of either party filed with the Recorder, or on the Board's own initiative, the Board may issue a subpoena requiring:


(1) *Testimony at a deposition.* The deposing of a witness in the city or county where the witness resides or is employed or transacts business in person, or at another convenient location as determined by the Board;


(2) *Testimony at a hearing.* The attendance of a witness for the purpose of taking testimony at a hearing; or


(3) *Production of books and papers.* The production by a witness of books, papers, documents, electronically stored information, and other tangible and intangible things designated in the subpoena.


(b) *Voluntary cooperation.* Each party is expected:


(1) To cooperate and make available witnesses and evidence under its control as requested by the other party, without issuance of a subpoena; and


(2) To secure voluntary attendance of desired third-party witnesses, books, papers, documents, or tangible things whenever possible.


(c) *Requests for subpoenas.* (1) A request for a subpoena shall normally be filed at least:


(i) 15 days before a scheduled deposition where the attendance of a witness at a deposition is sought, and/or where the production by a witness of books, papers, documents, electronically stored information, and other tangible and intangible things is sought; and


(ii) 30 days before a scheduled hearing where the attendance of a witness at a hearing is sought; except that


(iii) In its discretion the Board may honor requests for subpoenas not made within these time limitations.


(2) A request for a subpoena shall state the reasonable scope and general relevance to the case of the testimony and of any books, papers, documents, electronically stored information, and other tangible and intangible things sought.


(d)(1) *Requests to quash or modify.* Upon written request by the person subpoenaed or by a party, made within 10 days after service but in any event not later than the time specified in the subpoena for compliance, the Board may:


(i) Quash or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable and oppressive or for other good cause shown; or


(ii) Require the person in whose behalf the subpoena was issued to advance the reasonable cost of compliance.


(2) Where circumstances require, the Board may act upon such a request at any time after a copy has been served upon the opposing party.


(e) *Form; issuance.* (1) Every subpoena shall state the name of the Board and the title of the appeal and shall command each person to whom it is directed to attend and give testimony, and where appropriate, to produce specified books, papers, documents, electronically stored information, and other tangible and intangible things at a time and place therein specified. In issuing a subpoena to a requesting party, the Judge shall sign the subpoena and may enter the name of the witness and otherwise leave it blank. The party to whom the subpoena is issued shall complete the subpoena before service.


(2) Where the witness is located in a foreign country, a letter rogatory or subpoena may be issued and served under the circumstances and in the manner provided in 28 U.S.C. 1781-1784.


(f) *Service.* (1) The party requesting issuance of a subpoena shall arrange for service.


(2) A subpoena may be served by a United States marshal or deputy marshal, or by any other person who is not a party and not less than 18 years of age. Service of a subpoena upon a person named therein shall be made by personally delivering a copy to that person and tendering the fees for one day's attendance and the mileage provided by 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable law.


(3) The party at whose instance a subpoena is issued shall be responsible for the payment of fees and mileage of the witness and of the officer who serves the subpoena. The failure to make payment of such charges on demand may be deemed by the Board as a sufficient ground for striking the testimony of the witness and the evidence the witness has produced.


(g) *Contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena.* In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena by a person who resides, is found, or transacts business within the jurisdiction of a U.S. District Court, the Board will apply to the Court through the Attorney General of the United States for an order requiring the person to appear before the Board or a member thereof to give testimony or produce evidence or both. Any failure of any such person to obey the order of the Court may be punished by the Court as a contempt thereof.




