# § 782.4   Assistance in determining your obligations.

(a) *Determining if your activity is subject to reporting requirements.* (1) If you need assistance in determining whether or not your activity is subject to the APR's reporting requirements, submit your written request for an activity determination to BIS. Such requests may be sent to BIS via facsimile to (202) 482-1731, e-mailed to *apdr@bis.doc.gov,* or hand delivered, submitted by courier, or mailed to BIS, in hard copy, to the following address: Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Attn: AP Activity Determination, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Room 4515, Washington, DC 20230. Your activity determination request should include the information indicated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to ensure an accurate determination. Also include any additional information that would be relevant to the activity described in your request. If you are unable to provide all of the information required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you should include an explanation identifying the reasons or deficiencies that preclude you from supplying the information. If BIS cannot make a determination based upon the information submitted, BIS will return the request to you and identify the additional information that is necessary to complete an activity determination. BIS will provide a written response to your activity determination request within 10 business days of receipt of the request.


(2) You must include the following information when submitting an activity determination request to BIS:


(i) Date of your request;


(ii) Name of your organization and complete street address;


(iii) Point of contact for your organization;


(iv) Phone and facsimile number for your point of contact;


(v) E-mail address for your point of contact, if you want BIS to provide an acknowledgment of receipt via e-mail; and


(vi) Description of your activity in sufficient detail as to allow BIS to make an accurate determination.


(b) *Other inquiries.* If you need assistance in interpreting the provisions of the APR or need assistance with APR report forms or complementary access issues, contact BIS's Treaty Compliance Division by phone at (202) 482-1001. If you require a written response from BIS, submit a detailed request to BIS that explains your question, issue, or request. Send the request to the address or facsimile included in paragraph (a) of this section, or e-mail the request to *apqa@bis.doc.gov.* To ensure that your request is properly routed, include the notation, “ATTENTION: APR Advisory Request,” on your submission to BIS. 




