# ยง 201.11   Loan maturities.

(a) *Property improvement loans.* The term of a property improvement loan shall be not less than six months and not more than 20 years and 32 days from the date of the loan, except that:


(1) The maximum term for a single family property improvement loan on a manufactured home that qualifies as real property shall not exceed 15 years and 32 days from the date of the loan; 


(2) The maximum term for a manufactured home improvement loan shall not exceed 12 years and 32 days from the date of the loan; and 


(3) The maximum term for an historic preservation loan shall not exceed 15 years and 32 days from the date of the loan. 


(b) *Manufactured home loans.* The term of a manufactured home loan shall be not less than six months and not more than 20 years and 32 days from the date of the loan, except that: 


(1) The maximum term for a manufactured home lot loan shall not exceed 15 years and 32 days from the date of the loan; and


(2) The maximum term for a multi-module manufactured home and lot in combination shall not exceed 25 years and 32 days from the date of the loan.


(c) *Loan refinancing.* A loan to be refinanced under this part may be refinanced for an extended period.


(1) The term of a loan to refinance a borrower's existing insured property improvement or manufactured home loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section for the particular type of loan. In addition, the total time period from the date of the original loan to the final maturity of the refinanced loan shall not exceed:


(i) In the case of a property improvement loan, the maximum term permitted under paragraph (a) of this section plus 9 years and 11 months; and


(ii) In the case of manufactured home loan, the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section plus 4 years and 11 months.


(2) The term of a loan made to refinance a borrower's existing uninsured manufactured home loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section for the particular type of loan. 


(3) When a borrower's existing manufactured home lot is being refinanced in connection with the purchase of a manufactured home, the term of the combination loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section for the particular type of loan. 


(4) When a borrower's existing manufactured home is being refinanced in connection with the purchase of a manufactured home lot, the term of the combination loan shall not exceed the maximum term permitted under paragraph (b) of this section for the particular type of loan. 



---

[N] [50 FR 43523, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 33406, Sept. 3, 1987; 54 FR 10537, Mar. 14, 1989; 56 FR 52430, Oct. 18, 1991; 57 FR 45246, Sept. 30, 1992; 61 FR 19796, May 2, 1996]




