# § 151.2005   Definitions.

(a) Unless otherwise stated in this section, the definitions in 33 CFR 151.1504, 33 CFR 160.202, and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea apply to this subpart.


(b) As used in this subpart:


*Captain of the Port (COTP)* means the Coast Guard officer designated by the Commandant to command a COTP Zone as described in part 3 of this chapter.


*Constructed* in respect of a vessel means a stage of construction when—


(1) The keel of a vessel is laid;


(2) Construction identifiable with the specific vessel begins;


(3) Assembly of the vessel has commenced and comprises at least 50 tons or 1 percent of the estimated mass of all structural material, whichever is less; or


(4) The vessel undergoes a major conversion.


*Exchange* means to replace the water in a ballast tank using one of the following methods:


(1) *Flow-through exchange* means to flush out ballast water by pumping in mid-ocean water at the bottom of the tank and continuously overflowing the tank from the top until three full volumes of water has been changed to minimize the number of original organisms remaining in the tank.


(2) *Empty/refill exchange* means to pump out the ballast water taken on in ports, estuarine, or territorial waters until the pump(s) lose suction, then refilling the ballast tank(s) with mid-ocean water.


*National Ballast Information Clearinghouse (NBIC)* means the National Ballast Information Clearinghouse operated by the Coast Guard and the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center as mandated under the National Invasive Species Act of 1996.


*Port or place of departure* means any port or place in which a vessel is anchored or moored.


*Port or place of destination* means any port or place to which a vessel is bound to anchor or moor.


*Seagoing vessel* means a vessel in commercial service that operates beyond the boundary line established by 46 CFR part 7. It does not include a vessel that navigates exclusively on inland waters.




*Shipboard Technology Evaluation Program (STEP)* means a Coast Guard research program intended to facilitate research, development, and shipboard testing of effective BWMS. STEP requirements are located at:*http://www.dco.uscg.mil/Our-Organization/Assistant-Commandant-for-Prevention-Policy-CG-5P/Commercial-Regulations-standards-CG-5PS/office-oes/.*

*United States* means the States, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession over which the United States exercises sovereignty.


*Voyage* means any transit by a vessel destined for any United States port or place.



---

[N] [USCH-2001-10486, 77 FR 17306, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 33970, June 8, 2012; 80 FR 5330, Jan. 30, 2015; USCG-2018-0874, 84 FR 30879, June 28, 2019]




