# § 52.2224   Legal authority.

(a) The requirements of § 51.230(c) of this chapter are not met since the plan does not provide the legal authority for controlling motor vehicles during air pollution emergency episodes.


(b) The requirements of § 51.230(d) of this chapter are not met since statutory authority to prevent construction, modification, or operation of a facility, building, structure, or installation, or combination thereof, which indirectly results or may result in emissions of any air pollutant at any location which will prevent the maintenance of a national air quality standard is not adequate.


(c)(1) The requirements of § 51.230(b) of this chapter are not met since the definition of *person* set forth in the Tennessee Air Quality Act and in the State implementation plan does not include facilities owned or operated by the State. Therefore, section 53-3409(f) of the Tennessee Code Annotated and section 30 of Chapter II of the Tennessee Air Pollution Control Regulations are disapproved.


(2) Definition of *person.* For the purposes of the plan, *person* shall mean any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, State-owned or operated facility, State agency, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns.


(d) The requirements of § 51.230(b) of this chapter are not met since the State lacks legal authority, as a result of the enactment of House Bill 1490 by the 1974 Tennessee legislature, to control emissions from the quarrying and processing of agricultural limestone. Therefore, section 53-3424 of the Tennessee Code Annotated is disapproved.


(e) The requirements of § 51.230(b) of this chapter are not met since the State lacks legal authority, as a result of the enactment of House Bill 1845 by the 1974 Tennessee legislature, to control emissions from air contaminant sources which use woodwaste only as fuel. Therefore, the last sentence of section 53-3422 of the Tennessee Code Annotated is disapproved.



---

[N] [37 FR 10894, May 31, 1972]


