# § 165.113   Security Zone: Dignitary arrival/departure Logan International Airport, Boston, MA.

(a) *Location.* The permanent security zone consists of four sectors that may be activated in part, or in whole, upon the request of the U.S. Secret Service. These zones are for the protection of the President or Vice President of the United States, as well as visiting heads of foreign states or foreign governments arriving at, or departing from, Logan International Airport and as determined by the transit route across Boston Harbor. The security zone will be as follows:


(1) Sector one will go into effect 15 minutes prior to the scheduled landing or takeoff of the aircraft carrying either the President, Vice President, or visiting heads of foreign states or foreign governments at Logan International Airport. Sector one will preclude all vessels from approaching within three hundred yards of the Logan International Airport shoreline, bound on the west by a line drawn between positions 42°22′45″ N., 071°01′05″ W. and 42°21′48″ N., 071°01′45″ W. (NAD) 1983).


(2) Sector two will go into effect 15 minutes before the vehicle carrying the President, Vice President, or visiting heads of foreign states or foreign governments enters the Callahan Tunnel or Sumner Tunnel. Sector two may preclude vessels, as necessary, from entering an area of the main ship channel, Boston Inner Harbor; fifty yards in all directions from a point directly above the Callahan Tunnel or Sumner Tunnel.


(3) Sector three will go into effect 15 minutes before the vehicle carrying the President, Vice President, or visiting heads of foreign states or foreign governments enters the Ted Williams Tunnel. Sector three may preclude vessels, as necessary, from entering an area of the main ship channel, Boston Inner Harbor, fifty yards in all directions from a point directly above the Ted Williams Tunnel.


(4) Sector four will go into effect 15 minutes before the President, Vice President, or visiting heads of foreign states or foreign governments board the designated transport vessel. Sector four will preclude all vessels from approaching within three hundred yards in all directions from the designated vessel transporting the President, Vice President, or visiting heads of foreign states or foreign governments between Logan International Airport and any location in Boston Harbor.


(5) The activation of a particular sector of this security zone will be announced via Safety Marine Information Broadcasts and/or by locally issued notices. 


(b) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations covering security zones contained in 33 CFR 165.33 apply. 


(2) All persons and vessels shall comply with the instructions of the Coast Guard Captain of the Port or the designated on scene patrol personnel. Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the Coast Guard. Upon being hailed by a Coast Guard vessel via siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.



---

[N] [CGD01-97-004, 63 FR 16117, Apr. 2, 1998]




