# § 173.13   Exceptions for Class 3, Divisions 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1, 6.1, and Classes 8 and 9 materials.

(a) A Class 3, 8 or 9, or Division 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1, or 6.1 material is excepted from the labeling (except for the CARGO AIRCRAFT ONLY label), placarding and segregation requirements of this subchapter if prepared for transportation in accordance with the requirements of this section. A material that meets the definition of a material poisonous by inhalation may not be offered for transportation or transported under provisions of this section.


(b) A hazardous material conforming to the requirements of this section may be transported by motor vehicle and rail car. In addition, packages prepared in accordance with this section may be transported by aircraft under the following conditions:


(1) *Cargo-only aircraft.* Only hazardous materials permitted to be transported aboard either a passenger or cargo-only aircraft by column (9A) or (9B) of the Hazardous Materials Table in § 172.101 of this subchapter are authorized aboard cargo-only aircraft.


(2) *Passenger carrying aircraft.* Only hazardous materials permitted to be transported aboard a passenger aircraft by column (9A) of the Hazardous Materials Table in § 172.101 of this subchapter are authorized aboard passenger aircraft. The completed package, assembled as for transportation, must be successfully tested in accordance with part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group I level. A hazardous material which meets the definition of a Division 5.1 (oxidizer) at the Packing Group I level in accordance with § 173.127(b)(1)(i) of this subchapter may not be transported aboard a passenger aircraft.


(3) Packages offered for transportation aboard either passenger or cargo-only aircraft must meet the requirements for transportation by aircraft specified in § 173.27 of this subchapter.


(c) A hazardous material permitted by paragraph (a) of this section must be packaged as follows:


(1) For liquids:


(i) The hazardous material must be placed in a tightly closed glass, plastic or metal inner packaging with a maximum capacity not exceeding 1.2 L. Sufficient outage must be provided such that the inner packaging will not become liquid full at 55 °C (130 °F). The net quantity (measured at 20 °C (68 °F)) of liquid in any inner packaging may not exceed 1 L. For transportation by aircraft, the net quantity in one package may not exceed the quantity specified in columns (9A) or (9B), as appropriate.


(ii) The inner packaging must be placed in a hermetically sealed barrier bag which is impervious to the lading, and then wrapped in a non-reactive absorbent material in sufficient quantity to completely absorb the contents of the inner packaging. Alternatively, the inner packaging may first be wrapped in a non-reactive absorbent material and then placed in the hermetically sealed barrier bag. The combination of inner packaging, absorbent material, and bag must be placed in a snugly fitting metal can.


(iii) The metal can must be securely closed. For liquids that are in Division 4.2 or 4.3, the metal can must be hermetically sealed. For Division 4.2 materials in Packing Group I, the metal can must be tested in accordance with part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group I performance level.


(iv) The metal can must be placed in a fiberboard box that is placed in a hermetically sealed barrier bag which is impervious to the lading.


(v) The intermediate packaging must be placed inside a securely closed, outer packaging conforming to § 173.201.


(vi) Not more than four intermediate packagings are permitted in an outer packaging.


(2) For solids:


(i) The hazardous material must be placed in a tightly closed glass, plastic or metal inner packaging. The net quantity of material in any inner packaging may not exceed 2.85kg (6.25 pounds). For transportation by aircraft, the net quantity in one package may not exceed the quantity specified in columns (9A) or (9B), as appropriate.


(ii) The inner packaging must be placed in a hermetically sealed barrier bag which is impervious to the lading.


(iii) The barrier bag and its contents must be placed in a fiberboard box that is placed in a hermetically-sealed barrier bag which is impervious to the lading.


(iv) The intermediate packaging must be placed inside an outer packaging conforming to § 173.211.


(v) Not more than four intermediate packagings are permitted in an outer packaging.


(d) The outside of the package must be marked, in association with the proper shipping name, with the statement: “This package conforms to 49 CFR 173.13.”



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-253, 61 FR 27173, May 30, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 50460, Aug. 18, 2000; 66 FR 45381, Aug. 28, 2001; 70 FR 3309, Jan. 24, 2005; 71 FR 54395, Sept. 14, 2006; 75 FR 27215, May 14, 2010]




