# ยง 1990.103   Definitions.

Terms used in this part shall have the meanings set forth in the Act. In addition, as used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 


*Act* means the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-596, 84 Stat. 1590 *et seq.,* 29 U.S.C. 551 *et seq.).*

*Administrator of EPA* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or designee. 


*Chairperson of CPSC* means the Chairman of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission, or designee. 


*Commissioner of FDA* means the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, United States Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. 


*Director of NCI* means the Director of the National Cancer Institute, United States Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. 


*Director of NIEHS* means the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, United States Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. 


*Director of NIOSH* means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, United States Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. 


*Mutagenesis* means the induction of heritable changes in the genetic material of either somatic or germinal cells. 


*Positive results in short-term tests* means positive results in assays for two or more of the following types of effect:


(1) The induction of DNA damage and/or repair;


(2) Mutagenesis in bacteria, yeast, *Neurospora* or *Drosophila melanogaster;*

(3) Mutagenesis in mammalian somatic cells;


(4) Mutagenesis in mammalian germinal cells; or


(5) Neoplastic transformation of mammalian cells in culture.


*Potential occupational carcinogen* means any substance, or combination or mixture of substances, which causes an increased incidence of benign and/or malignant neoplasms, or a substantial decrease in the latency period between exposure and onset of neoplasms in humans or in one or more experimental mammalian species as the result of any oral, respiratory or dermal exposure, or any other exposure which results in the induction of tumors at a site other than the site of administration. This definition also includes any substance which is metabolized into one or more potential occupational carcinogens by mammals. 


*Secretary of HHS* means the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. 




