# 9.406-3   Procedures.

(a) *Investigation and referral.* Agencies shall establish procedures for the prompt reporting, investigation, and referral to the suspending and debarring official of matters appropriate for that official's consideration.


(b) *Decision-making process.* (1) Agencies shall establish procedures governing the debarment decision-making process that are as informal as is practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness. These procedures shall afford the contractor (and any specifically named affiliates) an opportunity to submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the proposed debarment. If the suspending and debarring official extends the opportunity for the contractor to submit material in opposition, then the official should also give a deadline for submission of materials. The suspending and debarring official may use flexible procedures to allow a contractor to present matters in opposition in person or remotely through appropriate technology; if so, the suspending and debarring official should change the notice in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section to include those flexible procedures.


(2) In actions not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, if it is found that the contractor's submission in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment, agencies shall also—


(i) Afford the contractor an opportunity to appear with counsel, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any person the agency presents; and


(ii) Make a transcribed record of the proceedings and make it available at cost to the contractor upon request, unless the contractor and the agency, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript.


(c) *Notice of proposal to debar.* A notice of proposed debarment shall be issued by the suspending and debarring official to the contractor and any specifically named affiliates.


(1) The written notice shall be sent—


(i) By U.S. mail or private delivery service to the last known street address, with delivery notification service;


(ii) By email to the point of contact email address in the contractor's SAM registration, if any, or to the last known email address as confirmed by the agency; or


(iii) By certified mail to the last known street address with return receipt requested.


(2) The notice shall be sent—


(i) To the contractor, the contractor's identified counsel for purposes of the administrative proceedings, or the contractor's agent for service of process; and


(ii) For each specifically named affiliate, to the affiliate itself, the affiliate's identified counsel for purposes of the administrative proceedings, or the affiliate's agent for service of process.


(3) The notice shall state—


(i) That debarment is being considered;


(ii) The reasons for the proposed debarment in terms sufficient to put the contractor on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which it is based;


(iii) The cause(s) relied upon under 9.406-2 for proposing debarment;


(iv) That, within 30 days after receipt of the notice, the contractor may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the proposed debarment, including any additional specific information that raises a genuine dispute over the material facts;


(v) The agency's procedures governing debarment decision making;


(vi) The effect of the issuance of the notice of proposed debarment;


(vii) The potential effect of an actual debarment;


(viii) That in addition to any information and argument in opposition to a proposed debarment, the contractor must identify—


(A) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the notice of proposed debarment. Include any information about any of the factors listed in 9.406-1(a). A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment;


(B) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions and all similar actions taken by Federal, State, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;


(C) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the notice of proposed debarment that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and


(D) All of the contractor's affiliates; and


(ix) That if the contractor fails to disclose the information in paragraph (c)(3)(viii) of this section, or provides false information, the agency taking the action may seek further criminal, civil, or administrative action against the contractor, as appropriate.




(d) *Suspending and debarring official's decision.* (1) In actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts, the suspending and debarring official shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the contractor. If no suspension is in effect, the decision shall be made within 45 days from the date that the official administrative record is closed, unless the suspending and debarring official extends this period for good cause. The official record closes upon the expiration of the contractor's time to submit information and argument in opposition, including any extensions (see paragraph (b)(1) of this section).


(2)(i) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary as to disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The suspending and debarring official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the contractor and any other information in the administrative record.


(ii) The debarring official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending and debarring official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary and capricious or clearly erroneous.


(iii) The suspending and debarring official's decision shall be made after the conclusion of the proceedings with respect to disputed facts.


(3) In any action in which the proposed debarment is not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the cause for debarment must be established by a preponderance of the evidence.


(e) *Notice of suspending and debarring official's decision.* (1) If the suspending and debarring official decides to impose debarment, the contractor and any affiliates involved shall be given prompt notice using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section—


(i) Referring to the notice of proposed debarment;


(ii) Specifying the reasons for debarment;


(iii) Stating the period of debarment, including effective dates; and


(iv) Advising that the debarment is effective throughout the executive branch of the Government unless the head of an agency or a designee makes the statement called for by 9.406-1(d).


(2) If debarment is not imposed, the suspending and debarring official shall promptly notify the contractor and any affiliates involved, using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.




(f) *Administrative agreements.* (1) If the contractor enters into an administrative agreement with the Government in order to resolve a debarment or potential debarment proceeding, the suspending and debarring official shall access the website (available at *https://www.cpars.gov,* then select FAPIIS), enter the requested information, and upload documentation reflecting the administrative agreement.


(2) The suspending and debarring official is responsible for the timely and accurate submission of documentation reflecting the administrative agreement. The submission should be made within 3 working days.


(3) With regard to information that may be covered by a disclosure exemption under the Freedom of Information Act, the suspending and debarring official shall follow the procedures at 9.105-2(b)(2)(iv).






(g) *Voluntary exclusions.* (1) If the contractor enters into a voluntary exclusion with the Government in order to resolve a debarment or potential debarment matter, the suspending and debarring official shall access the website (available at *https://www.sam.gov*) and enter the requested information into the exclusions section of SAM (see 9.404(c)(3)).


(2) The suspending and debarring official is responsible for the timely and accurate submission of documentation reflecting the voluntary exclusion. The submission should be made within 3 working days.


(3) Regarding information that may be covered by a disclosure exemption under the Freedom of Information Act, the suspending and debarring official shall follow the procedures at 9.105-2(b)(2)(iv).


(h) *Pre-notice letters.* Prior to initiating a proposed debarment, a pre-notice letter may be issued at the discretion of the agency suspending and debarring official. A pre-notice letter is not required to initiate debarment under this subpart. (See 9.403.)





---

[N] [48 FR 42142, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 19815, May 8, 1989; 59 FR 67033, Dec. 28, 1994; 75 FR 14066, Mar. 23, 2010; 77 FR 201, Jan. 3, 2012; 83 FR 42572, Aug. 22, 2018; 84 FR 19845, May 6, 2019; 90 FR 514, Jan. 3, 2025]




