# ยง 115.500   When required.

(a) Vessels carrying more than 12 passengers on international voyages must undergo an inspection for certification each year as specified in ยง 115.404. 


(b) All other vessels must undergo an inspection for certification as specified in ยง 115.404 and an annual inspection as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(1) *Annual inspection.* Your vessel must undergo an annual inspection within the 3 months before or after each anniversary date. 


(i) You must contact the cognizant OCMI to schedule an inspection at a time and place which he or she approves. No written application is required. 


(ii) The scope of the annual inspection is the same as the inspection for certification, as specified in ยง 115.404 but in less detail unless the cognizant marine inspector finds deficiencies or determines that a major change has occurred since the last inspection. If deficiencies are found or a major change to the vessel has occurred, the marine inspector will conduct an inspection more detailed in scope to ensure that the vessel is in satisfactory condition and fit for the service for which it is intended. If your vessel passes the annual inspection, the marine inspector will endorse your current Certificate of Inspection. 


(iii) If the annual inspection reveals deficiencies in your vessel's maintenance, you must make any or all repairs or improvements within the time period specified by the OCMI. 


(iv) Nothing in this subpart limits the marine inspector from conducting such tests or inspections he or she deems necessary to be assured of the vessel's seaworthiness. 


(2) [Reserved] 



---

[N] [USCG-1999-4976, 65 FR 6505, Feb. 9, 2000]




