# § 63.862   Standards.

(a) *Standards for HAP metals: existing sources.* (1) Each owner or operator of an existing kraft or soda pulp mill must comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) Each owner or operator of a kraft or soda pulp mill must comply with the PM emissions limits in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. 


(A) The owner or operator of each existing kraft or soda recovery furnace must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.10 gram per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm) (0.044 grain per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf)) corrected to 8 percent oxygen. 


(B) The owner or operator of each existing kraft or soda smelt dissolving tank must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.10 kilogram per megagram (kg/Mg) (0.20 pound per ton (lb/ton)) of black liquor solids fired. 


(C) The owner or operator of each existing kraft or soda lime kiln must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.15 g/dscm (0.064 gr/dscf) corrected to 10 percent oxygen. 


(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of § 63.862(a)(1)(i), each owner or operator of a kraft or soda pulp mill may establish PM emissions limits for each existing kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, and lime kiln that operates 6,300 hours per year or more by: 


(A) Establishing an overall PM emission limit for each existing process unit in the chemical recovery system at the kraft or soda pulp mill using the methods in § 63.865(a)(1) and (2). 


(B) The emissions limits for each kraft recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, and lime kiln that are used to establish the overall PM limit in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section must not be less stringent than the emissions limitations required by § 60.282 of part 60 of this chapter for any kraft recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln that is subject to the requirements of § 60.282. 


(C) Each owner or operator of an existing kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln must ensure that the PM emissions discharged to the atmosphere from each of these sources are less than or equal to the applicable PM emissions limits, established using the methods in § 63.865(a)(1), that are used to establish the overall PM emissions limits in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section. 


(D) Each owner or operator of an existing kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln must reestablish the emissions limits determined in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if either of the actions in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(D)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section are taken: 


(*1*) The air pollution control system for any existing kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln for which an emission limit was established in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section is modified (as defined in § 63.861) or replaced; or 


(*2*) Any kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln for which an emission limit was established in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section is shut down for more than 60 consecutive days. 


(iii) Each owner or operator of an existing kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln that operates less than 6,300 hours per year must comply with the applicable PM emissions limits for that process unit provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. 


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of each existing sulfite combustion unit must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.092 g/dscm (0.040 gr/dscf) corrected to 8 percent oxygen.


(b) *Standards for HAP metals: new sources.* (1) The owner or operator of any new kraft or soda recovery furnace must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.034 g/dscm (0.015 gr/dscf) corrected to 8 percent oxygen.


(2) The owner or operator of any new kraft or soda smelt dissolving tank must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.06 kg/Mg (0.12 lb/ton) of black liquor solids fired. 


(3) The owner or operator of any new kraft or soda lime kiln must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf) corrected to 10 percent oxygen. 


(4) The owner or operator of any new sulfite combustion unit must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.046 g/dscm (O.020 gr/dscf) corrected to 8 percent oxygen. 


(c) *Standards for gaseous organic HAP.* (1) The owner or operator of any new recovery furnace at a kraft or soda pulp mill must ensure that the concentration of gaseous organic HAP, as measured by methanol, discharged to the atmosphere is no greater than 0.012 kg/Mg (0.025 lb/ton) of black liquor solids fired.


(2) The owner or operator of each existing or new semichemical combustion unit must ensure that: 


(i) The concentration of gaseous organic HAP, as measured by total hydrocarbons reported as carbon, discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 1.49 kg/Mg (2.97 lb/ton) of black liquor solids fired; or 


(ii) The gaseous organic HAP emissions, as measured by total hydrocarbons reported as carbon, are reduced by at least 90 percent prior to discharge of the gases to the atmosphere. 


(d) *Alternative standard.* As an alternative to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator of the existing hog fuel dryer at Cosmo Specialty Fibers' Cosmopolis, Washington facility (Emission Unit no. HD-14) must ensure that the mass of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere from the hog fuel dryer is less than or equal to 4.535 kilograms per hour (kg/hr) (10.0 pounds per hour (lb/hr)).



---

[N] [66 FR 3193, Jan. 12, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 7713, Feb. 18, 2003; 68 FR 67954, Dec. 5, 2003; 82 FR 47347, Oct. 11, 2017]




