# § 2552.91   What is the process for application and award of a grant?

(a) *How and when may an eligible organization apply for a grant?* (1) An eligible organization may file an application in response to AmeriCorps' published request, such as a Notice of Funding Opportunity or a Notice of Funding Availability. Applicants are not assured of selection or approval and may have to compete with other applicants.


(2) The applicant shall comply with the provisions of Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,” (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197) in 45 CFR part 1233 and any other applicable requirements.


(b) *Who reviews the merits of an application and how is a grant awarded?* (1) AmeriCorps reviews and determines the merit of an application by its responsiveness to published guidelines and to the overall purposes and objectives of the program. When funds are available, AmeriCorps awards a grant in writing to each applicant whose grant proposal provides the best potential for serving the purpose of the program.


(2) The award will be documented by the Notice of Grant Award (NGA). AmeriCorps and the sponsoring organization are the parties to the NGA. The NGA will document the sponsor's commitment to fulfill specific programmatic objectives and financial obligations. It will document the extent of AmeriCorps' obligation to provide financial support to the sponsor.


(c) *What happens if AmeriCorps rejects an application?* AmeriCorps will return an application that is not approved for funding to the applicant with an explanation of AmeriCorps' decision.


(d) *For what period of time does AmeriCorps award a grant?* AmeriCorps awards a Foster Grandparent grant for a specified period that is usually three years in duration.



---

[N] [83 FR 64652, Dec. 17, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 70544, Aug. 30, 2024]




