# § 438.535   Annual reporting.

(a) Upon CMS' request, but no more frequently than annually, the State must submit a Medicaid managed care quality rating system report in a form and manner determined by CMS. Such report must include:


(1) The following measure information:


(i) A list of all mandatory measures identified in the most recent technical resource manual that indicates for each measure:


(A) Whether the State has identified the measure as applicable or not applicable to the State's managed care program under § 438.510(a)(1) of this subpart;


(B) For any measures identified as inapplicable to the State's managed care program, a brief explanation of why the State determined that the measure is inapplicable; and,


(C) For any measure identified as applicable to the State's managed care program, the managed care programs to which the measure is applicable.


(ii) A list of any additional measures the State chooses to include in the Medicaid managed care quality rating system as permitted under § 438.510(a)(2).


(2) An attestation that all displayed quality ratings for mandatory measures were calculated and issued in compliance with § 438.515, and a description of the methodology used to calculate ratings for any additional measures if such methodology deviates from the methodology in § 438.515.


(3) The documentation required under § 438.520(c), if including additional measures in the State's Medicaid managed care quality rating system.


(4) The date on which the State publishes or updates the quality ratings for the State's managed care plans.


(5) A link to the State's website for their Medicaid managed care quality rating system.


(6) The application of any technical specification adjustments used to calculate and issue quality ratings described in § 438.515(a)(3) and (4), at the plan- or State-level, that are outside a measure steward's allowable adjustments for a mandatory measure but that the measure steward has approved for use by the State.


(7) A summary of each alternative QRS methodology approved by CMS, including the effective dates for each approved alternative QRS.


(8) If all data necessary to calculate a measure described in § 438.510(a)(1) of this subpart cannot be provided by the managed care plans described in § 438.515(a)(1) of this subpart:


(i) A description of any Medicare data, Medicaid FFS data, or both that cannot, without undue burden, be collected, validated, or used to calculate a quality rating for the measure per § 438.515(a) and (b), including an estimate of the proportion of Medicare data or Medicaid FFS data that such missing data represent.


(ii) A description of the undue burden(s) that prevents the State from ensuring that such data are collected, validated, or used to calculate the measure, the resources necessary to overcome the burden, and the State's plan to address the burden.


(iii) An assessment of the impact of the missing data on the State's ability to fully comply with § 438.515(b)(1).


(b) States will be given no less than 90 days to submit such a report to CMS on their Medicaid managed care quality rating system.












