# § 163.110   Cacao nibs.

(a) *Description.* (1) Cacao nibs is the food prepared by removing the shell from cured, cleaned, dried, and cracked cacao beans. The cacao shell content is not more than 1.75 percent by weight, calculated on an alkali free basis, as determined by the method prescribed in § 163.5(a).


(2) The cacao nibs, or the cacao beans from which they are prepared, may be processed by heating with one or more of the optional alkali ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) The cacao nibs, or the cacao beans from which they are prepared, as appropriate, may be further processed with one or more of the optional neutralizing agents specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(b) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable ingredients may be used:


(1) Alkali ingredients. Ammonium, potassium, or sodium bicarbonate, carbonate, or hydroxide, or magnesium carbonate or oxide, added as such, or in aqueous solution. For each 100 parts by weight of cacao nibs, used as such, or before shelling from the cacao beans, the total quantity of alkali ingredients used is not greater in neutralizing value (calculated from the respective combined weights of the alkali ingredients used) than the neutralizing value of 3 parts by weight of anhydrous potassium carbonate.


(2) Neutralizing agents. Phosphoric acid, citric acid, and *L*-tartaric acid, added as such, or in aqueous solution. For each 100 parts by weight of cacao nibs, used as such, or before shelling from the cacao beans, the total quantity of phosphoric acid used is not greater than 0.5 part by weight, expressed as P_2_O_5_. The total amount, singly or in combination, of citric acid and *L*-tartaric acid is not greater than 1.0 part by weight.


(c) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “cacao nibs”, “cocoa nibs”, or “cracked cocoa”. (1) When the cacao nibs, or the cacao beans from which they are prepared, are processed with alkali ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement “Processed with alkali” or “Processed with ______”, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific alkali ingredient used in the food.


(2) When the cacao nibs, or the cacao beans from which they are prepared, are processed with neutralizing agents specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement “Processed with neutralizing agent” or “Processed with ______”, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific neutralizing agent used in the food.


(3) Whenever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements prescribed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section shall precede or follow the name without intervening printed or graphic matter.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.




