# § 3560.409   Subordinations or junior liens against security property.

(a) *General.* Borrowers must obtain Agency consent prior to entering into any financial transaction that will require a subordination of the Agency security interest in the property, or lien subordination, (*i.e.,* granting of a prior interest to another lender.) Prior to Agency consent, environmental review requirements must be completed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. Borrowers must use an Agency approved lien subordination agreement.


(1) If a lien is placed against property serving as security for an Agency loan without prior Agency consent, the Agency will declare the borrower to be in default and will pursue liquidation of the borrower's loans in accordance with the procedures specified in § 3560.457, unless an agreement can be reached between the borrower and the Agency to work out removal of the lien or post approve the lien.


(2) Subordinations or junior liens need not encompass the entire site, (e.g., a subordination or junior lien requested to permit an interim lender to advance construction funds may only cover the portion of the site proposed for construction.)


(3) The subordination or junior lien must be for a specific amount.


(4) The subordination or junior lien must not adversely impact the Agency's ability to service the loan according to the requirements of this part.


(b) *Consent request requirements.* Borrowers proposing to have the Agency subordinate its interest to another lender or to give a creditor a junior lien against property serving as security for an Agency loan must submit a consent request to the Agency. The consent request must document the following:


(1) The action will enable the borrower to obtain financial resources for improvements or repairs on the security property that are consistent with the purposes of the Agency loan secured by the property.


(2) The action will not adversely impact the borrower's financial condition and the borrower's ability to repay the Agency loan being secured by the property.


(3) The action will not result in basic rents at the security property that exceed conventional rents for comparable units in the area.


(4) The terms and conditions of the credit to be secured by the subordination or junior lien are not expected to adversely affect the borrowers ability to meet the terms and conditions of the Agency loan secured by the property.


(5) The proposed use of the funds obtained through the granting of a subordination or junior lien will not adversely affect the borrower's ability to meet Agency program requirements or to operate and manage the housing project in a manner consistent with program objectives.


(6) The creditor receiving the “subordination” of interest in the property or the junior lien will agree that a foreclosure or acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure will not be initiated without at least 30 days prior notice to the Agency.


(7) The subordination or junior lien is not being secured with any funding from housing project financial accounts.


(8) The “subordination” of interest or junior lien will not cause the debt from all sources to exceed the value of the security property.


(9) The transaction related to the placement of a “subordination” of interest or junior lien against the property serving as security for an Agency loan is in the best interest of the Federal Government.


(c) *Required conditions for subordinations and junior liens.* Subordinations of interest in or junior liens against property serving as security for an Agency loan may be approved by the Agency only if they improve a borrower's financial condition and allow for improvements or repairs that are consistent with the purposes of the Agency loan secured by the property.


(1) Farm Labor Housing loans on farm tracts may be subordinated for essential farm improvements and operations.


(2) Any proposed development must be planned and performed according to 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A, or in a manner directed by the other lienholder that meets the objectives of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A.


(d) *Other liens against a property or other assets.* (1) Borrowers must not enter into any agreements to place a lien on a housing project or any equipment related to a housing project without prior Agency approval and unless the following conditions are met:


(i) The transaction will not adversely affect the Agency's security position;


(ii) The lien is not related to a non-program eligible action;


(iii) The items to be acquired by the funding related to the lien is needed for the operation of the property; and


(iv) The financing arrangements are otherwise sound.


(2) In cases where the above criteria are met, borrowers must complete and provide the Agency a copy of the financing statement, loan document, or contract, as applicable, as well as a security agreement acceptable to the Agency.



---

[N] [69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 11049, Mar. 2, 2016]




