# § 56.60-25   Nonmetallic materials.

(a) Plastic pipe installations must be in accordance with IMO Resolution A.753(18) and IMO Resolution MSC.313(88) (both incorporated by reference, see § 56.01-2) and the following supplemental requirements.


(1) Plastic pipe and associated fittings must be approved to approval series 164.141 as follows:


(i) All piping, except pipe used on open decks, in cofferdams, void spaces, or ducts, must meet the flame spread requirements of Appendix 3 of IMO Resolution A.753(18).


(ii) Where fire endurance is required in Appendix 4 of IMO Resolution A.753(18) the pipe must, at a minimum, be approved as meeting the fire endurance level required in Appendix 4. Ratings of “0” in Appendix 4 indicate that no fire endurance test is required. Ratings of “N/A” or “X” indicate that plastic pipe is not permitted.


(iii) Piping in accommodation, service and control spaces must be approved for use in those spaces.


(2) Plastic pipe that has not been approved for use in accommodation, service and control spaces is permitted in a concealed space in an accommodation, service or control space, such as behind ceilings or linings or between double bulkheads if:


(i) The piping is enclosed in a trunk or duct constructed of “A” class divisions; or


(ii) An approved smoke detection system is fitted in the concealed space and each penetration of a bulkhead or deck and each installation of a draft stop is made in accordance with IMO Resolution A.753(18) and IMO Resolution MSC.313(88) to maintain the integrity of fire divisions.


(3) Requests for the use of plastic pipe for non-vital systems, as defined in § 56.07-5, containing non-flammable or non-combustible liquids in locations that do not require fire endurance testing, as indicated in Appendix 4 of IMO Resolution A.753(18), must be submitted to the Marine Safety Center for review. The proposed piping must meet the following requirements:


(i) The length of pipe must be 30 inches or less;


(ii) The pipe must be contained within the space and does not penetrate any bulkhead, overhead or deck; and


(iii) Material specifications must be provided with the installation proposal.


(4) Plastic pipe fitting and bonding techniques must follow the manufacturer's installation guidelines. Bonders must hold certifications required by the manufacturer's guidelines and provide documentation of current certification to the Marine Inspector when requested.




(5) Systems identified by § 56.97-40(a)(1) through (c) that contain plastic piping must be tested to 1.5 MAWP as required by § 56.97-40(a).


(6) Plastic pipe used outboard of the required metallic shell valve in any piping system penetrating the vessel's shell (see § 56.50-95(f)) must have the same fire endurance as the metallic shell valve. Where the shell valve and the plastic pipe are in the same unmanned space, the valve must be operable from above the freeboard deck.


(7) Pipe that is to be used for potable water must bear the appropriate certification mark of a nationally-recognized, ANSI-accredited, third-party certification laboratory.


(8) Plastic pipe must also comply with appropriate requirements for specific uses and arrangements of pipe given elsewhere in this part.


(b)(1) Nonmetallic flexible hose must be in accordance with SAE J1942 (incorporated by reference; see § 56.01-2) and may be installed only in vital and nonvital fresh and saltwater systems, nonvital pneumatic systems, lube oil and fuel systems, and fluid power systems.


(2) Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used in vital fresh and saltwater systems at a maximum service pressure of 1,034 kPa (150 psi). Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used in lengths not exceeding 76 cm (30 inches) where flexibility is required, subject to the limits in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used for plastic pipe in duplicate installations in accordance with this paragraph (b).


(3) Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used for plastic pipe in non-vital fresh and saltwater systems and non-vital pneumatic systems, subject to the limits of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Unreinforced hoses are limited to a maximum service pressure of 345 kPa (50 psi); reinforced hoses are limited to a maximum service pressure of 1,034 kPa (150 psi).


(4) Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used in lube oil, fuel oil and fluid power systems only where flexibility is required and in lengths not exceeding 30 inches.


(5) Nonmetallic flexible hose must have factory-assembled end fittings requiring no further adjustment or field attachable fittings. Hose end fittings must comply with SAE J1475 (incorporated by reference, see § 56.01-2). Field attachable fittings must be installed following the manufacturer's recommended practice. A hydrostatic test of each hose assembly must be conducted in accordance with § 56.97-5.


(6) The fire-test procedures of ISO 15540 (incorporated by reference; see § 56.01-2) are an acceptable alternative to those procedures of SAE J1942. All other tests of SAE J1942 are still required.


(c) Plastic valves, fittings, and flanges must be designed, fabricated, tested, and installed to satisfy the requirements for plastic pipe contained in this section.


(d) Requests to use nonmetallic materials other than those specified in this section must be submitted to the Commandant for consideration.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18843, Dec. 18, 1968, as amended by CGFR 69-127, 35 FR 9979, June 17, 1970; CGD 72-104R, 37 FR 14234, July 18, 1972; CGD 73-254, 40 FR 40165, Sept. 2, 1975; CGD 77-140, 54 FR 40613, Oct. 2, 1989; CGD 88-032, 56 FR 35822, July 29, 1991; CGD 83-043, 60 FR 24775, May 10, 1995; CGD 95-072, 60 FR 50462, Sept. 29, 1995; CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50728, Sept. 27, 1996; CGD 95-028, 62 FR 51201, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-2002-13058, 67 FR 61278, Sept. 30, 2002; USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65183, Oct. 31, 2008; USCG-2012-0196, 81 FR 48251, July 22, 2016; USCG-2020-0634, 89 FR 50155, June 12, 2024; USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76697, Sept. 18, 2024] 






