# § 2001.15   Classification guides.

(a) *Preparation of classification guides.* Originators of classification guides are encouraged to consult users of guides for input when developing or updating guides. When possible, originators of classification guides are encouraged to communicate within their agencies and with other agencies that are developing guidelines for similar activities to ensure the consistency and uniformity of classification decisions. Each agency shall maintain a list of its classification guides in use.


(b) *General content of classification guides.* Classification guides shall, at a minimum:


(1) Identify the subject matter of the classification guide;


(2) Identify the original classification authority by name and position, or personal identifier;


(3) Identify an agency point-of-contact or points-of-contact for questions regarding the classification guide;


(4) Provide the date of issuance or last review;


(5) State precisely the elements of information to be protected;


(6) State which classification level applies to each element of information, and, when useful, specify the elements of information that are unclassified;


(7) State, when applicable, special handling caveats;


(8) State a concise reason for classification which, at a minimum, cites the applicable classification category or categories in section 1.4 of the Order; and


(9) Prescribe a specific date or event for declassification, the marking “50X1-HUM” or “50X2-WMD” as appropriate, or one or more of the exemption codes listed in 2001.26(a)(2), provided that:


(i) The exemption has been approved by the Panel under section 3.3(j) of the Order;


(ii) The Panel is notified of the intent to take such actions for specific information in advance of approval and the information remains in active use; and


(iii) The exemption code is accompanied with a declassification date or event that has been approved by the Panel.


(c) *Dissemination of classification guides.* Classification guides shall be disseminated as necessary to ensure the proper and uniform derivative classification of information.


(d) *Reviewing and updating classification guides.* (1) Agencies shall incorporate original classification decisions into classification guides as soon as practicable.


(2) Originators of classification guides are encouraged to consult the users of guides and other subject matter experts when reviewing or updating guides. Also, users of classification guides are encouraged to notify the originator of the guide when they acquire information that suggests the need for change in the instructions contained in the guide.




