# ยง 5.4   Substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law.

(a) The regulations of the Department of State required to be published under the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act are found in the Code of Federal Regulations (generally in title 22) and in the _Federal Register._ Any person desiring information with respect to a particular procedure should examine the pertinent regulation cited in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) The following paragraphs (b)(1) through (18) are citations to regulations within the scope of this section:


(1) Appointment of Foreign Service Officers. 22 CFR part 11 *et seq.*

(2) Schedule of Fees for Consular Services. 22 CFR part 22.


(3) Claims and Stolen Property. 22 CFR part 31 *et seq.*

(4) Issuance of Visas. 22 CFR parts 41-42 *et seq.*

(5) Nationality and Passports. 22 CFR part 50 *et seq.*

(6) International Educational and Cultural Exchanges. 22 CFR part 62 *et seq.*

(7) Protection and Welfare of Americans Abroad. 22 CFR part 71 *et seq.*

(8) Other Consular Services Abroad. 22 CFR part 92 *et seq.*

(9) Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations. 22 CFR part 103.


(10) International Trafficking in Persons. 22 CFR part 104.


(11) International Traffic in Arms Regulations. 22 CFR part 121 *et seq.*

(12) Certificates of Authentication. 22 CFR part 131 *et seq.*

(13) Civil Rights, including implementation of Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. 22 CFR part 141 *et seq.*

(14) Department of State Acquisition Regulation. 48 CFR chapter 6.


(15) Availability of Information and Records to the Public. 22 CFR part 171.


(16) Service of Process. 22 CFR part 172.


(17) Availability of Public Diplomacy Program Material in the United States. 22 CFR part 173.


(18) Coordination, Reporting, and Publication of International Agreements. 22 CFR part 181.


(c) The regulations listed in paragraph (b) of this section are supplemented from time to time by amendments appearing initially in the _Federal Register_.




