# ยง 1011.4   Forms of advance public notice of meetings; Public Calendar/Master Calendar and Federal Register.

Advance notice of Agency activities is provided so that members of the public may know of and participate in these activities to the fullest extent possible. Where appropriate, the Commission uses the following types of notice for both Agency meetings subject to 16 CFR part 1012 and Commission meetings subject to 16 CFR part 1013:


(a) *Public Calendar/Master Calendar.* (1) The printed Public Calendar and the Master Calendar maintained in the Office of the Secretary are the principal means by which the Agency notifies the public of its day-to-day activities. The Public Calendar and/or Master Calendar provide advance notice of public hearings, Commission meetings, Agency meetings with outside parties involving substantial interest matters, other Agency meetings, selected staff meetings, advisory committee meetings, and other activities such as speeches and participation in panel discussions, regardless of the location. The Public Calendar also lists recent CPSC _Federal Register_ issuances and Advisory Opinions of the Office of the General Counsel.


(2) Upon request in writing to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207, any person or organization will be sent the Public Calendar on a regular basis free of charge. In addition, interested persons may contact the Office of the Secretary to obtain information from the Master Calendar which is kept current on a daily basis.


(3) The Public Calendar and the Master Calendar, supplemented by meeting summaries, are intended to serve the requirements of section 27(j)(8) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2076(j)(8)).


(b) *Federal Register.*_Federal Register_ is the publication through which official notifications, including formal rules and regulations of the Agency, are made. Because the Public Calendar and/or Master Calendar are the primary devices through which the Agency notifies the public of its routine, daily activities, the _Federal Register_ will be utilized only when required by the Government in the Sunshine Act (as provided in 16 CFR part 1013) or other applicable law, or when the Agency believes that the additional coverage which the _Federal Register_ can provide is necessary to assist in notification to the public of important meetings.




