# § 902.64   PHAS scoring and audit reviews.

(a) *Adjustments to PHAS score.* (1) Adjustments to the score may be made after a PHA's audit report for the fiscal year being assessed is transmitted to HUD. If significant differences are noted between unaudited and audited results, a PHA's PHAS score will be adjusted in accordance with the audited results.


(2) A PHA's PHAS score under individual indicators or subindicators, or its overall PHAS score, may be changed by HUD in accordance with data included in the audit report or obtained through such sources as HUD project management and other reviews, investigations by HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, investigations or audits by HUD's Office of Inspector General, or reinspection by HUD, as applicable.


(b) *Issuance of a score by HUD.* (1) An overall PHAS score will be issued for each PHA after the later of one month after the submission due date for financial data or one month after submission by the PHA of its financial data. The overall PHAS score becomes the PHA's final PHAS score after any adjustments requested by the PHA and determined necessary under the processes provided in §§ 902.25(d), 902.35(a), and 902.68; any adjustments resulting from the appeal process provided in § 902.69; and any adjustments determined necessary as a result of the independent public accountant (IPA) audit.


(2) Each PHA (or RMC) shall post a notice of its final PHAS score and designation in appropriate conspicuous and accessible locations in its offices within 2 weeks of receipt of its final PHAS score and designation. In addition, HUD will post every PHA's PHAS score and designation on HUD's Internet site.


(c) *Review of audit.* (1) *Quality control review.* HUD may undertake a quality control review of the audit work papers or as part of the Department's ongoing quality assurance process.


(2) *Determination of deficiency.* If HUD determines that the PHA's financial statements, electronic financial submission, or audit are deficient, it shall notify the PHA of such determination in writing. The PHA will have 30 days in which to respond to the notice of deficiency and to establish that the determination is erroneous. Following consideration of any PHA response, HUD will issue a final determination in writing to the PHA.


(i) *Deficient financial statements.* Deficient financial statements are statements that are not presented, in some material respect, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as set forth by the Government Accounting Standards Board, or if applicable, the Financial Accounting Standards Board.


(ii) *Deficient electronic submission.* A deficient electronic financial submission is a filing that was not made, in some material respect, in accordance with HUD requirements or attested to in accordance with the Standards for Attestation Engagements issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants or Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards.


(iii) *Deficient audit.* A deficient audit is one that was not performed, in some material respect, in compliance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards; Generally Accepted Auditing Standards; the Single Audit Act and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, when applicable; or HUD requirements.


(3) *HUD actions.* If HUD determines that the financial statements, electronic financial submission, or audit are deficient, HUD may adjust the financial indicator score to zero and/or reduce the overall PHAS score in accordance with the provisions of this section. Additionally, if HUD determines that the audit is deficient, HUD may, at its discretion, elect to serve as the audit committee for the PHA for the next fiscal year and select the audit firm that will perform the audit in question.



---

[N] [76 FR 10149, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]




