# § 721.10704   Aryl-substituted alkane.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as an aryl-substituted alkane (PMN P-12-548) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(3)(ii) and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) and (q). It is a significant new use to conduct testing on the chemical substance to comply with REACH (Regulation, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals in the European Union) without submitting all final reports and the underlying data of the testing to EPA no later than 90 days after submission of the testing to the European Union.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 8289, Feb. 12, 2014]




