# ยง 22.21   Participation criteria.

A lender who participates in the STLP must meet the following criteria:


(a) It must operate as a lending institution certified by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Federal Reserve Board, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Office of Thrift Supervision, Community Development Corporation (CDC), or Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI), for at least five (5) years;


(b) It must demonstrate a philosophy and history of lending to small, disadvantaged and women-owned businesses in their communities. Information will be requested by the Director on the number of short-term loans made to companies listed in paragraph (a)(5) of ยง 22.11. The Participating Lender shall submit information showing its efforts in relationship to its overall portfolio;


(c) It must demonstrate experience in administering monitored lines of credit, such as construction loans, accounts receivable financing, and/or contract financing for at least two years. Such experience should be held by any Participating Lender representative managing, reviewing or authorizing STLP loan portfolios;


(d) It must have at least two (2) years experience with other federal government lending programs such as U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), Agriculture Rural Development, Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), Economic Development Administration (EDA), Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Export Import Bank of the United States and/or state loan programs.


(e) It must have at least a satisfactory or better Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating;


(f) It must designate a Participating Lender representative to effectively administer the STLP loan portfolio;


(g) It must have the ability to evaluate, process, close, disburse, service and liquidate STLP loans;


(h) It must demonstrate the ability to implement, monitor and manage a two-party payee check system, in which the Participating Lender and borrower are joint payees of any checks paid to the borrower for performance under the assigned contract(s);


(i) It must not currently be debarred or suspended from participation in a government contract or delinquent on a government debt. The Participating lender must submit a current form DOT F 2309-1 Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension. The certification form is available at *http://www.osdbu.dot.gov/financial/docs/Cert_Debarment_DOT_F_2309-1.pdf.*

(j) It must be a drug-free workplace. The Participating Lender must execute current form DOT F 2307-1 Drug-Free Workplace Act Certification For A Grantee Other Than An Individual. The certification form is available at *http://www.osdbu.dot.gov/financial/docs/Cert_Drug-Free_DOT_F_2307-1.pdf.;* and


(k) It must certify that no Federal funds will be utilized for lobbying by executing a current form DOT F 2308-1 Certificate Regarding Lobbying For Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements in compliance with section 1352, title 21, of the U.S. Code. The certification form is available at *http://www.osdbu.dot.gov/financial/docs/Cert_Lobbying_DOT_F_2308-1.pdf.*

