# ยง 1.75   Animal drugs and veterinary devices.

(a) *Animal drugs.* In addition to the data required to be submitted in ยง 1.72, an ACE filer must submit the following information at the time of filing entry in ACE for animal drugs:


(1) *Registration and listing.* For a drug intended for animal use, the Drug Registration Number and the Drug Listing Number if the foreign establishment where the drug was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed before being imported or offered for import into the United States is required to register and list the drug under part 207 of this chapter. For the purposes of this section, the Drug Registration Number that must be submitted in ACE at the time of entry is the Unique Facility Identifier of the foreign establishment where the animal drug was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed before being imported or offered for import into the United States. The Unique Facility Identifier is the identifier submitted by a registrant in accordance with the system specified under section 510(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. For the purposes of this section, the Drug Listing Number is the National Drug Code number of the animal drug article being imported or offered for import.


(2) *New animal drug application number.* For a drug intended for animal use that is the subject of an approved application under section 512 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the number of the new animal drug application or abbreviated new animal drug application. For a drug intended for animal use that is the subject of a conditionally approved application under section 571 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the application number for the conditionally approved new animal drug.


(3) *Veterinary minor species index file number.* For a drug intended for use in animals that is the subject of an Index listing under section 572 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Minor Species Index File number of the new animal drug on the Index of Legally Marketed Unapproved New Animal Drugs for Minor Species.


(4) *Investigational new animal drug file number.* For a drug intended for animal use that is the subject of an investigational new animal drug or generic investigational new animal drug file under part 511 of this chapter, the number of the investigational new animal drug or generic investigational new animal drug file.


(b) *Veterinary devices.* An ACE filer must submit the data specified in ยง 1.72 at the time of filing entry in ACE for veterinary devices.



---

[N] [87 FR 62984, Oct. 18, 2022]






