# § 63.1411   Requirements for pressure relief devices.

Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service. Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(a) *Operating requirements.* Except during a pressure release event, operate each pressure relief device in organic HAP gas or vapor service with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as described in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A.


(b) *Pressure release requirements.* For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, the owner or operator must comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section following a pressure release, as applicable.


(1) If the pressure relief device does not consist of or include a rupture disk, conduct instrument monitoring, as described in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure relief device returns to organic HAP service following a pressure release to verify that the pressure relief device is operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, except as provided in § 63.1024(d).


(2) If the pressure relief device consists of or includes a rupture disk, install a replacement disk as soon as practicable after a pressure release, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, except as provided in § 63.1024(d).


(c) *Pressure release management.* Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, emissions of organic HAP to the atmosphere from pressure relief devices in organic HAP service are prohibited, and the owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.


(1) The owner or operator must equip each pressure relief device in organic HAP service with a device(s) or parameter monitoring system that is capable of:


(i) Identifying the pressure release;


(ii) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release; and


(iii) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system may be either specific to the pressure relief device itself or may be associated with the process system or piping sufficient to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.


(2) If any pressure relief device in organic HAP service releases to atmosphere as a result of a pressure release event, the owner or operator must calculate the quantity of organic HAP released during each pressure release event and report this quantity as required in § 63.1417(f)(13)(iii). Calculations may be based on data from the pressure relief device monitoring alone or in combination with process parameter monitoring data and process knowledge.


(d) *Pressure relief devices routed to a control device, process, fuel gas system, or drain system.* If a pressure relief device in organic HAP service is designed and operated to route all HAP emissions from pressure releases through a closed vent system to a control device or to a process, fuel gas system, or drain system, the owner or operator is not required to comply with paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) (if applicable) of this section for that pressure relief device. The fuel gas system or closed vent system and control device (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.1034, as applicable (except that the term “pressure relief devices” shall apply instead of the term “equipment leaks” in § 63.1034). The drain system (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.136.



---

[N] [79 FR 60930, Oct. 8, 2014]




