# ยง 405.534   Limitation on payment for screening mammography services.

The provisions in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section apply for services provided from January 1, 1991 until December 31, 2001. Screening mammography services provided after December 31, 2001 are paid under the physician fee schedule in accordance with ยง 414.2 of this chapter.


(a) *Basis and scope.* This section implements section 1834(c) of the Act by establishing a limit on payment for screening mammography examinations. There are three categories of billing for screening mammography services. Those categories and the payment limitations on each are set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.


(b) *Global or complete service billing representing both the professional and technical components of the procedure.* If a fee is billed for a global service, the amount of payment subject to the deductible is equal to 80 percent of the least of the following: 


(1) The actual charge for the service.


(2) The amount established for the global procedure for a diagnostic bilateral mammogram under the fee schedule for physicians' services set forth at part 414, subpart A. 


(3) The payment limit for the procedure. For screening mammography services furnished in CY 1994, the payment limit is $59.63. On January 1 of each subsequent year, the payment limit is updated by the percentage increase in the Medicare Economic Index (MEI) and reflects the relationship between the relative value units for the professional and technical components of a diagnostic bilateral mammogram under the fee schedule for physicians' services. 


(c) *Professional component billing representing only the physician's interpretation for the procedure.* If the professional component of screening mammography services is billed separately, the amount of payment for that professional component, subject to the deductible, is equal to 80 percent of the least of the following: 


(1) The actual charge for the professional component of the service.


(2) The amount established for the professional component of a diagnostic bilateral mammogram under the fee schedule for physicians' services. 


(3) The professional component of the payment limit for screening mammography services described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(d) *Technical component billing representing other resources involved in furnishing the procedure.* If the technical component of screening mammography services is billed separately, the amount of payment, subject to the deductible, is equal to 80 percent of the least of the following: 


(1) The actual charge for the technical component of the service.


(2) The amount established for the technical component of a diagnostic bilateral mammogram under the fee schedule for physicians' services. 


(3) The technical component of the payment limit for screening mammography services described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 53521, Dec. 31, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 49833, Sept. 30, 1994; 66 FR 55328, Nov. 1, 2001]




