# ยง 32.44   Compliance information.

(a) *Cooperation and assistance.* The Assistant Secretary shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with this part and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with this part. 


(b) *Compliance reports.* Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the Assistant Secretary timely, complete and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information as the Assistant Secretary may determine to be necessary to enable him to ascertain whether the recipient had complied or is complying with this part. For example, recipients should have available for the Department data showing the extent to which known handicapped individuals are beneficiaries and participants in federally assisted programs or activities. In the case in which a primary recipient extends Federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under this part. 


(c) *Access to sources of information.* Each recipient shall permit access by the Assistant Secretary during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with this part. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution or person and this agency, institution or person shall fail or refuse to furnish this information, the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information. Asserted considerations of privacy or confidentiality may not operate to bar the Department from access to or copying of records or information, or from evaluating or seeking to enforce compliance with this part.


(d) *Posters and information.* The recipient will post in prominent locations (bulletin boards, time clock areas, etc.) posters designed and furnished by DOL outlining and summarizing the nondiscrimination requirements of section 504. The recipient also will make readily available information on section 504 requirements with respect to compliance procedures, the rights of beneficiaries and employees through handbooks, pamphlets and other materials furnished by DOL.



---

[N] [45 FR 66709, Oct. 7, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51368, Aug. 26, 2003]




