# § 1904.46   Definitions.

*The Act.* The Act means the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 *et seq.*). The definitions contained in section 3 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 652) and related interpretations apply to such terms when used in this part 1904. 


*Establishment.* An establishment is a single physical location where business is conducted or where services or industrial operations are performed. For activities where employees do not work at a single physical location, such as construction; transportation; communications, electric, gas and sanitary services; and similar operations, the establishment is represented by main or branch offices, terminals, stations, etc. that either supervise such activities or are the base from which personnel carry out these activities. 


(1) *Can one business location include two or more establishments?* Normally, one business location has only one establishment. Under limited conditions, the employer may consider two or more separate businesses that share a single location to be separate establishments. An employer may divide one location into two or more establishments only when: 


(i) Each of the establishments represents a distinctly separate business; 


(ii) Each business is engaged in a different economic activity; 


(iii) No one industry description in the North American Industry Classification System (2007) codes applies to the joint activities of the establishments; and


(iv) Separate reports are routinely prepared for each establishment on the number of employees, their wages and salaries, sales or receipts, and other business information. For example, if an employer operates a construction company at the same location as a lumber yard, the employer may consider each business to be a separate establishment. 


(2) *Can an establishment include more than one physical location?* Yes, but only under certain conditions. An employer may combine two or more physical locations into a single establishment only when: 


(i) The employer operates the locations as a single business operation under common management; 


(ii) The locations are all located in close proximity to each other; and 


(iii) The employer keeps one set of business records for the locations, such as records on the number of employees, their wages and salaries, sales or receipts, and other kinds of business information. For example, one manufacturing establishment might include the main plant, a warehouse a few blocks away, and an administrative services building across the street. 


(3) *If an employee telecommutes from home, is his or her home considered a separate establishment?* No, for employees who telecommute from home, the employee's home is not a business establishment and a separate 300 Log is not required. Employees who telecommute must be linked to one of your establishments under § 1904.30(b)(3). 


*Injury or illness.* An injury or illness is an abnormal condition or disorder. Injuries include cases such as, but not limited to, a cut, fracture, sprain, or amputation. Illnesses include both acute and chronic illnesses, such as, but not limited to, a skin disease, respiratory disorder, or poisoning. (Note: Injuries and illnesses are recordable only if they are new, work-related cases that meet one or more of the part 1904 recording criteria.) 


*Physician or Other Licensed Health Care Professional.* A physician or other licensed health care professional is an individual whose legally permitted scope of practice (*i.e.,* license, registration, or certification) allows him or her to independently perform, or be delegated the responsibility to perform, the activities described by this regulation. 


*You.* “You” means an employer as defined in section 3 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 652).



---

[N] [66 FR 6122, Jan. 19, 2001, as amended at 85 FR 8731, Feb. 18, 2020]




