# ยง 426.4   Attribution of land.

(a) *Prohibition on increasing acreage limitation entitlements.* Except as specifically provided in these rules, a landholder cannot increase acreage limitation entitlements or eligibility by acquiring or holding a beneficial interest in a legal entity. Similarly, the acreage limitation status of an individual or legal entity that holds or has acquired a beneficial interest in another legal entity will not be permitted to enlarge the latter legal entity's acreage limitation entitlements or eligibility.


(b) *Attribution of owned land.* For purposes of determining acreage to be counted against acreage limitation entitlements, acreage will be attributed to all:


(1) Direct landowners in proportion to the direct beneficial interest the landowners own in the land; and


(2) Indirect landowners in proportion to the indirect beneficial interest they own in the land.


(c) *Attribution of leased land.* Leased land will be attributed to the direct and indirect landowners as well as to the direct and indirect lessees in the same manner as described in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.


(d) *Attribution of land held through intermediate entities.* If land is held by a direct landholder and a series of indirect landholders, Reclamation will attribute that land to the acreage limitation entitlements of the direct landholder and each indirect landholder in proportion to each landholder's beneficial interest in the entity that directly holds the land.


(e) *Leasebacks.* Any land a landholder directly or indirectly owns and that is directly or indirectly leased back will only count once against that particular landholder's nonfull-cost entitlement.


(f) *Effect on an entity of attribution to part owners.* For purposes of determining eligibility, the entire landholding will be attributed to all the direct and indirect landholders. If the interests in a legal entity are:


(1) Undivided, then all of the indirect part owners must be eligible in order for the entity to be eligible; or


(2) Divided, in such a manner that specific parcels are attributable to each indirect landholder, then the entity may qualify for eligibility on those portions of the landholding not attributable to any part owner who is ineligible.




