# § 721.9527   Bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperidin-4-ol) ester of cycloaliphatic spiroketal.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperidin-4-ol) ester of cycloaliphatic spiroketal (PMN No. P-91-1361) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* For manufacturing workers only, requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent). For processing/use workers only, requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following additional statements shall appear on each label and SDS required by this paragraph: This substance may cause systemic effects, eye irritation.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(l). 


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (d), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 32241, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]




