# § 78.22   Brucellosis reactor bison.

(a) *Destination.* Brucellosis reactor bison may be moved interstate only for immediate slaughter as follows: 


(1) Directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment; 


(2) Directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment; or 


(3) From a farm of origin directly to a specifically approved stockyard approved to receive brucellosis reactors and then 


(i) Directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment; or 


(ii) Directly to an approved intermediate handling facility and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment. 


(b) *Identification.* Brucellosis reactor bison must be individually identified prior to moving interstate by attaching to the left ear a metal tag bearing a serial number and the inscription “U.S. Reactor,” or a metal tag bearing a serial number designated by the State animal health official for identifying brucellosis reactors, and must be: 


(1) “B” branded (as defined in § 78.1); or 


(2) Accompanied directly to slaughter by an APHIS or State representative; or


(3) Moved in vehicles closed with official seals applied and removed by an APHIS representative, State representative, accredited veterinarian, or an individual authorized for this purpose by an APHIS representative. The official seal numbers must be recorded on the accompanying permit.


(c) *Permit.* Brucellosis reactor bison moving interstate shall be accompanied to destination by a permit. 


(d) *Marking of records.* Each person moving brucellosis reactor bison interstate shall, in the course of interstate movement, plainly write or stamp the words “Brucellosis Reactor” upon the face of any document that person prepares in connection with such movement. 


(e) *Segregation en route.* Brucellosis reactor bison shall not be moved interstate in any means of conveyance containing animals which are not brucellosis reactors unless all of the animals are for immediate slaughter or unless the brucellosis reactor bison are kept separate from the other animals by a partition securely affixed to the sides of the means of conveyance.



---

[N] [51 FR 32580, Sept. 12, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 67133, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 48368, Sept. 19, 1995]




