# ยง 62.865   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Control of air emissions from existing kraft pulp mills, as adopted by the State of Arkansas on January 28, 2022, and submitted on June 20, 2022, by the Governor in a letter dated May 12, 2022. The plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (d) of this section, which EPA incorporates by reference.


(b) *Identification of sources.* The plan, as adopted by the State of Arkansas on January 28, 2022, and submitted on June 20, 2022, applies to existing kraft pulp mills subject to the Kraft Pulp Mills Emission Guidelines (*i.e.,* kraft pulp mills, as defined in 40 CFR 60.281(a), that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before September 24, 1976) within its jurisdiction in the State of Arkansas.


(c) *Effective date.* The effective date of the plan is April 1, 2024.


(d) *Incorporation by reference.* The material listed in this paragraph (d) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the EPA Region 6 office at 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270; phone 214-665-2200. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the State of Arkansas, Office of the Secretary of State, Arkansas Register, State Capitol, Room 026, Little Rock, AR 72201, *arkansasregister@sos.arkansas.gov, https://www.sos.arkansas.gov/rules-regulations/arkansas-register/.*

(1) Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission (APC&EC) Rule No. 19, Rules of the Arkansas Plan of Implementation for Air Pollution Control, Chapter 8, 111(d) Designated Facilities, approved January 28, 2022.


(2) [Reserved]





---

[N] [89 FR 15040, Mar. 1, 2024]






