# § 850.404   Procedures for notifications.

(a) A U.S. person that has an obligation under § 850.401, § 850.402, or § 850.403 shall file an electronic copy of the notification of the transaction with the Department of the Treasury including the information set out in § 850.405 and the certification referred to in § 850.203. The U.S. person shall follow the electronic filing instructions posted on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website. No communications or submissions other than those described in this section shall constitute the filing of a notification for purposes of this part.


(b) The Department of the Treasury may contact a U.S. person that has filed a notification with questions or document requests related to the transaction or compliance with this part. The U.S. person shall respond to any such questions or requests within the time frame and in the manner specified by the Department of the Treasury. Information and other documents provided by the U.S. person to the Department of the Treasury after the filing of the notification under this section shall be deemed part of the notification and shall be subject to the certification referred to in § 850.203.


(c) A U.S. person shall file a notification under § 850.401 or § 850.402 with the Department of the Treasury no later than 30 calendar days following the completion date of a notifiable transaction. A U.S. person shall file a notification required under § 850.403 with the Department of the Treasury no later than 30 calendar days after it acquires the knowledge referred to in § 850.403.


(d) If a U.S. person files a notification prior to the completion date of the notifiable transaction, the U.S. person shall update such notification no later than 30 calendar days following the completion date of the notifiable transaction if information in the original filing has materially changed.


(e) A U.S. person shall inform the Department of the Treasury in writing no later than 30 calendar days following the acquisition of previously unavailable information required under § 850.405.


