# ยง 432.106   Appeal and grievance rights.

(a) *Appeal rights.* An employee covered under ยง 432.102(e) who has been removed or reduced in grade under this part may appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board if the employee is:


(1) In the competitive service and has completed a probationary or trial period;


(2) In the competitive service serving in an appointment which is not subject to a probationary or trial period, and has completed 1 year of current continuous employment in the same or similar position(s) under other than a temporary appointment limited to 1 year or less;


(3) A preference eligible in the excepted service who has completed 1 year of current continuous employment in the same or similar position(s); or


(4) A nonpreference eligible in the excepted service who is covered by subparts C and D of part 752 of this chapter.


(b) *Grievance rights.* (1) A bargaining unit employee covered under ยง 432.102(e) who has been removed or reduced in grade under this part may file a grievance under an applicable negotiated grievance procedure if the removal or reduction in grade action falls within its coverage (*i.e.,* is not excluded by the parties to the collective bargaining agreement) and the employee is:




(i) In the competitive service and has completed a probationary or trial period.


(ii) In the competitive service, serving in an appointment which is not subject to a probationary or trial period, and has completed 1 year of current continuous employment in the same or similar position(s) under other than a temporary appointment limited to 1 year or less;


(iii) A preference eligible in the excepted service who has completed 1 year of current continuous employment in the same or similar position(s); or 


(iv) A nonpreference eligible in the excepted service who is covered by subparts C and D of part 752 of the chapter.


(2) 5 U.S.C. 7114(a)(5) and 7121(b)(3), and the terms of an applicable collective bargaining agreement govern representation for employees in an exclusive bargaining unit who grieve a matter under this section through the negotiated grievance process.


(c) *Election of forum.* As provided at 5 U.S.C. 7121(e)(1), a bargaining unit employee who by law may file an appeal or a grievance, and who has exercised his or her option to appeal an action taken under this part to the Merit Systems Protection Board, may not also file a grievance on the matter under a negotiated grievance procedure. Likewise, a bargaining unit employee who has exercised his or her option to grieve an action taken under this part may not also file an appeal on the matter with the Merit Systems Protection Board.



---

[N] [54 FR 26179, June 21, 1989. Redesignated at 54 FR 49076, Nov. 29, 1989; 57 FR 20043, May 11, 1992; 58 FR 13192, Mar. 10, 1993. Redesignated at 58 FR 65534, Dec. 15, 1993; 85 FR 65982, Oct. 16, 2020]




