# § 227.202   Ongoing reporting requirements.

(a) An issuer that has offered and sold securities in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part must file with the Commission and post on the issuer's Web site an annual report along with the financial statements of the issuer certified by the principal executive officer of the issuer to be true and complete in all material respects and a description of the financial condition of the issuer as described in § 227.201(s). If, however, an issuer has available financial statements that have either been reviewed or audited by a public accountant that is independent of the issuer, those financial statements must be provided and the certification by the principal executive officer will not be required. The annual report also must include the disclosure required by paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (m), (p), (q), (r), and (x) of § 227.201. The report must be filed in accordance with the requirements of § 227.203 and Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter) and no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report.


*Instruction 1 to paragraph (a).* Instructions (3), (8), (9), (10), and (11) to paragraph (t) of § 227.201 shall apply for purposes of this section.


*Instruction 2 to paragraph (a).* An issuer providing financial statements that are not audited or reviewed must have its principal executive officer provide the following certification:


I, [identify the certifying individual], certify that the financial statements of [identify the issuer] included in this Form are true and complete in all material respects.


[Signature and title].


(b) An issuer must continue to comply with the ongoing reporting requirements until one of the following occurs:


(1) The issuer is required to file reports under section 13(a) or section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d));


(2) The issuer has filed, since its most recent sale of securities pursuant to this part, at least one annual report pursuant to this section and has fewer than 300 holders of record;


(3) The issuer has filed, since its most recent sale of securities pursuant to this part, the annual reports required pursuant to this section for at least the three most recent years and has total assets that do not exceed $10,000,000;


(4) The issuer or another party repurchases all of the securities issued in reliance on section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), including any payment in full of debt securities or any complete redemption of redeemable securities; or


(5) The issuer liquidates or dissolves its business in accordance with state law.



---

[N] [80 FR 71537, Nov. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 45725, Oct. 2, 2017; 83 FR 47836, Sept. 21, 2018; 83 FR 52964, Oct. 19, 2018; 85 FR 17751, Mar. 31, 2020]




