# § 165.927   Safety Zone; St. Louis River, Duluth/Interlake Tar Remediation Site, Duluth, MN.

(a) *Location:* The following area is a safety zone: All waters of Stryker Bay and Hallett Slips 6 & 7 which are located north of a boundary line delineated by the following points: From the shoreline at 46°43′10.00″ N, 092°10′31.66″ W, then south to 46°43′06.24″ N, 092°10′31.66″ W, then east to 46°43′06.24″ N, 092°09′41.76″ W, then north to the shoreline at 46°43′10.04″ N, 092°09′41.76″ W. [Datum NAD 83].


(b) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.23 of this part, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Duluth, or his designated on-scene representative.


(2) This safety zone is closed to all vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port Duluth or his designated on-scene representative.


(3) The “designated on-scene representative” of the Captain of the Port is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port to act on his behalf. The on-scene representative of the Captain of the Port will be aboard either a Coast Guard or Coast Guard Auxiliary vessel. The Captain of the Port or his designated on-scene representative may be contacted by calling Coast Guard Marine Safety Unit Duluth at (218) 720-5286.


(4) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the safety zone shall contact the Captain of the Port Duluth to obtain permission to do so. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the safety zone shall comply with all directions given to them by the Captain of the Port Duluth or his on-scene representative.



---

[N] [CGD09-06-122, 71 FR 66112, Nov. 13, 2006]




