# § 4262.10   Processing applications.

(a) *In general.* Any application for special financial assistance for an eligible multiemployer plan must be filed by the plan sponsor in accordance with the provisions of this part and the special financial assistance instructions on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(b) *Method of filing.* An application filed with PBGC under this part must be made electronically in accordance with the rules in part 4000 of this chapter. The time period for filing an application under this part must be computed under the rules in subpart D of part 4000 of this chapter.


(c) *Where to file.* (1) An application filed with PBGC under this part must be filed as described in § 4000.4 of this chapter.


(2) Section 432(k)(1)(D) of the Code requires an application in a priority group under paragraph (d)(2) of this section to be submitted to the Secretary of the Treasury. If the requirement in the preceding sentence applies to an application, PBGC will transmit the application to the Department of the Treasury on behalf of the plan.


(d) *When to file.* Any initial application for special financial assistance must be filed by December 31, 2025, and any revised application or supplemented application must be filed by December 31, 2026. Any application other than a plan's initial application or a supplemented application is a revised application regardless of whether it differs from the initial application or supplemented application.


(1) *Processing system.* To accommodate expeditious processing of many special financial assistance applications in a limited time period:


(i) The number of applications accepted for filing will be limited in such manner that, in PBGC's estimation, each application can be processed within 120 days.


(ii) Plans specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section will be given priority to file an application before plans not specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Plans not specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section may not file an application before March 11, 2023.


(iii) Notices on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov* will apprise potential filers of the current priority group(s) for which applications are being accepted and whether PBGC is accepting applications for filing as well as other information about priority groups and filing.


(2) *Priority groups.* Until not later than March 11, 2023, the plan sponsor of an eligible multiemployer plan will be given priority to file an application if the plan is in one of the priority groups in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, listed in order of higher priority group to lower priority group. A plan may not file an application earlier than the beginning date specified for the plan's priority group. When applications for plans in a priority group are accepted for filing, PBGC will continue to accept applications for plans in a higher priority group, subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(i) *Priority group 1.* A plan is in priority group 1 if the plan is insolvent or is projected to become insolvent under section 4245 of ERISA by March 11, 2022. A plan in priority group 1 may file an application beginning on July 9, 2021.


(ii) *Priority group 2.* A plan is in priority group 2 if the plan has implemented a suspension of benefits under section 305(e)(9) of ERISA as of March 11, 2021; or the plan is expected to be insolvent under section 4245 of ERISA within 1 year of the date the plan's application was filed. A plan in priority group 2 may file an application beginning on January 1, 2022, or such earlier date specified on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(iii) *Priority group 3.* A plan is in priority group 3 if the plan is in critical and declining status (as defined in section 305(b)(6) of ERISA) and has 350,000 or more participants. A plan in priority group 3 may file an application beginning on April 1, 2022, or such earlier date specified on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(iv) *Priority group 4.* A plan is in priority group 4 if the plan is projected to become insolvent under section 4245 of ERISA by March 11, 2023. A plan in priority group 4 may file an application beginning on July 1, 2022, or such earlier date specified on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(v) *Priority group 5.* A plan is in priority group 5 if the plan is projected to become insolvent under section 4245 of ERISA by March 11, 2026. The date a plan in priority group 5 may file an application will be specified on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov* at least 21 days in advance of such date, and such date will be no later than February 11, 2023.


(vi) *Priority group 6.* A plan is in priority group 6 if the plan is projected by PBGC to have a present value of financial assistance payments under section 4261 of ERISA that exceeds $1,000,000,000 if special financial assistance is not ordered. PBGC will list the plans in priority group 6 on its website at *www.pbgc.gov.* The date a plan in priority group 6 may file an application will be specified on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov* at least 21 days in advance of such date, and such date will be no later than February 11, 2023.


(vii) *Additional priority groups.* PBGC may add additional priority groups based on other circumstances similar to those described for the groups listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section. If added, additional priority groups and the date PBGC will begin accepting applications for such additional priority groups will be posted in guidance on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(e) *Filing date.* An application will be considered filed on the date it is submitted to PBGC if it is signed in accordance with § 4262.6(b) and meets the applicable requirements in paragraph (d) of this section, including that it can be accommodated in accordance with the processing system described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section or the emergency filing process described in paragraph (f) of this section. Otherwise, the application will not be considered filed and PBGC will notify the applicant that the application was not properly filed, and that the application must be filed in accordance with the processing system and instructions on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.* References in this part to a plan's initial application are to the plan's first application that is considered filed.


(f) *Emergency filing.* Beginning when PBGC accepts applications in priority group 2 described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, and notwithstanding the processing system described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an application may be accepted for filing if—


(1) It is an application for a plan that either—


(i) Is insolvent or expected to be insolvent under section 4245 of ERISA within 1 year of the date the plan's application was filed; or


(ii) Has suspended benefits under section 305(e)(9) of ERISA as of March 11, 2021; and


(2) The filer notifies PBGC before submitting the application that the application qualifies as an emergency filing under this paragraph (f) in accordance with instructions on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(g) *Lock-in applications.* (1) A lock-in application described in this paragraph (g), clearly and prominently identified as such, may be filed for a plan as its initial application (thus establishing the plan's base data as provided under § 4262.11(c)).


(2) A lock-in application must—


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, be filed after March 11, 2023, and on or before December 31, 2025; or


(ii) Be filed by a plan described in paragraphs (d)(2)(v) through (vii) of this section in accordance with the processing system described in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (iii) and (d)(2) of this section at a time when PBGC is not accepting applications for filing under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.


(3) The lock-in application must—


(i) Provide the information in § 4262.7(a)(1) through (3) and in the instructions for lock-in applications on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov;*

(ii) Be signed in accordance with § 4262.6(b); and


(iii) Be filed in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section and the instructions for lock-in applications on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(4) A lock-in application for a plan that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (g) is considered filed as the plan's initial application and denied for incompleteness under § 4262.11(a)(2)(i).


(h) *Informal consultation.* Nothing in this section prohibits a plan sponsor from contacting PBGC informally to discuss a potential application for special financial assistance.






