# § 1.529A-4   Gift, estate, and generation-skipping transfer taxes.

(a) *Contributions*—(1) *In general.* Each contribution by a person to an ABLE account other than by the designated beneficiary of that account is treated as a completed gift to the designated beneficiary of the account for gift tax purposes. Under the applicable Federal gift tax rules, a contribution from a corporation, partnership, trust, estate, or other entity is treated as a gift by the shareholders, partners, or other beneficial owners in proportion to their respective ownership interests in the entity. See § 25.2511-1(c) and (h) of this chapter. A gift to an ABLE account is not treated as either a gift of a future interest in property, or a qualified transfer under section 2503(e). To the extent a contributor's gifts to the designated beneficiary, including gifts paid into the designated beneficiary's ABLE account, do not exceed the annual limit in section 2503(b), the contribution is not a taxable gift. This provision, however, does not change any other provision applicable to the transfer. For example, a contribution by the employer of the designated beneficiary's parent continues to constitute earned income to the parent and then a gift by the parent to the designated beneficiary. The timely return of an excess contribution or an excess aggregate contribution in accordance with § 1.529A-2(g)(4) is not a taxable gift.


(2) *Generation-skipping transfer (GST) tax.* To the extent the contribution into an ABLE account is a nontaxable gift for Federal gift tax purposes, the inclusion ratio for purposes of the GST tax will be zero pursuant to section 2642(c)(1).


(3) *Designated beneficiary as contributor.* A designated beneficiary may make a contribution to fund his or her own ABLE account. That contribution is not a gift.


(b) *Distributions.* No distribution from an ABLE account to or for the benefit of the designated beneficiary is treated as a taxable gift to that designated beneficiary.


(c) *Transfer to another designated beneficiary.* Neither gift tax nor generation-skipping transfer tax applies to the transfer (by rollover, program-to-program transfer, or change of beneficiary) of part or all of an ABLE account to the ABLE account of a different designated beneficiary if the successor designated beneficiary is both an eligible individual and a member of the family (as described in § 1.529A-1(b)(12)) of the designated beneficiary. Any other transfer will constitute a gift by the designated beneficiary to the successor designated beneficiary, and the usual gift and GST tax rules will apply.


(d) *Transfer tax on death of designated beneficiary.* Upon the death of the designated beneficiary, the designated beneficiary's ABLE account is includible in his or her gross estate for estate tax purposes under section 2031. The payment of outstanding qualified disability expenses and the payment of certain claims made by a State under its Medicaid plan may be deductible for estate tax purposes if the requirements of section 2053 are satisfied.


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies to calendar years beginning on or after January 1, 2021. See § 1.529A-8 for the provision of transition relief.






