# § 1917.91   Eye and face protection.

(a)(1)(i) The employer shall ensure that each affected employee uses protective eye and face protection devices that comply with any of the following consensus standards:


(A) ANSI/ISEA Z87.1-2010, Occupational and Educational Personal Eye and Face Protection Devices, incorporated by reference in § 1917.3;


(B) ANSI Z87.1-2003, Occupational and Educational Personal Eye and Face Protection Devices, incorporated by reference in § 1917.3;


or


(C) ANSI Z87.1-1989 (R-1998), Practice for Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection, incorporated by reference in § 1917.3;


(ii) Protective eye and face protection devices that the employer demonstrates are at least as effective as protective eye and face protection devices that are constructed in accordance with one of the above consensus standards will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this section. 


(2) For employees wearing corrective spectacles, eye protection equipment required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be of a type which can be worn over spectacles. Prescription ground safety lenses may be substituted if they provide equivalent protection.


(3) For additional requirements covering eye protection against radiant energy, see § 1917.152(h).


(b) Eye protection equipment shall be maintained in good condition.


(c) Used eye protection equipment shall be cleaned and disinfected before reissuance to another employee.



---

[N] [48 FR 30909, July 5, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 40201, July 25, 1997; 74 FR 46359, Sept. 9, 2009; 81 FR 16091, Mar. 25, 2016]




