# 16.603-4   Contract clauses.

(a) The contracting officer shall include in each letter contract the clauses required by this regulation for the type of definitive contract contemplated and any additional clauses known to be appropriate for it.


(b) In addition, the contracting officer shall insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts when a letter contract is contemplated:


(1) The clause at 52.216-23, Execution and Commencement of Work, except that this clause may be omitted from letter contracts awarded on SF 26;


(2) The clause at 52.216-24, Limitation of Government Liability, with dollar amounts completed in a manner consistent with 16.603-2(d); and


(3) The clause at 52.216-25, Contract Definitization, with its paragraph (b) completed in a manner consistent with 16.603-2(c). If at the time of entering into the letter contract, the contracting officer knows that the definitive contract will be based on adequate price competition or will otherwise meet the criteria of 15.403-1 for not requiring submission of certified cost or pricing data, the words “and certified cost or pricing data in accordance with FAR 15.408, Table 15-2 supporting its proposal” may be deleted from paragraph (a) of the clause. If the letter contract is being awarded on the basis of price competition, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate I.*

(c) The contracting officer shall also insert the clause at 52.216-26, Payments of Allowable Costs Before Definitization, in solicitations and contracts if a cost-reimbursement definitive contract is contemplated, unless the acquisition involves conversion, alteration, or repair of ships.



---

[N] [48 FR 42219, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 48217, Sept. 18, 1995; 62 FR 51270, Sept. 30, 1997; 75 FR 53149, Aug. 30, 2010]




