# ยง 1455.31   Miscellaneous.

(a) *Inspection.* Grantees must permit periodic inspection of the program operations by a CCC representative, as determined by CCC.


(b) *Performance evaluation.* CCC will incorporate performance criteria in grant award documentation and will regularly evaluate the progress and performance of grant awardees.


(c) *Suspend, terminate, or require refund.* CCC may elect to suspend or terminate a grant in all or part, or funding of a particular workplan activity, and require refund of part or all of the grant, with interest, where CCC has determined:


(1) That the grantee or subrecipient of grant funds has demonstrated insufficient progress in complying with the terms of the grant agreement;


(2) The opening dates for migratory bird hunting in a State have been changed so as to be not consistent for residents and non-residents during the term of the grant;


(3) There is reasonable evidence that shows joint funding has not been or will not be forthcoming on a timely basis; or


(4) Such other cause as CCC identifies in writing to the grantee based on reasonable evidence (including but not limited to the use of Federal grant funds for ineligible purposes).


(d) *Advance or reimbursement.* Grantees must use the request for advance or reimbursement form, which will be provided by CCC, to request advances or reimbursements;


(e) *Appeals.* Appeals will be handled according to 7 CFR parts 11, 614, and 780.


(f) *Environmental review.* All grants made under this subpart are subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 650. Applicants for grant funds must consider and document within their plans the important environmental factors within the planning area and the potential environmental impacts of the plan on the planning area, as well as the alternative planning strategies that were reviewed.


(g) *Civil rights.* CCC prohibits discrimination in all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, disability, and where applicable, sex, marital status, familial status, parental status, religion, sexual orientation, genetic information, political beliefs, reprisal, or because all or a part of an individual's income is derived from any public assistance program. VPA-HIP will also be administered in accordance with all other applicable civil rights law.


(h) *Other regulations.* The grant program under this part is subject to the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.


(i) *Audit.* Grantees must comply with the audit requirements of 2 CFR part 200. The audit requirements apply to the years in which grant funds are received and years in which work is accomplished using grant funds.


(j) *Change in scope or objectives.* The Grantee must obtain prior approval from NRCS for any change to the scope or objectives of the approved project. Failure to obtain prior approval of changes to the scope of work or budget may result in suspension, termination, or recovery of grant funds.


(k) *Exceptions.* CCC may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this part, provided that any such exception is not inconsistent with any applicable law or opinion of the Comptroller General, and provided further, that CCC determines that the application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Federal Government's interest.


(l) *Enforcement and refunds; liens and schemes or devices.* Grantees must comply with all conditions of the grant and any monies not spent or improperly spent must be returned immediately with interest to run at the normal rate for CCC obligations. Interest charges will be computed from the date of the CCC disbursement. Grantees must insure that parties that receive funds from the grantee comply with the grantee's application and return funds made available by the grantee where there is no such compliance. Any scheme or device to avoid any limits of this part will be considered to be a program violation with respect to any grant to which that scheme or device is related. Grant funds will be made available to the States or Tribes that are grantees under this part without regard to the claims of others, unless CCC determines otherwise.



---

[N] [75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 44641, Aug. 1, 2014]




