# § 570.205   Eligible planning, urban environmental design and policy-planning-management-capacity building activities.

(a) Planning activities which consist of all costs of data gathering, studies, analysis, and preparation of plans and the identification of actions that will implement such plans, including, but not limited to:


(1) Comprehensive plans;


(2) Community development plans;


(3) Functional plans, in areas such as:


(i) Housing, including the development of a consolidated plan;


(ii) Land use and urban environmental design;


(iii) Economic development;


(iv) Open space and recreation;


(v) Energy use and conservation;


(vi) Floodplain and wetlands management in accordance with the requirements of Executive Orders 11988 and 11990;


(vii) Transportation;


(viii) Utilities; and


(ix) Historic preservation.


(4) Other plans and studies such as:


(i) Small area and neighborhood plans;


(ii) Capital improvements programs;


(iii) Individual project plans (but excluding engineering and design costs related to a specific activity which are eligible as part of the cost of such activity under §§ 570.201-570.204);


(iv) The reasonable costs of general environmental, urban environmental design and historic preservation studies; and general environmental assessment- and remediation-oriented planning related to properties with known or suspected environmental contamination. However, costs necessary to comply with 24 CFR part 58, including project specific environmental assessments and clearances for activities eligible for assistance under this part, are eligible as part of the cost of such activities under §§ 570.201-570.204. Costs for such specific assessments and clearances may also be incurred under this paragraph but would then be considered planning costs for the purposes of § 570.200(g);


(v) Strategies and action programs to implement plans, including the development of codes, ordinances and regulations;


(vi) Support of clearinghouse functions, such as those specified in Executive Order 12372; and






(vii) Developing an inventory of properties with known or suspected environmental contamination.




(5) [Reserved]


(6) Policy—planning—management—capacity building activities which will enable the recipient to:


(1) Determine its needs;


(2) Set long-term goals and short-term objectives, including those related to urban environmental design;


(3) Devise programs and activities to meet these goals and objectives;


(4) Evaluate the progress of such programs and activities in accomplishing these goals and objectives; and


(5) Carry out management, coordination and monitoring of activities necessary for effective planning implementation, but excluding the costs necessary to implement such plans.



---

[N] [53 FR 34439, Sept. 6, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 56127, Oct. 31, 1991; 60 FR 1915, Jan. 5, 1995; 71 FR 30035, May 24, 2006; 80 FR 42366, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47910, Aug. 7, 2020]




