# § 423.514   Validation of Part D reporting requirements.

(a) *Required information.* Each Part D plan sponsor must have an effective procedure to develop, compile, evaluate, and report to CMS, to its enrollees, and to the general public, at the times and in the manner that CMS requires, information indicating the following—


(1) The cost of its operations.


(2) The procedures related to and utilization of its services and items.


(3) The availability, accessibility, and acceptability of its services.


(4) Information demonstrating that the Part D plan sponsor has a fiscally sound operation.


(5) Pharmacy performance measures.


(6) Other matters that CMS may require.


(b) *Significant business transactions.* Each Part D plan sponsor must report to CMS annually, within 120 days of the end of its fiscal year (unless, for good cause shown, CMS authorizes an extension of time), the following:


(1) A description of significant business transactions, as defined in § 423.501, between the Part D plan sponsor and a party in interest, including the following:


(i) Indication that the costs of the transactions listed in paragraph (c) of this section do not exceed the costs that would be incurred if these transactions were with someone who is not a party in interest; or


(ii) If they do exceed, a justification that the higher costs are consistent with prudent management and fiscal soundness requirements.


(2) A combined financial statement for the Part D plan sponsor and a party in interest if either of the following conditions is met:


(i) Thirty five percent or more of the costs of operation of the Part D sponsor go to a party in interest.


(ii) Thirty five percent or more of the revenue of a party in interest is from the Part D plan sponsor.


(c) *Requirements for combined financial statements.* (1) The combined financial statements required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section must display in separate columns the financial information for the Part D plan sponsor and each of the parties in interest.


(2) Inter-entity transactions must be eliminated in the consolidated column.


(3) The statements must be examined by an independent auditor in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and must include appropriate opinions and notes.


(4) Upon written request from a Part D plan sponsor showing good cause, CMS may waive the requirement that the organization's combined financial statement include the financial information required in this paragraph (c) of this section for a particular entity.


(d) *Reporting requirements for pharmacy benefits manager data.* Each entity that provides pharmacy benefits management services must provide to the Part D sponsor, and each Part D sponsor must provide to CMS, in a manner specified by CMS, the following:


(1) The total number of prescriptions that were dispensed.


(2) The percentage of all prescriptions that were provided through retail pharmacies compared to mail order pharmacies.


(3) The percentage of prescriptions for which a generic drug was available and dispensed (generic dispensing rate), by pharmacy type (which includes an independent pharmacy, chain pharmacy, supermarket pharmacy, or mass merchandiser pharmacy that is licensed as a pharmacy by the State and that dispenses medication to the general public), that is paid by the Part D sponsor or PBM under the contract.


(4) The aggregate amount and type of rebates, discounts, or price concessions (excluding bona fide service fees as defined in § 423.501) that the PBM negotiates that are attributable to patient utilization under the plan.


(5) The aggregate amount of the rebates, discounts, or price concessions that are passed through to the plan sponsor, and the total number of prescriptions that were dispensed.


(6) The aggregate amount of the difference between the amount the Part D sponsor pays the PBM and the amount that the PBM pays retail pharmacies, and mail order pharmacies.


(e) *Confidentiality of pharmacy benefits manager data.* Information disclosed by a Part D sponsor or PBM as specified in paragraph (d) of this section is confidential and must not be disclosed by the Secretary or by a plan receiving the information, except that the Secretary may disclose the information in a form which does not disclose the identity of a specific PBM, plan, or prices charged for drugs, for the following purposes:


(1) As the Secretary determines necessary to carry out section 1150A of the Act or Part D of Title XVIII.


(2) To permit the Comptroller General to review the information provided.


(3) To permit the Director of the Congressional Budget Office to review the information provided.


(f) *Penalties for failure to provide pharmacy benefits manager data.* The provisions of section 1927(b)(3)(C) of the Act are applicable to a Part D sponsor or PBM that fails to provide the required information on a timely basis or knowingly provides false information in the same manner as such provisions apply to a manufacturer with an agreement under section 1927 of the Act.


(g) *Reporting and disclosure under Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).* (1) For any employees' health benefits plan that includes a Part D plan sponsor in its offerings, the PDP sponsor must furnish, upon request, the information the plan needs to fulfill its reporting and disclosure obligations (for the particular PDP sponsor) under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).


(2) The PDP sponsor must furnish the information to the employer or the employer's designee, or to the plan administrator, as the term “administrator” is defined in ERISA.


(h) *Loan information.* Each Part D plan sponsor must notify CMS of any loans or other special financial arrangements it makes with contractors, subcontractors and related entities.


(i) *Enrollee access to information.* Each Part D plan sponsor must make the information reported to CMS under this section available to its enrollees upon reasonable request.


(j) *Data validation.* Each Part D sponsor must subject information collected under paragraph (a) of this section to a yearly independent audit to determine its reliability, validity, completeness, and comparability in accordance with specifications developed by CMS.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 19822, Apr. 15, 2010; 77 FR 22171, Apr. 12, 2012; 86 FR 6119, Jan. 19, 2021; 89 FR 30838, Apr. 23, 2024]






