# § 1632.8   Glossary of terms.

(a) *Absorbent pads.* Pad used on top of mattress. Designed to absorb urine thereby reducing skin irritation, can be one time use.


(b) *Basket pad.* Cushion for use in an infant basket.


(c) *Bunk beds.* A tier of beds, usually two or three, in a high frame complete with mattresses (see fig. 5).


(d) *Car bed.* Portable bed used to carry a baby in an automobile.


(e) *Carriage pad.* Cushion to go into a baby carriage.


(f) *Chaise lounge.* An upholstered couch chair or a couch with a chair back. It has a permanent back rest, no arms, and sleeps one (see fig. 5).


(g) *Convertible sofa.* An upholstered sofa that converts into an adult sized bed. Mattress unfolds out and up from under the seat cushioning (see fig. 5).


(h) *Convoluted foam pad.* A bed pad made of foam in an egg-crate configuration not encased in ticking.


(i) *Corner groups.* Two twin size bedding sets on frames, usually slipcovered, and abutted to a corner table. They also usually have loose bolsters slipcovered (see fig. 5).


(j) *Crib bumper.* Padded cushion which goes around three or four sides inside a crib to protect the baby. Can also be used in a playpen.


(k) *Daybed.* Daybed has foundation, usually supported by coil or flat springs, mounted between arms on which mattress is placed. It has permanent arms, no backrest, and sleeps one (see fig. 5).


(l) *Decubitus pad.* Designed to prevent or assist in the healing of decubitus ulcers (bed sores). Flat decubitus pads are covered by the standard. Convoluted decubitus pads made entirely from foam are not covered by the standard.


(m) *Dressing table pad.* Pad to cushion a baby on top of a dressing table.


(n) *Drop-arm loveseat.* When side arms are in vertical position, this piece is a loveseat. The adjustable arms can be lowered to one of four positions for a chaise lounge effect or a single sleeper. The vertical back support always remains upright and stationary (see fig. 5).


(o) *Futon.* A flexible mattress generally used on the floor that can be folded or rolled up for storage. It usually consists of resilient material covered by ticking.


(p) *High riser.* This is a frame of sofa seating height with two equal size mattresses without a backrest. The frame slides out with the lower bed and rises to form a double or two single beds (see fig. 5).


(q) *Infant carrier and lounge pad.* Pad to cushion a baby in an infant carrier.


(r) *Mattress foundation.* Consists of any surface such as foam, box springs or other, upon which a mattress is placed to lend it support for use in sleeping upon.


(s) *Pillow.* Cloth bag filled with resilient material such as feathers, down, sponge rubber, urethane, or fiber used as the support for the head of a person.


(t) *Playpen pad.* Cushion used on the bottom of a playpen.


(u) *Portable crib.* Smaller size than a conventional crib. Can usually be converted into a playpen.


(v) *Press-back lounges.* Longer and wider than conventional sofa beds. When the lounge seat is pressed lightly, it levels off to form, with the seat, a flat sleeping surface. The seat slopes, in the sitting position, for added comfort (see fig. 5).


(w) *Push-back sofa.* When pressure is exerted on the back of the sofa, it becomes a bed. When the back is lifted, it becomes a sofa again. Styled in tight or loose cushions (see fig. 5).


(x) *Roll-away-bed.* Portable bed which has frame which folds in half with the mattress for compact storage.


(y) *Sleep lounge.* Upholstered seating section is mounted on a sturdy frame. May have bolster pillows along the wall as backrests or may have attached headrests (see fig. 5).


(z) *Stroller pad.* Cushion used in a baby stroller.


(aa) *Sofa bed.* These are pieces in which the back of the sofa swings down flat with the seat to form the sleeping surface. All upholstered. Some sofa beds have bedding boxes for storage of bedding. There are two types: the one-piece, where the back and seat are upholstered as a unit, supplying an unbroken sleeping surface; and the two-piece, where back and seat are upholstered separately (see fig. 5).


(bb) *Sofa lounge*—(includes glideouts). Upholstered seating section is mounted on springs and in a special frame that permit it to be pulled out for sleeping. Has upholstered backrest bedding box that is hinged. Glideouts are single sleepers with sloping seats and backrests. Seat pulls out from beneath back and evens up to supply level sleeping surface (see fig. 5).


(cc) *Studio couch.* Consists of upholstered seating section on upholstered foundation. Many types convert to twin beds (see fig. 5).


(dd) *Studio divan.* Twin size upholstered seating section with foundation is mounted on metal bed frame. Has no arms or backrest, and sleeps one (see fig. 5).


(ee) *Trundle bed.* A low bed which is rolled under a larger bed. In some lines, the lower bed springs up to form a double or two single beds as in a high riser (see fig. 5).


(ff) *Twin studio divan.* Frames which glide out (but not up) and use seat cushions, in addition to upholstered foundation to sleep two. Has neither arms nor back rest (see fig. 5).


*Effective date:* The amended standard shall become effective on April 10, 1985. As required by section 4(b) of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1193(b)), mattresses and mattress pads which are in inventory or with the trade on the effective date of the amended standard are exempt from its requirements, but must comply with all applicable requirements of the original standard.




