# ยง 21.153   Depredation order for horned larks, house finches, and white-crowned sparrows in California.

Horned larks (*Eremophila alpestris*), house finches (*Haemorhous mexicanus*), and white-crowned sparrows (*Zonotrichia leucophrys*) may be taken in Fresno, Merced, Napa, and Sonoma Counties in California if they are depredating on agricultural or horticultural crops. Take of birds under this order must be done under the supervision of the county agriculture commissioner. You do not need a Federal permit for this depredation control as long as you meet the conditions below, but a depredation permit (see ยง 21.100 in this subpart) is required for take of other migratory bird species, or for take of horned larks or white-crowned sparrows from May 1 through October 31.


(a) *When is take allowed under this depredation order?*

(1) Horned larks and white-crowned sparrows may be controlled from November 1 through April 30.


(2) House finches may be controlled at any time.


(b) *Use of nonlethal control.* Each season, before lethal control may be undertaken, the landowner must attempt to use nonlethal control of migratory bird depredation as recommended by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Wildlife Services. The county agriculture commissioner must confirm that nonlethal measures have been undertaken to control or eliminate the problem prior to the landowner using lethal control.


(c) *Ammunition.* Except when using an air rifle or an air pistol, if firearms are used to kill migratory birds under the provisions of this regulation, the shooter must use nontoxic shot or nontoxic bullets to do so. See ยง 20.21(j) of this chapter for a listing of approved nontoxic shot types.


(d) *Disposition of carcasses.* Specimens useful for scientific purposes may be transferred to any entity authorized to possess them. If not transferred, all carcasses of birds killed under this order must be buried or otherwise destroyed. None of the above migratory birds killed, or the parts thereof, or the plumage of such birds, may be sold or removed from the area where killed.


(e) *Annual report.* Any county official acting under this depredation order must provide an annual report to the Regional Migratory Bird Permit Office using FWS Form 3-2436. The address for the Regional Migratory Bird Permit Office is in ยง 2.2 of subchapter A of this chapter, and is on the form. The report is due by January 31st of the year after control activities are undertaken.



---

[N] [78 FR 65581, Nov. 1, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 882, 883, Jan. 7, 2022]




