# § 405.2466   Annual reconciliation.

(a) *General.* Payments made to RHCs or FQHCs that are authorized to bill under the reasonable cost system during a reporting period are subject to annual reconciliation to assure that those payments do not exceed or fall short of the allowable costs attributable to covered services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries during that period.


(b) *Calculation of reconciliation for RHCs or FQHCs that are authorized to bill under the reasonable cost system.* (1) The total reimbursement amount due the RHC or FQHC for covered services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is based on the report specified in § 405.2470(c)(2) and is calculated by the MAC as follows:


(i) The average cost per visit is calculated by dividing the total allowable cost incurred for the reporting period by total visits for RHC or FQHC services furnished during the period. The average cost per visit is subject to tests of reasonableness which may be established in accordance with this subpart.


(ii) The total cost of RHC or FQHC services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is calculated by multiplying the average cost per visit by the number of visits for covered RHC or FQHC services by beneficiaries.


(iii) The total payment due the RHC is 80 percent of the amount calculated by subtracting the amount of deductible incurred by beneficiaries that is attributable to RHC services from the cost of these services. FQHC services are not subject to a deductible and the payment computation for FQHCs does not include a reduction related to the deductible.


(iv) For RHCs and FQHCs, payment for pneumococcal, influenza, hepatitis B and COVID-19 vaccine and their administration is 100 percent of Medicare reasonable cost.


(2) The total reimbursement amount due is compared with total payments made to the RHC or FQHC for the reporting period, and the difference constitutes the amount of the reconciliation.


(c) *Notice of program reimbursement.* The MAC notifies the RHC or FQHC that is authorized to bill under the reasonable-cost system:


(1) Setting forth its determination of the total reimbursement amount due the RHC or FQHC for the reporting period and the amount, if any, of the reconciliation; and


(2) Informing the RHC or FQHC of its right to have the determination reviewed at a hearing under the procedures set forth in subpart R of this part.


(d) *Payment of reconciliation amount*—(1) *Underpayments.* If the total reimbursement due the RHC or FQHC that is authorized to bill under the reasonable cost system exceeds the payments made for the reporting period, the MAC makes a lump-sum payment to the RHC or FQHC to bring total payments into agreement with total reimbursement due the RHC or FQHC.


(2) *Overpayments.* If the total payments made to a RHC or FQHC for the reporting period exceed the total reimbursement due the RHC or FQHC for the period, the MAC arranges with the RHC or FQHC for repayment through a lump-sum refund, or, if that poses a hardship for the RHC or FQHC, through offset against subsequent payments or a combination of offset and refund. The repayment must be completed as quickly as possible, generally within 12 months from the date of the notice of program reimbursement. A longer repayment period may be agreed to by the MAC if the MAC is satisfied that unusual circumstances exist which warrant a longer period.



---

[N] [57 FR 24976, June 12, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 14657, Apr. 3, 1996; 79 FR 25478, May 2, 2014; 86 FR 65662, Nov. 19, 2021; 89 FR 98554, Dec. 9, 2024]




