# § 206.6   Report to the President.

(a) *In general.* The Commission will include in its report to the President the following: 


(1) The determination made and an explanation of the basis for the determination; 


(2) If the determination is affirmative or if the Commission is equally divided in its determination, such remedy recommendation or proposal as may be appropriate under the statute and an explanation of the basis for each recommendation or proposal.


(3) Any dissenting or separate views by members of the Commission regarding the determination and any recommendations; 


(b) *Additional findings and information.* (1) In the case of a determination made under section 202(b) of the Trade Act, the Commission will also include in its report the following: 


(i) The findings with respect to the results of an examination of the factors other than imports which may be a cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry; 


(ii) A copy of the adjustment plan, if any, submitted by the petitioner; 


(iii) Commitments submitted and information obtained by the Commission regarding steps that firms and workers in the domestic industry are taking, or plan to take, to facilitate positive adjustment to import competition; 


(iv) A description of the short- and long-term effects that implementation of the action recommended is likely to have on the petitioning domestic industry, other domestic industries, and consumers; and 


(v) A description of the short- and long-term effects of not taking the recommended action on the petitioning domestic industry, its workers and communities where production facilities of such industry are located, and other domestic industries. 


(2) In the case of a determination made under section 301(b) of the USMCA Implementation Act, the Commission will include in its report the findings with respect to the results of an examination of the factors other than imports which may be a cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry.


(3) In the case of a determination made under section 421(b) or 422(b) of the Trade Act, the Commission will also include in its report a description of—


(i) The short- and long-term effects that implementation of the action recommended is likely to have on the petitioning domestic industry, on other domestic industries, and on consumers; and


(ii) The short- and long-term effects of not taking the recommended action on the petitioning domestic industry, its workers, and the communities where production facilities of such industry are located, and on other domestic industries.



---

[N] [60 FR 10, Jan. 3, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 8190, Feb. 22, 2002; 77 FR 3925, Jan. 26, 2012; 88 FR 14890, Mar. 10, 2023]








