# ยง 102.147   Contents of application; net worth exhibit; documentation of fees and expenses.

(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act must identify the applicant and the adversary adjudication for which an award is sought. The application must state the particulars in which the applicant has prevailed and identify the positions of the General Counsel in that proceeding that the applicant alleges were not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application must also state the number, category, and work location of employees of the applicant and its affiliates and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.


(b) The application must include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates). However, an applicant may omit this statement if:


(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such Section; or


(2) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in Section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).


(c) The application must state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.


(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes this Agency to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.


(e) The application must be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It must also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true.


(f) Each applicant, except a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association, must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates (as defined in ยง 102.143(g)) when the adversary adjudicative proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The Administrative Law Judge may require an applicant to file such additional information as may be required to determine its eligibility for an award.


(g)(1) Unless otherwise directed by the Administrative Law Judge, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the fee application proceeding. An applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit may submit that portion of the exhibit in a sealed envelope labeled *Confidential Financial Information,* accompanied by a motion to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion must describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The exhibit must be served on the General Counsel but need not be served on any other party to the proceeding. If the Administrative Law Judge finds that the information may not be withheld from disclosure, it will be placed in the public record of the proceeding.


(2) If the Administrative Law Judge grants the motion to withhold from public disclosure, the exhibit will remain sealed, except to the extent that its contents are required to be disclosed at a hearing. The granting of the motion to withhold from public disclosure will not determine the availability of the document under the Freedom of Information Act in response to a request made under the provisions of ยง 102.117. Notwithstanding that the exhibit may be withheld from public disclosure, the General Counsel may disclose information from the exhibit to others if required in the course of an investigation to verify the claim of eligibility.


(h) The application must be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement must be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the dates and the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The Administrative Law Judge may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.



---

[N] [46 FR 48087, Sept. 30, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 17733, May 15, 1986; 51 FR 36224, Oct. 9, 1986; 82 FR 11782, Feb. 24, 2017]




