# § 436.31   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Act* means Title VIII of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act. 


*Annual energy audit* means a procedure including, but not limited to, verification of the achievement of energy cost savings and energy unit savings guaranteed resulting from implementation of energy conservation measures and determination of whether an adjustment to the energy baseline is justified by conditions beyond the contractor's control.


*Building* means any closed structure primarily intended for human occupancy in which energy is consumed, produced, or distributed.


*Detailed energy survey* means a procedure which may include, but is not limited to, a detailed analysis of energy cost savings and energy unit savings potential, building conditions, energy consuming equipment, and hours of use or occupancy for the purpose of confirming or revising technical and price proposals based on the preliminary energy survey.


*DOE* means Department of Energy.


*Energy baseline* means the amount of energy that would be consumed annually without implementation of energy conservation measures based on historical metered data, engineering calculations, submetering of buildings or energy consuming systems, building load simulation models, statistical regression analysis, or some combination of these methods.


*Energy conservation measures* means measures that are applied to an existing Federally owned building or facility that improves energy efficiency, are life-cycle cost-effective under subpart A of this part, and involve energy conservation, cogeneration facilities, renewable energy sources, improvements in operation and maintenance efficiencies, or retrofit activities.


*Energy cost savings* means a reduction in the cost of energy and related operation and maintenance expenses, from a base cost established through a methodology set forth in an energy savings performance contract, utilized in an existing federally owned building or buildings or other federally owned facilities as a result of—


(1) The lease or purchase of operating equipment, improvements, altered operation and maintenance, or technical services; or


(2) The increased efficient use of existing energy sources by cogeneration or heat recovery, excluding any cogeneration process for other than a federally owned building or buildings or other federally owned facilities.


*Energy savings performance contract* means a contract which provides for the performance of services for the design, acquisition, installation, testing, operation, and, where appropriate, maintenance and repair of an identified energy conservation measure or series of measures at one or more locations.


*Energy unit savings* means the determination, in electrical or thermal units (e.g., kilowatt hour (kwh), kilowatt (kw), or British thermal units (Btu)), of the reduction in energy use or demand by comparing consumption or demand, after completion of contractor-installed energy conservation measures, to an energy baseline established in the contract.


*Facility* means any structure not primarily intended for human occupancy, or any contiguous group of structures and related systems, either of which produces, distributes, or consumes energy.


*Federal agency* has the meaning given such term in section 551(1) of Title 5, United States Code.


*Preliminary energy survey* means a procedure which may include, but is not limited to, an evaluation of energy cost savings and energy unit savings potential, building conditions, energy consuming equipment, and hours of use or occupancy, for the purpose of developing technical and price proposals prior to selection.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Energy. 




