# § 585.235   What are the lease periods for a commercial lease?

(a) The lease periods within the term of your commercial lease are defined as follows:


(1) *Preliminary period.* Each commercial lease has a preliminary period of up to five years. During the preliminary period, the lessee must submit a COP. The preliminary period begins on the effective date of the lease and ends either when a COP is received by BOEM for review or at the expiration of five years, whichever occurs first.


(2) *COP review period.* A commercial lease has a COP review period. The COP review period begins when BOEM receives a COP from the lessee and ends upon COP approval, disapproval, or approval with conditions pursuant to § 585.628. During the COP review period, BOEM conducts the necessary reviews and consultations associated with the COP.


(3) *Design and construction period.* The design and construction period begins at COP approval and ends when the operations period begins. During the design and construction period BSEE completes the FDR and FIR review(s), and the lessee undertakes project construction.


(4) *Operations period.* A commercial lease has an operations period of 35 years; or the duration specified in the lease; or the duration included and approved as part of your COP. The operations period begins when the requirements of 30 CFR 285.637(a) are met through the submission of final reports and records for your project. Additional time may be added to the operations period through a lease suspension under § 585.415 issued during this period; a lease extension requested pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section; or a lease renewal under § 585.425.


(b) You may request an extension of any of the lease periods outlined in paragraph (a) of this section for good cause, including if the project is designed and verified for a longer duration. In its discretion, BOEM may approve your request.


(c) If you intend to develop your lease in phases under § 585.238, you must propose lease period schedules for each phase in your COP.


(d) If you intend to segregate or consolidate your lease under §§ 585.408 through 585.413, you and your assignees may propose lease period schedules in your segregation or consolidation application.






