# § 108.510   Application.

(a) For the purposes of this subpart—


(1) *Similar stage of construction* means the stage at which—


(i) Construction identifiable with a specific unit begins; and


(ii) Assembly of that unit comprising at least 50 metric tons (55.1 U.S. tons) or 1 percent of the estimated mass of all structural material, whichever is less, has been achieved.


(2) *Unit constructed* means a unit, the keel of which is laid or which is at a similar stage of construction.


(b) Subject to § 108.515, each unit constructed before October 1, 1996, must meet the requirements of this subpart, except for the number, type, and arrangement of lifeboats (including survival capsules), lifeboat davits, winches, inflatable liferafts, liferaft launching equipment, and rescue boats.


(c)(1) If a District Commander determines that the overall safety of the persons on board a unit will not be significantly reduced, the District Commander may grant an exemption from compliance with a provision of this part to a specific unit for a specified geographic area within the boundaries of the Coast Guard District. This exemption may be limited to certain periods of the year.


(2) Requests for exemption under this paragraph must be in writing to the OCMI for transmission to the District Commander in the area in which the unit is in service or will be in service.


(3) If the exemption is granted by the District Commander, the OCMI will endorse the unit's Certificate of Inspection with a statement describing the exemption.




