# ยง 1146.1   Definitions.

*AMS* means the Agricultural Marketing Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Eligible dairy organization* means a dairy farmer, either individually or as part of a cooperative, or a dairy processor that:


(1) Accounts to a Federal Milk Marketing Order; and


(2) Incurs a qualified expense described in ยง 1146.1.


*Eligible distributor* means a public or private non-profit organization that distributes donated eligible milk.


*Eligible milk* means Class I fluid milk products produced and processed in the United States that meet the specifications referenced in ยง 1146.3.


*Eligible partnership* means a partnership between an eligible dairy organization and an eligible distributor.


*Fiscal year* means the twelve-month period beginning October 1 of any year and ending September 30 of the following year.


*Participating partnership* means an eligible partnership for which AMS has approved a Dairy Donation and Distribution Plan (Plan) for eligible milk under ยง 1146.104.


*Program* means the Milk Donation Reimbursement Program established in this part.


*Qualified expense* means the cost incurred to purchase fresh fluid milk product or bulk dairy commodity product for processing into eligible dairy products.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture or a representative authorized to act in the Secretary's stead.



---

[N] [84 FR 46658, Sept. 5, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 48897, Sept. 1, 2021; 88 FR 60105, Aug. 31, 2023]

