# § 1.856-3   Definitions.

For purposes of the regulations under part II, subchapter M, chapter 1 of the Code, the following definitions shall apply.


(a) *Value.* The term “value” means, with respect to securities for which market quotations are readily available, the market value of such securities; and with respect to other securities and assets, fair value as determined in good faith by the trustees of the real estate investment trust. In the case of securities of other qualified real estate investment trusts, fair value shall not exceed market value or asset value, whichever is higher.


(b) *Real estate assets*—(1) *In general.* The term “real estate assets” means real property, interests in mortgages on real property (including interests in mortgages on leaseholds of land or improvements thereon), and shares in other qualified real estate investment trusts. The term “mortgages on real property” includes deeds of trust on real property.


(2) *Treatment of REMIC interests as real estate assets*—(i) *In general.* If, for any calendar quarter, at least 95 percent of a REMIC's assets (as determined in accordance with § 1.860F-4(e)(1)(ii) or § 1.6049-7(f)(3)) are real estate assets (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section), then, for that calendar quarter, all the regular and residual interests in that REMIC are treated as real estate assets and, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, any amount includible in gross income with respect to those interests is treated as interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property. If less than 95 percent of a REMIC's assets are real estate assets, then the real estate investment trust is treated as holding directly its proportionate share of the assets and as receiving directly its proportionate share of the income of the REMIC. See §§ 1.860F-4(e)(1)(ii)(B) and 1.6049-7(f)(3) for information required to be provided to regular and residual interest holders if the 95-percent test is not met.


(ii) *Treatment of REMIC assets for section 856 purposes*—(A) *Manufactured housing treated as real estate asset.* For purposes of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the term “real estate asset” includes manufactured housing treated as a single family residence under section 25(e)(10).


(B) *Status of cash flow investments.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), cash flow investments (as defined in section 860G(a)(6) and § 1.860G-2(g)(1)) are real estate assets.


(iii) *Certain contingent interest payment obligations held by a REIT.* If a REIT holds a residual interest in a REMIC for a principal purpose of avoiding the limitation set out in section 856(f) (concerning interest based on mortgagor net profits) or section 856(j) (concerning shared appreciation provisions), then, even if the REMIC satisfies the 95-percent test of paragraph (b)(i) of this section, the REIT is treated as receiving directly the REMIC's items of income for purposes of section 856.


(c) *Interests in real property.* The term “interests in real property” includes fee ownership and co-ownership of land or improvements thereon, leaseholds of land or improvements thereon, options to acquire land or improvements thereon, and options to acquire leaseholds of land or improvements thereon. The term also includes timeshare interests that represent an undivided fractional fee interest, or undivided leasehold interest, in real property, and that entitle the holders of the interests to the use and enjoyment of the property for a specified period of time each year. The term also includes stock held by a person as a tenant-stockholder in a cooperative housing corporation (as those terms are defined in section 216). Such term does not, however, include mineral, oil, or gas royalty interests, such as a retained economic interest in coal or iron ore with respect to which the special provisions of section 631(c) apply.


(d) *Real property.* See § 1.856-10 for the definition of *real property.* A regulation that adopts the definition of real property in this paragraph is to be interpreted as if it had referred to § 1.856-10.






(e) *Securities.* The term “securities” does not include “interests in real property” or “real estate assets” as those terms are defined in section 856 and this section.


(f) *Qualified real estate investment trusts.* The term “qualified real estate investment trust” means a real estate investment trust within the meaning of part II of subchapter M which is taxable under such part as a real estate investment trust. For purposes of the 75-percent requirement in section 856(c)(5)(A), the trust whose stock has been included by another trust as “real estate assets” must be a “qualified real estate investment trust” for its full taxable year in which falls the close of each quarter of the trust's taxable year for which the computation is made. For example, Real Estate Investment Trust Z for its taxable year ending December 31, 1963, holds as “real estate assets” stock in Real Estate Investment Trust Y, which is also on a calendar year. If Trust Y is not a qualified real estate investment trust for its full taxable year ending December 31, 1963, Trust Z may not include the stock of Trust Y as “real estate assets” in computing the 75-percent requirement as of the close of any quarter of its taxable year ending December 31, 1963.


(g) *Partnership interest.* In the case of a real estate investment trust which is a partner in a partnership, as defined in section 7701(a)(2) and the regulations thereunder, the trust will be deemed to own its proportionate share of each of the assets of the partnership and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the partnership attributable to such share. For purposes of section 856, the interest of a partner in the partnership's assets shall be determined in accordance with his capital interest in the partnership. The character of the various assets in the hands of the partnership and items of gross income of the partnership shall retain the same character in the hands of the partners for all purposes of section 856. Thus, for example, if the trust owns a 30-percent capital interest in a partnership which owns a piece of rental property the trust will be treated as owning 30 percent of such property and as being entitled to 30 percent of the rent derived from the property by the partnership. Similarly, if the partnership holds any property primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of its trade or business, the trust will be treated as holding its proportionate share of such property primarily for such purpose. Also, for example, where a partnership sells real property or a trust sells its interest in a partnership which owns real property, any gross income realized from such sale, to the extent that it is attributable to the real property, shall be deemed gross income from the sale or disposition of real property held for either the period that the partnership has held the real property of the period that the trust was a member of the partnership, whichever is the shorter.


(h) *Net capital gain.* The term “net capital gain” means the excess of the net long-term capital gain for the taxable year over the net short-term capital loss for the taxable year.



---

[N] [T.D. 6598, 27 FR 4084, Apr. 28, 1962, as amended by T.D. 6841, 30 FR 9308, July 27, 1965; T.D. 7767, 46 FR 11266, Feb. 6, 1981; T.D. 8458, 57 FR 61298, Dec. 24, 1992; T.D. 9784, 81 FR 59860, Aug. 31, 2016]




