# § 2423.20   Issuance and contents of the complaint; answer to the complaint; amendments; role of Office of Administrative Law Judges.

(a) *Complaint.* Whenever formal proceedings are deemed necessary, the Regional Director shall file and serve, in accordance with § 2429.12 of this subchapter, a complaint with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. The decision to issue a complaint shall not be subject to review. Any complaint may be withdrawn by the Regional Director prior to the hearing. The complaint shall set forth: 


(1) Notice of the charge; 


(2) The basis for jurisdiction; 


(3) The facts alleged to constitute an unfair labor practice; 


(4) The particular sections of 5 U.S.C., chapter 71 and the rules and regulations involved; 


(5) Notice of the date, time, and place that a hearing will take place before an Administrative Law Judge; and 


(6) A brief statement explaining the nature of the hearing. 


(b) *Answer.* Within 20 days after the date of service of the complaint, but in any event, prior to the beginning of the hearing, the Respondent shall file and serve, in accordance with part 2429 of this subchapter, an answer with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. The answer shall admit, deny, or explain each allegation of the complaint. If the Respondent has no knowledge of an allegation or insufficient information as to its truthfulness, the answer shall so state. Absent a showing of good cause to the contrary, failure to file an answer or respond to any allegation shall constitute an admission. Motions to extend the filing deadline shall be filed in accordance with § 2423.21. 


(c) *Amendments.* The Regional Director may amend the complaint at any time before the answer is filed. The Respondent then has 20 days from the date of service of the amended complaint to file an answer with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. Prior to the beginning of the hearing, the answer may be amended by the Respondent within 20 days after the answer is filed. Thereafter, any requests to amend the complaint or answer must be made by motion to the Office of Administrative Law Judges. 


(d) *Office of Administrative Law Judges.* Pleadings, motions, conferences, hearings, and other matters throughout as specified in subparts B, C, and D of this part shall be administered by the Office of Administrative Law Judges, as appropriate. The Chief Administrative Law Judge, or any Administrative Law Judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, shall administer any matters properly submitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges. Throughout subparts B, C, and D of this part, “Administrative Law Judge” or “Judge” refers to the Chief Administrative Law Judge or his or her designee. 




