# § 721.2825   Alkyl ester (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance alkyl ester (PMN P-84-968) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent) and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The provision of § 721.72(d) requiring that employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program does not apply when the written program is not required under § 721.72(a). The provision of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a label does not apply when a label is not required under § 721.72(b). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k) and (q). 


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (c), (e), (f), (i) and (j).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 32414, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




