# § 721.5075   Mixed methyltin mercaptoester sulfides.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as mixed methyltin mercaptoester sulfides (PMN P-92-177) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). 


(iii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1) and (a)(2) (only in a facility permitted to landfill Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) hazardous wastes with the landfill operated in accordance with subtitle C of RCRA). 


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4) (where N = 2 ppb).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 51685, Oct. 4, 1993]




