# § 721.11777   Per- and poly-fluoroalkyl chemical substances designated as inactive on the TSCA Inventory.

(a) *Definitions.* The definitions in § 721.3 apply to this section.


(b) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The 329 chemical substances identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, designated as inactive on the TSCA Chemical Substance Inventory as of January 26, 2023, are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance that are manufactured or processed as nonisolated intermediates, as defined at 40 CFR 720.3, or to quantities of the substance that are manufactured or processed as a byproduct, as defined in 40 CFR 720.3, which are not used for commercial purposes.


(i) R-(CF2)-CF(R′)″, where both the CF2 and CF moieties are saturated carbons;


(ii) R-CF2OCF2-R′, where R and R′ can either be F, O, or saturated carbons; and


(iii) CF3C(CF3)R′R″, where R′ and R″ can either be F or saturated carbons.


(2) The significant new uses for the chemical substances identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are: manufacture (including import) or processing for any use.


(c) *Chemical substances not subject to reporting.* The chemical substances already subject to a rule under this part, including § 721.9582, and § 721.10536, are not subject to reporting under this section.


(d) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section.



---

[N] [89 FR 1831, Jan. 11, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 102798, Dec. 18, 2024]




