# ยง 3280.605   Joints and connections.

(a) *Tightness.* Joints and connections in the plumbing system shall be gastight and watertight for the pressures required under testing procedures. 


(b) *Assembling of pipe.* All joints and connections shall be correctly assembled for tightness. Pipe threads shall be fully engaged with the threads of the fitting. Plastic pipe and copper tubing shall be inserted to the full depth of the solder cup or welding sockets of each fitting. Pipe threads and slip joints shall not be wrapped with string, paper, putty, or similar fillers. 


(c) *Threaded joints.* Threads for screw pipe and fittings shall conform to the approved or listed standard. Pipe ends shall be reamed out to size of bore. All burrs, chips, cutting oil and foreign matter shall be removed. Pipe joint cement or thread lubricant shall be of approved type and applied to male threads only. 


(d) *Solder joints.* Solder joints for tubing shall be made with approved or listed solder type fittings. Surfaces to be soldered shall be cleaned bright. The joints shall be properly fluxed with noncorrosive paste type flux and, for manufactured homes to be connected to a public water system, made with solder having not more than 0.2 percent lead. 


(e) *Plastic pipe, fittings and joints.* Plastic pipe and fittings shall be joined by installation methods recommended by the manufacturer or in accordance with the provisions of a recognized, approved, or listed standard. 


(f) *Union joints.* Metal unions in water piping shall have metal-to-metal ground seats. 


(g) *Flared joints.* Flared joints for soft-copper water tubing shall be made with approved or listed fittings. The tubing shall be expanded with a proper flaring tool. 


(h) *Cast iron soil pipe joints.* Approved or listed cast iron pipe may be joined as follows:


(1) Approved or listed hub-less pipe and fittings must be permitted to be joined with listed couplings or adapters, per the manufacturer's recommendations.


(2) Hub and plain-end soil pipe may be joined by compression fittings per the manufacturer's recommendation.



---

[N] [40 FR 58752, Dec. 18, 1975. Redesignated at 44 FR 20679, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 23611, June 23, 1988; 78 FR 73985, Dec. 9, 2013]




