# ยง 681.10   How much can be borrowed?

(a) *Student borrower.* An eligible student may borrow an amount to be used solely for expenses, as described in ยง 681.5(g), incurred or to be incurred over a period of up to an academic year and disbursed in accordance with ยง 681.33(f). The maximum amount he or she may receive for that period shall be determined by the school in accordance with ยง 681.51(f) within the following limitations:


(1) A student enrolled in a school of medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry or podiatric medicine may borrow up to $80,000 under this part. The amount received may not exceed $20,000 in any academic year.


(2) A student enrolled in a school of public health, pharmacy, or chiropractic, or a graduate program in health administration, clinical psychology, or allied health, may borrow up to $50,000 under this part. The amount received may not exceed $12,500 per academic year.


(3) For purposes of this paragraph, an academic year means the traditional approximately 9-month September-to-June annual session. For the purpose of computing academic year equivalents for students who, during a 12-month period, attend for a longer period than the traditional academic year, the academic year will be considered to be 9 months in length.


(4) The student's estimated cost of attendance shall not exceed the estimated cost of attendance of all students in like circumstances pursuing a similar curriculum at that school.


(b) *Non-student borrower.* An eligible nonstudent may borrow amounts under this authority with the following restrictions:


(1) In no case may an eligible nonstudent borrower receive a loan that is greater than the sum of the HEAL insurance premium plus the interest that is expected to accrue and must be paid on the borrower's HEAL loans during the period for which the new loan is intended.


(2) An eligible nonstudent in the field of medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry, or podiatric medicine may borrow up to $80,000 under this part including loans obtained while the borrower was a student. The loan amount may not exceed $20,000 in any 12-month period.


(3) An eligible nonstudent in the field of pharmacy, public health, chiropractic, health administration, or clinical psychology may borrow up to $50,000 under this part including loans obtained while the borrower was a student. The loan amount received under this part may not exceed $12,500 in any 12-month period.




