# § 30.85   Complaint.

(a) *General.* Upon the expiration of the period for the respondent to submit a response to the prepenalty notice, the official designated in subpart B of this part, or his or her designee (or the Mortgagee Review Board in actions under § 30.35) shall determine whether to seek a civil money penalty. Such determination shall be based upon a review of the prepenalty notice, the response, if any, and the factors listed at § 30.80. A determination by the Mortgagee Review Board to seek a civil money penalty shall be by a majority vote of the Board.


(b) If a determination is made to seek a civil money penalty, government counsel shall issue a complaint to the respondent on behalf of the officials listed at subpart B of this part or the Mortgagee Review Board for violations under § 30.35. The complaint shall be served upon respondent and simultaneously filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals, and shall state the following:


(1) The factual basis for the decision to seek a penalty;


(2) The applicable civil money penalty statute;


(3) The amount of penalty sought;


(4) The right to submit a response in writing, within 15 days of receipt of the complaint, requesting a hearing on any material fact in the complaint, or on the appropriateness of the penalty sought;


(5) The address to which a response must be sent;


(6) That the failure to submit a response may result in the imposition of the penalty in the amount sought.


(c) A copy of this part and of 24 CFR part 26, subpart B, shall be included with the complaint.


(d) *Service of the complaint.* The complaint shall be served on the respondent by first class mail, personal delivery, or other means.


(e) Before taking an action under §§ 30.35 for violation of 12 U.S.C. § 1735f-14(b)(1)(D) or (F), 30.36, or 30.50 for violation of 12 U.S.C. 1723i(b)(1)(G) or (I), the Secretary shall inform the Attorney General of the United States, which may be accomplished by providing a copy of the complaint. The Secretary shall include in the body of the complaint a statement confirming that this action was taken.



---

[N] [61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 2752, Jan. 15, 2009]




