# ยง 63.11398   What definitions apply to this subpart?

*Acrylic fiber* means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is any long-chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 85 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units.


*Acrylic and modacrylic fibers production* means the production of either of the following synthetic fibers composed of acrylonitrile units: acrylic fiber or modacrylic fiber.


*Acrylonitrile solution polymerization* means a process where acrylonitrile and comonomers are dissolved in a solvent to form a polymer solution (typically polyacrylonitrile). The polyacrylonitrile is soluble in the solvent. In contrast to suspension polymerization, the resulting reactor polymer solution (spin dope) is filtered and pumped directly to the fiber spinning process.


*Acrylonitrile suspension polymerization* means a polymerization process where small drops of acrylonitrile and comonomers are suspended in water in the presence of a catalyst where they polymerize under agitation. Solid beads of polymer are formed in this suspension reaction which are subsequently filtered, washed, refiltered, and dried. The beads must be subsequently redissolved in a solvent to create a spin dope prior to introduction to the fiber spinning process.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emissions limitation or management practice;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any emissions limitation or management practice in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.


*Equipment* means each of the following that is subject to this subpart: pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling collection system, open-ended valve or line, valve connector, instrumentation system in organic HAP service which contains or contacts greater than 10 percent by weight of acrylonitrile and operates more than 300 hours per year.


*Fiber spinning line* means the group of equipment and process vents associated with acrylic or modacrylic fiber spinning operations. The fiber spinning line includes (as applicable to the type of spinning process used) the blending and dissolving tanks, spinning solution filters, wet spinning units, spin bath tanks, and the equipment used downstream of the spin bath to wash, dry, or draw the spun fiber.


*Maintenance wastewater* means wastewater generated by the draining of process fluid from components in the process unit, whose primary product is a product produced by a source category subject to this subpart, into an individual drain system prior to or during maintenance activities. Maintenance wastewater can be generated during planned and unplanned shutdowns and during periods not associated with a shutdown. Examples of activities that can generate maintenance wastewaters include descaling of heat exchanger tubing bundles, cleaning of distillation column traps, draining of low legs and high point bleeds, draining of pumps into an individual drain system, and draining of portions of the process unit, whose primary product is a product produced by a source category subject to this subpart, for repair.


*Modacrylic fiber* means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is any long-chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 35 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units but less than 85 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units.


*Monomer recovery process equipment* means the collection of process units and associated process equipment used to reclaim the monomer for subsequent reuse, including but not limited to polymer holding tanks, polymer buffer tanks, monomer vacuum pump flush drum, and drum filter vacuum pump flush drum.


*Polymerization process equipment* means the collection of process units and associated process equipment used in the acrylonitrile polymerization process prior to the fiber spinning line, including but not limited to acrylonitrile storage tanks, recovered monomer tanks, monomer measuring tanks, monomer preparation tanks, monomer feed tanks, slurry receiver tanks, polymerization reactors, and drum filters.


*Process vent* means the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or point of entry into a control device, if any) of a gas stream from the acrylic and modacrylic fibers production process.


*Process wastewater* means wastewater, which during manufacturing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product.


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined at 40 CFR 70.2.


*Spin dope* means the liquid mixture of polymer and solvent that is fed to the spinneret to form the acrylic and modacrylic fibers.




