# Sec. 19-2   Maintenance of data.

(a) Each air carrier required to file Form 41 Schedule T-100 data shall maintain its operating statistics, covering the movement of traffic in accordance with the uniform classifications prescribed. Codes are prescribed for each operating element and service class. All traffic statistics shall be compiled in terms of each flight stage as actually performed. 


(b) Each carrier shall maintain data applicable to the specified traffic and capacity elements prescribed in section 19-5 and section 25, and by general service classes prescribed in section 19-4 of this part. 


(c) Operating statistics shall be maintained in accordance with the type of record, either nonstop segment or on-flight market. 


(d) Schedule T-100 collects summarized flight stage data and on-flight market data. All traffic statistics shall be compiled in terms of each revenue flight stage as actually performed. The detail T-100 data shall be maintained in a manner permitting monthly summarization and organization into two basic groupings: The nonstop segment information that must be summarized by equipment type, within class of service, within pair-of-points, without regard to individual flight numbers. The second grouping requires that the enplanement/deplanement information be broken out into separate units called “on-flight market records.” These records must be summarized by class of service, within pair-of-points, without regard for equipment type or flight number.


(e) The Department may authorize joint-service operations between two direct air carriers. Examples of these joint-services are blocked-space agreements, part-charter agreements, code-share agreements, wet-lease agreements, and other similar arrangements. Joint services operations are reported by the air carrier in operational control of the aircraft. The traffic moving under these agreements is reported on Schedule T-100 the same way as any other traffic on the aircraft.


(f) Any questions regarding T-100 should be e-mailed to *T100.Support@dot.gov.*


---

[N] [53 FR 46305, Nov. 16, 1988, as amended at 75 FR 41583, July 16, 2010]




