# ยง 28.105   Practical forms of cotton standards.

(a) Practical forms of the cotton standards of the United States prepared in physical form, each certified under the seal of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and under the signature of the Administrator, thereto affixed by the Administrator or by some other official or employee of the Department duly authorized by the Administrator, and in the case of the standards for grade accompanied by photographs representing the cotton in such practical forms on the date of certification, are available for sale to any person requesting the same, subject to the other conditions of this section.


(b) Each application for practical forms of the cotton standards shall be upon an application form furnished by the Division, shall be signed by the applicant, and shall incorporate the following conditions:


(1) That no practical form of any of the cotton standards for the grade of American Upland cotton shall be considered or used as representing such standards after the date of its cancellation in accordance with this section or in any event after the expiration of 12 months following the date of its certification: Provided, That sets of practical forms stored, protected, and preserved in accordance with certain agreements for the adoption of universal standards may be used for such periods as may be prescribed in such agreements.


(2) That said practical forms and the photographs accompanying them shall be subject to inspection on any business day, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., by the Administrator or by an officer or agent of the Department authorized by the Administrator for that purpose.


(3) That the signature of the Administrator certifying to any practical form, or any photograph of said practical form accompanying the same, or both, may be cancelled if it be found, upon such inspection, either that copy of said forms for any reason misrepresents the cotton standards or that any such photographs have been altered or mutilated.



---

[N] [22 FR 10930, Dec. 28, 1975, as amended at 48 FR 37003, Aug. 16, 1983; 52 FR 30883, Aug. 18, 1987]




