# § 4.33   Requirements for a request of records or testimony.

(a) *Generally*—(1) *Form of request.* A person seeking non-public OCC information must submit a request in writing to the OCC. The requester must explain, in as detailed a description as is necessary under the circumstances, the bases for the request and how the requested non-public OCC information relates to the issues in the lawsuit or matter. 


(2) *Expedited request.* A requester seeking a response in less than 60 days must explain why the request was not submitted earlier and why the OCC should expedite the request. 


(3) *Request arising from adversarial matters.* Where the requested information is to be used in connection with an adversarial matter: 


(i) The OCC generally will require that the lawsuit or administrative action has been filed before it will consider the request; 


(ii) The request must include: 


(A) A copy of the complaint or other pleading setting forth the assertions in the case; 


(B) The caption and docket number of the case; 


(C) The name, address, and phone number of counsel to each party in the case; and 


(D) A description of any prior judicial decisions or pending motions in the case that may bear on the asserted relevance of the requested information; 


(iii) The request must also: 


(A) Show that the information is relevant to the purpose for which it is sought; 


(B) Show that other evidence reasonably suited to the requester's needs is not available from any other source; 


(C) Show that the need for the information outweighs the public interest considerations in maintaining the confidentiality of the OCC information and outweighs the burden on the OCC to produce the information; 


(D) Explain how the issues in the case and the status of the case warrant that the OCC allow disclosure; and 


(E) Identify any other issue that may bear on the question of waiver of privilege by the OCC. 


(b) *Request for records.* If the request is for a record, the requester must adequately describe the record or records sought by type and date. 


(c) *Request for testimony*—(1) *Generally.* A requester seeking testimony: 


(i) Must show a compelling need for the requested information; and 


(ii) Should request OCC testimony with sufficient time to obtain the testimony in deposition form. 


(2) *Trial or hearing testimony.* A requester seeking testimony at a trial or hearing must show that a deposition would not suffice. 




