# § 296.4   Definitions.

*Administrative Appeal* means an appeal of the Authorized Official's Determination to the Director of the Claims Office in accordance with the provisions of Subpart E of this part.


*Administrative Record* means all information submitted by the claimant and all information collected by FEMA concerning the claim, which is used to evaluate the claim and to formulate the Authorized Official's Determination. It also means all information that is submitted by the claimant or FEMA in an Administrative Appeal and the decision of the Administrative Appeal. It excludes the opinions, memoranda and work papers of FEMA attorneys and drafts of documents prepared by Claims Office personnel and contractors.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.


*Arbitration Administrator* means the FEMA official responsible for administering arbitration procedures to resolve disputes regarding a claim. Contact information for the Arbitration Administrator can be found online at *https://www.fema.gov/hermits-peak.*

*Authorized Official* means an employee of the United States who is delegated with authority by the Director of the Claims Office to render binding determinations on claims and to determine compensation due to claimants under the Act.


*Authorized Official's Determination* means a report signed by an Authorized Official and mailed to the claimant evaluating each element of the claim as stated in the Proof of Loss and determining the compensation, if any, due to the claimant.


*Claimant* means a person who has filed a Notice of Loss under the Act.


*Claims Office* means the Office of Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire Claims.


*Claims Reviewer* means an employee of the United States or a Claims Office contractor or subcontractor who is authorized by the Director of the Claims Office to review and evaluate claims submitted under the Act.


*Days* means calendar days, including weekends and holidays.


*Director* means an Independent Claims Manager appointed by the Administrator who will serve as the Director of the Claims Office.


*Good Cause,* for purposes of extending the deadline for filing, supplementing a claim, or reopening a claim includes, but is not limited to: instances where a claimant, through no fault of their own, may not be able to access needed documentation in time to submit a claim or transmit relevant information or data; or where damage is found after a claim has been submitted; or other instances in which the Director of the Claims Office, in their discretion, determines that an undue hardship or change in circumstances on the claimant warrants an extension of a deadline or the supplementation or reopening of existing claims.


*Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire* means:


(1) The fire resulting from the initiation by the U.S. Forest Service of a prescribed burn in the Santa Fe National Forest in San Miguel County, New Mexico on April 6, 2022;


(2) The pile burn holdover resulting from the prescribed burn by the U.S. Forest Services which reemerged on April 19, 2022; and


(3) The merger of the two fires described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition, reported as the Hermit's Peak Fire or the Hermit's Peak Fire/Calf Canyon Fire.


*Household* means a group of people, related or unrelated, who live together on a continuous basis and does not include members of an extended family who do not regularly and continuously cohabit.


*Household Including Tribal Members* means a Household that existed on April 6, 2022, which included one or more Tribal Members as continuous residents.


*Indian Tribe* means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or components reservation individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published most recently as of September 30, 2022, pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994.


*Individual Assistance* means the FEMA program established under subchapter IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5121, *et seq.,* which provides assistance to individuals and families adversely affected by a major disaster or an emergency.


*Injured Person* means an individual, regardless of citizenship or alien status; or an Indian Tribe, Tribal corporation, corporation, partnership, company, association, county, township, city, State, school district, or other non-Federal entity that suffered injury resulting from the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire. The term Injured Person includes an Indian Tribe with respect to any claim relating to property or natural resources held in trust for the Indian Tribe by the United States. Lenders holding mortgages or security interests on property affected by the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire and lien holders are not an “Injured Person” for purposes of the Act.


*Injury* means “injury or loss of property, or personal injury or death,” as used in the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C. 1346(b)(1).


*Notice of Loss* means a form supplied by the Claims Office through which an Injured Person or Subrogee makes a claim for possible compensation under the Act.


*Proof of Loss* means a statement attesting to the nature and extent of the claimant's injuries.


*Public Assistance Program* means the FEMA program established under Subchapter IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5121, *et seq.,* which provides grants to States, local governments, Indian Tribes and private nonprofit organizations for emergency measures and repair, restoration, and replacement of damaged facilities.


*Release and Certification Form* means a document in the manner prescribed by section 104(e) of the Act that all claimants who have received or are awarded compensatory damages under the Act must execute and return to the Claims Office as required by § 296.30(c).


*Subrogee* means an insurer or other third party that has paid to a claimant compensation for Injury and is subrogated to any right that the claimant has to receive payment under the Act.


*Subsistence Resources* means food and other items obtained through hunting, fishing, firewood and other natural resource gathering, timbering, grazing or agricultural activities undertaken by the claimant without financial remuneration, on land damaged by the Hermit's Peak/Calf Canyon Fire.


*Tribal Member* means an enrolled member of an Indian Tribe.






