# ยง 812.30   FDA action on applications.

(a) *Approval or disapproval.* FDA will notify the sponsor in writing of the date it receives an application. FDA may approve an investigation as proposed, approve it with modifications, or disapprove it. An investigation may not begin until: 


(1) Thirty days after FDA receives the application at the address in ยง 812.19 for the investigation of a device other than a banned device, unless FDA notifies the sponsor that the investigation may not begin; or 


(2) FDA approves, by order, an IDE for the investigation. 


(b) *Grounds for disapproval or withdrawal.* FDA may disapprove or withdraw approval of an application if FDA finds that: 


(1) There has been a failure to comply with any requirement of this part or the act, any other applicable regulation or statute, or any condition of approval imposed by an IRB or FDA. 


(2) The application or a report contains an untrue statement of a material fact, or omits material information required by this part. 


(3) The sponsor fails to respond to a request for additional information within the time prescribed by FDA. 


(4) There is reason to believe that the risks to the subjects are not outweighed by the anticipated benefits to the subjects and the importance of the knowledge to be gained, or informed consent is inadequate, or the investigation is scientifically unsound, or there is reason to believe that the device as used is ineffective. 


(5) It is otherwise unreasonable to begin or to continue the investigation owing to the way in which the device is used or the inadequacy of: 


(i) The report of prior investigations or the investigational plan; 


(ii) The methods, facilities, and controls used for the manufacturing, processing, packaging, storage, and, where appropriate, installation of the device; or 


(iii) Monitoring and review of the investigation. 


(c) *Notice of disapproval or withdrawal.* If FDA disapproves an application or proposes to withdraw approval of an application, FDA will notify the sponsor in writing. 


(1) A disapproval order will contain a complete statement of the reasons for disapproval and a statement that the sponsor has an opportunity to request a hearing under part 16. 


(2) A notice of a proposed withdrawal of approval will contain a complete statement of the reasons for withdrawal and a statement that the sponsor has an opportunity to request a hearing under part 16. FDA will provide the opportunity for hearing before withdrawal of approval, unless FDA determines in the notice that continuation of testing under the exemption will result in an unreasonble risk to the public health and orders withdrawal of approval before any hearing. 



---

[N] [45 FR 3751, Jan. 18, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 58842, Sept. 5, 1980]




