# ยง 479.111   Procedure.

(a) No firearm shall be imported or brought into the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction unless the person importing or bringing in the firearm establishes to the satisfaction of the Director that the firearm to be imported or brought in is being imported or brought in for:


(1) The use of the United States or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof or any State or possession or any political subdivision thereof; or


(2) Scientific or research purposes; or


(3) Testing or use as a model by a registered manufacturer or solely for use as a sample by a registered importer or registered dealer.


(b) Part 478 of this chapter also contains requirements and procedures for the importation of firearms into the United States. A firearm may not be imported into the United States under this part unless those requirements and procedures are also complied with by the person importing the firearm.


(c) The provisions of this subpart shall not be construed as prohibiting the return to the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction of a firearm by a person who can establish to the satisfaction of Customs that (1) the firearm was taken out of the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction by such person, (2) the firearm is registered to that person, and (3) if appropriate, the authorization required by Part 478 of this chapter for the transportation of such a firearm in interstate or foreign commerce has been obtained by such person.



---

[N] [36 FR 14256, Aug. 3, 1971. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975, and amended by T.D. ATF-48, 44 FR 55843, Sept. 28, 1979; ATF-325, 57 FR 29787, July 7, 1992; ATF-26F, 79 FR 7396, Feb. 7, 2014]




