# ยง 50.5   Action by the Board.

(a) After a complete and thorough review of the evidence before it the Board will, in closed session, deliberate and make its decision affirming or reversing the findings and decision of the retiring board being reviewed. 


(b) If the Board reverses the findings of the retiring board being reviewed, it will make complete findings, including: 


(1) Whether the applicant was incapacitated for active service; 


(2) If so, the disability causing the incapacity; 


(3) Whether the incapacity is permanent; 


(4) Whether the incapacity was the result of an incident of service or incurred in the line of duty; 


(5) Whether the incapacity was the result of the applicant's own vicious habits; 


(6) In the case of a member or former member who was in the Reserve or who served under a temporary appointment, when the physical disability was incurred.


(c) The findings and decision of a majority of the Board will constitute the findings and decision of the Board Members who do not concur with the majority may file a minority report. 


(d) When the Board has concluded its proceedings in any case the Recorder will prepare a complete record thereof including (1) the application for review (2) a transcript of the hearing, if any (3) affidavits, briefs, and written agreements filed in the case, (4) the findings and decision of the Board, and (5) all other papers and documents necessary to reflect a true and complete record of the proceedings. This complete record will be transmitted to the Commandant for appropriate action. 



---

[N] [10 FR 5650, May 17, 1945. Redesignated at 13 FR 7303, Nov. 30, 1948, and amended at CGFR 53-12, 18 FR 2953, May 22, 1953; USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44279, July 27, 2015] 




