# ยง 75.832   Frequency of examinations; recordkeeping.

(a) *Continuous mining machine examination.* At least once every 7 days, a qualified person must examine each high-voltage continuous mining machine to verify that electrical protection, equipment grounding, permissibility, cable insulation, and control devices are properly installed and maintained.


(b) *Ground-fault test circuit.* At least once every 7 days, and prior to tramming the high-voltage continuous mining machine, a qualified person must activate the ground-fault test circuit to verify that it will cause the corresponding circuit-interrupting device to open.


(c) *Ground-wire monitor test.* At least once every 7 days, and prior to tramming the high-voltage continuous mining machine, a qualified person must examine and test each high-voltage continuous mining machine ground-wire monitor circuit to verify that it will cause the corresponding circuit-interrupting device to open.


(d) *Trailing cable inspections.* (1) Once each day during the shift that the continuous mining machine is first energized, a qualified person must de-energize and inspect the entire length of the high-voltage trailing cable from the power center to the continuous mining machine. The inspection must include examination of the outer jacket repairs and splices for damage, and assure guarding is provided where required.


(2) At the beginning of each shift that the continuous mining machine is energized, a person designated by the mine operator must de-energize and visually inspect the high-voltage trailing cable for damage to the outer jacket. This inspection must be conducted from the continuous mining machine to the following locations:


(i) The last open crosscut;


(ii) Within 150 feet of the working place during retreat or second mining; or


(iii) Up to 150 feet from the continuous mining machine when the machine is used in outby areas.


(e) *Grounded-phase detection test.* When a grounded-phase test circuit is provided on a high-voltage continuous mining machine, a person designated by the mine operator must activate the test circuit at the beginning of each production shift to assure that the detection circuit is functioning properly.


(f) *Corrective action.* When examinations or tests of equipment reveal a risk of fire, electrical shock, ignition, or operational hazard, the equipment must be immediately removed from service or repaired.


(g) *Record of tests.* (1) At the completion of examinations and tests required under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the person conducting the examinations and tests must:


(i) Certify by signature and date that the examinations and tests have been conducted.


(ii) Make a record of any unsafe condition found.


(2) Any corrective action(s) must be recorded by the person taking the corrective action.


(3) The record must be countersigned by the mine foreman or equivalent mine official by the end of the mine foreman's or the equivalent mine official's next regularly scheduled working shift.


(4) Records must be maintained in a secure book that is not susceptible to alteration or electronically in a computer system so as to be secure and not susceptible to alteration.


(5) Certifications and records must be kept for at least 1 year and must be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary and representatives of miners.



---

[N] [75 FR 17549, Apr. 6, 2010]




