# § 292.16   Issuance and adjustment requirements specific to States that administer SNAP.

(a) *Basic issuance requirements.* State Summer EBT agencies must establish issuance and accountability systems which ensure that only certified eligible households receive benefits; that Program benefits are timely distributed in the correct amounts; and that benefit issuance and reconciliation activities are properly conducted and accurately reported to FNS.


(1) *On-line issuance of electronic benefits.* State Summer EBT agencies may issue benefits to households through an on-line EBT system in which Program benefits are stored in a central computer database and electronically accessed by households at the point of sale via reusable plastic cards.


(2) *Alternative benefit issuance system.* (i) If the Secretary, in consultation with the Office of the Inspector General, determines that Program integrity would be improved by changing the issuance system of a State, the Secretary shall require the State Summer EBT agency to issue or deliver benefits using another method.


(ii) The cost of documents or systems which may be required as a result of a permanent alternative issuance system must not be imposed upon retail food firms participating in the Program.


(3) *Contracting or delegating issuance responsibilities.* State Summer EBT agencies may assign to others such as banks, savings and loan associations, and other commercial businesses, the responsibility for the issuance of benefits. State Summer EBT agencies may permit contractors to subcontract assigned issuance responsibilities.


(i) Any assignment of issuance functions must clearly delineate the responsibilities of both parties. The State Summer EBT agency remains responsible, regardless of any agreements to the contrary, for ensuring that assigned duties are carried out in accordance with these regulations. In addition, the State Summer EBT agency is strictly liable to FNS for all losses of benefits, even if those losses are the result of the performance of issuance, security, or accountability duties by another party.


(ii) All issuance contracts must follow procurement standards set forth in § 292.27.


(iii) The State Summer EBT agency must not assign the issuance of benefits to any retail food firm.


(4) *EBT system administration.* (i) The State Summer EBT agency must be responsible for the coordination and management of the EBT system. The Secretary may suspend or terminate some or all EBT system funding or withdraw approval of the EBT system from the State Summer EBT agency upon a finding that the State Summer EBT agency or its contracted representative has failed to comply with the requirements of this part.


(ii) The State Summer EBT agency must indicate how it plans to incorporate additional programs into the EBT system if it anticipates the addition of other public assistance programs concurrent with or after implementation of the EBT system. The State Summer EBT agency must also consult with the State agency officials responsible for administering the WIC prior to submitting the Planning APD for FNS approval.


(5) *Master issuance file.* (i) The State Summer EBT agency must establish a master issuance file which is a composite of the issuance records of all eligible children. The master issuance file must contain all the information needed to identify eligible children, issue Summer EBT benefits, record the participation activity for each household, and supply all information necessary to fulfill the reporting requirements in § 292.23.


(ii) The master issuance file must be kept current and accurate. It must be updated and maintained through the use of documents such as notices of change and controls for expired certification periods.


(iii) Before entering an eligible child's data on the master issuance file, the State Summer EBT agency must review the master issuance file to ensure that the child is not currently participating in, or disqualified from, the Program.


(6) *Shared responsibility of issuance activities.* State Summer EBT agencies may divide issuance responsibilities between at least two persons to prevent any single individual from having complete control over the authorization of issuances and the issuances themselves. Responsibilities to be divided include maintenance of inventory records, the posting of benefits to an EBT account, and preparation of EBT cards and PINs for mailing. If issuance functions in an office are handled by one person, a second-party review must be made to verify card inventory, the reconciliation of the mail log, and the number of mailings prepared.


(7) *Summer EBT monitoring, examinations, and audits.* State Summer EBT agency's accountability system monitoring procedures must be included in the monitoring procedures for SNAP as described at § 274.1(i) of this chapter.


(8) *Compliance investigations.* State Summer EBT agencies must provide on-line read-only access to State EBT systems for compliance investigations.


(i) The State Summer EBT agency is required to provide software and telecommunications capability as necessary to FNS Retailer Investigation Branch Area offices, Regional offices, and Field offices so that FNS compliance investigators, other appropriate FNS personnel, and USDA OIG investigators have access to the system in order to conduct investigations of program abuse and alleged violations; and


(ii) The State Summer EBT agency must ensure that FNS compliance investigators and USDA OIG investigators have access to EBT cards and accounts that are updated as necessary to conduct SNAP investigations.


(9) *Federal financial participation.* Access to system documentation, including cost records of contractors or subcontractors shall be made available and incorporated into contractual agreements.


(b) *Disclosure.* (1) Use or disclosure of information obtained from Summer EBT recipients must be restricted to:


(i) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the provisions of section 13A of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, or regulations in this chapter, other Federal assistance programs, or federally-assisted State programs providing assistance on a means-tested basis to low income individuals;


(ii) Employees of the Comptroller General's Office of the United States for audit examination authorized by any other provision of law; and


(iii) Local, State, or Federal law enforcement officials, upon their written request, for the purpose of investigating an alleged violation of the NSLA, Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, or regulations in this chapter. The written request shall include the identity of the individual requesting the information and their authority to do so, violation being investigated, and the identity of the person on whom the information is requested.


(2) Local educational agencies administering the National School Lunch Program established under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the School Breakfast Program established under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, for the purpose of directly certifying the eligibility of school-aged children for receipt of free and reduced price meals under the School Lunch and School Breakfast programs.


(3) Recipients of information released under this section must adequately protect the information against unauthorized disclosure to persons or for purposes not specified in this section.


(4) If there is a written request by a responsible member of the household, its currently authorized representative, or a person acting on its behalf to review material and information contained in its casefile, the material and information contained in the casefile shall be made available for inspection during normal business hours. However, the Summer EBT agency may withhold confidential information, such as the names of individuals who have disclosed information about the household without the household's knowledge, or the nature or status of pending criminal prosecutions.


(5) Copies of regulations, plans of operation, State Summer EBT agency manuals, State Summer EBT agency corrective action plans, and Federal procedures may be obtained from FNS in accordance with 7 CFR part 295.


(c) *Program administration*—(1) *Automation of Summer EBT operations.* All State Summer EBT agencies are required to sufficiently automate their Summer EBT operations and computerize their systems for obtaining, maintaining, utilizing, and transmitting information concerning Summer EBT.


(2) *Requirements.* In order to safeguard certification and issuance records from unauthorized creation or tampering, the Summer EBT agencies must establish an organizational structure which divides the responsibility for eligibility determinations and benefit issuance among certification, data management, and issuance units within coordinating or partnering Summer EBT agencies.


(3) *Court suit reporting*—(i) *State Summer EBT agency responsibility.* (A) In the event that a State Summer EBT agency is sued by any person(s) in a State or Federal Court in any matter which involves the State Summer EBT agency's administration of Summer EBT, the Summer EBT agency shall immediately notify FNS that suit has been brought and shall furnish FNS with copies of the original pleadings. Summer EBT agencies involved in suits shall, upon request of FNS, take such action as is necessary to join the United States and/or appropriate officials of the Federal Government, such as the Secretary of USDA or the Administrator of FNS, as parties to the suit. FNS may request to join the following types of suits:


(*1*) Class action suits;


(*2*) A suit in which an adverse decision could have a national impact;


(*3*) A suit challenging Federal policy such as a provision of the NSLA, Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, or regulations in this part or an interpretation of the regulations in this part; or,


(*4*) A suit based on an empirical situation that is likely to recur.


(B) FNS may advise a Summer EBT agency to seek a settlement agreement of a court suit if the Summer EBT agency is being sued because it misapplied Federal policy in administering the Summer EBT Program.


(C) State Summer EBT agencies shall notify FNS when court cases have been dismissed or otherwise settled. State Summer EBT agencies shall also provide FNS with information that is requested regarding the State Summer EBT agency's compliance with the requirements of court orders or settlement agreements.


(4) *Notification of lawsuits.* FNS shall notify all Summer EBT agencies of any suits brought in Federal court that involve FNS' administration of the Program and which have the potential of affecting many Summer EBT agencies' Program operations. Summer EBT agencies may not be notified of suits brought in Federal Court involving FNS' administration of the Program which may only affect Program operations in one or two States or ITOs. The notification provided to Summer EBT agencies shall contain a description of the Federal policy that is affected.


(d) *Procedures for program administration in Alaska*—(1) *Purpose.* To achieve the efficient and effective administration of Summer EBT in rural areas of Alaska, FNS has determined that it is necessary to develop additional regulations which are specifically designed to accommodate the unique demographic and climatic characteristics which exist in these rural areas. The regulations established in this paragraph (d) apply only in those areas of Alaska designated as “rural” in § 272.7(b) of this chapter. All regulations in this part not specifically modified by this paragraph (d) shall remain in effect.


(2) *Fee agents. Fee agent* means a paid agent who, on behalf of the State Summer EBT agency, is authorized to make applications available to low-income households, assist in the completion of applications, conduct required interviews, secure required verification, forward completed applications and supporting documentation to the State Summer EBT agency, and provide other services as required by the State Summer EBT agency. Such services shall not include making final decisions on household eligibility or benefit levels.


(3) *Application processing.* The State Summer EBT agency may modify the application processing requirements in this part as necessary to insure prompt delivery of services to eligible households. The following restrictions apply:


(4) *Fee agent processing.* If the signed application is first submitted by a household to a fee agent, the fee agent shall mail the application to the State Summer EBT agency within 5 days of receipt.


(5) *Application filing date.* An application is considered filed for purposes of timely processing when it is received by an office of the State Summer EBT agency.


(6) *Expedited service.* (i) If the signed application is first submitted by a household to a fee agent, the fee agent shall mail the application to the State Summer EBT agency within 5 days of receipt. If the household is eligible for expedited service, the State agency will mail the benefits no later than the close of business of the second working day following the date the application was received by the State Summer EBT agency.


(ii) If the signed application is submitted directly to the State Summer EBT agency in person by a rural resident or its authorized representative or by mail, the State Summer EBT agency shall process the application and issue benefits to households eligible for expedited service in accordance with the time standards contained in this part.


(iii) If an incomplete application is submitted directly to the State Summer EBT agency by mail, the State Summer EBT agency shall conduct the interview by the first working day following the date the application was received if the fee agent can contact the household or the household can be reached by telephone or radio-phone and does not object to this method of interviewing on grounds of privacy. Based on information obtained during the interview, the State Summer EBT agency shall complete the application and process the case. Because of the mailing time in rural areas, the State Summer EBT agency shall not return the completed application to the household for signature. The processing standard shall be calculated from the date the application was filed.


(7) *Social Security insurance (SSI) joint processing.* Social Security Administration (SSA) workers shall mail all jointly processed applications to the appropriate Summer EBT agency office within 5 days of receipt of the application. A jointly processed application shall be considered filed for purposes of timely processing when it is received by an office of the State Summer EBT agency. The household, if determined eligible, shall receive benefits retroactive to the first day of the month in which the jointly processed application was received by the SSA worker.


(8) *Fair hearings, fraud hearings, and agency conferences.* The Summer EBT agency shall conduct fair hearings, administrative fraud hearings, and agency conferences with households that wish to contest denial of expedited service in the most efficient manner possible, either by face-to-face contact, telephone, radiophone, or other means of correspondence including written correspondence, in order to meet the respective time standards contained in this part.


(e) *Disqualification.* (1) The Summer EBT agency shall be responsible to investigate cases of alleged intentional Program violation, and to ensure that appropriate cases are acted upon The State Summer EBT agency must ensure investigations are consistent with § 273.16(a) of this chapter.


(2) The penalties for intentional Summer EBT Program violations specified at § 273.16(b) of this chapter as well as the definition of intentional program violations at § 273.16(c) of this chapter are applicable to individuals 18 years of age or over who:


(i) Allegedly committed an intentional Summer EBT Program violation; or


(ii) Allegedly ordered, coerced, persuaded, encouraged, or otherwise induced a person under the age of 18 to commit an intentional Summer EBT Program violation.


(3) Requirements for notifying households about disqualification penalties that are specified at § 273.16(d) of this chapter apply to Summer EBT.


(4) Disqualification hearing procedures for individuals accused of intentional Program violation specified at § 273.16(e)(f) through (h) of this chapter also apply to Summer EBT.


(5) Each State Summer EBT agency must report to FNS information concerning individuals disqualified for an intentional Program violation in accordance with § 273.16(i) of this chapter for Summer EBT.


(6) In cases where the determination of intentional program violation is reversed by a court of appropriate jurisdiction, the State agency must reinstate the individual in the program if the household is eligible.


(f) *Restoration of lost benefits*—(1) *Entitlement.* (i) The Summer EBT agency must restore benefits which were lost whenever the loss was caused by an error by the Summer EBT agency or by an administrative disqualification for intentional Program violation which was subsequently reversed, or if there is a statement elsewhere in the regulations specifically stating that the household is entitled to restoration of lost benefits. Furthermore, unless there is a statement elsewhere in this part that a household is entitled to lost benefits for a longer period, benefits shall be restored for not more than twelve months prior to whichever of the following occurred first:


(A) The date the Summer EBT agency receives a request for restoration from a household; or


(B) The date the Summer EBT agency is notified or otherwise discovers that a loss to a household has occurred.


(ii) The Summer EBT agency must restore benefits which were found by any judicial action to have been wrongfully withheld. If the judicial action is the first action the recipient has taken to obtain restoration of lost benefits, then benefits must be restored for a period of not more than twelve months from the date the court action was initiated. When the judicial action is a review of a Summer EBT agency action, the benefits must be restored for a period of not more than twelve months from the first of the following dates:


(A) The date the Summer EBT agency receives a request for restoration.


(B) If no request for restoration is received, the date the fair hearing action was initiated; but


(C) Never more than one year from when the Summer EBT agency is notified of, or discovers, the loss.


(D) Benefits must be restored even if the child is currently ineligible.


(2) *Errors discovered by the Summer EBT agency.* If the Summer EBT agency determines that a loss of benefits has occurred, and the household is entitled to restoration of those benefits, the Summer EBT agency must automatically take action to restore any benefits that were lost. No action by the household is necessary. However, benefits must not be restored if the benefits were lost more than 12 months prior to the month the loss was discovered by the State agency in the normal course of business, or were lost more than 12 months prior to the month the State agency was notified in writing or orally of a possible loss to a specific household. The State agency shall notify the household of its entitlement, the amount of benefits to be restored, any offsetting that was done, the method of restoration, and the right to appeal through the fair hearing process if the household disagrees with any aspect of the proposed lost benefit restoration.


(3) *Disputed benefits.* (i) If the Summer EBT agency determines that a household is entitled to restoration of lost benefits, but the household does not agree with the amount to be restored as calculated by the Summer EBT agency or any other action taken by the Summer EBT agency to restore lost benefits, the household may request a fair hearing within 90 days of the date the household is notified of its entitlement to restoration of lost benefits. If a fair hearing is requested prior to or during the time lost benefits are being restored, the household shall receive the lost benefits as determined by the Summer EBT agency pending the results of the fair hearing. If the fair hearing decision is favorable to the household, the Summer EBT agency must restore the lost benefits in accordance with that decision.


(ii) If a household believes it is entitled to restoration of lost benefits but the Summer EBT agency, after reviewing the case file, does not agree, the household has 90 days from the date of the Summer EBT agency determination to request a fair hearing. The Summer EBT agency must restore lost benefits to the household only if the fair hearing decision is favorable to the household. Benefits lost more than 12 months prior to the date the Summer EBT agency was initially informed of the household's possible entitlement to lost benefits shall not be restored.


(4) *Lost benefits to individuals disqualified for intentional Program violation.* Individuals disqualified for intentional Program violation are entitled to restoration of any benefits lost during the months that they were disqualified, not to exceed twelve months prior to the date of Summer EBT agency notification, only if the decision which resulted in disqualification is subsequently reversed.


(5) *Method of restoration.* Regardless of whether a household is currently eligible or ineligible, the Summer EBT agency must restore lost benefits to a household by issuing an allotment equal to the amount of benefits that were lost. The amount restored shall be issued in addition to the allotment currently eligible households are entitled to receive.


(6) *Accounting procedures.* The Summer EBT agency shall be responsible for maintaining an accounting system for documenting a child's entitlement to restoration of lost benefits and for recording the balance of lost benefits that must be restored. The Summer EBT agency must at a minimum, document how the amount to be restored was calculated and the reason lost benefits must be restored. The accounting system must be designed to readily identify those situations where a claim against a household can be used to offset the amount to be restored.


(g) *Retailers.* Retail food operations authorized to participate as a SNAP retailer must also accept State Summer EBT benefits.


(h) *Record retentions and forms of security.* The State Summer EBT agency must maintain issuance, inventory, reconciliation, and other accountability records related to Summer EBT.


(1) *Availability of records.* (i) The State Summer EBT agency shall maintain issuance, inventory, reconciliation, and other accountability records for a period of three years. This period may be extended at the written request of FNS.


(ii) In lieu of the records themselves, easily retrievable microfilm, microfiche, or computer tapes which contain the required information may be maintained.


(2) *Control of issuance documents.* The State Summer EBT agency shall control all issuance documents which establish household eligibility while the documents are transferred and processed within the State Summer EBT agency. The State Summer EBT agency shall use numbers, batching, inventory control logs, or similar controls from the point of initial receipt through the issuance and reconciliation process.


(3) *Accountable documents.* (i) EBT cards shall be considered accountable documents. The State Summer EBT agency shall provide the following minimum security and control procedures for these documents:


(A) Secure storage;


(B) Access limited to authorized personnel;


(C) Bulk inventory control records;


(D) Subsequent control records maintained through the point of issuance or use; and


(E) Periodic review and validation of inventory controls and records by parties not otherwise involved in maintaining control records.


(ii) For notices of change which initiate, update or terminate the master issuance file, the State Summer EBT agency shall, at a minimum, provide secure storage and shall limit access to authorized personnel.


(i) *Benefit redemption by eligible households*—(1) *Eligible food.* Program benefits may be used only by the household, or other persons the household selects, to purchase eligible food for the household from SNAP-authorized retailers, which includes, for certain households, the purchase of prepared meals, and for other households residing in certain designated areas of Alaska, the purchase of hunting and fishing equipment with benefits.


(2) *Prior payment prohibition.* Program benefits must not be used to pay for any eligible food purchased prior to the time at which an EBT card is presented to authorized retailers or meal services. Benefits must not be used to pay for any eligible food in advance of the receipt of food, except when prior payment is for food purchased from a nonprofit cooperative food purchasing venture.


(3) *Transaction limits.* No minimum dollar amount per transaction or maximum limit on the number of transactions can be established. In addition, no transaction fees can be imposed on Summer EBT households utilizing the EBT system to access their benefits.


(4) *Access to balances.* (i) Households shall be permitted to determine their Summer EBT account balances without making a purchase or standing in a checkout line.


(ii) The Summer EBT agency must ensure that the EBT system is capable of providing a transaction history for a period of up to 2 calendar months to households upon request.


(iii) Households must be provided printed receipts at the time of transaction. At a minimum this information must:


(A) State the date, merchant's name and location, transaction type, transaction amount and remaining balance for the Summer EBT account;


(B) Comply with the requirements of 12 CFR part 205 (Regulation E) in addition to the requirements of this section; and


(C) Identify the Summer EBT households member's account number using a truncated number or coded transaction number. The child's name must not appear on the receipt except when a signature is required when utilizing a manual transaction voucher.


(5) *Equal treatment.* The EBT system must be implemented and operated in a manner that maintains equal treatment for Summer EBT households. Summer EBT benefits must be accepted for eligible foods at the same prices and on the same terms and conditions applicable to cash purchases of the same foods at the same store. However, nothing in this part may be construed as authorizing FNS to specify the prices at which retail food stores may sell food. However, public or private nonprofit homeless meal providers may only request voluntary use of Summer EBT benefits from homeless Summer EBT recipients and may not request such household using Summer EBT benefits to pay more than the average cost of the food purchased by the public or private nonprofit homeless meal provider contained in a meal served to the patrons of the meal service. For purposes of this section, “average cost” is determined by averaging food costs over a period of up to one calendar month. Voluntary payments by Summer EBT recipients in excess of such costs may be accepted by the meal providers. The value of donated foods from any source must not be considered in determining the amount to be requested from Summer EBT recipients. All indirect costs, such as those incurred in the acquisition, storage, or preparation of the foods used in meals shall also be excluded. In addition, if others have the option of eating free or making a monetary donation, Summer EBT recipients must be provided the same option of eating free or making a donation in money or Summer EBT benefits. No retail food store may single out Summer EBT recipients for special treatment in any way. The following requirements for the equal treatment of Summer EBT households must directly apply to EBT systems:


(i) Retailers must not establish special checkout lanes which are only for Summer EBT households. If special lanes are designated for the purpose of accepting other electronic debit or credit cards and/or other payment methods such as checks, Summer EBT customers with EBT cards may also be assigned to such lanes as long as other commercial customers are assigned there as well.


(ii) Checkout lanes equipped with POS devices shall be made available to Summer EBT households during all retail store hours of operation.


(6) *Households eligible for prepared meals*—(i) *Meals-on-wheels.* Eligible guardians of Summer EBT recipients 60 years of age or over or guardians who are housebound, physically handicapped, or otherwise disabled to the extent that they are unable to adequately prepare meals may use Summer EBT benefits to purchase meals for the participant that are prepared for and delivered to them by a nonprofit meal delivery service authorized by FNS.


(ii) *Communal dining facilities.* Eligible guardians of Summer EBT recipients 60 years of age or over may use Summer EBT benefits issued to purchase meals for the participant that are prepared at communal dining facilities authorized by FNS for that purpose.


(iii) *Residents of certain institutions.* (A) Eligible residents of a group living arrangement may use Summer EBT benefits issued to them to purchase meals prepared especially for them at a group living arrangement which is authorized by FNS to redeem Summer EBT benefits in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.


(B) Residents of shelters for battered women and children may use their Program benefits to purchase meals prepared especially for the participant at a shelter which is authorized by FNS to redeem benefits in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.


(iv) *Homeless households.* (A) Homeless Summer EBT households may use their benefits to purchase prepared meals for the participant from authorized homeless meal providers.


(B) Eligible homeless Summer EBT households may use their benefits to purchase meals for the participant from restaurants authorized by FNS for such purpose.


(7) *Allowable purchase of equipment for hunting and fishing.* Eligible Summer EBT households residing in areas of Alaska determined by FNS as areas where access to authorized retailers is difficult and which rely substantially on hunting and fishing for subsistence may use all or any part of their benefits issued to purchase hunting and fishing equipment such as nets, hooks, rods, harpoons and knives, but may not use benefits to purchase firearms, ammunition, and other explosives.


(8) *Limiting hunting and fishing purchases to eligible households.* State Summer EBT agencies shall implement a method to ensure that access to prepared meals and hunting and fishing equipment is limited to eligible households as described in paragraphs (i)(6) and (7) of this section.


(9) *Container deposit fees.* Program benefits may not be used to pay for deposit fees in excess of the amount of the State fee reimbursement required to purchase any food or food product contained in a returnable bottle or can, regardless of whether the fee is included in the shelf price posted for item. The returnable container type and fee must be included in State law in order for the customer to be able to pay for the upfront deposit with Summer EBT benefits. If a Summer EBT eligible product has a State deposit fee associated with it, the product remains eligible for purchase with Summer EBT benefits, and the State deposit fee may be paid with Summer EBT benefits as well; however, any fee in excess of the State deposit fee must be paid in cash or other form of payment other than with Summer EBT benefits.


(j) *Reconciliation.* State Summer EBT agencies must account for all issuance through a reconciliation process as described by USDA.






