# § 72.83   Administrative permit amendment.

(a) Acid Rain permit revisions that shall follow the administrative permit amendment procedures are:


(1) Activation of a compliance option conditionally approved by the permitting authority; *provided* that all requirements for activation under subpart D of this part are met;


(2) Changes in the designated representative or alternative designated representative; *provided* that a new certificate of representation is submitted;


(3) Correction of typographical errors;


(4) Changes in names, addresses, or telephone or facsimile numbers;


(5) Changes in the owners or operators; *provided* that a new certificate of representation is submitted within 30 days;


(6)(i) Termination of a compliance option in the permit; provided that all requirements for termination under subpart D of this part are met and this procedure shall not be used to terminate a repowering plan after December 31, 1999 or a Phase I extension plan;


(ii) For opt-in sources, termination of a compliance option in the permit; provided that all requirements for termination under § 74.47 of this chapter are met.


(7) Changes in a substitution or reduced utilization plan that do not result in the addition of a new substitution unit or a new compensating unit under the plan;


(8) Changes in the date, specified in a unit's Acid Rain permit, of commencement of operation of qualifying Phase I technology, *provided* that they are in accordance with § 72.42 of this part;


(9) Changes in the date, specified in a new unit's Acid Rain permit, of commencement of operation or the deadline for monitor certification, *provided* that they are in accordance with § 72.9 of this part;


(10) The addition of or change in a nitrogen oxides alternative emissions limitation demonstration period, *provided* that the requirements of part 76 of this chapter are met; and


(11) Changes in a thermal energy plan that do not result in the addition or subtraction of a replacement unit or any change affecting the number of allowances transferred for the replacement of thermal energy.


(12) The addition of a NO_X_ early election plan that was approved by the Administrator under § 76.8 of this chapter;


(13) The addition of an exemption for which the requirements have been met under § 72.7 or § 72.8 and


(14) Incorporation of changes that the Administrator has determined to be similar to those in paragraphs (a)(1) through (13) of this section.


(b)(1) The permitting authority will take final action on an administrative permit amendment within 60 days, or, for the addition of an alternative emissions limitation demonstration period, within 90 days, of receipt of the requested amendment and may take such action without providing prior public notice. The source may implement any changes in the administrative permit amendment immediately upon submission of the requested amendment, *provided* that the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met.


(2) The permitting authority may, on its own motion, make an administrative permit amendment under paragraph (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(12), or (a)(13) of this section at least 30 days after providing notice to the designated representative of the amendment and without providing any other prior public notice.


(c) The permitting authority will designate the permit revision under paragraph (b) of this section as having been made as an administrative permit amendment. Where a State is the permitting authority, the permitting authority shall submit the revised portion of the permit to the Administrator.


(d) An administrative amendment shall not be subject to the provisions for review by the Administrator and affected States applicable to a permit modification under § 72.81.



---

[N] [58 FR 3650, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 17114, Apr. 4, 1995; 62 FR 55485, Oct. 24, 1997; 66 FR 12978, Mar. 1, 2001]




