# § 665.14   Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) *State reporting.* Except for precious coral and crustacean fisheries, any person who is required to do so by applicable state law or regulation must make and/or file all reports of MUS or ECS landings containing all data and in the exact manner required by applicable state law or regulation.


(b) *Fishing record forms*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Paper records.* The operator of a fishing vessel subject to the requirements of § 665.124, § 665.142, § 665.162, § 665.203(a)(2), § 665.224, § 665.242, § 665.262, § 665.404, § 665.424, § 665.442, § 665.462, § 665.603, § 665.624, § 665.642, § 665.662, § 665.801, § 665.905, § 665.935, or § 665.965 must maintain on board the vessel an accurate and complete record of catch, effort, and other data on paper report forms provided by the Regional Administrator, or electronically as specified and approved by the Regional Administrator, except as required in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section or as allowed in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.


(ii) *Electronic records.* (A) The operator of a fishing vessel subject to the requirements of § 665.801(b) or a large vessel subject to the requirements of § 665.801(c) must maintain on board the vessel an accurate and complete record of catch, effort, and other data electronically using a NMFS-certified electronic logbook, and must record and transmit electronically all information specified by the Regional Administrator within 24 hours after the completion of each fishing day.


(B) After the Regional Administrator has notified a permit holder subject to this section of the requirement to submit records electronically, and after the vessel has acquired the necessary NMFS-certified equipment, the vessel and any vessel operator must use the electronic logbook. A vessel operator must obtain an individually assigned user account from NMFS for use with the electronic logbook.


(C) Permit holders and vessel operators shall not be assessed any fee or other charges to obtain and use an electronic logbook that is owned and provided by NMFS. If a permit holder or vessel operator subject to this section does not use a NMFS-owned electronic logbook, the permit holder and operator must provide and maintain an alternative NMFS-certified electronic logbook.


(D) If a vessel operator is unable to maintain or transmit electronic records because NMFS has not provided an electronic logbook, or if NMFS or a vessel operator identifies that the electronic logbook has experienced equipment (hardware or software) or transmission failure, the operator must maintain on board the vessel an accurate and complete record of catch, effort, and other data electronically or on paper report forms provided by the Regional Administrator.


(iii) *Recording.* The vessel operator must record on paper or electronically all information specified by the Regional Administrator within 24 hours after the completion of each fishing day. The information recorded must be signed and dated, or otherwise authenticated, in the manner determined by the Regional Administrator, and be submitted or transmitted via an approved method as specified by the Regional Administrator, and as required by this section.


(iv) *State reporting.* In lieu of the requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the operator of a fishing vessel registered for use under a Western Pacific squid jig permit pursuant to the requirements of § 665.801(g) may participate in a state reporting system. If participating in a state reporting system, all required information must be recorded and submitted in the exact manner required by applicable state law or regulation.


(2) *Timeliness of submission.* (i) If fishing was authorized under a permit pursuant to § 665.142, § 665.242, § 665.442, § 665.404, § 665.162, § 665.262, § 665.462, § 665.662, or § 665.801, and if the logbook information was not submitted to NMFS electronically within 24 hours of the end of each fishing day while the vessel was at sea, the vessel operator must submit the original logbook information for each day of the fishing trip to the Regional Administrator within 72 hours of the end of each fishing trip, except as allowed in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.


(ii) If fishing was authorized under a permit pursuant to § 665.203(a)(2), the vessel operator or vessel owner must submit the original logbook form for each day of the fishing trip to the Regional Administrator within 72 hours of the end of each fishing trip.


(iii) If fishing was authorized under a PRIA bottomfish permit pursuant to § 665.603(a), PRIA pelagic troll and handline permit pursuant to § 665.801(f), crustacean fishing permit for the PRIA (Permit Area 4) pursuant to § 665.642(a), or a precious coral fishing permit for Permit Area X-P-PI pursuant to § 665.662, the original logbook form for each day of fishing within EEZ waters around the PRIA must be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 30 days of the end of each fishing trip.


(iv) If fishing was authorized under a permit pursuant to § 665.124, § 665.224, § 665.424, § 665.624, § 665.905, § 665.935, or § 665.965, the original logbook information for each day of fishing must be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 30 days of the end of each fishing trip.


(c) *Transshipment logbooks.* Any person subject to the requirements of § 665.124(a)(2), § 665.224(a)(2), § 665.424(a)(2), § 665.624(a)(2), or § 665.801(e) must maintain on board the vessel an accurate and complete NMFS transshipment logbook containing report forms provided by the Regional Administrator. All information specified on the forms must be recorded on the forms within 24 hours after the day of transshipment. Each form must be signed and dated by the receiving vessel operator. The original logbook for each day of transshipment activity must be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 72 hours of each landing of western Pacific pelagic MUS. The original logbook for each day of transshipment activity must be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 7 days of each landing of coral reef ECS.


(d) *Sales report.* The operator of any fishing vessel subject to the requirements of § 665.142, § 665.242, § 665.442, or § 665.642, or the owner of a medium or large fishing vessel subject to the requirements of § 665.404(a)(2) must submit to the Regional Administrator, within 72 hours of offloading of crustacean MUS or ECS, an accurate and complete sales report on a form provided by the Regional Administrator. The form must be signed and dated by the fishing vessel operator.


(e) *Packing or weigh-out slips.* The operator of any fishing vessel subject to the requirements of §§ 665.142, 665.242, 665.442, or 665.642 must attach packing or weighout slips provided to the operator by the first-level buyer(s), unless the packing or weighout slips have not been provided in time by the buyer(s).


(f) *Modification of reporting and recordkeeping requirements.* The Regional Administrator may, after consultation with the Council, initiate rulemaking to modify the information to be provided on the fishing record forms, transshipment logbook, and sales report forms and timeliness by which the information is to be provided, including the submission of packing or weighout slips.


(g) *Availability of records for inspection.* (1) Western Pacific pelagic MUS. Upon request, any fish dealer must immediately provide an authorized officer access to inspect and copy all records of purchases, sales, or other transactions involving western Pacific pelagic MUS taken or handled by longline vessels that have permits issued under this subpart or that are otherwise subject to subpart F of this part, including, but not limited to, information concerning:


(i) The name of the vessel involved in each transaction and the owner and operator of the vessel.


(ii) The weight, number, and size of each species of fish involved in each transaction.


(iii) Prices paid by the buyer and proceeds to the seller in each transaction.


(2) *Crustaceans.* Upon request, any first-level buyer must immediately allow an authorized officer and any employee of NMFS designated by the Regional Administrator, to access, inspect, and copy all records relating to the harvest, sale, or transfer of crustacean MUS or ECS taken by vessels that have permits issued under this subpart or §§ 665.140 through 665.145, §§ 665.240 through 665.252, §§ 665.440 through 665.445, or §§ 665.640 through 665.645. This requirement may be met by furnishing the information on a worksheet provided by the Regional Administrator. The information must include, but is not limited to:


(i) The name of the vessel involved in each transaction and the owner or operator of the vessel.


(ii) The amount, number, and size of each MUS or ECS involved in each transaction.


(iii) Prices paid by the buyer and proceeds to the seller in each transaction.


(3) *Bottomfish and seamount groundfish.* Any person who is required by state laws and regulations to maintain records of landings and sales for vessels regulated by this subpart and by §§ 665.100 through 665.105, 665.200 through 665.212, 665.400 through 665.407, and 665.600 through 665.606 must make those records immediately available for Federal inspection and copying upon request by an authorized officer.


(4) *Coral reefs.* Any person who has a special permit and who is required by state laws and regulations to maintain and submit records of catch and effort, landings and sales for coral reef ECS by this subpart and §§ 665.120 through 665.128, §§ 665.220 through 665.228, §§ 665.420 through 665.428, or §§ 665.620 through 665.628 must make those records immediately available for Federal inspection and copying upon request by an authorized officer as defined in § 600.10 of this chapter.


(h) *State reporting.* Any person who has a permit under §§ 665.124, 665.203, 665.224, 665.404, 665.424, 665.603, or 665.624 and who is regulated by state laws and regulations to maintain and submit records of catch and effort, landings and sales for vessels regulated by subparts B through F of this part must maintain and submit those records in the exact manner required by state laws and regulations.



---

[N] [75 FR 2205, Jan. 14, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 33003, June 3, 2013; 78 FR 39583, July 2, 2013; 84 FR 2769, Feb. 8, 2019; 86 FR 42745, Aug. 5, 2021; 86 FR 60182, Nov. 1, 2021; 86 FR 55745, Oct. 7, 2021]




