# § 308.2   Requirements for eligible vessels.

(a) *Restrictions—foreign-flag vessels.* Interim insurance is available on any vessel described in § 308.1(a) and (b), provided application for interim insurance is submitted as required in subparts B, C, or D of this part 308, and the Maritime Administrator approves said application: Provided, that only vessels of Panamanian, Honduran, Bahamian, Republic of the Marshall Islands or Liberian registry not more than 20 years old will be considered eligible under § 308.1 (b) for interim insurance, subject at all times to the determination specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Special rules—foreign-flag vessels.* For the purpose of providing interim insurance on vessels described in § 308.1(b), the Maritime Administrator shall consider the characteristics, employment, and general management of the vessel. The Maritime Administrator formally determines that the following vessels are engaged in a service in the interest of the national defense or the national economy of the United States and qualify for an interim binder:


(1) Vessels substantially engaged in the foreign commerce of the United States or which would be required in the event of war or national emergency;


(2) Tankers of not less than 2,000 deadweight tons;


(3) Dry cargo vessels, including containerships, break-bulk, and dry bulk vessels;


(4) Heavy lift vessels;


(5) Refrigerated vessels and other classes of ships in short supply in the United States-flag fleet;


(6) Passenger vessels; and


(7) Other vessels with special capabilities, as determined by the Maritime Administrator.


(c) *Vessel Position Reports.* All vessels for which war risk insurance interim binders have been issued shall file a Vessel Position Report. The purpose of this report is to inform U.S. agencies of vessel arrivals, departures, and at-sea locations. Failure to make required regular reports will cause MARAD to issue a one-time notice of default. If failure to report continues, MARAD shall cancel the interim binder for the subject vessel and any insurance attaching thereunder. MARAD will issue reporting instructions and formats with the binders.


(d) *Notice of change in status of vessel after binder issued.* Any breach of the warranty prescribed hereunder as to vessels in all categories with respect to Department of Commerce Transportation Order T-1 (44 CFR Parts 401 and 402), as well as the additional warranties as to vessels in categories (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, with respect to maintenance of eligibility for insurance and availability of the insured vessels to the U.S. Government in time of emergency, shall terminate the binders and any insurance attaching thereunder. In the event of the sale, demise charter, requisition, confiscation, change of flag, total loss, or any other change in status which, by the terms of the binder causes the binder to terminate, prompt notice shall be given in writing to MARAD's underwriting agent and to MARAD at: Division of Marine Insurance, Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., MAR-712, Washington, DC 20950.


(e) *Nature of change in status of other vessels.* It is the intention of the parties that any breach of the warranty as to operation in the approved service of vessels described in § 308.1(c) shall terminate the insurance. In the event of the sale, demise charter, requisition, confiscation, change of flag, total loss, any other change in status or change in operation of the vessel in the approved service prompt notice shall be given to MARAD's underwriting agent MARAD's underwriting agent and to MARAD at the address in paragraph (d) of this section.




