# ยง 89.130   Confirmation of identification.

(a) *Notification requirement.* No person may operate a foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft with remote identification in the airspace of the United States unless, prior to the operation, the person submits a notice of identification in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The notice of identification must include all of the following:


(1) The name of the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the person's authorized representative.


(2) The physical address of the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the physical address for the person's authorized representative. If the operator or authorized representative does not receive mail at the physical address, a mailing address must also be provided.


(3) The telephone number(s) where the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the person's authorized representative can be reached while in the United States.


(4) The email address of the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the email address of the person's authorized representative.


(5) The unmanned aircraft manufacturer and model name.


(6) The serial number of the unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module.


(7) The country of registration of the unmanned aircraft.


(8) The registration number.


(b) *Issuance of a Confirmation of Identification.* (1) The FAA will issue a Confirmation of Identification upon completion of the notification requirements provided in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) The filing of a notification under paragraph (a) of this section and the Confirmation of Identification issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not have the effect of United States aircraft registration.


(c) *Proof of notification.* No person may operate a foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft with remote identification in the United States unless the person obtains a Confirmation of Identification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, maintains such Confirmation of Identification at the unmanned aircraft's control station, and produces the Confirmation of Identification when requested by the FAA or a law enforcement officer.


(d) *Requirement to maintain current information.* The holder of a Confirmation of Identification must ensure that the information provided under paragraph (a) of this section remains accurate and must update the information prior to operating a foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States.




