# § 126.403   What will SBA review during a program examination?

(a) SBA will determine the scope of a program examination and may review any information related to the concern's HUBZone eligibility including, but not limited to, documentation related to the concern's size, principal office, ownership, compliance with the 35% HUBZone residency requirement, and compliance with the “attempt to maintain” (*see* § 126.103) requirement. A representative from SBA may visit one or more of a concern's offices as part of a program examination.


(b) SBA may require that a HUBZone small business concern submit additional information as part of the program examination. If SBA requests additional information, SBA will presume that written notice of the request was provided when SBA sends such request to the concern at an email address provided in the concern's profile in DSBS or SAM (or successor systems). The burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility is on the concern. If a concern does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may draw an adverse inference and presume that the information that the concern failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility and decertify the concern (or deny certification) on this basis.


(c) The concern must retain documentation provided in the course of a program examination for 6 years from the date of submission.



---

[N] [84 FR 65245, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024]




