# § 133.70   Personal lifesaving appliances.

(a) *Lifebuoys.* Each OSV must carry lifebuoys approved under approval series 160.150 or 160.050 as follows:


(1) *Number.* The number of lifebuoys carried must be as prescribed in table 133.70 of this section.


(2) *Stowage.* Lifebuoys must be stowed as follows:


(i) Each lifebuoy must be capable of being rapidly cast loose.


(ii) Each lifebuoy must not be permanently secured to the OSV in any way.


(iii) Each lifebuoy stowage position must be marked with either the words “LIFEBUOY” or “LIFE BUOY”, or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).


(iv) Lifebuoys must be so distributed as to be readily available on each side of the OSV and, as far as practicable, on each open deck extending to the side of the OSV. At least one lifebuoy must be located near the stern of the OSV. The lifebuoys with attached self-igniting lights must be equally distributed on both sides of the OSV.


(3) *Color and markings.* Lifebuoys must be colored and marked as follows:


(i) Each lifebuoy must be orange.


(ii) Each lifebuoy must be marked in block capital letters with the name of the OSV and the name of the port required to be marked on the stern of the OSV under subpart 67.123 of this chapter.


(4) *Attachments and fittings.* Lifebuoys must have the following attachments and fittings:


(i) At least one lifebuoy on each side of the OSV fitted with a buoyant lifeline that is— 


(A) At least as long as twice the height where it is stowed above the waterline in the lightest seagoing condition, or 30 meters (100 feet), whichever is the greater;


(B) Non-kinking;


(C) Not less than 8 millimeters (
5/16 inch) in diameter;


(D) Of a breaking strength which is not less than 5 kiloNewtons (1,124 pounds-force); and


(E) Resistant to deterioration from ultraviolent light. Line that is certified by the manufacturer or is synthetic and a dark color meets this requirement.


(ii) Except for an OSV in coastwise service and under 30 meters (99 feet) in length, at least one-half the total number of lifebuoys, but not less than two, must each be fitted with a self-igniting light approved under approval series 161.010. The self-igniting light must not be attached to the lifebuoys required by this section to be fitted with lifelines. However, if the OSV carries less than four lifebuoys, a buoyant lifeline can be fitted to one of the lifebuoys with a self-igniting light.


(b) *Lifejackets.* Each OSV must carry lifejackets approved under approval series 160.002, 160.005, 160.055, 160.077, 160.155, 160.176, or 160.255. If the OSV carries inflatable lifejackets, they must be of the same or similar design and have the same method of operation.


(1) *General.* Each OSV must carry a lifejacket for each person on board and in addition, a sufficient number of lifejackets must be carried for persons on watch and for use at remotely located survival craft stations.


(2) *Stowage.* Lifejackets must be stowed as follows:


(i) The lifejackets must be readily accessible.


(ii) The lifejacket stowage positions must be marked with either the word “LIFEJACKETS” or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).


(iii) The additional lifejackets required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be stowed on the bridge, in the engine control room, and at other manned watch stations.


(3) *Markings.* Each lifejacket must be marked—


(i) In block capital letters with the name of the OSV; and.


(ii) With type I retro-reflective material approved under approval series 164.018. The arrangement of the retro-reflective material must meet IMO Resolution A.658(16).


(4) *Lifejacket lights.* Each lifejacket must have a lifejacket light approved under approval series 161.112 or 161.012 securely attached to the front shoulder area of the lifejacket. However, lifejacket lights bearing Coast Guard approval number 161.012/2/1 are not permitted on OSVs certificated to operate on waters where water temperature may drop below 10 °C (50 °F).


(c) *Immersion suits or anti-exposure suits.* Immersion suits must be approved under approval series 160.171, and anti-exposure suits must be approved under approval series 160.153.


(1) *General.* Each OSV, except OSVs operating in the Gulf of Mexico or on other routes between 32 degrees north latitude and 32 degrees south latitude, must carry—


(i) An immersion suit or anti-exposure suit of suitable size for each person assigned to the rescue boat crew; and 


(ii) An immersion suit of the appropriate size for each person on board. The immersion suits required under this paragraph count toward meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) *Stowage.* Immersion suits and anti-exposure suits must be stowed as follows:


(i) Immersion suits and anti-exposure suits must be stowed so they are readily accessible, and the stowage positions must be marked with the words “IMMERSION SUITS” or “ANTI-EXPOSURE SUITS” as appropriate, or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).


(ii) If watch stations, work stations, or work sites are remote from cabins, staterooms, or berthing areas and the immersion suits are stowed in those locations, there must be, in addition to the immersion suits required under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, enough immersion suits stowed at the watch stations, work stations, or work sites to equal the number of persons normally on watch in, or assigned to, those locations at any time.


(3) *Markings.* Each immersion suit or anti-exposure suit must be marked in such a way as to identify the person or OSV to which it belongs.


(4) *Lights for immersion suits or anti-exposure suits.* Each immersion suit or anti-exposure suit must have a lifejacket light approved under approval series 161.112 or 161.012 securely attached to the front shoulder area of the immersion suit or anti-exposure suit. However, lifejacket lights bearing Coast Guard approval number 161.012/2/1 are not permitted on OSVs certificated to operate on waters where water temperature may drop below 10 °C (50 °F).


(d) *Lifejacket, immersion suit, and anti-exposure suit containers.* Each lifejacket, immersion suit, and anti-exposure suit container must be marked in block capital letters and numbers with the quantity, identity, and size of the equipment stowed inside the container. The equipment may be identified in words, or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).



---

[N] [CGD 84-069, 61 FR 25304, May 20, 1996; 61 FR 40281, Aug. 1, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 52816, Oct. 1, 1998; USCG-2022-0120, 89 FR 97388, Dec. 6, 2024]




