# § 80.3   Definitions.

(a) Except as noted in this part, the definitions applicable to the funding program apply to implementation of this part. In addition, for purposes of this part:


(b) *Applicant* means a State or Indian Tribal government applying to FEMA for a Federal award that will be accountable for the use of funds. Once funds have been awarded, the applicant becomes the recipient and may also be a pass-through entity.


(c) *Federal award* means the Federal financial assistance that a recipient or subrecipient receives directly from FEMA or indirectly from a pass-through entity. The terms “award” and “grant” may also be used to describe a “Federal award” under this part.


(d) *Market Value* means the price that the seller is willing to accept and a buyer is willing to pay on the open market and in an arm's length transaction.


(e) *National of the United States* means a person within the meaning of the term as defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22).


(f) *Pass-through entity* means a recipient that provides a subaward to a subrecipient.


(g) *Purchase offer* is the initial value assigned to the property, which is later adjusted by applicable additions and deductions, resulting in a final offer amount to a property owner.


(h) *Qualified alien* means a person within the meaning of the term as defined at 8 U.S.C. 1641.


(i) *Qualified conservation organization* means a qualified organization with a conservation purpose pursuant to 26 CFR 1.170A-14 and applicable implementing regulations, that is such an organization at the time it acquires the property interest and that was such an organization at the time of the major disaster declaration, or for at least 2 years prior to the opening of the grant application period.


(j) *Recipient* means the State or Tribal government that receives a Federal award directly from FEMA. A recipient may also be a pass-through entity. The term recipient does not include subrecipients.


(k) *Subapplicant* means the entity that submits an application for FEMA mitigation assistance to the State or Indian Tribal applicant/recipient. With respect to open space acquisition projects under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP), this term has the same meaning as given to the term “applicant” in part 206, subpart N of this chapter. Upon grant award, the subapplicant is referred to as the subrecipient.


(l) *Subaward* means an award provided by a pass-through entity to a subrecipient, for the subrecipient to carry out part of a Federal award received by the pass-through entity.


(m) *Subrecipient* means the State agency, community or Indian Tribal government or other legal entity to which a subaward is awarded and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided.


(n) *Administrator* means the head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or his/her designated representative.


(o) *Regional Administrator* means the head of a Federal Emergency Management Agency regional office, or his/her designated representative.



---

[N] [86 FR 50670, Sept. 10, 2021]




