# ยง 1011.2   Why is the Presidio Trust issuing these regulations and what do they cover?

(a) *Scope.* The Presidio Trust is issuing these regulations to provide procedures for the collection of debts owed to the Presidio Trust. This part also provides procedures for collection of other debts owed to the United States when a request for offset of a Treasury payment is received by the Treasury Department from another agency (for example, when a Presidio Trust employee owes a debt to the United States Department of Education).


(b) *Applicability.* (1) This part applies to the Presidio Trust when collecting a debt and to persons who owe a debt to the Presidio Trust, or to Federal agencies requesting offset of a payment issued by the Presidio Trust as a paying agency (including salary payments to Presidio Trust employees).


(2) This part does not apply to tax debts.


(3) Nothing in this part precludes collection or disposition of any debt under statutes and regulations other than those described in this part.


(c) *Additional policies, guidelines and procedures.* The Presidio Trust may adopt additional policies, guidelines and procedures consistent with this part and other applicable law.


(d) *Duplication not required.* Nothing in this part requires the Presidio Trust to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract, this part or other laws or regulations.


(e) *Use of multiple collection remedies allowed.* The Presidio Trust may simultaneously use multiple collection remedies to collect a debt, except as prohibited by law. This part is intended to promote aggressive debt collection, using for each debt all available collection remedies. These remedies are not listed in any prescribed order to provide the Presidio Trust with flexibility in determining which remedies will be most efficient in collecting the particular debt.


(f) *Cross-servicing with the Treasury Department.* These regulations authorize the Presidio Trust to enter a cross-servicing agreement with the Treasury Department under which the Treasury Department will take authorized action to collect debts owed to the Presidio Trust.




