# ยง 1000.2375   When and how must a Tribe/Consortium appeal an adverse pre-award decision to the IBIA?

(a) If a Tribe/Consortium wishes to exercise its appeal rights to the IBIA under ยง 1000.2351, it must file a notice of appeal to the IBIA within 30 days of receiving the initial decision or the conclusion of any non-binding informal alternative dispute resolution process.


(b) The Tribe/Consortium may either hand-deliver the notice of appeal to the IBIA, or mail it by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Tribe/Consortium mails the Notice of Appeal it will be considered filed on the date the Tribe/Consortium mailed it by certified mail. The Tribe/Consortium should mail the notice of appeal to: Interior Board of Indian Appeals, Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of the Interior, 801 N Quincy Street, Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22203.


(c) The Notice of Appeal must include:


(1) A statement describing the Tribe's/Consortium's reasons for a review (including why the Tribe/Consortium thinks the initial decision is wrong and briefly identify the issues involved in the appeal);


(2) Any supporting documentation;


(3) If the Tribe/Consortium's Notice of Appeal does not include the items in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, an indication that such a statement or documentation will be submitted within 30 days; and


(4) A statement whether the Tribe/Consortium wants a hearing on the record, or whether the Tribe/Consortium wants to waive its right to a hearing.


(d) The Tribe/Consortium must serve a copy of the notice of appeal upon the official whose decision it is appealing. A copy of the notice of appeal must also be sent to the Director of the OSG. The Tribe/Consortium must certify to the IBIA that it has done so.


(e) The authorized representative of the Secretary will be considered a party to all appeals filed with the IBIA under the Act.






