# § 60-300.5   Equal opportunity clause.

(a) *Government contracts.* Each contracting agency and each contractor shall include the following equal opportunity clause in each of its covered Government contracts or subcontracts (and modifications, renewals, or extensions thereof if not included in the original contract):


(b) *Subcontracts.* Each contractor shall include the equal opportunity clause in each of its subcontracts subject to this part.


(c) *Adaptation of language.* Such necessary changes in language may be made to the equal opportunity clause as must be appropriate to identify properly the parties and their undertakings.


(d) *Inclusion of the equal opportunity clause in the contract.* It is not necessary to include the equal opportunity clause verbatim in the contract. The clause shall be made a part of the contract by citation to 41 CFR 60-300.5(a) and inclusion of the following language, in bold text, after the citation: _“This contractor and subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 CFR 60-300.5(a). This regulation prohibits discrimination against qualified protected veterans, and requires affirmative action by covered prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in employment qualified protected veterans.”_

(e) *Incorporation by operation of the Act.* By operation of the Act, the equal opportunity clause shall be considered to be a part of every contract and subcontract required by the Act and the regulations in this part to include such a clause, whether or not it is physically incorporated in such contract and whether or not there is a written contract between the agency and the contractor.


(f) *Duties of contracting agencies.* Each contracting agency shall cooperate with the Director and the Secretary in the performance of their responsibilities under the Act. Such cooperation shall include insuring that the equal opportunity clause is included in all covered Government contracts and that contractors are fully informed of their obligations under the Act and this part, providing the Director with any information which comes to the agency's attention that a contractor is not in compliance with the Act or this part, responding to requests for information from the Director, and taking such actions for noncompliance as are set forth in § 60-300.66 as may be ordered by the Secretary or the Director.




