# § 155.710   Eligibility standards for SHOP.

(a) *General requirement.* The SHOP must permit qualified employers to purchase coverage for qualified employees through the SHOP.


(b) *Employer eligibility requirements.* An employer is a qualified employer eligible to purchase coverage through a SHOP if such employer—


(1) Is a small employer;


(2) Elects to offer, at a minimum, all full-time employees coverage in a QHP through a SHOP; and


(3) Either—


(i) Has its principal business address in the Exchange service area and offers coverage to all its full-time employees through that SHOP; or


(ii) Offers coverage to each eligible employee through the SHOP serving that employee's primary worksite.


(c) *Participating in multiple SHOPs.* If an employer meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section and makes the election described in (b)(3)(ii) of this section, a SHOP shall allow the employer to offer coverage to those employees whose primary worksite is in the SHOP's service area.


(d) *Continuing eligibility.* The SHOP must treat a qualified employer which ceases to be a small employer solely by reason of an increase in the number of employees of such employer as a qualified employer until the qualified employer otherwise fails to meet the eligibility criteria of this section or elects to no longer purchase coverage for qualified employees through the SHOP.


(e) *Employee eligibility requirements.* An employee is a qualified employee eligible to enroll in coverage through a SHOP if such employee receives an offer of coverage from a qualified employer. A qualified employee is eligible to enroll his or her dependents in coverage through a SHOP if the offer from the qualified employer includes an offer of dependent coverage.



---

[N] [77 FR 18464, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 10869, Feb. 27, 2015]




