# § 20.3   Definitions.

As used in these regulations, the following terms are defined as follows:


(a) *Act* means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (Title III of Pub. L. 94-135).


(b) *Action* means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration; or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.


(c) *Age* means how old a person is, or the number of years from the date of a person's birth.


(d) *Age distinction* means any action using age or an age-related term.


(e) *Age-related term* means a word or words which necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (for example: “children,” “adult,” “older persons,” but not “student”).


(f) *Agency* means a Federal department or agency that is empowered to extend financial assistance.


(g) *DOC* means the U.S. Department of Commerce.


(h) *Federal financial assistance* means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the agency provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:


(1) Funds; or


(2) Services of Federal personnel; or


(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of property, including:


(i) Transfers or leases of property for less than fair market value or for reduced considerations; and


(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.


(i) *Normal operation* means the operation of a program or activity without significant changes that would impair its ability to meet its objectives.


(j) *Program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or 


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government; 


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or 


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system; 


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship— 


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or 


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or 


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or 


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (j)(1),(2), or (3) of this section. 


(k) *Recipient* means any State or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a State or its political sub-division, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient. Recipient includes any successor, assignee, or transferee, but excludes the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.


(l) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce or his or her designee.


(m) *Statutory objective* means any purpose of a program or activity expressly stated in any Federal statute, State statute, or local statute or ordinance adopted by an elected, general purpose legislative body.


(n) *Subrecipient* means any of the entities in the definition of “recipient” to which a recipient extends or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is generally regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient in these regulations.


(o) *United States* means the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Canal Zone, the Northern Marianas, and the territories and possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [51 FR 28926, Aug. 13, 1986, as amended at 68 FR 51354, Aug. 26, 2003]




