# ยง 98.122   GHGs to report.

(a) You must report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O combustion emissions from each stationary combustion unit. You must calculate and report these emissions under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) by following the requirements of subpart C.


(b) You must report under subpart O of this part (HCFC-22 Production and HFC-23 Destruction) the emissions of HFC-23 from HCFC-22 production processes and HFC-23 destruction processes. Do not report the generation and emissions of HFC-23 from HCFC-22 production under this subpart.


(c) *Emissions from production and transformation processes, process level.* You must report, for each fluorinated GHG group, the total GWP-weighted mass of all fluorinated GHGs in that group (in metric tons CO_2_e) emitted from:


(1) Each fluorinated gas production process.


(2) Each fluorinated gas transformation process that is not part of a fluorinated gas production process and where no fluorinated GHG reactant is produced at another facility.


(3) Each fluorinated gas transformation process that is not part of a fluorinated gas production process and where one or more fluorinated GHG reactants are produced at another facility.


(d) *Emissions from production and transformation processes, facility level, multiple products.* If your facility produces more than one fluorinated gas product, you must report the emissions (in metric tons) from production and transformation processes, totaled across the facility as a whole, of each fluorinated GHG that is emitted in quantities of 1,000 metric tons of CO_2_e or more from production or transformation processes, totaled across the facility as a whole. Aggregate and report emissions of all other fluorinated GHGs from production and transformation processes by fluorinated GHG group for the facility as a whole, in metric tons of CO_2_e.


(e) *Emissions from production and transformation processes, facility level, one product only.* If your facility produces only one fluorinated gas product, aggregate and report the GWP-weighted emissions from production and transformation processes of fluorinated GHGs by fluorinated GHG group for the facility as a whole, in metric tons CO_2_e, with the following exception: Where emissions consist of a major fluorinated GHG constituent of a fluorinated gas product, and the product is sold or transferred to another person, report the total mass of each fluorinated GHG that is emitted from production and transformation processes and that is a major fluorinated GHG constituent of the product (in metric tons).


(f) *Emissions from destruction processes and venting of containers.* You must report the total mass of each fluorinated GHG emitted (in metric tons) from:


(1) Each fluorinated gas destruction process that is not part of a fluorinated gas production process or a fluorinated gas transformation process and all such fluorinated gas destruction processes combined.


(2) Venting of residual fluorinated GHGs from containers returned from the field.



---

[N] [75 FR 74831, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 73785, Dec. 11, 2014




