# ยง 1216.103   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part.


(a) *Demand* means an order, subpoena, or other command of a court or other competent authority for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of an MSPB employee in a legal proceeding.


(b) *General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the MSPB or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part.


(c) *Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.


(d) *MSPB* means the Merit Systems Protection Board.


(e) *MSPB employee* or *employee* means:


(1)(i) Any current or former employee of the MSPB;


(ii) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of the MSPB or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for the MSPB; and


(iii) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to the MSPB, whether formal or informal.


(2) This definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the MSPB and who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the MSPB.


(f) *Records* or *official records and information* all information in the custody and control of the MSPB, relating to information in the custody and control of the MSPB, or acquired by an MSPB employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status, while the individual was employee by or on behalf of the MSPB.


(g) *Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court of other competent authority.


(h) *Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.




