# § 422.130   Claim procedure.

(a) *General.* The Social Security Administration provides facilities for the public to file claims and to obtain assistance in completing them. An appropriate application form and related forms for use in filing a claim for monthly benefits, the establishment of a period of disability, a lump-sum death payment, or entitlement to hospital insurance benefits or supplementary medical insurance benefits can be obtained from any district office, branch office, contact station, or resident station of the Social Security Administration, from the Division of Foreign Claims, Post Office Box 1756, Baltimore, MD 21203, or from the Veteran's Administration Regional Office, Manila, Philippines. See § 404.614 of this chapter for offices at which applications may be filed. See 42 CFR part 405, subpart A, for conditions of entitlement to hospital insurance benefits and 42 CFR part 405, subpart B, for information relating to enrollment under the supplementary medical insurance benefits program.


(b) *Submission of evidence.* An individual who files an application for monthly benefits, the establishment of a period of disability, a lump-sum death payment, or entitlement to hospital insurance benefits or supplementary medical insurance benefits, either on his own behalf or on behalf of another, must establish by satisfactory evidence the material allegations in his application, except as to earnings shown in the Social Security Administration's records (*see* subpart H of part 404 of this chapter for evidence requirements in nondisability cases and subpart P of part 404 of this chapter for evidence requirements in disability cases). Instructions, report forms, and forms for the various proofs necessary are available to the public in district offices, branch offices, contact stations, and resident stations of the Social Security Administration, and the Veteran's Administration Regional Office, Manila, Philippines. These offices assist individuals in preparing their applications and in obtaining the proofs required in support of their applications.


(c) *Determinations and notice to individuals.* In the case of an application for benefits, the establishment of a period of disability, a lump-sum death payment, a recomputation of a primary insurance amount, or entitlement to hospital insurance benefits or supplementary medical insurance benefits, after obtaining the necessary evidence, we will determine, based on the preponderance of the evidence (see §§ 404.901 and 416.1401 of this chapter) as to the entitlement of the individual claiming or for whom is claimed such benefits, and will notify the applicant of the determination and of his right to appeal. Section 404.1503 of this chapter has a discussion of the respective roles of State agencies and the Administration in the making of disability determinations and information regarding initial determinations as to entitlement or termination of entitlement in disability claims. See section 1869(a) of the Social Security Act for determinations under the health insurance for the aged program and sections 1816 and 1842 of the Act for the role of intermediaries, carriers, and State agencies in performing certain functions under such program, e.g., payment of claims pursuant to an agreement with the Social Security Administration.



---

[N] [32 FR 13653, Sept. 29, 1967, as amended at 44 FR 34942, June 18, 1979; 65 FR 16816, Mar. 30, 2000; 71 FR 16461, Mar. 31, 2006; 73 FR 76945, Dec. 18, 2008; 76 FR 24812, May 3, 2011]




