# § 69.5   Persons to be assessed.

(a) End user charges shall be computed and assessed upon public end users, and upon providers of public telephones, as defined in this subpart, and as provided in subpart B of this part. 


(b) Carrier's carrier charges shall be computed and assessed upon all Interexchange Carriers that use local exchange switching facilities for the provision of interstate or foreign telecommunications services, except that:


(1) Competitive local exchange carriers and rate-of-return local exchange carriers shall not assess terminating interstate or intrastate switched access tandem switching or terminating switched access tandem transport charges described in § 69.4(b)(5) on Interexchange Carriers when the terminating traffic is destined for a competitive local exchange carrier, or a rate-of-return local exchange carrier, or is destined, directly or indirectly, for an IPES Provider, where such carrier or Provider is engaged in Access Stimulation, as that term is defined in § 61.3(bbb) of this chapter, consistent with the provisions of § 61.26(g)(3) of this chapter and § 69.3(e)(12)(iv).


(2) Intermediate Access Providers shall not assess terminating interstate or intrastate switched access tandem switching or terminating switched access tandem transport charges described in § 69.4(b)(5) on Interexchange Carriers when the terminating traffic is destined for a competitive local exchange carrier, or a rate-of-return local exchange carrier, or is destined, directly or indirectly, for an IPES Provider, where such carrier or Provider is engaged in Access Stimulation, as that term is defined in § 61.3(bbb) of this chapter, consistent with the provisions of § 61.26(g)(3) of this chapter and § 69.3(e)(12)(iv).






(c) Special access surcharges shall be assessed upon users of exchange facilities that interconnect these facilities with means of interstate or foreign telecommunications to the extent that carrier's carrier charges are not assessed upon such interconnected usage. As an interim measure pending the development of techniques accurately to measure such interconnected use and to assess such charges on a reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, telephone companies shall assess special access surcharges upon the closed ends of private line services and WATS services pursuant to the provisions of § 69.115 of this part.


(d) [Reserved]



---

[N] [48 FR 43017, Sept. 21, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 10840, Mar. 31, 1986; 51 FR 33752, Sept. 23, 1986; 52 FR 21540, June 8, 1987; 54 FR 50624, Dec. 8, 1989; 61 FR 65364, Dec. 12, 1996; 64 FR 60359, Nov. 5, 1999; 84 FR 57652, Oct. 28, 2019; 88 FR 35764, June 1, 2023] 




