# § 721.10643   Diisocyanate terminated polycarbodiimide (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as diisocyanate terminated polycarbodiimide (PMN P-04-640) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), and (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent or reduce exposure, where feasible. A National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or other positive pressure mode and equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 2,000 meets the minimum requirements of § 721.63(a)(4). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.05 mg/m
3. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or maintain airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.05 mg/m
3), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 51907, Sept. 2, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 60760, Oct. 8, 2014]




