# § 1942.127   Project monitoring and fund delivery.

(a) *Coordination of funding sources.* When a project is jointly financed, the District Director will reach any needed agreement or understanding with the representatives of the other source of funds on distribution of responsibilities for handling various aspects of the project. These responsibilities will include supervision of construction, inspections and determination of compliance with appropriate regulations concerning equal employment opportunities, wage rates, nondiscrimination in making services or benefits available, and environmental compliance. If any problems develop which cannot be resolved locally, complete information should be sent to the State Office for advice.


(b) *Multiple advances.* Loans under this subpart are subject to the provisions of § 1942.17 (p)(2) of subpart A of this part 1942.


(c) *Use and accountability of funds.* Loans under this subpart are subject to the provisions of § 1942.17 (p)(3) of subpart A of this part 1942.


(d) *Development inspections.* Loans under this subpart are subject to the provisions of § 1942.17(p)(4) of subpart A of this part 1942.


(e) *Payment for project costs.* Each payment for project costs must be approved by the borrower's governing body.


(1) *Construction.* Payment for construction must be for amounts shown on payment estimate forms. Form RD 1924-18, “Partial Payment Estimate,” may be used for this purpose or other similar forms may be used with the prior approval of the District Director. However, the District Director cannot require more reporting burden than is required by Form RD 1924-18. Advances for contract retainage will not be made until such retainage is due and payable under the terms of the contract. The review and acceptance of project cost, including construction partial payment estimates, by RD does not attest to the correctness of the amounts, the quantities shown, or that the work has been performed under the terms of agreements or contracts.


(2) *Major equipment.* Payment for major equipment should generally coincide with delivery of the usable equipment, along with any necessary title or certifications, to the borrower. Borrowers may not use Agency loan funds to make deposits on equipment not ready for delivery. If a borrower purchases a truck chassis from one supplier and another supplier will complete the development of a fire or rescue vehicle, RD may release funds to pay for the chassis when title to the chassis is transferred to the borrower.


(f) *Use of remaining funds.* Loans under this subpart are subject to the provisions of § 1942.17 (p)(6) of subpart A of this part 1942.



---

[N] [52 FR 43726, Nov. 16, 1987; 52 FR 47097, Dec. 11, 1987]




