# § 317.901   Reassignments.

(a) In this section, *reassignment* means a permanent assignment to another SES position within the employing executive agency or military department. (See 5 U.S.C. 105 for a definition of “executive agency” and 5 U.S.C. 102 for a definition of “military department.”) 


(b) A career appointee may be reassigned to any SES position for which qualified in accordance with the following conditions: 


(1) *Reassignment within a commuting area.* For reassignment within a commuting area, the appointee must receive a written notice at least 15 days before the effective date of the reassignment. This notice requirement may be waived only when the appointee consents in writing. 


(2) *Reassignment outside of a commuting area.* For reassignment outside of a commuting area, (i) the agency must consult with the appointee on the reasons for, and the appointee's preferences with respect to, the proposed reassignment; and (ii) following such consultation, the agency must provide the appointee a written notice, including the reasons for the reassignment, at least 60 days before the effective date of the reassignment. This notice requirement may be waived only when the appointee consents in writing. 


(c) A career appointee may not be involuntarily reassigned within 120 days after the appointment of the head of an agency, or within 120 days after the appointment of the career appointee's most immediate supervisor who is a noncareer appointee and who has the authority to make an initial appraisal of the career appointee's performance under subpart C of part 430 of this chapter.


(1) In this paragraph— 


(i) *Head of an agency* means the head of an executive or military department or the head of an independent establishment. 


(ii) *Noncareer appointee* includes an SES noncareer or limited appointee, an appointee in a position filled by Schedule C, or an appointee in an Executive Schedule or equivalent position that is not required to be filled competitively.


(2) These restrictions do not apply to the involuntary reassignment of a career appointee under 5 U.S.C. 4314(b)(3) based on a final performance rating of “Unsatisfactory” that was issued before the appointment of a new agency head or a new noncareer supervisor as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If a moratorium is already underway at the time the final rating is issued, then that moratorium must be completed before the reassignment action can be effected.


(3) A voluntary reassignment during the 120-day period is permitted, but the appointee must agree in writing before the reassignment. 


(4) For the purpose of calculating the 120-day period, any days, not to exceed a total of 60, during which the career appointee is serving on a detail or other temporary assignment apart from the appointee's regular position shall not be counted. Any days in excess of 60 days on one or more details or other temporary assignments shall be counted.


(5) The prohibition in this paragraph on involuntary reassignments may be applied by an agency, at its discretion, in the case of a detail of an individual as the head of an agency or of a noncareer appointee as a supervisor, or when a noncareer appointee in a deputy position is acting as the agency head or in a vacant supervisory position. If the individual later receives a permanent appointment to the position without a break in service, the 120-day moratorium initiated by the permanent appointment shall include any days spent in the position on an acting basis.


(d) A 15 or 60-day advance notice described in paragraph (b) of this section may be issued during the 120-day moratorium on the involuntary reassignment of a career appointee described in paragraph (c) of this section, but an involuntary reassignment may not be effected until the moratorium has ended.



---

[N] [54 FR 9760, Mar. 8, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 10124, Mar. 24, 1992; 58 FR 58261, Nov. 1, 1993; 60 FR 6387, Feb. 2, 1995; 63 FR 34258, June 24, 1998]




