# § 423.530   Plan crosswalks.

(a) *General rules*—(1) *Definition of plan crosswalk.* A plan crosswalk is the movement of enrollees from one plan benefit package (PBP) in a PDP contract to another PBP under a PDP contract between a Part D Sponsor and CMS. To crosswalk enrollees from one PBP to another is to change the enrollment from the first PBP to the second.


(2) *Prohibitions.* (i) Plan crosswalks between PBPs under one PDP contract and PBPs under another PDP contract are prohibited unless both the PDP sponsors with which CMS contracts are the same legal entity or have the same parent organization.


(ii) Plan crosswalks are prohibited that split the enrollment of one PBP into multiple PBPs.


(iii) Plan crosswalks are prohibited from a PBP offering basic prescription drug coverage to a PBP offering enhanced alternative coverage.


(3) *Compliance with renewal/non-renewal rules.* The PDP sponsor must comply with renewal and non-renewal rules in §§ 423.506 and 423.507 in order to complete plan crosswalks.


(4) *Eligibility.* Enrollees must be eligible for enrollment under § 423.30 in order to be moved from one PBP to another PBP.


(5) *Applicability to Employer group health or waiver plans.* Nothing in this section permits the crosswalk of enrollees in an employer group health or waiver plan PBP to another PBP outside the usual process for enrollment in employer group health or waiver plans.


(b) *Mandatory plan crosswalks.* A Part D sponsor of a PDP must perform a plan crosswalk in the following circumstances:


(1) *Renewal of a PBP offering basic prescription drug coverage.* A PDP sponsor that plans to continue operating a PBP offering basic prescription coverage in the same service area for the upcoming contract year must crosswalk enrollment from the PBP offering basic prescription drug coverage in the current contract year into a PBP offering basic prescription drug coverage under the same PDP contract in the upcoming contract year. The PBP for the upcoming contract year must retain the same plan ID as the PBP for the current contract year.


(2) *Renewal of a PBP offering enhanced alternative drug coverage.* A PDP sponsor that plans to continue operating a PBP offering enhanced alternative coverage in the same service area for the upcoming contract year must crosswalk enrollment from the PBP offering enhanced alternative drug coverage in the current contract year into a PBP offering enhanced alternative drug coverage in the upcoming contract year. The PBP for the upcoming contract year PBP must retain the same plan ID as the PBP for the current contract year.


(c) *Plan crosswalk exceptions.* A Part D sponsor of a PDP may perform a plan crosswalk in the following circumstances after receiving approval from CMS under the procedures described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(1) *Consolidated renewals.* If a PDP sponsor wishes to non-renew a PBP offering enhanced alternative prescription drug coverage under a PDP contract that is not non-renewing or reducing its service area so that the contract no longer includes the service area of the non-renewing PBP, it may crosswalk enrollment from the non-renewing PBP into a PBP offered under the contract in the upcoming contract year.


(i) The plan ID for the upcoming contract year PBP must be the same plan ID as one of PBPs for the current contract year.


(ii) The PBPs being consolidated must be under the same PDP contract.


(iii) A PBP offering basic prescription drug coverage may not be discontinued if the PDP contract continues to offer coverage (other than employer group waiver plans) in the service area of the PBP.


(iv) Enrollment from a PBP offering enhanced alternative coverage may be crosswalked into a PBP offering either enhanced alternative or basic prescription drug coverage.


(v) If the PDP contract includes more than one renewing PBP into which enrollment of the non-renewing PBP can be crosswalked, the enrollment of the non-renewing PBP must be crosswalked into the renewing PBP that will result in lowest increase in monthly premiums for the enrollees.


(vi) A plan crosswalk is not approved under this paragraph if it will result in a premium increase for the following benefit year (as reflected in the bid for the receiving PBP submitted on the first Monday in June) that is higher than the greater of the following:


(A) The current year's premium for the non-renewing PBP.


(B) The current year's average base beneficiary premium, as described in § 423.286(c) of this part, for the PDP region in which the PBP operates.


(vii) If an organization that non-renews an enhanced alternative PBP does not request and receive a plan crosswalk exception as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, CMS does not approve a new enhanced alternative PBP in the same service area as the non-renewing PBP in the following contract year.


(2) *Contract consolidations.* If a PDP sponsor non-renews all or part of the service area of its contract with CMS in accordance with §§ 423.507 or 423.508, the enrollees of the non-renewing PBPs may be crosswalked into one or more PBPs in another PDP contract (the surviving contract).


(i) The non-renewing PDP contract and the surviving contract must be held by the same legal entity or by legal entities with the same parent organization.


(ii) The approved service area of the surviving contract must include the service area of the non-renewing PBPs whose enrollment will be crosswalked into the surviving contract.


(iii) Enrollment may be crosswalked between PBPs offering the same type of prescription drug coverage (basic or enhanced alternative).


(iv) Enrollment from a PBP offering enhanced alternative coverage may be crosswalked into a PBP offering basic prescription drug coverage.


(v) Enrollment from a PBP offering enhanced alternative coverage must be crosswalked into the PBP in the surviving contract that will result in the lowest premium increase.


(vi) A plan crosswalk is not approved under this paragraph if it will result in a premium increase for the following benefit year (as reflected in the bid for the receiving PBP submitted on the first Monday in June) that is higher than the greater of:


(A) The current year's premium for the non-renewing PBP, or


(B) The current year's average base beneficiary premium, as described in § 423.286(c), for the region in which the PBP operates.


(d) *Procedures.* (1) A PDP sponsor must submit the following:


(i) All plan crosswalks described in paragraph (b) of this section in writing through the bid submission process in HPMS by the bid submission deadline.


(ii) All plan crosswalk exception requests described in paragraph (c) of this section in writing through the plan crosswalk exceptions process in HPMS by the plan crosswalk exception request deadline announced annually by CMS.


(2) CMS verifies the requests and notifies a requesting PDP sponsor of the approval or denial after the crosswalk exception request deadline.



---

[N] [89 FR 30839, Apr. 23, 2024]






