# ยง 226.27   Gas for operating purposes and tribal use.

(a) *Gas to be furnished oil lessee.* Lessee of a producing gas lease shall furnish the oil lessee sufficient gas for operating purposes at a rate to be agreed upon, or on failure to agree the rate shall be determined by the Superintendent: *Provided,* That the oil lessee shall at his own expense and risk, furnish and install the necessary connections to the gas lessee's well or pipeline. All such connections shall be reported in writing to the Superintendent.


(b) *Use of gas by Osage Tribe.* (1) Gas from any well or wells shall be furnished any Tribal-owned building or enterprise at a rate not to exceed the price less royalty being received or offered by a gas purchaser: *Provided,* That such requirement shall be subject to the determination by the Superintendent that gas in sufficient quantities is available above that needed for lease operation and that no waste would result. In the absence of a gas purchaser the rate to be paid by the Osage Tribe shall be determined by the Superintendent based on prices being paid by purchasers in the Osage Mineral Estate. The Osage Tribe is to furnish all necessary material and labor for such connection with Lessee's gas system. The use of such gas shall be at the risk of the Osage Tribe at all times.


(2) Any member of the Osage Tribe residing in Osage County and outside a corporate city is entitled to the use at his own expense of not to exceed 400,000 cubic feet of gas per calendar year for his principal residence at a rate not to exceed the amount paid by a gas purchaser plus 10 percent: *Provided,* That such requirement shall be subject to the determination by the Superintendent that gas in sufficient quantities is available above that needed for lease operation and that no waste would result. In the absence of a gas purchaser the amount to be paid by the Tribal member shall be determined by the Superintendent. Gas to Tribal members is not royalty free. The Tribal member is to furnish all necessary material and labor for such connection to Lessee's gas system, and shall maintain his own lines. The use of such gas shall be at the risk of the Tribal member at all times.


(3) Gas furnished by Lessee under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section may be terminated only with the approval of the Superintendent. Written application for termination must be made to the Superintendent showing justification.




