# § 1605.2   Calculating, posting, and charging breakage on late contributions and loan payments.

(a) *General criteria.* The TSP will calculate breakage on late contributions, makeup agency contributions, and loan payments as described by § 1605.15(b). This breakage calculation is subject to the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:


(1) The TSP record keeper will not calculate breakage if contributions or loan payments are posted within 30 days of the “as of” date, or if the total amount on a late payment record or the total agency contributions on a current payment record is less than $1.00; and


(2) The TSP record keeper will not take the participant's fund reallocations and fund transfers into account when determining breakage.


(b) *Calculating breakage.* The TSP record keeper will calculate breakage for all contributions or loan payment corrections as follows:


(1) Use the participant's investment election on file for the “as of” date to determine how the funds would have been invested, going back to the earliest daily share prices available. If there is no investment election on file, or one cannot be derived based on the investment of contributions, the TSP record keeper will consider the funds to have been invested in the default investment fund in effect for the participant on the “as of” date;


(2) Determine the number of shares of the applicable investment funds the participant would have received had the contributions or loan payments been made on time. If the “as of” date is before TSP account balances were converted to shares, this determination will be the number of shares the participant would have received on the conversion date, and will include the daily earnings the participant would have received had the contributions or loan payments been made on the “as of” date;


(3) Determine the dollar value on the posting date of the number of shares the participant would have received had the contributions or loan payments been made on time. If the contributions or loan payments would have been invested in a Lifecycle fund that is retired on the posting date, the share price of the L Income Fund will be used. The dollar value shall be the number of shares the participant would have received had the contributions or loan payments been made on time multiplied by the share price; and


(4) The difference between the dollar value of the contribution or loan payment on the posting date and the dollar value of the contribution or loan payment on the “as of” date is the breakage.


(c) *Posting contributions and loan payments.* Makeup and late contributions, late loan payments, and breakage, will be posted to the participant's account according to his or her investment election on file for the posting date. If there is no investment election on file for the posting date, they will be posted to the default investment fund in effect for the participant.


(d) *Charging breakage.* If the dollar amount posted to the participant's account is greater than the dollar amount of the makeup or late contribution or late loan payment, the TSP record keeper will charge the agency the additional amount. If the dollar amount posted to the participant's account is less than the dollar amount of the makeup or late contribution, or late loan payment, the difference between the amount of the contribution and the amount posted will be forfeited to the TSP.


(e) *Posting of multiple contributions.* If the TSP record keeper posts multiple makeup or late contributions or late loan payments with different “as of” dates for a participant on the same business day, the amount of breakage charged to the employing agency or forfeited to the TSP will be determined separately for each transaction, without netting any gains or losses attributable to different “as of” dates. In addition, gains and losses from different sources of contributions or different TSP core funds will not be netted against each other. Instead, breakage will be determined separately for each as-of date, TSP core fund, and source of contributions.



---

[N] [87 FR 31676, May 24, 2022]




