# ยง 139.4   General operation and maintenance.

(a) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section apply to any discharge incidental to the normal operation of a vessel subject to regulation under this part, including but not limited to those discharges identified in subpart C of this part.


(b) Vessels must implement the following practices:


(1) Minimize discharges through management practices including but not limited to storage onboard the vessel, proper storage or transfer of materials, or reduced production of discharge.


(2) Discharge while underway when practicable and as far from shore as practicable.


(3) Addition of any materials to a discharge, other than for treatment of the discharge, that is not incidental to the normal operation of the vessel is prohibited.


(4) Dilution of any discharge for the purpose of meeting any standard in this part is prohibited.


(5) Any material used onboard that will be subsequently discharged (e.g., disinfectants, cleaners, biocides, coatings, sacrificial anodes) must:


(i) Be used according to manufacturer specifications and only in the amount necessary to perform the intended function of that material;


(ii) Not contain any materials banned for use in the United States; and


(iii) If subject to FIFRA registration, be used according to the FIFRA label. Proper use includes labeling requirements for proper application sites, rates, frequency of application, and methods; maintenance; removal; and storage and disposal of wastes and containers.


(6) To minimize and prevent discharge of cargo or other onboard materials, cargo must be containerized or covered except for hopper barges without a fixed cover or where covering cargo would negatively impact safety of the vessel, risk loss of life at sea, or otherwise interfere with essential vessel operations.


(7) To minimize and prevent discharge of toxic or hazardous materials, vessels must:


(i) Store toxic or hazardous materials in appropriately sealed, labeled, and secured containers located in areas of the vessel that minimize exposure to ocean spray and precipitation consistent with vessel design, unless the master determines this would interfere with essential vessel operations or safety of the vessel or crew, or would violate any applicable regulations that establish specifications for safe transportation, handling, carriage, and storage of toxic or hazardous materials.


(ii) Ensure containers holding toxic or hazardous materials are not overfilled and incompatible materials (*i.e.,* substances which, if mixed, will create hazards greater than posed by the individual substances) are not mixed.


(8) The overboard discharge or disposal of any containers holding toxic or hazardous materials is prohibited.


(9) Prior to washing any compartment, tank, cargo or other space and discharging washwater overboard from the area, that space must be in broom clean condition or its equivalent.


(10) Topside surfaces (e.g., exposed decks, hull above waterline, tank, cargo, and related appurtenances) must be maintained to minimize the discharge of cleaning compounds, paint chips, non-skid material fragments, and other materials associated with exterior surface preservation.


(11) Painting and coating techniques on topside surfaces must minimize the discharge of paints, coatings, surface preparation materials, and similar substances.


(12) Discharge of unused paint and coatings is prohibited.


(13) Any equipment that may release, drip, leak, or spill oil or oily mixtures, fuel, or other toxic or hazardous materials, including to the bilge, must be maintained to minimize or eliminate the discharges.






