# § 282.90   South Carolina State-Administered Program.

(a) *History of the approval of South Carolina's program.* The State of South Carolina (South Carolina or State) is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank (UST) program in lieu of the Federal program under subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA or Act), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The State's Underground Storage Tank Program (UST Program), as administered by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC), was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the South Carolina UST Program on August 28, 2002 and it was effective on September 27, 2002. A subsequent program revision was approved by EPA and became effective May 24, 2021.


(b) *Enforcement authority.* South Carolina has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally approved UST Program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its corrective action, inspection, and enforcement authorities under sections 9003(h), 9005, and 9006 of subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991b(h), 6991d, and 6991e, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.


(c) *Retention of program approval.* To retain program approval, South Carolina must revise its approved UST Program to adopt new changes to the Federal subtitle I program which make it more stringent, in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If South Carolina obtains approval for revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(d) *Final approval.* South Carolina has final approval for the following elements of its UST Program submitted to EPA and approved effective September 27, 2002, and the program revisions approved by EPA effective on May 24, 2021:


(1) *State statutes and regulations*—(i) *Incorporation by reference.* The South Carolina materials cited in this paragraph (d)(1)(i), and listed in appendix A to this part, are incorporated by reference as part of the UST Program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may access copies of the South Carolina statutes and regulations that are incorporated by reference in this paragraph (d)(1)(i) from the South Carolina State Register, 223 Blatt Building, 1105 Pendleton Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201; Phone number: (803) 212-4500; website: *https://www.scstatehouse.gov/.* You may inspect all approved material at EPA Region 4, 61 Forsyth Street SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30303; Phone number: (404) 562-9900; or the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), email: *fedreg.legal@nara.gov,* website: *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(A) “South Carolina Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program,” dated September 9, 2020.


(B) “South Carolina Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program,” dated September 9, 2020.


(ii) *Legal basis.* EPA considered the following statutes and regulations which provide the legal basis for the State's implementation of the UST Program, but they are not being incorporated by reference and do not replace Federal authorities:


(A) *State Underground Petroleum Environmental Response Bank Act (SUPERB) of 1988, S.C. Code Ann. sections 44-2-10 to 44-2-150 (2010).* (*1*) Section 44-2-50(A) and (C) Regulations to be promulgated. Insofar as it provides for the promulgation of regulations for the implementation, compliance monitoring, and enforcement of the UST Program.


(*2*) Section 44-2-70(B) Financial responsibility of underground storage tank owners and operators. As to the first sentence, insofar as it provides for the promulgation of regulations specifying financial responsibility requirements and for taking corrective action and compensating third parties for bodily injury and property damage caused by accidental releases arising from operating an underground storage tank.


(*3*) Section 44-2-140 Enforcement of chapter or department order, penalties for violations. Insofar as it provides for compliance monitoring and enforcement of the underground storage tank requirements.


(B) *South Carolina Underground Storage Tank Control Regulations, R. 61-92 (2017).* (*1*) Section 280.26, Delivery Prohibitions. Insofar as it identifies specific authorities for enforcement response and delivery prohibition requirements.


(*2*) Section 280.67, Public Participation. Insofar as it identifies specific authorities for enabling public participation in the corrective action process.


(*3*) Section 280.301, Violations and Penalties. Insofar as it provides for notice to violators, assessment of penalties, criminal prosecution, and appeals under the SUPERB Act.


(*4*) Section 280.302, Appeals. Insofar as it provides for appeal of any determination by DHEC under the provisions of S.C. Code Ann. Regs. 61-72, Procedures for Contested Cases, and the State Administrative Procedures Act.


(C) *SUPERB Site Rehabilitation and Fund Access Regulations, R.61-98.* Insofar as it contains requirements for site rehabilitation for releases from underground storage tanks, access to the SUPERB Account, and certification of site rehabilitation contractors.


(D) *South Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 24(a)(2), Intervention.* Insofar as it provides for public participation in the State enforcement process.


(iii) *Other provisions not incorporated by reference.* The following statutory and regulatory provisions applicable to the South Carolina UST Program are broader in scope than the Federal program or external to the state UST program approval requirements. Therefore, these provisions are not part of the approved UST Program and are not incorporated by reference herein:


(A) *State Underground Petroleum Environmental Response Bank Act (SUPERB) of 1988, S.C. Code Ann. sections 44-2-10 to 44-2-150 (2010).*

(*1*) Section 44-2-40, insofar as it provides for the creation of a SUPERB Account and SUPERB Financial Responsibility Fund (collectively, “State funds”), and establishes criteria for accessing the funds.


(*2*) Section 44-2-50(B), is external insofar as it contains obligations on the State agency, not a regulated entity.


(*3*) Section 44-2-60, insofar as it requires registration, beyond the Federal notification requirements, and the payment of registration fees for underground storage tanks.


(*4*) Section 44-2-75, insofar as it provides for a means of establishing insurance pools to demonstrate financial responsibility.


(*5*) Section 44-2-90, insofar as it refers to interest collected on State funds and the sunset date of the environmental impact fee.


(*6*) Section 44-2-110, insofar as it establishes criteria for qualified expenditure of funds from the SUPERB Account.


(*7*) Section 44-2-115, insofar as it regulates eligibility for the SUPERB Account.


(*8*) Section 44-2-120, insofar as it establishes requirements for site rehabilitation contractors.


(*9*) Section 44-2-130, insofar as it establishes criteria for compensation from the SUPERB Account.


(*10*) Section 44-2-150, insofar as it establishes provisions for the creation and operations of a SUPERB Advisory Committee.


(B) *South Carolina Underground Storage Tank Control Regulations, R.61-92 (2017).* (*1*) Section 280.10(d), insofar as it requires UST systems to be permitted or registered with DHEC.


(*2*) Section 280.20, as to the text “obtain permits in accordance with section 280.23 and” in the introductory paragraph, and the text “on the Permit to Operate application form in accordance with Section 280.23” in (f), insofar as they require UST systems to be permitted by DHEC.


(*3*) Sections 280.22(h) and (i), insofar as they require UST systems to be registered with DHEC.


(*4*) Section 280.23, insofar as it requires UST systems to be permitted by DHEC.


(*5*) Sections 280.101(b) through (e), insofar as they establish regulations for the administration of the State funds.


(*6*) Section 280.240(b), is external insofar as it contains obligations on the State agency, not a regulated entity.


(*7*) Section 280.300, insofar as it gives DHEC broad authority to grant variances that may be beyond the scope of that allowed by the Memorandum of Agreement between DHEC and EPA.


(2) *Statement of legal authority.* The Attorney General's Statement and Statement of Independent Legal Counsel, signed by DHEC's General Counsel in lieu of the Attorney General on March 27, 2019, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(3) *Demonstration of procedures for adequate enforcement.* The “Demonstration of Adequate Enforcement Procedures” submitted on April 16, 2019, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(4) *Program description.* The program description and any other material submitted on April 16, 2019, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(5) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 4 and the South Carolina DHEC, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on October 12, 2018, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*


---

[N] [86 FR 15600, Mar. 24, 2021]








