# § 515.564   Professional research and professional meetings in Cuba.

(a) *General license for professional research* (1) *Professional research.* The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to professional research are authorized, provided that:


(i) The purpose of the research directly relates to the traveler's profession, professional background, or area of expertise, including area of graduate-level full-time study; and


(ii) The traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule of professional research.


(2) *Professional meetings.* The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to attendance at, or organization of, professional meetings or conferences in Cuba are authorized, provided that:


(i) For a traveler attending a professional meeting or conference, the purpose of the meeting or conference directly relates to the traveler's profession, professional background, or area of expertise, including area of graduate-level full-time study;


(ii) For a traveler organizing a professional meeting or conference on behalf of an entity, either the traveler's profession must be related to the organization of professional meetings or conferences or the traveler must be an employee or contractor of an entity that is organizing the professional meeting or conference; and


(iii) The traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule of attendance at, or organization of, professional meetings or conferences.


(b) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.


(c) *Certain direct financial transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.


(d) *Certain travel-related transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.


(e) *Specific licenses.* Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to professional research or professional meetings in Cuba that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section .



---

[N] [80 FR 2296, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 4585, Jan. 27, 2016; 81 FR 71377, Oct. 17, 2016; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020; 87 FR 35089, June 9, 2022]




