# § 84.171   Required components and attributes.

The components of each air-purifying particulate respirator must meet the minimum construction requirements set forth in subpart G of this part. Each air-purifying particulate respirator described in § 84.170 must, where its design requires, contain the following component parts:


(a) *Respiratory inlet covering.* (1) Tight fitting respiratory inlet coverings must be designed and constructed to fit persons with various facial shapes and sizes either:


(i) By providing more than one size; or


(ii) By providing one size which will fit varying facial shapes and sizes.


(2) Full facepieces must provide for optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, which must not reduce the respiratory protective qualities of the respirator.


(3) Loose fitting respiratory inlet coverings must be designed and constructed to fit persons with various head sizes, provide for the optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, and insure against any restriction of movement by the wearer.


(4) Mouthpieces must be equipped with noseclips which are securely attached to the mouthpiece or respirator and provide an airtight seal.


(5) Respiratory inlet coverings that incorporate a lens or faceshield must be designed to prevent eyepiece fogging.


(6) Half-mask facepieces must not interfere with the fit of common industrial safety spectacles, including corrective safety spectacles.


(7) Respiratory inlet coverings must be designed and constructed to provide adequate vision which is not distorted by the eyepieces.


(b) *Filter unit.* The respirator manufacturer, as part of the application for certification, must specify the filter series and the filter efficiency level (*i.e.,* “N95,” “R95,” “P95,” “N99,” “R99,” “P99,” “N100,” “R100,” “P100,” “HE,” “PAPR100-N” or “PAPR100-P”) for which certification is being sought.


(1) Filters for non-powered respirators (series N, R, and P) must be prominently labeled as follows:


(i) N100 filters must be labeled “N100 Particulate Filter (99.97% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(ii) R100 filters must be labeled “R100 Particulate Filter (99.97% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(iii) P100 filters must be labeled “P100 Particulate Filter (99.97% filter efficiency level)” and must be color coded magenta.


(iv) N99 filters must be labeled “N99 Particulate Filter (99% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(v) R99 filters must be labeled “R99 Particulate Filter (99% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(vi) P99 filters must be labeled “P99 Particulate Filter (99% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(vii) N95 filters must be labeled as “N95 Particulate Filter (95% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(viii) R95 filters must be labeled as “R95 Particulate Filter (95% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(ix) P95 filters must be labeled as “P95 Particulate Filter (95% filter efficiency level)” and must be a color other than magenta.


(2) Filters for powered respirators (classes HE and PAPR100) must be prominently labeled as follows:


(i) HE filters must be labeled as “HE Particulate Filter (99.97% filter efficiency level)” and must be color coded magenta.


(ii) PAPR100-N filters must be labeled as “PAPR100-N Particulate Filter (99.97% filter efficiency level)” and must be color coded magenta.


(iii) PAPR100-P filters must be labeled as “PAPR100-P Particulate Filter (99.97% filter efficiency level)” and must be color coded magenta.


(c) *Valves.* (1) Inhalation and exhalation valves must be protected against distortion.


(2) Inhalation valves must be designed and constructed and provided where necessary to prevent excessive exhaled air from adversely affecting filters, except where filters are specifically designed to resist moisture.


(3) Exhalation valves must be:


(i) Provided where necessary;


(ii) Protected against damage and external influence; and


(iii) Designed and constructed to prevent inward leakage of contaminated air.


(d) *Head harness.* (1) All facepieces must be equipped with head harnesses designed and constructed to provide adequate tension during use and an even distribution of pressure over the entire area in contact with the face.


(2) Facepiece head harnesses, except those employed on filtering facepiece respirators, must be adjustable and replaceable.


(3) Mouthpieces must be equipped, where applicable, with adjustable and replaceable harnesses, designed and constructed to hold the mouthpiece in place.


(e) *Breathing tube.* Flexible breathing tubes used in conjunction with respirators must be designed and constructed to prevent:


(1) Restriction of free head movement;


(2) Disturbance of the fit of facepieces, mouthpieces, or loose fitting respiratory-inlet covering;


(3) Interference with the wearer's activities; and


(4) Shutoff of airflow due to kinking, or from chin or arm pressure.


(f) *Drink tube.* (1) For particulate respirators equipped with a drink tube, the respirator must meet all requirements of the standard with the drink tube in place.


(2) Dry drinking tube assembly will be subjected to a suction of 75 mm water column height while in a normal operating position (closed).


(3) Leakage through the drinking tube assembly must not exceed 30 mL per minute.


(g) *Container.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each respirator must be equipped with a substantial, durable container bearing markings which show the applicant's name, the type of respirator it contains, and all appropriate approval labels.


(2) Containers for respirators may provide for storage of more than one respirator; however, such containers must be designed and constructed to prevent contamination of respirators which are not removed, and to prevent damage to respirators during transit.


(h) *Harness.* (1) Each respirator must, where necessary, be equipped with a suitable harness designed and constructed to hold the components of the respirator in position against the wearer's body.


(2) Harnesses must be designed and constructed to permit easy removal and replacement of respirator parts, and, where applicable, provide for holding a full facepiece in the ready position when not in use.


(i) *Attached blower—PAPR classes HE and PAPR100.* Blowers must be designed to achieve the air flow rates required by the testing standards in § 84.175.


(j) *Low-flow warning device*—*PAPR class PAPR100.* (1) The design must include a low-flow warning. It must actively and readily indicate when flow inside the respiratory inlet covering falls below the minimum air flow defined in § 84.175.


(2) Any warning must be detectable by the wearer without any intervention by the wearer.


(3) Warning devices must be configured so that they may not be de-energized while the blower is energized.


(4) During use, warning devices must not switch off automatically and must not be capable of being switched off by the wearer.


(5) Any warnings which require different reactions by the wearer must be distinguishable from one another.


(6) If the warning provided is audible only, or other warnings are not readily apparent to the wearer, the minimum sound level must be 80 dBA.




