# § 850.502   National interest exemption.

(a) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of State, and the heads of relevant agencies, as appropriate, may determine that a covered transaction is in the national interest of the United States and therefore is exempt from applicable provisions in subparts C and D of this part (excluding §§ 850.406, 850.603, and 850.604). Such a determination may be made following a request by a U.S. person on its own behalf or on behalf of its controlled foreign entity.


(b) Any determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be based on a consideration of the totality of the relevant facts and circumstances and may be informed by, among other considerations, the transaction's effect on critical U.S. supply chain needs; domestic production needs in the United States for projected national defense requirements; United States' technological leadership globally in areas affecting U.S. national security; and impact on U.S. national security if the U.S. person is prohibited from undertaking the transaction.


(c) A U.S. person seeking a national interest exemption shall submit relevant information to the Department of the Treasury regarding the transaction and shall articulate the basis for the request, including the U.S. person's analysis of the transaction's potential impact on the national interest of the United States and the certification referred to in § 850.203. Information and other documents submitted by the U.S. person to the Department of the Treasury under this section shall be deemed part of the national interest exemption request. The U.S. person shall follow the instructions posted on the Department of the Treasury's Outbound Investment Security Program website. No communications or submissions other than those described in this section shall constitute a request for a national interest exemption. The Department of the Treasury may request additional information that may include some or all of the information required under § 850.405.


(d) A determination that a covered transaction is exempt under this section may be subject to binding conditions.


(e) No determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be valid unless provided to the subject U.S. person in writing and signed by the Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Security.


