# § 742.7   Crime control and detection.

(a) *License requirements.* In support of U.S. foreign policy to promote the observance of human rights throughout the world, a license is required to export and reexport crime control and detection equipment, related technology and software as follows:


(1) Crime control and detection instruments and equipment and related “technology” and “software” identified in the appropriate ECCNs on the CCL under CC Column 1 in the Country Chart column of the “License Requirements” section. A license is required to countries listed in CC Column 1 (Supplement No. 1 to part 738 of the EAR). Items affected by this requirement are identified on the CCL under the following ECCNs: 0A977, 0A978, 0A979, 0D977, 0E977, 1A984, 1A985, 3A980, 3A981, 3D980, 3E980, 4A003 (for fingerprint computers only), 4A980, 4D001 (for fingerprint computers only), 4D980, 4E001 (for fingerprint computers only), 4E980, 6A002 (for police-model infrared viewers only), 6E001 (for police-model infrared viewers only), 6E002 (for police-model infrared viewers only), and 9A980.


(2) Items designed for the execution of human beings as identified in ECCN 0A981 require a license to all destinations including Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Controls for these items appear in each ECCN; a column specific to these controls does not appear in the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).


(3) Certain crime control items require a license to all destinations, except Canada only. These items are identified under ECCNs 0A982, 0A503, and 0E982. Controls for these items appear in each ECCN; a column specific to these controls does not appear in the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).


(4) See § 742.11 of the EAR for further information on items controlled under ECCN 0A983, which require a license to all destinations, including Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Controls for these items appear in each ECCN; a column specific to these controls does not appear in the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).


(5) Items detailed under this paragraph are specific to certain firearms, shotguns, and related items. Crime control and detection instruments and equipment and related “technology” and “software” identified in the appropriate ECCNs on the CCL under CC Column 2 in the Country Chart column of the “License Requirements” section. A license is required to countries listed in CC Column 2 (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR). Items affected by this requirement are identified on the CCL under the following ECCNs: 0A501 (except 0A501.y), 0A502, 0A504, 0A505. a, .b, and .x, 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, 0A509, 0D501, 0D505, 0E501, 0E502, 0E504, and 0E505.


(b) *Licensing policy.* (1) Applications for items controlled under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section will generally be considered favorably on a case-by-case basis, unless there is civil disorder in the country or region or unless there is a risk that the items will be used to violate or abuse human rights. The judicious use of export controls is intended to deter human rights violations and abuses, distance the United States from such violations and abuses, and avoid contributing to civil disorder in a country or region.


(2) BIS will review license applications in accordance with the licensing policy in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for items that are not controlled under this section but that require a license pursuant to another section for any reason other than short supply and could be used by the recipient Government or other end user specifically to violate or abuse human rights.


(3) Applications for items controlled under paragraph (a)(5) of this section will be reviewed under the following license review policies:


(i) Applications destined for government end users will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine whether there is a risk of diversion or misuse of the items in a manner that would adversely impact U.S. national security or foreign policy.


(ii) Those applications destined for non-government end users will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, unless one of the following apply, in which case they will be reviewed under a presumption of denial:


(A) The destination is identified in supplement no. 3 to this part; or


(B) There is a substantial risk that the items will be diverted or misused in a manner that would adversely impact U.S. national security or foreign policy.


(c) *Contract sanctity.* Contract sanctity date: August 22, 2000. Contract sanctity applies only to items controlled under ECCNs 0A982, 0A503, and 0E982 destined for countries not listed in CC Column 1 of the Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).


(d) *U.S. controls.* In maintaining its controls on crime control and detection items, the United States considers international norms regarding human rights and the practices of other countries that control exports to promote the observance of human rights. However, these controls are not based on the decisions of any multinational export control regime and may differ from controls imposed by other countries.





---

[N] [89 FR 34705, Apr. 30, 2024]




