# ยง 221.107   Notice of contract terms.

(a) *Terms incorporated in the contract of carriage.* (1) A ticket, or other written instrument that embodies the contract of carriage for foreign air transportation shall contain or be accompanied by notice to the passenger as required in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.


(2) Each carrier shall make the full text of all terms that are incorporated in a contract of carriage readily available for public inspection at each airport or other ticket sales office of the carrier: Provided, That the medium, *i.e.,* printed or electronic, in which the incorporated terms and conditions are made available to the consumer shall be at the discretion of the carrier.


(3) Each carrier shall display continuously in a conspicuous public place at each airport or other ticket sales office of the carrier a notice printed in large type reading as follows:


(4) Each carrier shall provide to the passenger a complete copy of the text of any/all terms and conditions applicable to the contract of carriage, free of charge, immediately, if feasible, or otherwise promptly by mail or other delivery service, upon request at any airport or other ticket sales office of the carrier. In addition, all other locations where the carrier's tickets may be issued shall have available at all times, free of charge, information sufficient to enable the passenger to request a copy of such term(s).


(b) *Notice of incorporated terms.* Each carrier and ticket agent shall include on or with a ticket or other written instrument given to the passenger, that embodies the contract of carriage, a conspicuous notice that:


(1) The contract of carriage may incorporate terms and conditions by reference; passengers may inspect the full text of each applicable incorporated term at any of the carrier's airport locations or other ticket sales offices of the carrier; and passengers, shippers and consignees have the right to receive, upon request at any airport or other ticket sales office of the carrier, a free copy of the full text of any/all such terms by mail or other delivery service;


(2) The incorporated terms may include, among others, the terms shown in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section. Passengers may obtain a concise and immediate explanation of the terms shown in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section from any location where the carrier's tickets are sold.


(i) Limits on the carrier's liability for personal injury or death of passengers (subject to ยง 221.105), and for loss, damage, or delay of goods and baggage, including fragile or perishable goods.


(ii) Claim restrictions, including time periods within which passengers must file a claim or bring an action against the carrier for its acts or omissions or those of its agents.


(iii) Rules about re-confirmations or reservations, check-in times, and refusal to carry.


(iv) Rights of the carrier and limitations concerning delay or failure to perform service, including schedule changes, substitution of alternate carrier or aircraft, and rerouting.


(c) *Explanation of incorporated terms.* Each carrier shall ensure that any passenger can obtain from any location where its tickets are sold or any similar documents are issued, a concise and immediate explanation of any term incorporated concerning the subjects listed in paragraph (b)(2) or identified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Direct notice of certain terms.* A passenger must receive conspicuous written notice, on or with the ticket, or other similar document, of the salient features of any terms that restrict refunds of the price of the transportation, impose monetary penalties on customers, or permit a carrier to raise the price or impose more restrictive conditions of contract after issuance of the ticket.




