# § 600.127   Allowable costs.

(a) *General.* For each kind of recipient, there is a set of Federal principles for determining allowable costs. Allowability of costs shall be determined in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the entity incurring the costs. Thus, allowability of costs incurred by State, local or federally-recognized Indian tribal governments is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87, “Cost Principles for State and Local Governments.” The allowability of costs incurred by non-profit organizations is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-122, “Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.” The allowability of costs incurred by institutions of higher education is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.” The allowability of costs incurred by hospitals is determined in accordance with the provisions of Appendix E of 45 CFR part 74, “Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals.” The allowability of costs incurred by commercial organizations and those non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C to Circular A-122 is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 31. 


(b) *Indirect costs.* Unless restricted by Federal statute or program rule, DOE shall provide for the reimbursement of appropriate indirect costs. 


(1) DOE shall include an amount for indirect costs in an award only if the applicant requests reimbursement of such costs and—


(i) Submits evidence that a cognizant Federal agency has been assigned to establish indirect cost rates for the applicant and indicates or provides evidence that—


(A) A current agreement containing an applicable approved indirect cost rate(s) covering all or part of the budget period for which DOE may provide funding has been established; or 


(B) An indirect cost proposal has been submitted to the cognizant agency in order to establish an applicable approved indirect cost rate(s) covering all or part of the budget period for which DOE may provide funding; or


(C) An indirect cost proposal covering all or part of the budget period and applicable to the activities for which DOE may provide funding will be submitted to the cognizant agency for approval no later than three months after the beginning date of the initial budget period of the DOE award or, for subsequent budget periods, in accordance with any schedule established by the cognizant agency; or 


(ii) If not assigned to a cognizant agency, the applicant includes, in the application, data that is current, complete, accurate, and sufficient to allow the Contracting Officer to determine a rate(s) for indirect costs. If the total approved budget will not exceed $100,000 or if the amount requested for indirect costs does not exceed $5,000, DOE may waive the requirement for negotiation of a rate and, in lieu thereof, provide a reasonable allowance for such costs. 


(2) Indirect cost proposals shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles and instructions from the cognizant agency or from DOE, as appropriate. 


(3) If a subaward under an award or subaward provides for the payment of indirect costs, the recipient or subrecipient shall be responsible for negotiating appropriate indirect costs, using the cost principles applicable to the subrecipient or contractor, unless the subrecipient or contractor has negotiated an applicable rate directly with DOE or another Federal department or agency. DOE may review and audit the procedures a recipient or subrecipient uses in conducting indirect cost negotiations. 


(c) *Fee or profit.* No increment above cost may be paid to a recipient or subrecipient under a DOE award or subaward. A fee or profit may be paid to a contractor providing goods or services under a contract with a recipient or subrecipient. 



---

[N] [59 FR 53266, Oct. 21, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 50650, Aug. 21, 2003]




