# ยง 73.225   Jagua (genipin-glycine) blue.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive jagua (genipin-glycine) blue is a dark blue powder or liquid prepared from the juice of the unripe fruit of *Genipa americana* by reacting the genipin in the juice with glycine using mild heat. The color additive contains a polymer as the principal coloring component and three dimers as minor coloring components.


(2) Color additive mixtures for food use made with jagua (genipin-glycine) blue may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.


(b) *Specifications.* Jagua (genipin-glycine) blue must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(1) Arsenic, not more than 1 milligram/kilogram (mg/kg) (1 part per million (ppm)).


(2) Cadmium, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).


(3) Lead, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).


(4) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm).


(5) Genipin, not more than 20 mg/kg (20 ppm).


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* Jagua (genipin-glycine) blue may be safely used for coloring flavored milk; dairy drinks and substitutes; dairy and dairy alternative yogurt; ice cream, frozen dairy and dairy alternative desserts, puddings, gelatins, ices, sorbets; ready-to-eat multicolored cereals; flavored potato chips, tortilla, corn, and other chips; candy and chewing gum; non-alcoholic fruit based/flavored drinks, nutritional beverages and smoothies; flavored cream cheese-based spreads; and icings, frostings, jams, syrups, and fruit toppings and fillings at levels consistent with good manufacturing practice, except that it may not be used for coloring foods for which standards of identity have been issued under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, unless the use of added color is authorized by such standards.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes must conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.





---

[N] [88 FR 75494, Nov. 3, 2023]












