# ยง 1108.7   Arbitration procedures.

(a) *Initiation.* With the exception of rate dispute arbitration proceedings, the Board shall initiate the arbitration process within 40 days after submission of a written complaint or joint notice filed under ยง 1108.5(e). In arbitrations involving rate disputes, the Board shall initiate the arbitration process within 10 days after the Board issues a decision determining that the rail carrier has market dominance.


(b) *Arbitration evidentiary phase timetable.* Whether the parties select a single arbitrator or a panel of three arbitrators, the lead or single arbitrator shall establish all rules deemed necessary for each arbitration proceeding, including with regard to discovery, the submission of evidence, and the treatment of confidential information, subject to the requirement that this evidentiary phase shall be completed within 90 days from the date on which the arbitration process is initiated, unless a party requests an extension, and the arbitrator or panel of arbitrators, as applicable, grants such extension request.


(c) *Written decision timetable.* The lead or single arbitrator will be responsible for writing the arbitration decision. The unredacted arbitration decision must be served on the parties within 30 days of completion of the evidentiary phase. A redacted copy of the arbitration decision must be served upon the Board within 60 days of the close of the evidentiary phase for publication on the Board's Web site.


(d) *Extensions to the arbitration timetable.* The Board may extend any deadlines in the arbitration timetable provided in this subpart upon agreement of all parties to the dispute.


(e) *Protective orders.* Any party, on either side of an arbitration proceeding, may request that discovery and the submission of evidence be conducted pursuant to a standard protective order agreement.



---

[N] [81 FR 69416, Oct. 6, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 729, Jan. 4, 2023]




