# ยง 126.304   What must a concern submit to SBA in order to be certified as a HUBZone small business concern?

(a) *General.* To be certified by SBA as a HUBZone small business concern, a concern must submit a completed application and all documents requested by SBA. The concern must also represent to SBA that it meets the requirements set forth in ยง 126.200 and that all of the information provided as of the date of the application (and any subsequent information provided) is complete, true and accurate. The representation must be signed by an owner or officer of the applicant.


(b) *Supporting documents.* (1) SBA may request documents to verify that the applicant meets the HUBZone program's eligibility requirements. The documents must show that the concern meets the program's requirements at the time it submits its application to SBA.


(2) The concern must document compliance with the requirements listed in ยง 126.200, including but not limited to employment records and documentation showing the address of each HUBZone resident employee. Records sufficient to demonstrate HUBZone residency include copies of driver's licenses and voter registration cards; only where such documentation is unavailable will SBA accept alternative documentation (such as copies of leases, deeds, and/or utility bills) accompanied by signed statements explaining why the alternative documentation is being provided.


(c) *Changes after submission of application.* After submitting an application, a concern applying for HUBZone certification must immediately notify SBA of any changes that could affect its eligibility and provide information and documents to verify the changes. If the changed information indicates that the concern is not eligible, the applicant will be given the option to withdraw its application, or SBA will decline certification and the concern must wait 90 days to reapply.


(d) *HUBZone areas.* Concerns applying for HUBZone status must use SBA's website (*e.g.,* maps or other tools showing qualified HUBZones) to verify that the location of the concern's principal office and the residences of at least 35% of the concern's employees are within HUBZones. If SBA's website indicates that a particular location is not within a HUBZone and the applicant disagrees, then the applicant must note this on the application and submit relevant documents showing why the applicant believes the area meets the statutory criteria of a HUBZone. SBA will determine whether the location is within a HUBZone using available methods (*e.g.,* by contacting Bureau of Indian Affairs for Indian reservations or Department of Defense for BRACs).



---

[N] [84 FR 65244, Nov. 26, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 102500, Dec. 17, 2024]




