# § 351.503   Benefit.

(a) *Specific rules.* In the case of a government program for which a specific rule for the measurement of a benefit is contained in this subpart E, the Secretary will measure the extent to which a financial contribution (or income or price support) confers a benefit as provided in that rule. For example, § 351.504(a) prescribes the specific rule for measurement of the benefit of grants.




(b) *Other subsidies*—(1) *In general.* For other government programs, the Secretary normally will consider a benefit to be conferred where a firm pays less for its inputs (*e.g.,* money, a good, or a service) than it otherwise would pay in the absence of the government program, or receives more revenues than it otherwise would earn.


(2) *Exception.* Paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not intended to limit the ability of the Secretary to impose countervailing duties when the facts of a particular case establish that a financial contribution (or income or price support) has conferred a benefit, even if that benefit does not take the form of a reduction in input costs or an enhancement of revenues. When paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not applicable, the Secretary will determine whether a benefit is conferred by examining whether the alleged program or practice has common or similar elements to the four illustrative examples in sections 771(5)(E)(i) through (iv) of the Act.


(3) *Contingent liabilities and assets.* For the provision of a contingent liability or asset not otherwise addressed under a specific rule identified under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will treat the balance or value of the contingent liability or assets as an interest-free provision of funds and will calculate the benefit using, where appropriate, either a short-term or long-term commercial interest rate.




(c) *Distinction from effect of subsidy*—(1) *In general.* In determining whether a benefit is conferred, the Secretary is not required to consider the effect or impact of the government action on the firm's performance, including its costs, prices, output, or whether the firm's behavior is otherwise altered.


(2) *Subsidy provided to support compliance with a government-imposed mandate.* When a government provides assistance to a firm to comply with a government regulation, requirement or obligation, the Secretary, in measuring the benefit from the subsidy, will not consider whether the firm incurred a cost in complying with the government-imposed regulation, requirement, or obligation.




(d) *Varying financial contribution levels*—(1) *In general.* Where a government program provides varying levels of financial contributions based on different eligibility criteria, and one or more of such levels is not specific within the meaning of § 351.502, a benefit is conferred to the extent that a firm receives a greater financial contribution than the financial contributions provided at a non-specific level under the program. The preceding sentence shall apply only to the extent the Secretary determines that the varying levels of financial contributions are set forth in a statute, decree, regulation, or other official act; that the levels are clearly delineated and identifiable; and that the firm would have been eligible for the non-specific level of contributions.


(2) *Exception.* Paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not apply where the statute specifies a commercial test for determining the benefit.


(e) *Tax consequences.* In calculating the amount of a benefit, the Secretary will not consider the tax consequences of the benefit.



---

[N] [63 FR 65407, Nov. 25, 1998, as amended at 89 FR 20840, Mar. 25, 2024; 89 FR 101765, Dec. 16, 2024]








