# § 249.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part and all contracts, guidelines, instructions, forms and other documents related hereto, the term:


*Administrative costs* means those direct and indirect costs (as defined in—249.12(a)(1)(ii)), exclusive of food costs, which State agencies determine to be necessary to support SFMNP operations. Administrative costs include, but are not limited to, the costs associated with administration and start-up; the provision of nutrition education; SFMNP coupon issuance; participant education covering coupon redemption procedures; eligibility determinations; outreach services; printing SFMNP coupons, processing redeemed coupons, and training farmers, market managers, and/or farmers who operate CSA programs on the food delivery system; monitoring and reviewing program operations; required reporting and recordkeeping; determining which local sites will be utilized; recruiting and authorizing farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs to participate in the SFMNP; preparing contracts for farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs; developing a data processing system for redemption and reconciliation of coupons; designing program training and informational materials; and coordinating SFMNP implementation responsibilities between designated administering agencies.


*Bulk purchase* means a program model in which bulk quantities of certain produce items, such as apples or sweet potatoes, are purchased directly from authorized farmers by the State agency, and are then equitably divided among and distributed directly to eligible SFMNP participants, either at a central distribution point (such as a local senior center) or through some type of home delivery network.


*Community supported agriculture (CSA) program* means a program under which a farmer or group of farmers grows food for a group of shareholders (or subscribers) who pledge to buy a portion of the farmer's crop(s) for that season. State agencies may purchase shares or subscribe to a community supported agriculture program on behalf of individual SFMNP participants.


*Compliance buy* means a covert, on-site investigation in which a SFMNP representative poses as a SFMNP participant or authorized representative and attempts to transact one or more SFMNP coupons, or, in the case of CSA programs, attempts to obtain eligible foods purchased with SFMNP funds at a distribution site.


*Coupon* means a check or other negotiable financial instrument by which benefits under the program are transferred to program participants.


*Days* means calendar days.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Distribution site* means the location where packages of eligible foods are assembled for and/or distributed to SFMNP participants who are shareholders in CSA programs.


*Eligible foods* means fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs for human consumption. Eligible foods may not be processed or prepared beyond their natural state except for usual harvesting and cleaning processes. Dried fruits or vegetables, such as prunes (dried plums), raisins (dried grapes), sun-dried tomatoes, or dried chili peppers are not considered eligible foods. Potted fruit or vegetable plants, potted or dried herbs, wild rice, nuts of any kind (even raw), maple syrup, cider, seeds, eggs, meat, cheese and seafood are also not eligible foods for purposes of the SFMNP.


*Farmer* means an individual authorized to sell eligible foods at participating farmers' markets and/or roadside stands, and through CSAs. Individuals who exclusively sell produce grown by someone else, such as wholesale distributors, cannot be authorized to participate in the SFMNP. A participating State agency has the option to authorize individual farmers or farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs.


*Farmers' market* means an association of local farmers who assemble at a defined location for the purpose of selling their produce directly to consumers.


*Federally recognized Indian tribal government* means the same as the definition of that term found at 2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, subpart A, Acronyms and Definitions and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, i.e., the governing body or a governmental agency of any Indian tribe, band, organization, or other organized group or community (including any Native village as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 85 Stat. 688) certified by the Secretary of the Interior as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary through the Bureau of Indian Affairs.


*Fiscal year* means the period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.


*FNS* means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Food costs* means the cost of eligible foods purchased at authorized farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or through bulk purchases or CSA programs.


*Household* means a group of related or nonrelated individuals who are living together as one economic unit.


*Local agency* means any nonprofit entity or local government agency that certifies eligible participants, issues SFMNP coupons, arranges for distribution of eligible foods through CSA programs, and/or provides nutrition education or information on operational aspects of the Program to SFMNP participants.


*Locally grown* means grown within State borders. If the State agency chooses, *locally grown* may also mean grown in areas of States adjacent to that State, as long as such areas are part of the United States.


*Nonprofit agency* means a private agency that is exempt from the payment of Federal income tax under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1, *et seq.*).


*Nutrition education means:*

(1) Individual or group sessions; and


(2) The provision of relevant materials, in keeping with the individual's personal, cultural, and socioeconomic preferences and the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, that:


(i) Emphasize relationships between nutrition and health; and


(ii) Encourage participants to build healthful eating patterns, and to take action for good health.


*OIG* means FNS' Office of Inspector General.


*Participant* means a person or household who meets the eligibility requirements of the SFMNP and to whom coupons or equivalent benefits have been issued.


*Program or SFMNP* means the Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program authorized by Section 4402 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, 7 U.S.C. 3007.


*Proxy* means an individual authorized by an eligible senior to act on the senior's behalf, including application for certification, receipt of SFMNP coupons or other benefits, use of SFMNP coupons at authorized outlets, and/or acceptance of SFMNP foods provided through a CSA program, as long as the SFMNP benefits are ultimately received by the eligible senior. The terms *proxy* and *authorized representative* may be used interchangeably for purposes of this program.


*Roadside stand* means a location at which an individual farmer sells his/her produce directly to consumers. This is in contrast to a group or association of farmers selling their produce at a farmers' market or through a CSA program. The term *roadside stand* may be used interchangeably with the term *farmstand* as defined in § 248.2 of this chapter.


*Senior* means an individual 60 years of age or older, or as defined in § 249.6(a)(1).


*SFPD* means the Supplemental Food Programs Division of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Shareholder* means a SFMNP participant for whom a full or partial share in a community supported agriculture program has been purchased by the State agency, and who receives SFMNP benefits in the form of actual eligible foods rather than coupons that must be exchanged for eligible foods at farmers' markets and/or roadside stands.


*State* means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and as applicable, American Samoa or the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.


*State agency* means the agriculture, aging, or health department, or any other agency approved by the Chief Executive Officer of the State that has administrative responsibility for the SFMNP; an intertribal council or group that is an authorized representative of Indian tribes, bands, or groups recognized by FNS of the Interior and that has an ongoing relationship with such tribes, bands, or groups for other purposes and has contracted with them to administer the Program; or the appropriate area office of the Indian Health Service, a division of FNS of Health and Human Services.


*State Plan* means a plan of SFMNP operation and administration that describes the manner in which the State agency intends to implement, operate and administer all aspects of the SFMNP within its jurisdiction in accordance with § 249.4.


*WIC* means the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children authorized by Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786).


*WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP)* means the nutrition assistance program authorized by Section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)), to provide resources to women, infants, and children who are nutritionally at risk, in the form of fresh, nutritious, unprepared foods (such as fruits and vegetables) from farmers' markets; to expand the awareness and use of farmers' markets; and to increase sales at such markets. 



---

[N] [71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 48374, Sept. 23, 2009; 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]




