# § 441.311   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Basis and scope.* Section 1902(a)(6) of the Act requires State Medicaid agencies to make such reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary may from time to time require, and to comply with such provisions as the Secretary may from time to time find necessary to assure the correctness and verification of such reports. Section 1902(a)(19) of the Act requires States to provide safeguards to assure that eligibility for Medicaid-covered care and services will be determined and provided in a manner that is consistent with simplicity of administration and the best interests of Medicaid beneficiaries. This section describes the reporting requirements for States for section 1915(c) waiver programs, under the authority at section 1902(a)(6) and (a)(19) of the Act.


(b) *Compliance reporting*—(1) *Incident management system.* As described in § 441.302(a)(6)—


(i) The State must report, every 24 months, in the form and manner, and at a time, specified by CMS, on the results of an incident management system assessment to demonstrate that it meets the requirements in § 441.302(a)(6).


(ii) CMS may reduce the frequency of reporting to up to once every 60 months for States with incident management systems that are determined by CMS to meet the requirements in § 441.302(a)(6).


(2) *Critical incidents.* The State must report to CMS annually on the following information regarding critical incidents as defined in § 441.302(a)(6)(i)(A), in the form and manner, and at a time, specified by CMS:


(i) Number and percent of critical incidents for which an investigation was initiated within State-specified timeframes;


(ii) Number and percent of critical incidents that are investigated and for which the State determines the resolution within State-specified timeframes;


(iii) Number and percent of critical incidents requiring corrective action, as determined by the State, for which the required corrective action has been completed within State-specified timeframes.


(3) *Person-centered planning.* To demonstrate that the State meets the requirements at § 441.301(c)(3)(ii) regarding person-centered planning (as described in § 441.301(c)(1) through (3)), the State must report to CMS annually on the following, in the form and manner, and at a time, specified by CMS—


(i) Percent of beneficiaries continuously enrolled for at least 365 days for whom a reassessment of functional need was completed within the past 12 months. The State may report this metric using statistically valid random sampling of beneficiaries.


(ii) Percent of beneficiaries continuously enrolled for at least 365 days who had a service plan updated as a result of a re-assessment of functional need within the past 12 months. The State may report this metric using statistically valid random sampling of beneficiaries.


(4) Annually, the State will provide CMS with information on the waiver's impact on the type, amount, and cost of services provided under the State plan, in the form and manner, and at a time, specified by CMS.


(c) *Reporting on the Home and Community-Based Services Quality Measure Set,* as described in § 441.312.


(1) *General rules.* The State—


(i) Must report every other year, according to the format and schedule prescribed by the Secretary through the process for developing and updating the measure set described in § 441.312(d), on all measures in the Home and Community-Based Services Quality Measure Set that are identified by the Secretary pursuant to § 441.312(d)(1)(ii) of this subpart.


(ii) May report on all other measures in the Home and Community-Based Services Quality Measure Set that are not described in § 441.312(d)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this subpart.


(iii) Must establish, subject to CMS review and approval, State performance targets for each of the measures in the Home and Community-Based Services Quality Measure Set that are identified by the Secretary pursuant to § 441.312(d)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this subpart and describe the quality improvement strategies that the State will pursue to achieve the performance targets.


(iv) May establish State performance targets for each of the measures in the Home and Community-Based Services Quality Measure Set that are not identified by the Secretary pursuant to § 441.312(d)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this subpart and describe the quality improvement strategies that the State will pursue to achieve the performance targets.


(2) Measures identified per § 441.312(d)(1)(iii) of this subpart will be reported by the Secretary on behalf of the State.


(3) In reporting on Home and Community-Based Services Quality Measure Set measures, the State may, but is not required to:


(i) Report on the measures identified by the Secretary pursuant to § 441.312(c) of this subpart for which reporting will be, but is not yet required (that is, reporting has not yet been phased-in).


(ii) Report on the populations identified by the Secretary pursuant to § 441.312(c) of this subpart for whom reporting will be, but is not yet required.


(d) *Access reporting.* The State must report to CMS annually on the following, in the form and manner, and at a time, specified by CMS:


(1) *Waiver waiting lists.* (i) A description of how the State maintains the list of individuals who are waiting to enroll in the waiver program, if the State has a limit on the size of the waiver program, as described in § 441.303(f)(6), and maintains a list of individuals who are waiting to enroll in the waiver program. This description must include, but is not limited to:


(A) Information on whether the State screens individuals on the list for eligibility for the waiver program;


(B) Whether the State periodically re-screens individuals on the list for eligibility; and


(C) The frequency of re-screening, if applicable.


(ii) Number of people on the list of individuals who are waiting to enroll in the waiver program, if applicable.


(iii) Average amount of time that individuals newly enrolled in the waiver program in the past 12 months were on the list of individuals waiting to enroll in the waiver program, if applicable.


(2) *Access to homemaker, home health aide, personal care, and habilitation services.* (i) Average amount of time from when homemaker services, home health aide services, personal care services, and habilitation services, as set forth in § 440.180(b)(2) through (4) and (6), are initially approved to when services began, for individuals newly receiving services within the past 12 months. The State may report this metric using statistically valid random sampling of beneficiaries.


(ii) Percent of authorized hours for homemaker services, home health aide services, personal care services, and habilitation services, as set forth in § 440.180(b)(2) through (4) and (6), that are provided within the past 12 months. The State may report this metric using statistically valid random sampling of beneficiaries.


(e) *Payment adequacy*—(1) *Definitions.* As used in this paragraph (e)-


(i) *Compensation* means:


(A) Salary, wages, and other remuneration as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act and implementing regulations (29 U.S.C. 201 *et seq.,* 29 CFR parts 531 and 778);


(B) Benefits (such as health and dental benefits, life and disability insurance, paid leave, retirement, and tuition reimbursement); and


(C) The employer share of payroll taxes for direct care workers delivering services authorized under section 1915(c) of the Act.


(ii) *Direct care worker* means any of the following individuals who may be employed by a Medicaid provider, State agency, or third party; contracted with a Medicaid provider, State agency, or third party; or delivering services under a self-directed services delivery model:


(A) A registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist who provides nursing services to Medicaid beneficiaries receiving home and community-based services available under this subpart;


(B) A licensed or certified nursing assistant who provides such services under the supervision of a registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist;


(C) A direct support professional;


(D) A personal care attendant;


(E) A home health aide; or


(F) Other individuals who are paid to provide services to address activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living, behavioral supports, employment supports, or other services to promote community integration directly to Medicaid beneficiaries receiving home and community-based services available under this subpart, including nurses and other staff providing clinical supervision.


(iii) *Excluded costs* means costs that are not included in the calculation of the percentage of Medicaid payments to providers that are spent on compensation for direct care workers. Such costs are limited to:


(A) Costs of required trainings for direct care workers (such as costs for qualified trainers and training materials);


(B) Travel costs for direct care workers (such as mileage reimbursement or public transportation subsidies); and


(C) Cost of personal protective equipment for direct care workers.


(2) *Payment adequacy reporting.* (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (e)(4) of this section, the State must report to CMS annually on the percentage of total payments (not including excluded costs) for furnishing homemaker services, home health aide services, personal care, and habilitation services, as set forth in § 440.180(b)(2) through (4) and (6), that is spent on compensation for direct care workers, at the time and in the form and manner specified by CMS. The State must report separately for each service and, within each service, must separately report services that are self-directed and services delivered in a provider-operated physical location for which facility-related costs are included in the payment rate.


(ii) If *the* State provides that homemaker, home* health* aide, personal care services, or habilitation services, as set forth at § 440.180(b)(2) through (4) and (6), may be furnished under a self-directed services delivery model in which the beneficiary directing the services sets the direct care worker's payment rate, then the State must exclude such payment data from the reporting required in paragraph (e) of this section.


(3) *Payment adequacy reporting readiness.* One year prior to the applicability date for paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the State must report on its readiness to comply with the reporting requirement in (e)(2)(i) of this section.


(4) *Exclusion of data from the Indian Health Service and Tribal health programs that are subject to 25 U.S.C. 1641.* States must exclude the Indian Health Service and Tribal health programs subject to the requirements at 25 U.S.C. 1641 from the reporting required in paragraph (e) of this section, and not require submission of data by, or include any data from, the Indian Health Service or Tribal health programs subject to the requirements at 25 U.S.C. 1641 for the State's reporting required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(f) *Applicability dates.* (1) The State must comply with the reporting requirements at paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section beginning 3 years after July 9, 2024; and in the case of a State that implements a managed care delivery system under the authority of sections 1915(a), 1915(b), 1932(a), or 1115(a) of the Act and includes HCBS in the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's contract, the first rating period for contracts with the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP beginning on or after the date that is 3 years after July 9, 2024.


(2) The State must comply with the reporting requirements at paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section beginning 4 years after July 9, 2024; and in the case of a State that implements a managed care delivery system under the authority of sections 1915(a), 1915(b), 1932(a), or 1115(a) of the Act and includes HCBS in the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's contract, the first rating period for contracts with the MCO, PIHP or PAHP beginning on or after the date that is 4 years after July 9, 2024.



---

[N] [89 FR 40867, May 10, 2024]








