# § 674.56   Employment cancellation—Federal Perkins, NDSL and Defense loans.

(a) *Cancellation for full-time employment as a nurse or medical technician.* (1) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins or NDSL made on or after July 23, 1992, for full-time employment as a nurse or medical technician providing health care services.


(2) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a Federal Perkins, NDSL or Defense loan made prior to July 23, 1992, for full-time service as a nurse or medical technician performed on or after October 7, 1998, if the cancellation benefits provided under this section are not included in the borrower's promissory note.


(b) *Cancellation for full-time employment in a public or private nonprofit child or family service agency.* (1) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins loan or NDSL made on or after July 23, 1992, for service as a full-time employee in a public or private nonprofit child or family service agency who is providing services directly and exclusively to high-risk children who are from low-income communities and the families of these children, or who is supervising the provision of services to high-risk children who are from low-income communities and the families of these children. To qualify for a child or family service cancellation, a non-supervisory employee of a child or family service agency must be providing services only to high-risk children from low-income communities and the families of these children. The employee must work directly with the high-risk children from low-income communities, and the services provided to the children's families must be secondary to the services provided to the children.


(2) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding loan balance on a Federal Perkins, NDSL or Defense loan made prior to July 23, 1992, for employment in a child or family service agency on or after October 7, 1998, if the cancellation benefits provided under this section are not included in the terms of the borrower's promissory note.


(c) *Cancellation for service as a qualified professional provider of early intervention services.* (1) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins or NDSL made on or after July 23, 1992, for the borrower's service as a full-time qualified professional provider of early intervention services in a public or other nonprofit program under public supervision by the lead agency as authorized in section 632 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.


(2) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding loan balance on a Federal Perkins, NDSL or Defense loan made prior to July 23, 1992 for early intervention service performed on or after October 7, 1998, if the cancellation benefits provided under this section are not included in the terms of the borrower's promissory note.


(d) *Cancellation for full-time employment as a firefighter to a local, State, or Federal fire department or fire district.* An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins, NDSL, or Defense loan for service that includes August 14, 2008, or begins on or after that date, as a full-time firefighter.


(e) *Cancellation for full-time employment as a faculty member at a Tribal College or University.* An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins, NDSL, or Defense loan for service that includes August 14, 2008, or begins on or after that date, as a full-time faculty member at a Tribal College or University.


(f) *Cancellation for full-time employment as a librarian with a master's degree.* (1) An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins Loan, NDSL, or Defense loan for service that includes August 14, 2008, or begins on or after that date, as a full-time librarian, provided that the individual—


(i) Is a librarian with a master's degree; and


(ii) Is employed in an elementary school or secondary school that is eligible for assistance under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; or


(iii) Is employed by a public library that serves a geographic area that contains one or more schools eligible for assistance under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended.


(2) For the purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, the term *geographic area* is defined as the area served by the local school district.


(g) *Cancellation for full-time employment as a speech pathologist with a master's degree.* An institution must cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Federal Perkins Loan, NDSL, or Defense loan for full-time employment that includes August 14, 2008, or begins on or after that date, as a speech pathologist with a master's degree who is working exclusively with schools eligible for funds under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended.


(h) *Cancellation rates.* (1) To qualify for cancellation under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, a borrower must work full-time for 12 consecutive months.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [59 FR 61414, Nov. 30, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 58314, Oct. 28, 1999; 72 FR 61997, Nov. 1, 2007; 74 FR 55662, Oct. 28, 2009]




