# § 647.32   What other requirements must a grantee meet?

(a) *Number of Participants.* For each year of the project period, a grantee must serve at least the number of participants that the Secretary identifies in the _Federal Register_ notice inviting applications for a competition. Through this notice, the Secretary also provides the minimum and maximum grant award amounts for the competition.


(b) *Eligibility of participants.* (1) A grantee shall determine the eligibility of each student before the student is selected to participate. A grantee does not have to redetermine a student's eligibility once the student has been determined eligible in accordance with the provisions of § 647.3; and


(2) A grantee shall determine the status of a low-income individual on the basis of the documentation described in section 402A(e) of the HEA.


(c) *Recordkeeping.* For each student, a grantee shall maintain a record of—


(1) The basis for the grantee's determination that the student is eligible to participate in the project under § 647.3;


(2) The individual needs assessment;


(3) The services provided to the participant; and


(4) The specific educational progress made by the student during and after participation in the project.


(5) To the extent practicable, any services the participant receives during the project year from another Federal TRIO program or another federally funded program that serves populations similar to those served under the McNair program.


(d) *Other reporting requirements.* A grantee shall submit to the Secretary reports and other information as requested in order to demonstrate program effectiveness.


(e) *Project director.* A grantee shall designate a project director who has—


(1) Authority to conduct the project effectively; and


(2) Appropriate professional qualifications, experience and administrative skills to effectively fulfill the objectives of the project.



---

[N] [59 FR 43989, Aug. 25, 1994, as amended at 75 FR 65797, Oct. 26, 2010]




