# § 101.550   TWIC inspection requirements in special circumstances.

Owners or operators of any vessel, facility, or Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) facility subject to part 104, 105, or 106 of this subchapter must ensure that a Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) Program is implemented as follows:


(a) *Lost, damaged, stolen, or expired TWIC.* If an individual cannot present a TWIC because it has been lost, damaged, stolen, or expired, and the individual previously has been granted unescorted access to secure areas and is known to have had a TWIC, the individual may be granted unescorted access to secure areas for a period of no longer than 30 consecutive calendar days if—


(1) The individual provides proof that he or she has reported the TWIC as lost, damaged, or stolen to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) as required in 49 CFR 1572.19(f), or the individual provides proof that he or she has applied for the renewal of an expired TWIC;


(2) The individual can present another identification credential that meets the requirements of § 101.515; and


(3) There are no other suspicious circumstances associated with the individual's claim that the TWIC was lost, damaged, or stolen.


(b) *TWIC on the Canceled Card List.* In the event an individual reports his or her TWIC as lost, damaged, or stolen, and that TWIC is then placed on the Canceled Card List, the individual may be granted unescorted access by a Physical Access Control System (PACS) that meets the requirements of § 101.530 for a period of no longer than 30 days. The individual must be known to have had a TWIC, and known to have reported the TWIC as lost, damaged, or stolen to TSA.


(c) *Special requirements for Risk Group A vessels and facilities.* If a TWIC reader or a PACS cannot read an individual's biometric templates due to poor biometric quality or no biometrics enrolled, the owner or operator may grant the individual unescorted access to secure areas based on either of the following secondary authentication procedures:


(1) The owner or operator must conduct a visual TWIC inspection and require the individual to correctly submit his or her TWIC Personal Identification Number.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) If an individual cannot present a TWIC for any reason other than those outlined in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the vessel or facility operator may not grant the individual unescorted access to secure areas. The individual must be under escort at all times while in the secure area.


(e) With the exception of individuals granted access according to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, all individuals granted unescorted access to secure areas of a vessel, facility, or OCS facility must be able to produce their TWICs upon request from the TSA, the Coast Guard, another authorized Department of Homeland Security representative, or a Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.


(f) There must be disciplinary measures in place to prevent fraud and abuse.


(g) Owners or operators must establish the frequency of the application of any security measures for access control in their approved security plans, particularly if these security measures are applied on a random or occasional basis.


(h) The vessel, facility, or OCS facility operator should coordinate the TWIC Program, when practical, with identification and TWIC access control measures of other entities that interface with the vessel, facility, or OCS facility.



---

[N] [USCG-2007-28915, 81 FR 57709, Aug. 23, 2016]




