# § 3285.102   Installation of manufactured homes in flood hazard areas.

(a) *Definitions.* Except to the extent otherwise defined in Subpart A, the terms used in this subpart are as defined in 44 CFR 59.1 of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) regulations.


(b) *Applicability.* The provisions of this section apply to the initial installation of new manufactured homes located wholly or partly within a flood hazard area.


(c) *Pre-installation considerations.* Prior to the initial installation of a new manufactured home, the installer is responsible for determining whether the manufactured home site lies wholly or partly within a special flood hazard area as shown on the LAHJ's Flood Insurance Rate Map, Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or Flood Hazard Boundary Map, or if no LAHJ, in accordance with NFIP regulations. If so located, and before an installation method is agreed upon, the map and supporting studies adopted by the LAHJ must be used to determine the flood hazard zone and base flood elevation at the site.


(d) *General elevation and foundation requirements*—(1) *Methods and practices.* Manufactured homes located wholly or partly within special flood hazard areas must be installed on foundations engineered to incorporate methods and practices that minimize flood damage during the base flood, in accordance with the requirements of the LAHJ, 44 CFR 60.3(a) through (e), and other provisions of 44 CFR referenced by those paragraphs.


(2) *Outside appliances.* (i) Appliances installed on the manufactured home site in flood hazard areas must be anchored and elevated to or above the same elevation as the lowest elevation of the lowest floor of the home.


(ii) Appliance air inlets and exhausts in flood hazard areas must be located at or above the same elevation as the lowest elevation of the lowest floor of the home.


(3) *Related guidance.* Refer to FEMA 85/September 1985, Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas, 1985 (incorporated by reference, see § 3285.4).




