# § 252.170   Applicability and general provisions.

(a) *In general.* (1) This subpart establishes single counterparty credit limits for a covered foreign entity.


(2) For purposes of this subpart:


(i) *Covered foreign entity* means:


(A) A Category II foreign banking organization;


(B) A Category III foreign banking organization;


(C) A foreign banking organization with total consolidated assets that equal or exceed $250 billion;


(D) A Category II U.S. intermediate holding company; and


(E) A Category III U.S. intermediate holding company.


(ii) *Major foreign banking organization* means a foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity and meets the requirements of § 252.172(c)(3) through (5).


(b) *Credit exposure limits.* (1) Section 252.172 establishes credit exposure limits for covered foreign entities and major foreign banking organizations.


(2) A covered foreign entity is required to calculate its aggregate net credit exposure, gross credit exposure, and net credit exposure to a counterparty using the methods in this subpart.


(c) *Applicability of this subpart*—(1) *Foreign banking organizations.* (i) A foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.172, beginning on January 1, 2022, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, a foreign banking organization that is a major foreign banking organization as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.172, beginning on July 1, 2021, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.


(2) *U.S. intermediate holding companies.* (i) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is a covered foreign entity as of October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart, including but not limited to § 252.172, beginning on July 1, 2020, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.


(ii) [Reserved]


(iii) A U.S. intermediate holding company that becomes a covered foreign entity subject to this subpart after October 5, 2018, must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on the first day of the ninth calendar quarter after it becomes a covered foreign entity, unless that time is accelerated or extended by the Board in writing.


(d) *Cessation of requirements*—(1) *Foreign banking organizations.* (i) Any foreign banking organization that becomes a covered foreign entity will remain subject to the requirements of this subpart unless and until:


(A) The covered foreign entity is not a Category II foreign banking organization;


(B) The covered foreign entity is not a Category III foreign banking organization; and


(C) Its total consolidated assets fall below $250 billion for each of four consecutive quarters, as reported on the covered foreign entity's FR Y-7Q, effective on the as-of date of the fourth consecutive FR Y-7Q.


(ii) A foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity and that has ceased to be a major foreign banking organization for purposes of § 252.172(c) is no longer subject to the requirements of § 252.172(c) beginning on the first day of the calendar quarter following the reporting date on which it ceased to be a major foreign banking organization; provided that the foreign banking organization remains subject to the requirements of this subpart, unless it ceases to be a foreign banking organization that is a covered foreign entity pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) *U.S. intermediate holding companies.* (i) Any U.S. intermediate holding company that becomes a covered foreign entity will remain subject to the requirements of this subpart unless and until:


(A) The covered foreign entity is not a Category II U.S. intermediate holding company; or


(B) The covered foreign entity is not a Category III U.S. intermediate holding company.



---

[N] [84 FR 59119, Nov. 1, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 31952, May 28, 2020]




