# § 16.45   Privacy Act access appeals.

(a) *Requirement for making a Privacy Act access appeal.* A requester may appeal an adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for access to the Office of Information Policy (“OIP”). The contact information for OIP is contained in the FOIA Reference Guide, which is available at *https://www.justice.gov/oip/04_3.html.* Appeals may also be submitted through the web portal accessible on OIP's website. Examples of an adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for access are provided in § 16.43. The requester must make the appeal in writing. To be considered timely, the requester must postmark, or in the case of electronic submissions, submit the request, within 90 calendar days after the date of the adverse determination. The appeal should indicate the assigned request number and clearly identify the component's determination that is being appealed. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or include in the subject line of any electronic communication, “Privacy Act Access Appeal.”


(b) *Adjudication of Privacy Act access appeals.* (1) The Director of OIP, or a designee of the Director of OIP, shall act on behalf of the Attorney General on all Privacy Act access appeals under this section, unless the Attorney General directs otherwise.


(2) Should the Attorney General exercise the right to respond to a Privacy Act request for access, the Attorney General's decision shall serve as the final action of the Department and will not be subject to a Privacy Act access appeal.


(3) A Privacy Act access appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of litigation.


(c) *Responses to Privacy Act access appeals.* (1) OIP shall make its decision on an appeal in writing.


(2) A decision that upholds a component's adverse determination to the Privacy Act request for access, in whole or in part, shall include a brief statement of the reason(s) for the affirmance, including any Privacy Act exemption applied, and shall provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit.


(3) A decision that reverses or modifies, in whole or in part, a component's adverse determination to the Privacy Act request for access shall include notice to the requester of the specific reversal or modification. The component(s) shall thereafter further process the request, in accordance with the appeal decision, and respond directly to the requester, as appropriate.


(d) *When a Privacy Act access appeal is required.* Before seeking review by a court of a component's refusal to grant a Privacy Act request for access, a requester generally must first submit a timely appeal in accordance with this section.






