# ยง 95.307   Authorized station locations.

Personal Radio Service stations generally may be operated in any location included within the descriptions in the following paragraphs in this section. In certain specific locations, however, co-ordination procedures or operating restrictions may apply, as set forth in ยง 95.309. Operation of Personal Radio Service stations in any location outside of those described in the following paragraphs is not authorized by this part.


(a) *Within the United States and its territories.* Those areas include the fifty United States and the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Navassa Island, the United States Virgin Islands (50 islets and cays), American Samoa (seven islands), Baker Island, the Commonwealth of Northern Marianna Islands, Guam Island and Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Island (Islets East, Johnston, North and Sand), Kingman Reef, Midway Island (Islets Eastern and Sand), Palmyra Island (more than 50 islets), and Wake Island (Islets Peale, Wake and Wilkes).


(b) *Aboard any vessel or aircraft registered in the United States.* With the permission of the captain, while the vessel or aircraft is within or over the United States or its territories, U.S. territorial waters, or upon or over international waters.


(c) *Aboard any unregistered vessel or aircraft owned or operated by a United States citizen or company.* While that vessel or aircraft is within or over the United States or its territories, U.S. territorial waters or upon or over international waters.


(d) *Other locations.* Any other area of the world, except within the territorial limits of areas where radio services are regulated by:


(1) An agency of the United States other than the FCC. (You are subject to its rules.)


(2) Any foreign government. (You are subject to its rules.)




