# ยง 17.263   Suspension and termination procedures.

Termination of a grant means the cancellation of Department of Veterans Affairs sponsorship, in whole or in part, under an agreement at any time prior to the date of completion. Suspension of a grant is an action by the Department of Veterans Affairs which temporarily suspends Department of Veterans Affairs sponsorship under the grant pending corrective action by the grantee or pending a decision to terminate the grant by the Department of Veterans Affairs.


(a) *Posttermination appeal.* The following procedures are applicable for reviewing postaward disputes which may arise in the administration of or carrying out of the Exchange of Medical Information Grant Program.


(1) *Reviewable decisions.* The Department of Veterans Affairs reserves the right to terminate any grant in whole or in part at any time before the date of completion, whenever it determines that the grantee has failed to comply with conditions of the agreement, or otherwise failed to comply with any law, regulation, assurance, term, or condition applicable to the grant.


(2) *Notice.* The Department of Veterans Affairs shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of the determination. The notice shall set forth the reason for the determination in sufficient detail to enable the grantee to respond, and shall inform the grantee of his or her opportunity for review by the Assistant Chief Medical Director as provided in this section.


(3) *Request for appeal.* A grantee with respect to whom a determination described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section has been made, and who desires review, may file with the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs an application for review of such determination. The grantee's application for review must be post-marked no later than 30 days after the postmarked date of notification provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(4) *Contents of request.* The application for review must clearly identify the question or questions in dispute, contain a full statement of the grantee's position in respect to such question or questions, and provide pertinent facts and reasons in support of his or her position. The Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs will promptly send a copy of the grantee's application to the Department of Veterans Affairs official responsible for the determination which is to be reviewed. 


(5) *Effect of submission.* When an application for review has been filed no action may be taken by the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to such determination until such application has been disposed of, except that the filing of the application shall not affect the authority which the constituent agency may have to suspend the system under a grant during proceedings under this section or otherwise to withhold or defer payments under the grant.


(6) *Consideration of request.* When an application for review has been filed with the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs, and it has been determined that the application meets the requirements stated in this paragraph, all background material of the issues shall be reviewed. If the application does not meet the requirements, the grantee shall be notified of the deficiencies.


(7) *Presentation of case.* If the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs believes there is no dispute as to material fact, the resolution of which would be materially assisted by oral testimony, both parties shall be notified of the issues to be considered, and take steps to afford both parties the opportunity for presenting their cases, at the option of the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs, in whole or in part in writing, or in an informal conference. Where it is concluded that oral testimony is required to resolve a dispute over a material fact, both parties shall be afforded an opportunity to present and cross-examine witnesses at a hearing.


(8) *Decision.* After both parties have presented their cases, the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs shall prepare an initial written decision which shall include findings of fact and conclusions based thereon. Copies of the decision shall be mailed promptly to each of the parties together with a notice informing them of their right to appeal the decision of the Secretary, or to the officer or employee to whom the Secretary has delegated such authority, by submitting written comments thereon within a specified reasonable time.


(9) *Final decision.* Upon filing comments with the Secretary, or designated officer or employee, the review of the initial decision shall be conducted on the basis of the decision, the hearing record, if any, and written comments submitted by both parties. The decision shall be final.


(10) *Participation by a party.* Either party may participate in person, or by counsel pursuant to the procedure set forth in this section.


(b) *Termination for convenience.* The Department of Veterans Affairs or the grantee may terminate a grant in whole or in part when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial terminations, the portion to be terminated. The grantee shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall allow full credit to the grantee for the Department of Veterans Affairs share of the noncancellable obligations, properly incurred by the grantee prior to termination.


(c) *Suspension procedures.* When a grantee has failed to comply with the terms of the grant agreement and conditions or standards, the Department of Veterans Affairs may, on reasonable notice to the grantee, suspend the grant and withhold further payments, prohibit the grantee from incurring additional obligations of funds, pending corrective action by the grantee, or make a decision to terminate as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall allow all necessary and proper costs that the grantee could not reasonably avoid during the period of suspension provided that they meet the provisions of the applicable Federal cost principles.



---

[N] [42 FR 54805, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]




