# § 100.721   Special Local Regulations; Clearwater Super Boat National Championship, Gulf of Mexico; Clearwater Beach, FL.

(a) *Regulated Areas.* The following regulated areas are established as special local regulations. All coordinates are North American Datum 1983.


(1) *Race Area.* All waters of the Gulf of Mexico contained within the following points: 27°58.67′ N, 82°50.32′ W, thence to position 27°58.60′ N, 82°49.98′ W, thence to position 28°00.88′ N, 82°50.35′ W, thence to position 28°00.80′ N, 82°49.90′ W, thence back to the original position, 28°58.67′ N, 82°50.32′ W.


(2) *Spectator Area.* All waters of Gulf of Mexico seaward no less than 150 yards from the race area and as agreed upon by the Coast Guard and race officials.


(3) *Enforcement Area.* All waters of the Gulf of Mexico encompassed within the following points: 28°58.67′ N, 82°50.62′ W, thence to position 28°00.95′ N, 82°49.75′ W, thence to position 27°58.53′ N, 82°50.53′ W, thence to position 27°58.38′ N, 82°49.88′ W, thence back to position 28°58.67′ N, 82°50.62′ W.


(b) *Definition.* The term “designated representative” means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, and Federal, state, and local officers designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg in the enforcement of the regulated areas.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) All persons and vessels are prohibited from entering, transiting through, anchoring in, or remaining within the Race Area unless an authorized race participant.


(2) Designated representatives may control vessel traffic throughout the enforcement area as determined by the prevailing conditions.


(3) All vessels are to be anchored and/or operate at a No Wake Speed in the spectator area. On-scene designated representatives will direct spectator vessels to the spectator area.


(4) Persons and vessels may request authorization to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain within the regulated areas by contacting the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg by telephone at (727) 824-7506, or a designated representative via VHF radio on channel 16. If authorization is granted by the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg or a designated representative, all persons and vessels receiving such authorization must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg or a designated representative.


(d) *Enforcement Date.* This section will be enforced annually from approximately 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. EDT daily the last Saturday and Sunday of September.



---

[N] [USCG-2014-0657, 80 FR 3882, Jan. 26, 2015]




