# § 1210.3   Definitions.

(a) *Secretary.* Secretary means the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 


(b) *Commissioner.* Commissioner means the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. 


(c) *Milk.* For the purposes of the act and of the regulations in this part: 


(d) *Condensed milk.* Condensed milk, as the term is used in section 3, paragraph 2, of the Federal Import Milk Act, includes evaporated milk in the manufacture of which sterilization of the milk and cream is a necessary and usual process; it includes sweetened condensed milk only if it is prepared by a process which insures sterilization of the milk and cream. Condensed milk, as the term is used in section 3, paragraph 3, of the Federal Import Milk Act, means sweetened condensed milk. 


(e) *Sweetened condensed milk.* Sweetened condensed milk conforms to the definition and standard of identity for such food as set out in § 131.120 of this chapter. 


(f) *Evaporated milk.* Evaporated milk conforms to the definition and standard of identity for such food as set out in § 131.130 of this chapter. 


(g) *Cream.* Cream is that portion of the milk, rich in milk fat, which rises to the surface of milk on standing or is separated from it by centrifugal force. (See §§ 131.150 through 131.157 of this chapter). 


(h) *Pasteurization.* Pasteurization is the process of heating every particle of milk or cream to at least 143 °F., and holding it at such temperature continuously for at least 30 minutes, or to at least 161 °F., and holding it at such temperature continuously for at least 15 seconds. 


(i) *Shipper.* A shipper is anyone, other than a common carrier, who ships, transports, or causes to be shipped or transported into the United States milk or cream owned by him. 



---

[N] [38 FR 32104, Nov. 20, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 14091, Mar. 15, 1977] 




