# § 60.5420a   What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?

(a) *Notifications.* You must submit the notifications according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section if you own or operate one or more of the affected facilities specified in § 60.5365a that was constructed, modified, or reconstructed during the reporting period.


(1) If you own or operate an affected facility that is the group of all equipment within a process unit at an onshore natural gas processing plant, or a sweetening unit, you must submit the notifications required in §§ 60.7(a)(1), (3), and (4) and 60.15(d). If you own or operate a well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, pneumatic controller, pneumatic pump, storage vessel, collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site, or collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station, you are not required to submit the notifications required in §§ 60.7(a)(1), (3), and (4) and 60.15(d).


(2)(i) If you own or operate a well affected facility, you must submit a notification to the Administrator no later than 2 days prior to the commencement of each well completion operation listing the anticipated date of the well completion operation. The notification shall include contact information for the owner or operator; the United States Well Number; the latitude and longitude coordinates for each well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983; and the planned date of the beginning of flowback. You may submit the notification in writing or in electronic format.


(ii) If you are subject to state regulations that require advance notification of well completions and you have met those notification requirements, then you are considered to have met the advance notification requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) An owner or operator electing to comply with the provisions of § 60.5399a shall notify the Administrator of the alternative fugitive emissions standard selected within the annual report, as specified in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.


(b) *Reporting requirements.* You must submit annual reports containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) and (12) of this section and performance test reports as specified in paragraph (b)(9) or (10) of this section, if applicable. You must submit annual reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (b)(11) of this section. The initial annual report is due no later than 90 days after the end of the initial compliance period as determined according to § 60.5410a. Subsequent annual reports are due no later than same date each year as the initial annual report. If you own or operate more than one affected facility, you may submit one report for multiple affected facilities provided the report contains all of the information required as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) and (12) of this section. Annual reports may coincide with title V reports as long as all the required elements of the annual report are included. You may arrange with the Administrator a common schedule on which reports required by this part may be submitted as long as the schedule does not extend the reporting period.


(1) The general information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section is required for all reports.


(i) The company name, facility site name associated with the affected facility, U.S. Well ID or U.S. Well ID associated with the affected facility, if applicable, and address of the affected facility. If an address is not available for the site, include a description of the site location and provide the latitude and longitude coordinates of the site in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(ii) An identification of each affected facility being included in the annual report.


(iii) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(iv) A certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.


(2) For each well affected facility that is subject to § 60.5375a(a) or (f), the records of each well completion operation conducted during the reporting period, including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xiv) of this section, if applicable. In lieu of submitting the records specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xiv) of this section, the owner or operator may submit a list of each well completion with hydraulic fracturing completed during the reporting period, and the digital photograph required by paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section for each well completion. For each well affected facility that routes flowback entirely through one or more production separators, only the records specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) and (vi) of this section are required to be reported. For periods where salable gas is unable to be separated, the records specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) and (viii) through (xii) of this section must also be reported, as applicable. For each well affected facility that is subject to § 60.5375a(g), the record specified in paragraph (b)(2)(xv) of this section is required to be reported.


(i) Well Completion ID.


(ii) Latitude and longitude of the well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using North American Datum of 1983.


(iii) U.S. Well ID.


(iv) The date and time of the onset of flowback following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing or identification that the well immediately starts production.


(v) The date and time of each attempt to direct flowback to a separator as required in § 60.5375a(a)(1)(ii).


(vi) The date and time that the well was shut in and the flowback equipment was permanently disconnected, or the startup of production.


(vii) The duration (in hours) of flowback.


(viii) The duration (in hours) of recovery and disposition of recovery (*i.e.,* routed to the gas flow line or collection system, re-injected into the well or another well, used as an onsite fuel source, or used for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve).


(ix) The duration (in hours) of combustion.


(x) The duration (in hours) of venting.


(xi) The specific reasons for venting in lieu of capture or combustion.


(xii) For any deviations recorded as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the date and time the deviation began, the duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(xiii) For each well affected facility subject to § 60.5375a(f), a record of the well type (*i.e.,* wildcat well, delineation well, or low pressure well (as defined § 60.5430a)) and supporting inputs and calculations, if applicable.


(xiv) For each well affected facility for which you claim an exception under § 60.5375a(a)(3), the specific exception claimed and reasons why the well meets the claimed exception.


(xv) For each well affected facility with less than 300 scf of gas per stock tank barrel of oil produced, the supporting analysis that was performed in order the make that claim, including but not limited to, GOR values for established leases and data from wells in the same basin and field.


(3) For each centrifugal compressor affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) An identification of each centrifugal compressor using a wet seal system constructed, modified, or reconstructed during the reporting period.


(ii) For each deviation that occurred during the reporting period and recorded as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the date and time the deviation began, the duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(iii) If required to comply with § 60.5380a(a)(2), the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Dates of each inspection required under § 60.5416a(a) and (b);


(B) Each defect or leak identified during each inspection, date of repair or the date of anticipated repair if the repair is delayed; and


(C) Date and time of each bypass alarm or each instance the key is checked out if you are subject to the bypass requirements of § 60.5416a(a)(4).


(iv) If complying with § 60.5380a(a)(1) with a control device tested under § 60.5413a(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413a(d)(11) and (e), the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Identification of the compressor with the control device.


(B) Make, model, and date of purchase of the control device.


(C) For each instance where the inlet gas flow rate exceeds the manufacturer's listed maximum gas flow rate, where there is no indication of the presence of a pilot flame, or where visible emissions exceeded 1 minute in any 15-minute period, include the date and time the deviation began, the duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(D) For each visible emissions test following return to operation from a maintenance or repair activity, the date of the visible emissions test, the length of the test, and the amount of time for which visible emissions were present.


(v) If complying with § 60.5380a(a)(1) with a control device not tested under § 60.5413a(d), identification of the compressor with the tested control device, the date the performance test was conducted, and pollutant(s) tested. Submit the performance test report following the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section.


(4) For each reciprocating compressor affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The cumulative number of hours of operation or the number of months since initial startup, since August 2, 2016, or since the previous reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, whichever is latest. Alternatively, a statement that emissions from the rod packing are being routed to a process through a closed vent system under negative pressure.


(ii) If applicable, for each deviation that occurred during the reporting period and recorded as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, the date and time the deviation began, duration of the deviation and a description of the deviation.


(iii) If required to comply with § 60.5385a(a)(3), the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Dates of each inspection required under § 60.5416a(a) and (b);


(B) Each defect or leak identified during each inspection, and date of repair or date of anticipated repair if repair is delayed; and


(C) Date and time of each bypass alarm or each instance the key is checked out if you are subject to the bypass requirements of § 60.5416a(a)(4).


(5) For each pneumatic controller affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) An identification of each pneumatic controller constructed, modified, or reconstructed during the reporting period, including the month and year of installation, reconstruction or modification and identification information that allows traceability to the records required in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) or (iv) of this section.


(ii) If applicable, reason why the use of pneumatic controller affected facilities with a natural gas bleed rate greater than the applicable standard are required.


(iii) For each instance where the pneumatic controller was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5390a, a description of the deviation, the date and time the deviation began, and the duration of the deviation.


(6) For each storage vessel affected facility, the information in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (ix) of this section.


(i) An identification, including the location, of each storage vessel affected facility for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced during the reporting period. The location of the storage vessel shall be in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(ii) Documentation of the VOC emission rate determination according to § 60.5365a(e)(1) for each storage vessel that became an affected facility during the reporting period or is returned to service during the reporting period.


(iii) For each deviation that occurred during the reporting period and recorded as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the date and time the deviation began, duration of the deviation and a description of the deviation.


(iv) A statement that you have met the requirements specified in § 60.5410a(h)(2) and (3).


(v) For each storage vessel constructed, modified, reconstructed, or returned to service during the reporting period complying with § 60.5395a(a)(2) with a control device tested under § 60.5413a(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413a(d)(11) and (e), the information in paragraphs (b)(6)(v)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Identification of the storage vessel with the control device.


(B) Make, model, and date of purchase of the control device.


(C) For each instance where the inlet gas flow rate exceeds the manufacturer's listed maximum gas flow rate, where there is no indication of the presence of a pilot flame, or where visible emissions exceeded 1 minute in any 15-minute period, include the date and time the deviation began, the duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(D) For each visible emissions test following return to operation from a maintenance or repair activity, the date of the visible emissions test, the length of the test, and the amount of time for which visible emissions were present.


(vi) If complying with § 60.5395a(a)(2) with a control device not tested under § 60.5413a(d), identification of the storage vessel with the tested control device, the date the performance test was conducted, and pollutant(s) tested. Submit the performance test report following the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section.


(vii) If required to comply with § 60.5395a(b)(1), the information in paragraphs (b)(6)(vii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Dates of each inspection required under § 60.5416a(c);


(B) Each defect or leak identified during each inspection, and date of repair or date of anticipated repair if repair is delayed; and


(C) Date and time of each bypass alarm or each instance the key is checked out if you are subject to the bypass requirements of § 60.5416a(c)(3).


(viii) You must identify each storage vessel affected facility that is removed from service during the reporting period as specified in § 60.5395a(c)(1)(ii), including the date the storage vessel affected facility was removed from service.


(ix) You must identify each storage vessel affected facility returned to service during the reporting period as specified in § 60.5395a(c)(3), including the date the storage vessel affected facility was returned to service.


(7) For the collection of fugitive emissions components at each well site and the collection of fugitive emissions components at each compressor station, report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i)(A) Designation of the type of site (*i.e.,* well site or compressor station) at which the collection of fugitive emissions components is located.


(B) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site that became an affected facility during the reporting period, you must include the date of the startup of production or the date of the first day of production after modification. For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station that became an affected facility during the reporting period, you must include the date of startup or the date of modification.


(C) [Reserved]


(D) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site where during the reporting period you complete the removal of all major production and processing equipment such that the well site contains only one or more wellheads, you must include the date of the change to status as a wellhead only well site.


(E) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site where you previously reported under paragraph (b)(7)(i)(C) of this section the removal of all major production and processing equipment and during the reporting period major production and processing equipment is added back to the well site, the date that the first piece of major production and processing equipment is added back to the well site.


(ii) For each fugitive emissions monitoring survey performed during the annual reporting period, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section.


(A) Date of the survey.


(B) Monitoring instrument used.


(C) Any deviations from the monitoring plan elements under § 60.5397a(c)(1), (2), and (7) and (c)(8)(i) or a statement that there were no deviations from these elements of the monitoring plan.


(D) Number and type of components for which fugitive emissions were detected.


(E) Number and type of fugitive emissions components that were not repaired as required in § 60.5397a(h).


(F) Number and type of fugitive emission components (including designation as difficult-to-monitor or unsafe-to-monitor, if applicable) on delay of repair and explanation for each delay of repair.


(G) Date of planned shutdown(s) that occurred during the reporting period if there are any components that have been placed on delay of repair.


(iii) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site or collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station complying with an alternative fugitive emissions standard under § 60.5399a, in lieu of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must provide the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The alternative standard with which you are complying.


(B) The site-specific reports specified by the specific alternative fugitive emissions standard, submitted in the format in which they were submitted to the state, local, or tribal authority. If the report is in hard copy, you must scan the document and submit it as an electronic attachment to the annual report required in paragraph (b) of this section.


(C) If the report specified by the specific alternative fugitive emissions standard is not site-specific, you must submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section for each individual site complying with the alternative standard.


(iv) If you comply with the alternative GHG and VOC standard under § 60.5398b, in lieu of the information specified in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section, you must provide the information specified in § 60.5424b.


(8) For each pneumatic pump affected facility, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) For each pneumatic pump that is constructed, modified or reconstructed during the reporting period, you must provide certification that the pneumatic pump meets one of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(8)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.


(A) No control device or process is available on site.


(B) A control device or process is available on site and the owner or operator has determined in accordance with § 60.5393a(b)(5) that it is technically infeasible to capture and route the emissions to the control device or process.


(C) Emissions from the pneumatic pump are routed to a control device or process. If the control device is designed to achieve less than 95 percent emissions reduction, specify the percent emissions reductions the control device is designed to achieve.


(ii) For any pneumatic pump affected facility which has been previously reported as required under paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section and for which a change in the reported condition has occurred during the reporting period, provide the identification of the pneumatic pump affected facility and the date it was previously reported and a certification that the pneumatic pump meets one of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section.


(A) A control device has been added to the location and the pneumatic pump now reports according to paragraph (b)(8)(i)(C) of this section.


(B) A control device has been added to the location and the pneumatic pump affected facility now reports according to paragraph (b)(8)(i)(B) of this section.


(C) A control device or process has been removed from the location or otherwise is no longer available and the pneumatic pump affected facility now report according to paragraph (b)(8)(i)(A) of this section.


(D) A control device or process has been removed from the location or is otherwise no longer available and the owner or operator has determined in accordance with § 60.5393a(b)(5) through an engineering evaluation that it is technically infeasible to capture and route the emissions to another control device or process.


(iii) For each deviation that occurred during the reporting period and recorded as specified in paragraph (c)(16)(ii) of this section, the date and time the deviation began, duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(iv) If required to comply with § 60.5393a(b), the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Dates of each inspection required under § 60.5416a(d);


(B) Each defect or leak identified during each inspection, and date of repair or date of anticipated repair if repair is delayed; and


(C) Date and time of each bypass alarm or each instance the key is checked out if you are subject to the bypass requirements of § 60.5416a(c)(3).


(9) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (see § 60.8) required by this subpart, except testing conducted by the manufacturer as specified in § 60.5413a(d), you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(9)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), except as outlined in this paragraph (b)(9)(i). (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*).) Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(9)(i)(A) and (B) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. The same ERT or alternate file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (b)(9)(i).


(A) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(B) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer and Measurement Policy Group Leader, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(ii) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.


(10) For combustion control devices tested by the manufacturer in accordance with § 60.5413a(d), an electronic copy of the performance test results required by § 60.5413a(d) shall be submitted via email to *Oil__and__Gas__PT@EPA.GOV* unless the test results for that model of combustion control device are posted at the following website: *epa.gov/airquality/oilandgas/.*

(11) You must submit reports to the EPA via CEDRI, except as outlined in this paragraph (b)(11). CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri/*). If the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available on the CEDRI website at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4. Once the form has been available in CEDRI for at least 90 calendar days, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The date reporting forms become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report, submit a complete file using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) and (ii) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. Submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (b)(11).


(i) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. Files should be flagged to the attention of the Oil and Natural Gas Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(ii) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer and Oil and Natural Gas Sector Lead, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(12) You must submit the certification signed by the qualified professional engineer or in-house engineer according to § 60.5411a(d) for each closed vent system routing to a control device or process.


(13) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (b)(13)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(ii) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(iii) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(iv) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting.


(v) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(A) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage;


(C) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(vi) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(vii) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(14) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (b)(14)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(ii) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting.


(iii) You must provide to the Administrator:


(A) A written description of the force majeure event;


(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(C) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(iv) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(v) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.


(c) *Recordkeeping requirements.* You must maintain the records identified as specified in § 60.7(f) and in paragraphs (c)(1) through (18) of this section. All records required by this subpart must be maintained either onsite or at the nearest local field office for at least 5 years. Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CDX may be maintained in electronic format.


(1) The records for each well affected facility as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section, as applicable. For each well affected facility for which you make a claim that the well affected facility is not subject to the requirements for well completions pursuant to § 60.5375a(g), you must maintain the record in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section, only. For each well affected facility that routes flowback entirely through one or more production separators that are designed to accommodate flowback, only records of the United States Well Number, the latitude and longitude of the well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using North American Datum of 1983, the Well Completion ID, and the date and time of startup of production are required. For periods where salable gas is unable to be separated, records of the date and time of onset of flowback, the duration and disposition of recovery, the duration of combustion and venting (if applicable), reasons for venting (if applicable), and deviations are required.


(i) Records identifying each well completion operation for each well affected facility.


(ii) Records of deviations in cases where well completion operations with hydraulic fracturing were not performed in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5375a, including the date and time the deviation began, the duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(iii) You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) For each well affected facility required to comply with the requirements of § 60.5375a(a), you must record: The latitude and longitude of the well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using North American Datum of 1983; the United States Well Number; the date and time of the onset of flowback following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing; the date and time of each attempt to direct flowback to a separator as required in § 60.5375a(a)(1)(ii); the date and time of each occurrence of returning to the initial flowback stage under § 60.5375a(a)(1)(i); and the date and time that the well was shut in and the flowback equipment was permanently disconnected, or the startup of production; the duration of flowback; duration of recovery and disposition of recovery (*i.e.,* routed to the gas flow line or collection system, re-injected into the well or another well, used as an onsite fuel source, or used for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve); duration of combustion; duration of venting; and specific reasons for venting in lieu of capture or combustion. The duration must be specified in hours. In addition, for wells where it is technically infeasible to route the recovered gas as specified in § 60.5375a(a)(1)(ii), you must record the reasons for the claim of technical infeasibility with respect to all four options provided in § 60.5375a(a)(1)(ii).


(B) For each well affected facility required to comply with the requirements of § 60.5375a(f), you must record: Latitude and longitude of the well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using North American Datum of 1983; the United States Well Number; the date and time of the onset of flowback following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing; the date and time that the well was shut in and the flowback equipment was permanently disconnected, or the startup of production; the duration of flowback; duration of recovery and disposition of recovery (*i.e.,* routed to the gas flow line or collection system, re-injected into the well or another well, used as an onsite fuel source, or used for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve); duration of combustion; duration of venting; and specific reasons for venting in lieu of capture or combustion. The duration must be specified in hours.


(C) For each well affected facility for which you make a claim that it meets the criteria of § 60.5375a(a)(1)(iii)(A), you must maintain the following:


(*1*) The latitude and longitude of the well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using North American Datum of 1983; the United States Well Number; the date and time of the onset of flowback following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing; the date and time that the well was shut in and the flowback equipment was permanently disconnected, or the startup of production; the duration of flowback; duration of recovery and disposition of recovery (*i.e.,* routed to the gas flow line or collection system, re-injected into the well or another well, used as an onsite fuel source, or used for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve); duration of combustion; duration of venting; and specific reasons for venting in lieu of capture or combustion. The duration must be specified in hours.


(*2*) If applicable, records that the conditions of § 60.5375a(a)(1)(iii)(A) are no longer met and that the well completion operation has been stopped and a separator installed. The records shall include the date and time the well completion operation was stopped and the date and time the separator was installed.


(*3*) A record of the claim signed by the certifying official that no liquids collection is at the well site. The claim must include a certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.


(iv) For each well affected facility for which you claim an exception under § 60.5375a(a)(3), you must record: The latitude and longitude of the well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using North American Datum of 1983; the United States Well Number; the specific exception claimed; the starting date and ending date for the period the well operated under the exception; and an explanation of why the well meets the claimed exception.


(v) For each well affected facility required to comply with both § 60.5375a(a)(1) and (3), if you are using a digital photograph in lieu of the records required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, you must retain the records of the digital photograph as specified in § 60.5410a(a)(4).


(vi) For each well affected facility for which you make a claim that the well affected facility is not subject to the well completion standards according to § 60.5375a(g), you must maintain:


(A) A record of the analysis that was performed in order the make that claim, including but not limited to, GOR values for established leases and data from wells in the same basin and field;


(B) the latitude and longitude of the well in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using North American Datum of 1983; the United States Well Number;


(C) A record of the claim signed by the certifying official. The claim must include a certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.


(vii) For each well affected facility subject to § 60.5375a(f), a record of the well type (*i.e.,* wildcat well, delineation well, or low pressure well (as defined § 60.5430a)) and supporting inputs and calculations, if applicable.


(2) For each centrifugal compressor affected facility, you must maintain records of deviations in cases where the centrifugal compressor was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5380a, including a description of each deviation, the date and time each deviation began and the duration of each deviation. Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(viii) of this section, you must maintain the records in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section for each control device tested under § 60.5413a(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413a(d)(11) and (e) and used to comply with § 60.5380a(a)(1) for each centrifugal compressor.


(i) Make, model, and serial number of purchased device.


(ii) Date of purchase.


(iii) Copy of purchase order.


(iv) Location of the centrifugal compressor and control device in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(v) Inlet gas flow rate.


(vi) Records of continuous compliance requirements in § 60.5413a(e) as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(vi)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) Records that the pilot flame is present at all times of operation.


(B) Records that the device was operated with no visible emissions except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period.


(C) Records of the maintenance and repair log.


(D) Records of the visible emissions test following return to operation from a maintenance or repair activity, including the date of the visible emissions test, the length of the test, and the amount of time for which visible emissions were present.


(E) Records of the manufacturer's written operating instructions, procedures, and maintenance schedule to ensure good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.


(vii) Records of deviations for instances where the inlet gas flow rate exceeds the manufacturer's listed maximum gas flow rate, where there is no indication of the presence of a pilot flame, or where visible emissions exceeded 1 minute in any 15-minute period, including a description of the deviation, the date and time the deviation began, and the duration of the deviation.


(viii) As an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, you may maintain records of one or more digital photographs with the date the photograph was taken and the latitude and longitude of the centrifugal compressor and control device imbedded within or stored with the digital file. As an alternative to imbedded latitude and longitude within the digital photograph, the digital photograph may consist of a photograph of the centrifugal compressor and control device with a photograph of a separately operating GPS device within the same digital picture, provided the latitude and longitude output of the GPS unit can be clearly read in the digital photograph.


(3) For each reciprocating compressor affected facility, you must maintain the records in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Records of the cumulative number of hours of operation or number of months since initial startup, since August 2, 2016, or since the previous replacement of the reciprocating compressor rod packing, whichever is latest. Alternatively, a statement that emissions from the rod packing are being routed to a process through a closed vent system under negative pressure.


(ii) Records of the date and time of each reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, or date of installation of a rod packing emissions collection system and closed vent system as specified in § 60.5385a(a)(3).


(iii) Records of deviations in cases where the reciprocating compressor was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5385a, including the date and time the deviation began, duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(4) For each pneumatic controller affected facility, you must maintain the records identified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Records of the month and year of installation, reconstruction, or modification, location in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983, identification information that allows traceability to the records required in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) or (iv) of this section and manufacturer specifications for each pneumatic controller constructed, modified, or reconstructed.


(ii) Records of the demonstration that the use of pneumatic controller affected facilities with a natural gas bleed rate greater than the applicable standard are required and the reasons why.


(iii) If the pneumatic controller is not located at a natural gas processing plant, records of the manufacturer's specifications indicating that the controller is designed such that natural gas bleed rate is less than or equal to 6 standard cubic feet per hour.


(iv) If the pneumatic controller is located at a natural gas processing plant, records of the documentation that the natural gas bleed rate is zero.


(v) For each instance where the pneumatic controller was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5390a, a description of the deviation, the date and time the deviation began, and the duration of the deviation.


(5) For each storage vessel affected facility, you must maintain the records identified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) If required to reduce emissions by complying with § 60.5395a(a)(2), the records specified in §§ 60.5420a(c)(6) through (8) and 60.5416a(c)(6)(ii) and (c)(7)(ii). You must maintain the records in paragraph (c)(5)(vi) of this section for each control device tested under § 60.5413a(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413a(d)(11) and (e) and used to comply with § 60.5395a(a)(2) for each storage vessel.


(ii) Records of each VOC emissions determination for each storage vessel affected facility made under § 60.5365a(e) including identification of the model or calculation methodology used to calculate the VOC emission rate.


(iii) For each instance where the storage vessel was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in §§ 60.5395a, 60.5411a, 60.5412a, and 60.5413a, as applicable, a description of the deviation, the date and time each deviation began, and the duration of the deviation.


(iv) For storage vessels that are skid-mounted or permanently attached to something that is mobile (such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships), records indicating the number of consecutive days that the vessel is located at a site in the crude oil and natural gas production segment, natural gas processing segment, or natural gas transmission and storage segment. If a storage vessel is removed from a site and, within 30 days, is either returned to the site or replaced by another storage vessel at the site to serve the same or similar function, then the entire period since the original storage vessel was first located at the site, including the days when the storage vessel was removed, will be added to the count towards the number of consecutive days.


(v) You must maintain records of the identification and location in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983 of each storage vessel affected facility.


(vi) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(G) of this section, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(vi)(A) through (H) of this section for each control device tested under § 60.5413a(d) which meets the criteria in § 60.5413a(d)(11) and (e) and used to comply with § 60.5395a(a)(2) for each storage vessel.


(A) Make, model, and serial number of purchased device.


(B) Date of purchase.


(C) Copy of purchase order.


(D) Location of the control device in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of five (5) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(E) Inlet gas flow rate.


(F) Records of continuous compliance requirements in § 60.5413a(e) as specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(vi)(F)(*1*) through (*5*) of this section.


(*1*) Records that the pilot flame is present at all times of operation.


(*2*) Records that the device was operated with no visible emissions except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period.


(*3*) Records of the maintenance and repair log.


(*4*) Records of the visible emissions test following return to operation from a maintenance or repair activity, including the date of the visible emissions test, the length of the test, and the amount of time for which visible emissions were present.


(*5*) Records of the manufacturer's written operating instructions, procedures, and maintenance schedule to ensure good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.


(G) Records of deviations for instances where the inlet gas flow rate exceeds the manufacturer's listed maximum gas flow rate, where there is no indication of the presence of a pilot flame, or where visible emissions exceeded 1 minute in any 15-minute period, including a description of the deviation, the date and time the deviation began, and the duration of the deviation.


(H) As an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(D) of this section, you may maintain records of one or more digital photographs with the date the photograph was taken and the latitude and longitude of the storage vessel and control device imbedded within or stored with the digital file. As an alternative to imbedded latitude and longitude within the digital photograph, the digital photograph may consist of a photograph of the storage vessel and control device with a photograph of a separately operating GPS device within the same digital picture, provided the latitude and longitude output of the GPS unit can be clearly read in the digital photograph.


(vii) Records of the date that each storage vessel affected facility is removed from service and returned to service, as applicable.


(6) Records of each closed vent system inspection required under § 60.5416a(a)(1) and (2) and (b) for centrifugal compressors and reciprocating compressors, § 60.5416a(c)(1) for storage vessels, or § 60.5416a(e) for pneumatic pumps as required in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) A record of each closed vent system inspection or no detectable emissions monitoring survey. You must include an identification number for each closed vent system (or other unique identification description selected by you) and the date of the inspection.


(ii) For each defect or leak detected during inspections required by § 60.5416a(a)(1) and (2), (b), (c)(1), or (d), you must record the location of the defect or leak, a description of the defect or the maximum concentration reading obtained if using Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part, the date of detection, and the date the repair to correct the defect or leak is completed.


(iii) If repair of the defect is delayed as described in § 60.5416a(b)(10), you must record the reason for the delay and the date you expect to complete the repair.


(7) A record of each cover inspection required under § 60.5416a(a)(3) for centrifugal or reciprocating compressors or § 60.5416a(c)(2) for storage vessels as required in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) A record of each cover inspection. You must include an identification number for each cover (or other unique identification description selected by you) and the date of the inspection.


(ii) For each defect detected during inspections required by § 60.5416a(a)(3) or (c)(2), you must record the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, the corrective action taken the repair the defect, and the date the repair to correct the defect is completed.


(iii) If repair of the defect is delayed as described in § 60.5416a(b)(10) or (c)(5), you must record the reason for the delay and the date you expect to complete the repair.


(8) If you are subject to the bypass requirements of § 60.5416a(a)(4) for centrifugal compressors or reciprocating compressors, or § 60.5416a(c)(3) for storage vessels or pneumatic pumps, you must prepare and maintain a record of each inspection or a record of each time the key is checked out or a record of each time the alarm is sounded.


(9) [Reserved]


(10) For each centrifugal compressor or pneumatic pump affected facility, records of the schedule for carbon replacement (as determined by the design analysis requirements of § 60.5413a(c)(2) or (3)) and records of each carbon replacement as specified in § 60.5412a(c)(1).


(11) For each centrifugal compressor affected facility subject to the control device requirements of § 60.5412a(a), (b), and (c), records of minimum and maximum operating parameter values, continuous parameter monitoring system data, calculated averages of continuous parameter monitoring system data, results of all compliance calculations, and results of all inspections.


(12) For each carbon adsorber installed on storage vessel affected facilities, records of the schedule for carbon replacement (as determined by the design analysis requirements of § 60.5412a(d)(2)) and records of each carbon replacement as specified in § 60.5412a(c)(1).


(13) For each storage vessel affected facility subject to the control device requirements of § 60.5412a(c) and (d), you must maintain records of the inspections, including any corrective actions taken, the manufacturers' operating instructions, procedures and maintenance schedule as specified in § 60.5417a(h)(3). You must maintain records of EPA Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part, section 11 results, which include: Company, location, company representative (name of the person performing the observation), sky conditions, process unit (type of control device), clock start time, observation period duration (in minutes and seconds), accumulated emission time (in minutes and seconds), and clock end time. You may create your own form including the above information or use Figure 22-1 in EPA Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part. Manufacturer's operating instructions, procedures and maintenance schedule must be available for inspection.


(14) A log of records as specified in § 60.5412a(d)(1)(iii), for all inspection, repair, and maintenance activities for each control device failing the visible emissions test.


(15) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station, maintain the records identified in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) through (viii) of this section.


(i) The date of the startup of production or the date of the first day of production after modification for each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and the date of startup or the date of modification for each collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station.


(ii)-(iv) [Reserved]


(v) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site where you complete the removal of all major production and processing equipment such that the well site contains only one or more wellheads, record the date the well site completes the removal of all major production and processing equipment from the well site, and, if the well site is still producing, record the well ID or separate tank battery ID receiving the production from the well site. If major production and processing equipment is subsequently added back to the well site, record the date that the first piece of major production and processing equipment is added back to the well site.


(vi) The fugitive emissions monitoring plan as required in § 60.5397a(b), (c), and (d).


(vii) The records of each monitoring survey as specified in paragraphs (c)(15)(vii)(A) through (I) of this section.


(A) Date of the survey.


(B) Beginning and end time of the survey.


(C) Name of operator(s), training, and experience of the operator(s) performing the survey.


(D) Monitoring instrument used.


(E) Fugitive emissions component identification when Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part is used to perform the monitoring survey.


(F) Ambient temperature, sky conditions, and maximum wind speed at the time of the survey. For compressor stations, operating mode of each compressor (*i.e.,* operating, standby pressurized, and not operating-depressurized modes) at the station at the time of the survey.


(G) Any deviations from the monitoring plan or a statement that there were no deviations from the monitoring plan.


(H) Records of calibrations for the instrument used during the monitoring survey.


(I) Documentation of each fugitive emission detected during the monitoring survey, including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(15)(vii)(I)(*1*) through (*9*) of this section.


(*1*) Location of each fugitive emission identified.


(*2*) Type of fugitive emissions component, including designation as difficult-to-monitor or unsafe-to-monitor, if applicable.


(*3*) If Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part is used for detection, record the component ID and instrument reading.


(*4*) For each repair that cannot be made during the monitoring survey when the fugitive emissions are initially found, a digital photograph or video must be taken of that component or the component must be tagged for identification purposes. The digital photograph must include the date that the photograph was taken and must clearly identify the component by location within the site (*e.g.,* the latitude and longitude of the component or by other descriptive landmarks visible in the picture). The digital photograph or identification (*e.g.,* tag) may be removed after the repair is completed, including verification of repair with the resurvey.


(*5*) The date of first attempt at repair of the fugitive emissions component(s).


(*6*) The date of successful repair of the fugitive emissions component, including the resurvey to verify repair and instrument used for the resurvey.


(*7*) Identification of each fugitive emission component placed on delay of repair and explanation for each delay of repair


(*8*) For each fugitive emission component placed on delay of repair for reason of replacement component unavailability, the operator must document: the date the component was added to the delay of repair list, the date the replacement fugitive component or part thereof was ordered, the anticipated component delivery date (including any estimated shipment or delivery date provided by the vendor), and the actual arrival date of the component.


(*9*) Date of planned shutdowns that occur while there are any components that have been placed on delay of repair.


(viii) For each collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site or collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station complying with an alternative means of emissions limitation under § 60.5399a, you must maintain the records specified by the specific alternative fugitive emissions standard for a period of at least 5 years.


(ix) If you comply with the alternative GHG and VOC standard under § 60.5398b, in lieu of the information specified in paragraphs (c)(15)(vi) through (vii) of this section, you must maintain the records specified in § 60.5424b.


(16) For each pneumatic pump affected facility, you must maintain the records identified in paragraphs (c)(16)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Records of the date, location, and manufacturer specifications for each pneumatic pump constructed, modified, or reconstructed.


(ii) Records of deviations in cases where the pneumatic pump was not operated in compliance with the requirements specified in § 60.5393a, including the date and time the deviation began, duration of the deviation, and a description of the deviation.


(iii) Records on the control device used for control of emissions from a pneumatic pump including the installation date, and manufacturer's specifications. If the control device is designed to achieve less than 95-percent emission reduction, maintain records of the design evaluation or manufacturer's specifications which indicate the percentage reduction the control device is designed to achieve.


(iv) Records substantiating a claim according to § 60.5393a(b)(5) that it is technically infeasible to capture and route emissions from a pneumatic pump to a control device or process; including the certification according to § 60.5393a(b)(5)(ii) and the records of the engineering assessment of technical infeasibility performed according to § 60.5393a(b)(5)(iii).


(v) You must retain copies of all certifications, engineering assessments, and related records for a period of five years and make them available if directed by the implementing agency.


(17) For each closed vent system routing to a control device or process, the records of the assessment conducted according to § 60.5411a(d):


(i) A copy of the assessment conducted according to § 60.5411a(d)(1);


(ii) A copy of the certification according to § 60.5411a(d)(1)(i); and


(iii) The owner or operator shall retain copies of all certifications, assessments, and any related records for a period of 5 years, and make them available if directed by the delegated authority.


(18) A copy of each performance test submitted under paragraph (b)(9) of this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 57449, Sept. 15, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 17041, Mar. 8, 2024]




