# § 75.63   Initial certification or recertification application.

(a) *Submission.* The designated representative for an affected unit or a combustion source shall submit applications and reports as follows:


(1) *Initial certifications.* (i) For CEM systems or excepted monitoring systems under appendix D or E to this part, within 45 days after completing all initial certification tests, submit: 


(A) To the Administrator, the electronic information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Except for subpart E applications for alternative monitoring systems or unless specifically requested by the Administrator, do not submit a hardcopy of the test data and results to the Administrator.


(B) To the applicable EPA Regional Office and the appropriate State and/or local air pollution control agency, the hardcopy information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. 


(ii) For units for which the owner or operator is applying for certification approval of the optional excepted methodology under § 75.19 for low mass emissions units, submit, no later than 45 days prior to commencing use of the methodology: 


(A) To the Administrator, the electronic low mass emission qualification information required by § 75.53(f)(5)(i) or § 75.53(h)(4)(i) (as applicable) and paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and


(B) To the applicable EPA Regional Office and appropriate State and/or local air pollution control agency, the hardcopy information required by § 75.19(a)(2) and § 75.53(f)(5)(ii) or § 75.53(h)(4)(ii) (as applicable), the hardcopy results of any appendix E (of this part) tests or any CEMS data analysis used to derive a fuel-and-unit-specific default NO_X_ emission rate. 


(2) *Recertifications and diagnostic testing.* (i) Within 45 days after completing all recertification tests under § 75.20(b), submit to the Administrator the electronic information required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Except for subpart E applications for alternative monitoring systems or unless specifically requested by the Administrator, do not submit a hardcopy of the test data and results to the Administrator.


(ii) Within 45 days after completing all recertification tests under § 75.20(b), submit the hardcopy information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section to the applicable EPA Regional Office and the appropriate State and/or local air pollution control agency. The applicable EPA Regional Office or appropriate State or local air pollution control agency may waive the requirement to provide hardcopy recertification test and data results. The applicable EPA Regional Office or the appropriate State or local air pollution control agency may also discontinue the waiver and reinstate the requirement of this paragraph to provide a hardcopy report of the recertification test data and results.


(iii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section, for an event for which the Administrator determines that only diagnostic tests (*see* § 75.20(b)) are required rather than recertification testing, no hardcopy submittal is required; however, the results of all diagnostic test(s) shall be submitted prior to or concurrent with the electronic quarterly report required under § 75.64. Notwithstanding the requirement of § 75.59(e), for DAHS (missing data and formula) verifications, no hardcopy submittal is required; the owner or operator shall keep these test results on-site in a format suitable for inspection.


(b) *Contents.* Each application for initial certification or recertification shall contain the following information, as applicable:


(1) *Electronic.* (i) A complete, up-to-date version of the electronic portion of the monitoring plan, according to § 75.53(e) and (f), in the format specified in § 75.62(c).


(ii) The results of the test(s) required by § 75.20, including the type of test conducted, testing date, information required by § 75.59, and the results of any failed tests that affect data validation.


(2) *Hardcopy.* (i) Any changed portions of the hardcopy monitoring plan information required under § 75.53(e) and (f). Electronic submittal of all monitoring plan information, including the hardcopy portions, is permissible, provided that a paper copy can be furnished upon request.


(ii) The results of the test(s) required by § 75.20, including the type of test conducted, testing date, information required by § 75.59(a)(9), and the results of any failed tests that affect data validation.


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) Designated representative signature certifying the accuracy of the submission.


(c) *Format.* The electronic portion of each certification or recertification application shall be submitted in a format to be specified by the Administrator. The hardcopy test results shall be submitted in a format suitable for review and shall include the information in § 75.59(a)(9).


(d) Consistent with § 72.21 of this chapter, a hardcopy cover letter signed by the Designated Representative (DR) shall accompany the hardcopy portion of each certification or recertification application. The cover letter shall include the certification statement described in § 72.21(b) of this chapter, and shall be submitted to the applicable EPA Regional Office and to the appropriate State or local air pollution control agency. For the electronic portion of a certification or recertification application submitted to the Administrator, a cover letter is not required. However, at his or her discretion, the DR may include important explanatory text or comments with the electronic portion of a certification or recertification application, so long as the information is provided in an electronic format compatible with the other data required to be reported under this section.



---

[N] [64 FR 28621, May 26, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 40443, June 12, 2002; 73 FR 4357, Jan. 24, 2008; 76 FR 17317, Mar. 28, 2011]




