# § 721.10758   Thermolized wasted plastic (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as thermolized wasted plastic (PMN P-12-125) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely fractionated, distilled, or chemically reacted resulting in the manufacture of one or more new chemical substances subject to PMN review or other chemical substances listed on the TSCA Inventory.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i) to (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i) to (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other than as allowed by the TSCA section 5(e) consent order which includes analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum levels of polychlorinated dibenzo-*p*-dioxin and polychlorinated dibenzofuran impurities and monitoring the pH of the aqueous effluent stream from the manufacturing process as outlined in the Consent Order.)


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 38473, July 8, 2014]




