# ยง 397.65   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Administrator.* The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administrator, who is the chief executive of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an agency within the United States Department of Transportation, or his/her designate.


*Commerce.* Any trade, traffic, or transportation in the United States which:


(1) Is between a place under the jurisdiction of a State or Indian tribe and any place outside of such jurisdiction; or


(2) Is solely within a place under the jurisdiction of a State or Indian tribe but which affects trade, traffic, or transportation described in paragraph (1) of this definition.


*FMCSA.* The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, an agency within the Department of Transportation.


*Hazardous material.* A substance or material, including a hazardous substance, which has been determined by the Secretary of Transportation to be capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety, or property when transported in commerce, and which has been so designated.


*Indian tribe.* Has the same meaning as contained in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Act, 25 U.S.C. 450b.


*Motor carrier.* A for-hire motor carrier or a private motor carrier of property. The term includes a motor carrier's agents, officers and representatives as well as employees responsible for hiring, supervising, training, assigning, or dispatching of drivers.


*Motor vehicle.* Any vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used upon the highways in the transportation of passengers or property, or any combination thereof.


*NRHM.* A non-radioactive hazardous material transported by motor vehicle in types and quantities which require placarding, pursuant to Table 1 or 2 of 49 CFR 172.504.


*Political subdivision.* A municipality, public agency or other instrumentality of one or more States, or a public corporation, board, or commission established under the laws of one or more States.


*Radioactive material.* As defined in 49 CFR 173.403, radioactive material means any material containing radionuclides where both the activity concentration and the total activity in the consignment exceed the values of the table in 49 CFR 173.436 or values derived according to the instructions in 49 CFR 173.433.


*Routing agency.* The State highway agency or other State agency designated by the Governor of that State, or an agency designated by an Indian tribe, to supervise, coordinate, and approve the NRHM routing designations for that State or Indian tribe.


*Routing designations.* Any regulation, limitation, restriction, curfew, time of travel restriction, lane restriction, routing ban, port-of-entry designation, or route weight restriction, applicable to the highway transportation of NRHM over a specific highway route or portion of a route.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Transportation.


*State.* A State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa or Guam.



---

[N] [59 FR 51830, Oct. 12, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 58485, Sept. 24, 2013; 90 FR 1908, Jan. 10, 2025]






