# ยง 503.66   Amendment of a record.

(a) *General.* Any individual may request amendment of a record pertaining to him or her according to the procedure in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Procedures for requesting amendment of a record.* After inspection of a record pertaining to him or her, an individual may file with the Secretary a request, in person or by mail, for amendment of a record. Such request shall specify the particular portions of the record to be amended, the desired amendments and the reasons therefor. 


(c) *Commission procedures on request for amendment of a record.* (1) Not later than ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of a request made in accordance with this section to amend a record in whole or in part, the Secretary or his or her delegate shall: 


(i) Make any correction of any portion of the record which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete and thereafter inform the individual of such correction; or


(ii) Inform the individual, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of refusal to amend the record, setting out the reasons therefor, and notify the individual of his or her right to appeal that determination to the Chairman of the Commission under ยง 503.67.


(2) The Secretary shall inform any person or other agency to whom a record has been disclosed of any correction or notation of dispute made by the Secretary with respect to such records, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(4) referring to amendment of a record, if an accounting of such disclosure has been made.



---

[N] [49 FR 44401, Nov. 6, 1984; 49 FR 47395, Dec. 4, 1984]




