# ยง 207.8   Management cost funding oversight.

(a) *General.* The grantee has primary responsibility for grants management activities and accountability of funds provided for management costs as required by 2 CFR parts 200 and 3002, especially 2 CFR 200.301-200.304 and 200.317-200.326. The grantee is responsible for ensuring that subgrantees meet all program and administrative requirements.


(b) *Period of availability.* (1) For major disaster declarations, the grantee may expend management cost funds for allowable costs for a maximum of 8 years from the date of the major disaster declaration or 180 days after the latest performance period date of a non-management cost PA PW or HMGP project narrative, respectively, whichever is sooner.


(2) For emergency declarations, the grantee may expend management cost funds for allowable costs for a maximum of 2 years from the date of the emergency declaration or 180 days after the latest performance period of a non-management cost PA PW, whichever is sooner.


(3) The period of availability may be extended only at the written request of the grantee, with the recommendation of the Regional Administrator, and with the approval of the Chief Financial Officer. The grantee must include a justification in its request for an extension, and must demonstrate that there is work in progress that can be completed within the extended period of availability. In no case will an extended period of availability allow more than 180 days after the expiration of any performance period extensions granted under PA or HMGP for project completion. FEMA will deobligate any funds not liquidated by the grantee in accordance with 2 CFR 200.309 and 200.343(b).


(c) *Reporting requirements.* The grantee must provide quarterly progress reports on management cost funds to the Regional Administrator as required by the FEMA-State Agreement.


(d) *Closeout.* The grantee has primary responsibility for the closeout tasks associated with both the program and subgrantee requirements. Complying with each program's performance period requirement, the grantee must conduct final inspections for projects, reconcile subgrantee expenditures, resolve negative audit findings, obtain final reports from subgrantees and reconcile the closeout activities of subgrantees with PA and HMGP grant awards.


(e) *Audit requirements.* Uniform audit requirements in 2 CFR 200.500-200.520 apply to all assistance provided under this part.


(f) *Document retention.* In compliance with State law and procedures and with 2 CFR 200.333-200.337, grantees must retain records, including source documentation to support expenditures/costs incurred for management costs, for 3 years from the date of submission of the final Financial Status Report to FEMA that is required for PA and HMGP. The grantee is responsible for resolving questioned costs that may result from audit findings during the 3-year-record-retention period and returning any disallowed costs from ineligible activities.



---

[N] [72 FR 57875, Oct. 11, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76086, Dec. 19, 2014]




