# § 250.58   Ordering donated foods and their provision to school food authorities.

(a) *Ordering and distribution of donated foods.* The distributing agency must ensure that school food authorities are able to submit donated food orders through the FNS electronic donated foods ordering system, or through a comparable electronic food ordering system. The distributing agency must ensure that all school food authorities have the opportunity to provide input at least annually in determining the donated foods from the full list that are made available to them for ordering in the FNS electronic donated foods ordering system or other comparable electronic ordering system. The distributing agency must ensure distribution to school food authorities of all such ordered donated foods that may be distributed to them in a cost-effective manner (including the use of split shipments, as necessary), and that they may utilize efficiently and without waste.


(b) *Value of donated foods offered to school food authorities.* In accordance with Section 6(c) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)), the distributing agency must offer the school food authority, at a minimum, the national per-meal value of donated food assistance multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served by the school food authority in the previous school year. This is referred to as the commodity offer value. For a commodity school, the distributing agency must offer the sum of the national per-meal value of donated foods and the value of the general cash payment available to it under Section 4 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1753), multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served by the school in the previous school year. The school food authority may also receive bonus foods, as available, in addition to the Section 6 foods.


(c) *Receipt of less donated foods than the commodity offer value.* In certain cases, the school food authority may receive less donated foods than the commodity offer value in a school year. This “adjusted” value of donated foods is referred to as the adjusted assistance level. For example, the school food authority may receive an adjusted assistance level if:


(1) The distributing agency, in consultation with the school food authority, determines that the school food authority cannot efficiently utilize the commodity offer value of donated foods; or


(2) The school food authority does not order, or select, donated foods equal to the commodity offer value that can be cost-effectively distributed to it.


(d) *Receipt of more donated foods than the commodity offer value.* The school food authority may receive more donated foods than the commodity offer value if the distributing agency, in consultation with the school food authority, determines that the school food authority may efficiently utilize more donated foods than the commodity offer value, and more donated foods are available for distribution. This may occur, for example, if other school food authorities receive less than the commodity offer value of donated foods for one of the reasons described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) *Donated food value in crediting.* In meeting the commodity offer value of donated foods for the school food authority, the distributing agency must use the cost-per-pound donated food prices posted annually by USDA, the most recently published cost-per-pound price in the USDA donated foods catalog, and/or a rolling average of the USDA prices (average cost per pound). The distributing agency must credit the school food authority using the USDA purchase price (cost-per-pound), and update the price at least semi-annually to reflect the most recent USDA purchase price.



---

[N] [73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 23111, Apr. 19, 2016]




