# § 1.430(j)-1   Payment of minimum required contributions.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Overview.* This section provides rules related to the payment of minimum required contributions, including the payment of required installments. Section 430(j) and this section apply to single-employer defined benefit plans (including multiple employer plans as defined in section 413(c)) but do not apply to multiemployer plans (as defined in section 414(f)). Paragraph (b) of this section describes the general timing requirement for minimum required contributions. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the accelerated required installment schedule for plans with a funding shortfall in the preceding plan year. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding liquidity requirements. Paragraph (e) of this section provides definitions. Paragraph (f) of this section provides examples that illustrate the rules of this section. Paragraph (g) of this section sets forth effective/applicability dates and transition rules.


(2) *Special rules for multiple employer plans*—(i) *In general.* In the case of a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies, the rules of section 430 and this section are applied separately for each employer under the plan, as if each employer maintained a separate plan. Thus, for example, required installments are determined separately for each employer under such a multiple employer plan. In the case of a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) does not apply (that is, a plan described in section 413(c)(4)(B) that has not made the election for section 413(c)(4)(A) to apply), the rules of section 430 and this section are applied as if all participants in the plan were employed by a single employer.


(ii) *CSEC plans.* A CSEC plan (that is, a plan that fits within the definition of a CSEC plan in section 414(y) for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2014 and for which the election under section 414(y)(3)(A) has not been made) is not subject to the rules of section 430. See section 433 for the minimum funding rules that apply to CSEC plans.


(3) *Applicability of section 430(j) to plans of commercial passenger airlines*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, the rules of section 430(j) and this section apply to a plan for which an election described in section 402 of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, Public Law 109-280 (120 Stat. 780 (2006)), as amended (PPA '06), has been made in the same manner as those rules apply to any other plan subject to section 430.


(ii) *Special rules for plans for which election was made pursuant to section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06.* For purposes of applying the rules of section 430(j) and this section to a plan with respect to which the election under section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06 has been made, the effective interest rate for the plan is deemed to be 8.85 percent during the period for which the election applies. In addition, see paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section for a special determination of the funding shortfall for a plan for which the election in section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06 has been made.


(b) *General timing requirement for minimum required contributions*—(1) *Earliest date for contributions.* A payment made before the first day of the plan year cannot be applied toward the minimum required contribution under section 430 for that plan year.


(2) *Deadline for contributions.* The deadline for any payment of any minimum required contribution for a plan year is 8
1/2 months after the close of the plan year. See section 4971 and the regulations thereunder regarding an excise tax that applies with respect to minimum required contributions not paid by this deadline. For additional rules that may apply in the case of a failure to pay minimum required contributions by this deadline, see also section 430(k) of the Code and sections 101(d) and 4043 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).


(3) *Allocation of contribution to a plan year*—(i) *Plans with unpaid minimum required contributions that have not been corrected.* If a plan has unpaid minimum required contributions within the meaning of § 54.4971(c)-1(c) of this chapter that have not yet been corrected within the meaning of § 54.4971(c)-1(d)(2) of this chapter at the time a contribution is made, then the contribution is treated as a late contribution for the earliest plan year for which there is an unpaid minimum required contribution (to the extent necessary to correct that unpaid minimum required contribution). To the extent the contribution exceeds the amount necessary to correct the earlier unpaid minimum required contribution, the excess is treated as a late contribution for the next earliest plan year for which there is an unpaid minimum required contribution (to the extent necessary to correct that next earliest unpaid minimum required contribution). The allocation of the contribution under the preceding sentence is repeated until all unpaid minimum required contributions have been corrected, or until the entire contribution is allocated, whichever comes first.


(ii) *Plans without unpaid minimum required contributions.* If a contribution is made during the current plan year but before the deadline under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for contributions for a prior plan year, and the plan has no unpaid minimum required contribution for any plan year at the time the contribution is made, then the contribution may be designated as a contribution for either that prior plan year or the current plan year. Similarly, if a contribution made during the current plan year but before the deadline under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for contributions for a prior plan year is more than enough to correct a plan's unpaid minimum required contributions for all plan years, the portion of a contribution that was not used to correct unpaid minimum required contributions may be designated as a contribution for either that prior plan year or the current plan year.


(iii) *Method of allocating contributions*—(A) *Reporting for contributions to correct unpaid minimum required contributions.* The allocation of a contribution under the rules of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section to correct unpaid minimum required contributions is automatic and must be shown on the actuarial report (Schedule SB, “Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan Actuarial Information” of Form 5500, “Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan”) for the earliest plan year with respect to which, as of the date of the contribution, the deadline for making contributions under paragraph (b)(2) of this section has not passed. See § 1.430(g)-1(d)(1) for the rules for determining the plan year for which these contributions are taken into account in determining the value of plan assets.


(B) *Designation of plan year if no unpaid minimum contribution.* In the case of a contribution described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the designation is established by the completion (and filing, if required) of the actuarial report (Schedule SB, “Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan Actuarial Information” of Form 5500, “Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan”) for the plan year for which the contribution is designated and cannot be changed after the actuarial report that reflects the contribution is completed (and filed, if required) except as provided in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. Thus, a contribution that has been designated for a plan year on an actuarial report pursuant to this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) generally cannot be redesignated as a contribution for either an earlier or later plan year.


(4) *Adjustment for interest*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in this paragraph (b)(4), any payment toward the minimum required contribution under section 430 for a plan year that is paid on a date other than the valuation date for that plan year is adjusted for interest for the period between the valuation date and the payment date, at the plan's effective interest rate for that plan year determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1). The direction of the adjustment depends on whether the contribution is paid before or after the valuation date for the plan year. If the contribution is paid after the valuation date for the plan year, the contribution is discounted to the valuation date using the plan's effective interest rate. By contrast, if the contribution is paid before the valuation date for the plan year (which could only occur in the case of a small plan described in section 430(g)(2)(B)), the contribution is increased for interest using the plan's effective interest rate.


(ii) *Interest adjustment for late quarterly installments.* In the case of a plan that must make required installments under the rules of paragraph (c) of this section, to the extent a contribution for a plan year constitutes a late required installment, the adjustment for interest for the period between the valuation date and the payment date is made in two steps. In the first step, the portion of the contribution that constitutes a late required installment is adjusted for interest from the date of the contribution to the due date for the installment by discounting it using the plan's effective interest rate for that plan year determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1) plus 5 percentage points. In the second step, this discounted amount is treated as if it were contributed on the installment due date for purposes of the interest adjustment under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. However, a contribution made toward the unpaid liquidity amount (as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section) that is made before the close of the quarter in which it is due is adjusted under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.


(iii) *Interest adjustment for unpaid liquidity amounts.* In the case of a plan that is subject to the liquidity requirement rules of paragraph (d) of this section, to the extent a contribution made during a quarter constitutes a payment of the unpaid liquidity amount for that quarter as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the adjustment for interest for the period between the valuation date and the payment date is made in two steps. In the first step, the portion of the contribution that constitutes a payment of the unpaid liquidity amount is increased for interest from the date of the contribution to the last day of the quarter, at the plan's effective interest rate for that plan year determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1). In the second step, this adjusted amount is treated as if it were contributed on the last day of that quarter for purposes of the interest adjustment for late required installments under the rules of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. See paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(B) of this section for an increase to the minimum required contribution that gives effect to this interest adjustment for unpaid liquidity amounts in the event a portion of the required installment is no longer treated as unpaid after the close of the quarter under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section.


(c) *Accelerated quarterly installments required for underfunded plans*—(1) *Plans subject to quarterly installment requirement.* The plan sponsor of a plan that has a funding shortfall for the preceding plan year is required to pay the installments described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section by the due dates described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. See paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, section 430(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) (regarding the imposition of a lien), and sections 101(d) and 4043 of ERISA (regarding notice to participants and beneficiaries and to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation) for examples of consequences that generally apply following a failure to make required installments.


(2) *Satisfaction of quarterly installment requirement.* A plan sponsor may satisfy the requirement to pay an installment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section by one or a combination of the following—


(i) Making a contribution for the plan year which is allocated among the required installments under the rules of paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and


(ii) Making an election to use some or all of the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(3) *Satisfaction of quarterly installment requirement with contributions*—(i) *Contributions allocated to earliest quarterly installments.* For purposes of this section, a contribution for a plan year is allocated among the required installments for the plan year under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section, whichever is applicable. Which rule applies depends on whether, at the time the contribution is made, the plan sponsor has unpaid required installments (that is, the plan sponsor has not fully satisfied all required installments for which the due date has passed, taking into account the special rule with respect to the unpaid liquidity amounts in paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section).


(ii) *Early contributions increased with interest.* If a plan has no unpaid required installments for a plan year at the time a contribution for the plan year is made, then the contribution is allocated to the required installments (if any) for the plan year due on or after the date of the contribution under the rules of this paragraph (c)(3)(ii). The contribution is allocated in the order in which those installments occur, and the amount allocated to each required installment is limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the required installment (including satisfaction of the liquidity requirement under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, taking into account the special rule with respect to the unpaid liquidity amounts in paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section) taking into account any interest as described in the next sentence. If the contribution is made before the due date of the installment to which it is allocated, then the amount credited toward the installment includes interest on the contribution from the date of the contribution to the due date of the required installment (except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section). This interest adjustment is made using an interest rate equal to the plan's effective interest rate under § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1) for the plan year.


(iii) *Allocation of contributions to late required installments without interest*—(A) *In general.* If a plan has any unpaid required installments for a plan year at the time a contribution for the plan year is made, then the contribution is allocated to those unpaid required installments under the rules of this paragraph (c)(3)(iii). The contribution is allocated in the order in which those unpaid required installments occur, and the amount allocated to each required installment is limited to the amount that satisfies the required installment without any adjustment for interest. If a contribution is allocated to an unpaid required installment under this paragraph (c)(3)(iii), then that contribution is adjusted for interest under the rules of paragraph (b)(4) of this section (regarding interest adjustments for late quarterly installments) for purposes of determining the extent to which that contribution satisfies the minimum required contribution for the plan year.


(B) *Bifurcation of contributions that exceed unpaid required installments.* Any amount of a contribution described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section that is not used to satisfy the unpaid required installments for the plan year is allocated toward any remaining required installments for the plan year under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.


(4) *Satisfaction of quarterly installment requirements through use of funding balances.* A plan sponsor may satisfy the requirement to pay an installment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section by making an election to use some or all of the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance under section 430(f). Such an election is subject to the rules of § 1.430(f)-1 and cannot exceed the available amount of the plan's prefunding balance and funding standard carryover balance determined under § 1.430(f)-1(d)(1)(ii) as of the date of the election. The amount elected is allocated toward satisfaction of the required installments in the same manner as a contribution made on the date of the election. Thus, the amount of an election to use the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance is increased with interest under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section or is credited against the earliest unpaid required installment under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section. See § 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(iii) for rules permitting the use of a standing election for purposes of satisfying required installments through use of funding balances. See § 1.430(f)-1(d)(1)(i)(B) for rules relating to late elections to use the funding standard carryover balance or prefunding balance to satisfy the required installment rules.


(5) *Amount of required installment*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, the amount of any required installment due for a plan year is equal to 25 percent of the required annual payment for the plan year as described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Required annual payment.* The required annual payment for a plan year is equal to the lesser of—


(A) 90 percent of the minimum required contribution under section 430 for the plan year; or


(B) 100 percent of the minimum required contribution under section 430 (determined without regard to any funding waiver under section 412) for the preceding plan year.


(iii) *Treatment of funding balances.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the minimum required contribution for a plan year is determined without regard to the use of the prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance for the current year or the prior year. However, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section regarding a plan sponsor's election to use the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance for the current year in order to satisfy the requirement to pay an installment.


(iv) *Disregard of certain amounts.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the minimum required contribution for a plan year is determined without regard to the installment acceleration amount for the plan year determined under section 430(c)(7) or any increase to the minimum required contribution under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(B) of this section (relating to an unpaid liquidity amount).


(6) *Due dates for installments.* For purposes of this section, there is a required installment for each quarter of the plan year, and the due dates for the required installments with respect to a full plan year are set forth in the following table:


(7) *Special rules for short plan years*—(i) *In general.* In the case of a short plan year, the rules of this paragraph (c) are modified as provided in this paragraph (c)(7).


(ii) *Current plan year is short plan year*—(A) *Amount of required annual payment.* In determining the required annual payment pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section for a short plan year, the amount otherwise determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section (based on the prior year's minimum required contribution) is multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the duration of the short plan year and the denominator of which is 1 year. This rule applies to the year that contains the plan's termination date if that date is before the date that would otherwise be the end of the plan year (because the plan is treated as having a short plan year for purposes of section 430 pursuant to § 1.430(a)-1(b)(5)).


(B) *Number and due dates of installments.* If the plan has a short plan year, then an installment is due 15 days after the end of that short plan year. In addition, an installment is required for each due date determined under paragraph (c)(6) of this section that falls within the short plan year. Thus, for example, if the short plan year ends before the 15th day of the 4th plan month of the plan year, there will be only one installment for that short plan year, and that installment will be due on the 15th day after the end of the short plan year.


(C) *Amount of installments.* The amount of each installment required to be paid for the short plan year is equal to the required annual payment determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section (as modified by paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(A) of this section) divided by the number of installments determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(B) of this section.


(D) *No increase in prior required installments.* If a plan is amended to have a short plan year (including as a result of plan termination) and the required installments determined under paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(C) of this section are greater than the required installments determined without regard to the amendment, then—


(*1*) The required installments for which the due dates occur before the end of the short plan year are determined without regard to the amendment, and


(*2*) The required installment due on the 15th day after the end of the short plan year is increased to the extent necessary so that the total of the required installments for the year is the required annual payment determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, determined taking into account the rules of paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(A) of this section.


(iii) *Prior plan year is short plan year.* If the prior plan year is a short plan year, the amount otherwise determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section (based on the prior year's minimum required contribution) is multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is 1 year and the denominator of which is the duration of the short plan year.


(d) *Liquidity requirement in connection with quarterly installments*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Additional requirement with respect to quarterly installments.* Except as provided in this paragraph (d)(1), if a plan sponsor is required to pay the installments described in paragraph (c) of this section, then the plan sponsor is treated as failing to pay the full amount of the required installment for a quarter to the extent that the value of the liquid assets paid in the required installment after the end of that quarter and on or before the due date for the installment is less than the liquidity shortfall for that quarter. If the amount of any required installment is increased by reason of this paragraph (d)(1)(i), in no event shall this increase exceed the amount which, when added to the current required installment (determined without regard to the increase) and prior required installments for the plan year (not including any portion of a required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid under paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section), is necessary to increase the funding target attainment percentage for the plan year to 100 percent (taking into account the expected increase in the funding target due to benefits accruing or earned during the plan year).


(ii) *Small plan exception.* The liquidity requirement of this paragraph (d) does not apply to a plan for any plan year for which the plan is a small plan described in § 1.430(g)-1(b)(2).


(2) *Satisfaction of liquidity requirement.* The additional requirement with respect to a required installment under paragraph (d)(1) of this section can be satisfied only with an actual contribution of liquid assets that, after application of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, is allocated to satisfy the required installment for the quarter. The liquidity requirement cannot be satisfied through the use of funding balances, and satisfaction of this requirement is determined without taking into account the increase for interest for early contributions set forth in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. Any contribution of liquid assets that is allocated to satisfy the required installment for a quarter applies for purposes of determining whether the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section are satisfied, even if the contribution is less than the total amount needed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section for the quarter (taking into account any increase in the required installment under this paragraph (d)).


(3) *Failure to satisfy liquidity requirement*—(i) *Treatment as failure to satisfy quarterly installment.* If an employer fails to satisfy the additional requirement with respect to a required installment for a quarter under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the portion of that required installment that is treated as not paid by reason of paragraph (d)(1) of this section (the unpaid liquidity amount for that quarter) is treated as an underpayment of the required installment. See paragraph (c)(1) of this section for examples of consequences of underpayment of a required installment.


(ii) *Late satisfaction of liquidity requirement.* The rules of paragraph (d)(2) of this section apply to determine whether a contribution made after the deadline for a required installment satisfies the liquidity requirement of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. However, pursuant to section 430(j)(4)(C), the unpaid liquidity amount is treated as unpaid until the end of the quarter in which the due date for that installment occurs, even if liquid assets in that amount are contributed during that quarter (but after the due date for the installment). See paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section for the application of this rule for purposes of applying the additional interest for late required installments.


(iii) *Additional consequences of failure to pay liquidity shortfall.* See section 206(e) of ERISA and section 401(a)(32) of the Code (regarding suspension of accelerated distributions for a plan with an unpaid liquidity amount). See also section 4971(f) regarding an excise tax imposed in the event of a failure to pay a liquidity shortfall.


(iv) *Treatment in subsequent quarter*—(A) *Adjustment to required installment.* After the close of the quarter in which the due date of a required installment occurs, any portion of the installment that was treated as unpaid solely by reason of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and that was not satisfied with a contribution of liquid assets during that quarter, is no longer treated as unpaid (but any portion of the installment that would be treated as unpaid without regard to paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be satisfied in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c) of this section).


(B) *Increase to minimum required contribution for additional interest.* If a portion of the required installment is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, then the minimum required contribution for the plan year for which the installment was due is increased by an amount equal to—


(*1*) The portion of the required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, discounted for interest for the period from the last day of the quarter that includes the due date of the required installment to the valuation date, using the plan's effective interest rate for the plan year (determined pursuant to § 1.430(h)(2)-1(f)(1)); minus


(*2*) The portion of the required installment that is no longer treated as unpaid by reason of paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, discounted for interest for the period from the last day of the quarter that includes the due date of the required installment to the due date of the installment, using the plan's effective interest rate for the plan year plus 5 percentage points, and further discounted for interest for the period from the due date of the required installment to the valuation date using the plan's effective interest rate for the plan year.


(e) *Definitions*—(1) *In general.* The definitions set forth in this paragraph (e) apply for purposes of this section.


(2) *Adjusted disbursements*—(i) *In general.* The term *adjusted disbursements* means, with respect to a time period, the amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section if the time period is within a single plan year, or the amount described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section if the time period spans more than one plan year.


(ii) *Period within a single plan year.* With respect to a period within a plan year, the adjusted disbursements are the disbursements from the plan during that period reduced by the product of—


(A) The plan's funding target attainment percentage determined under section 430(d)(2) for the plan year that contains that period; and


(B) The sum of the purchases of annuities and payments of single sums for that period.


(iii) *Period spanning more than one plan year.* With respect to a period of time that spans more than one plan year, the adjusted disbursements are the sum of the adjusted disbursements determined separately under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section for each portion of a plan year that is included in the time period for which adjusted disbursements are determined.


(3) *Disbursements from the plan.* The term *disbursements from the plan* means all disbursements from the plan's trust, including purchases of annuities, payments of single sums and other benefits, and payments of administrative expenses.


(4) *Funding shortfall*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(4), the term *funding shortfall* has the same meaning as under § 1.430(a)-1(f)(2).


(ii) *Special rule for plans of commercial passenger airlines.* In the case of a plan year for which an election described in section 402(a)(1) of PPA '06 is in effect, the term *funding shortfall* means the unfunded liability for that plan year determined under § 1.430(a)-1(b)(4)(ii).


(iii) *Special rule for first effective plan year.* See paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section for a calculation of the funding shortfall for the plan's pre-effective plan year.


(iv) *Special rule for plan spinoffs and mergers.* [Reserved]


(5) *Liquid assets*—(i) *In general.* The term *liquid assets* means cash, marketable securities, and other assets described in this paragraph (e)(5)(i). For this purpose, marketable securities include financial instruments such as stocks and other equity interests, evidences of indebtedness (including certificates of deposit), options, futures contracts, and other derivatives, for which there is a liquid financial market, and other interests in entities (such as partnerships, trusts, or regulated investment companies) for which there is a liquid financial market. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a liquid financial market is an established financial market described in § 1.1092(d)-1(b) (other than an interbank market or an interdealer market described in § 1.1092(d)-1(b)(1)(v) and (vi), respectively). Any security that is issued or guaranteed by the government of the United States or an agency or instrumentality thereof for which there is an established financial market described in § 1.1092(d)-1(b) is a marketable security. Finally, any financial instrument or other interest in an entity that, under its terms, contains a right by which the instrument or other interest may immediately be redeemed, exchanged, or converted into cash or a marketable security, is a marketable security, provided there are no restrictions on the exercise of that right.


(ii) *Insurance and annuity contracts.* Other assets that are treated as liquid assets of a plan are insurance, annuity, or other contracts issued by an insurance company that is licensed to do business under the laws of any State, but only if the insurance, annuity, or other contract—


(A) Contains an unrestricted right by which the insurance, annuity or other contract may immediately be redeemed, exchanged, or converted into cash or a marketable security;


(B) Provides for substantially equal monthly disbursements to the extent provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section; or


(C) Is benefit responsive within the meaning of paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section.


(iii) *Insurance and annuity contracts providing for substantially equal periodic payments.* If the contract provides for substantially equal monthly disbursements (for example, an annuity contract in pay status), the only portion of the contract that may be treated as liquid assets for a quarter is the amount equal to 36 times the monthly disbursement (in the month containing the last day of the quarter) which is available under the terms of the contract, provided there are no restrictions on the right to disbursements.


(iv) *Benefit responsive insurance and annuity contracts.* A contract is considered benefit responsive if, under applicable law and contractual provisions, the plan has the right to receive disbursements from the contract in order to pay plan benefits for any participant in the plan, without restrictions on that right.


(v) *Restrictions.* For purposes of this paragraph (e)(5), a restriction on a redemption, exchange, or conversion right, or a restriction on a right to receive a disbursement, may result not only from applicable law or contractual provisions, but also from rehabilitation, conservatorship, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy, or similar proceedings.


(6) *Liquidity shortfall*—(i) *In general.* Except as modified in paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section with respect to multiple employer plans, the term *liquidity shortfall* means, with respect to any required installment, an amount equal to the excess (as of the last day of the quarter for which that installment is due) of—


(A) The base amount with respect to the quarter, over


(B) The value (as of the last day of the quarter) of the plan's liquid assets.


(ii) *Base amount*—(A) *In general.* For purposes of this paragraph (e)(6), the term *base amount* means, with respect to any quarter, an amount equal to 3 times the sum of the adjusted disbursements from the plan for the 12 months ending on the last day of that quarter.


(B) *Special rule.* If the generally applicable base amount for a quarter (as determined under paragraph (e)(6)(ii)(A) of this section) exceeds an amount equal to 2 times the sum of the adjusted disbursements from the plan for the 36 months ending on the last day of the quarter and the enrolled actuary for the plan certifies to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that such excess is the result of nonrecurring circumstances, then the base amount with respect to that quarter is determined without regard to amounts related to those nonrecurring circumstances.


(iii) *Multiple employer plans*—(A) *Satisfaction of liquidity requirement as if plan were not a multiple employer plan.* For a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies, the liquidity requirement of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section is satisfied if the liquidity requirement would be satisfied if the plan were a single-employer plan that is not a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies.


(B) *Failure to satisfy the liquidity requirement on a plan-wide basis.* For a multiple employer plan to which section 413(c)(4)(A) applies, if the plan does not satisfy the liquidity requirement in accordance with paragraph (e)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, then the liquidity requirement must be applied separately for each employer under the plan, as if each employer maintained a separate plan. Thus, the value of plan assets as of the end of each quarter under such a multiple employer plan must be allocated among the employers sponsoring the plan, and the liquidity shortfall must be determined for each employer based on that allocation. See section 413(c)(7)(B) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(7) *Plan month*—(i) *Plan year begins on the first day of a calendar month.* For a plan year that begins with the first day of a calendar month, the term *plan month* means any calendar month that begins during the plan year.


(ii) *Plan year begins on a date other than the first day of a calendar month.* For a plan year that begins on a date other than the first day of a calendar month, the first day of each plan month is the day of the calendar month that corresponds to the day of the calendar month that is the first day of the plan year. Thus, for example, if the first day of a plan year is January 15, then a plan month starts on the 15th of each calendar month. However, if a calendar month does not contain a day that corresponds to the day of the calendar month that is the first day of the plan year (for example, if a calendar month has only 30 days and the first day of the plan year is the 31st day of a calendar month), then the first day of the plan month that begins during that calendar month is the last day of that calendar month.


(8) *Quarter.* The term *quarter* means, with respect to any required installment, the 3-plan-month period preceding the plan month in which the due date for that installment occurs.


(9) *Short plan year.* The term *short plan year* means a plan year that is shorter than 12 months (and is not a 52-week plan year of a plan that uses a 52-53 week plan year).


(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. Unless otherwise indicated, these examples are based on the following assumptions: section 430 applies to determine the minimum required contribution for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2008; the plan year is the calendar year; the valuation date is January 1; the plan sponsor is required to pay the installments described in paragraph (c) of this section; the plan does not have a liquidity shortfall; and the plan sponsor has not elected any funding relief under section 430(c)(2)(D) for any plan year. In addition, these examples assume that, under the funding method used for the plan, interest adjustments are calculated to the nearest half month (rather than days) for transactions that occur on the 1st and 15th of a calendar month.


(g) *Effective/applicability dates and transition rules*—(1) *Statutory effective date/applicability date.* Section 430 generally applies to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2008. The applicability of section 430 for purposes of determining the minimum required contribution is delayed for certain plans in accordance with sections 104 through 106 of PPA '06.


(2) *Effective date/applicability date of regulations.* This section applies to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2016. For plan years beginning before January 1, 2016, plans are permitted to rely on the provisions set forth in this section for purposes of satisfying the requirements of section 430(j).


(3) *First effective plan year.* For purposes of this section, the *first effective plan year* for a plan is the first plan year after the pre-effective plan year.


(4) *Pre-effective plan year.* For purposes of this section, the *pre-effective plan year* is the plan year described in § 1.430(a)-1(h)(5).


(5) *Special rules relating to first effective plan year*—(i) *Determination of minimum required contribution for pre-effective plan year.* In the case of the plan's first effective plan year, the minimum required contribution for the preceding plan year for purposes of paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section is equal to the minimum required contribution under section 412 for the pre-effective plan year (determined without regard to any funding waiver under section 412), determined as of the last day of the pre-effective plan year and without regard to the plan's credit balance.


(ii) *Determination of funding shortfall for pre-effective plan year*—(A) *First effective plan year that begins during 2008.* In general, in the case of a plan with a first effective plan year that begins during 2008, the funding shortfall for the pre-effective plan year that precedes it is determined pursuant to paragraph (e)(4) of this section. However, for this purpose, the plan's current liability for the pre-effective plan year under section 412(l)(7) (as in effect for the pre-effective plan year) is permitted to be used in place of the plan's funding target for the pre-effective plan year. In addition, for this purpose, the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year is permitted to be used in place of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) for the pre-effective plan year, provided that the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was not less than 90 percent nor more than 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c). If the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was less than 90 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c), then 90 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) is permitted to be used as the value of plan assets for the pre-effective plan year. If the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was more than 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c), then 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) is permitted to be used as the value of plan assets for the pre-effective plan year. Finally, for this purpose, the value of plan assets is permitted to be determined without subtraction for the plan's credit balance for the pre-effective plan year.


(B) *First effective plan year begins after 2008.* In the case of a plan with a first effective plan year that begins after December 31, 2008, the determination of the funding shortfall for the pre-effective plan year that immediately precedes it is made in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. Thus, the funding shortfall for the pre-effective plan year is based on the funding target for the pre-effective plan year and the value of plan assets is determined under § 1.430(g)-1(c) for the pre-effective plan year, even though section 430(g) did not apply to the plan for purposes of determining the minimum required contribution for the pre-effective plan year.



---

[N] [T.D. 9732, 80 FR 54390, Sept. 9, 2015]




