# § 60.41Da   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


*Affirmative defense* means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.


*Anthracite* means coal that is classified as anthracite according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).


*Available system capacity means* the capacity determined by subtracting the system load and the system emergency reserves from the net system capacity.


*Biomass* means plant materials and animal waste.


*Bituminous coal* means coal that is classified as bituminous according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).


*Boiler operating day* for units constructed, reconstructed, or modified before March 1, 2005, means a 24-hour period during which fossil fuel is combusted in a steam-generating unit for the entire 24 hours. For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after February 28, 2005, *boiler operating day* means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time in the steam-generating unit. It is not necessary for fuel to be combusted the entire 24-hour period.


*Coal* means all solid fuels classified as anthracite, bituminous, subbituminous, or lignite by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) and coal refuse. Synthetic fuels derived from coal for the purpose of creating useful heat, including but not limited to solvent-refined coal, gasified coal, coal-oil mixtures, and coal-water mixtures are included in this definition for the purposes of this subpart.


*Coal-fired electric utility steam generating unit* means an electric utility steam generating unit that burns coal, coal refuse, or a synthetic gas derived from coal either exclusively, in any combination together, or in any combination with other fuels in any amount.


*Coal refuse* means waste products of coal mining, physical coal cleaning, and coal preparation operations (e.g. culm, gob, etc.) containing coal, matrix material, clay, and other organic and inorganic material.


*Combined cycle gas turbine* means a stationary turbine combustion system where heat from the turbine exhaust gases is recovered by a steam generating unit.


*Combined heat and power,* also known as “cogeneration,” means a steam-generating unit that simultaneously produces both electric (and mechanical) and useful thermal energy from the same primary energy source.


*Duct burner* means a device that combusts fuel and that is placed in the exhaust duct from another source, such as a stationary gas turbine, internal combustion engine, kiln, etc., to allow the firing of additional fuel to heat the exhaust gases before the exhaust gases enter a heat recovery steam generating unit.


*Electric utility combined cycle gas turbine* means any combined cycle gas turbine used for electric generation that is constructed for the purpose of supplying more than one-third of its potential electric output capacity and more than 25 MW net-electrical output to any utility power distribution system for sale. Any steam distribution system that is constructed for the purpose of providing steam to a steam electric generator that would produce electrical power for sale is also considered in determining the electrical energy output capacity of the affected facility.


*Electric utility steam-generating unit* means any steam electric generating unit that is constructed for the purpose of supplying more than one-third of its potential electric output capacity and more than 25 MW net-electrical output to any utility power distribution system for sale. Also, any steam supplied to a steam distribution system for the purpose of providing steam to a steam-electric generator that would produce electrical energy for sale is considered in determining the electrical energy output capacity of the affected facility.


*Electrostatic precipitator* or *ESP* means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter (PM) by charging the particles using an electrostatic field, collecting the particles using a grounded collecting surface, and transporting the particles into a hopper.


*Emission limitation* means any emissions limit or operating limit.


*Federally enforceable* means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the Administrator, including the requirements of 40 CFR parts 60 and 61, requirements within any applicable State implementation plan, and any permit requirements established under 40 CFR 52.21 or under 40 CFR 51.18 and 51.24.


*Fossil fuel* means natural gas, petroleum, coal, and any form of solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from such material for the purpose of creating useful heat.


*Gaseous fuel* means any fuel that is present as a gas at standard conditions and includes, but is not limited to, natural gas, refinery fuel gas, process gas, coke-oven gas, synthetic gas, and gasified coal.


*Gross energy output* means:


(1) For facilities constructed, reconstructed, or modified before May 4, 2011, the gross electrical or mechanical output from the affected facility plus 75 percent of the useful thermal output measured relative to ISO conditions that is not used to generate additional electrical or mechanical output or to enhance the performance of the unit (*i.e.,* steam delivered to an industrial process);


(2) For facilities constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 3, 2011, the gross electrical or mechanical output from the affected facility minus any electricity used to power the feedwater pumps and any associated gas compressors (air separation unit main compressor, oxygen compressor, and nitrogen compressor) plus 75 percent of the useful thermal output measured relative to ISO conditions that is not used to generate additional electrical or mechanical output or to enhance the performance of the unit (*i.e.,* steam delivered to an industrial process);


(3) For combined heat and power facilities constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 3, 2011, the gross electrical or mechanical output from the affected facility divided by 0.95 minus any electricity used to power the feedwater pumps and any associated gas compressors (air separation unit main compressor, oxygen compressor, and nitrogen compressor) plus 75 percent of the useful thermal output measured relative to ISO conditions that is not used to generate additional electrical or mechanical output or to enhance the performance of the unit (*i.e.,* steam delivered to an industrial process);


(4) For a IGCC electric utility generating unit that coproduces chemicals constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 3, 2011, the gross useful work performed is the gross electrical or mechanical output from the unit minus electricity used to power the feedwater pumps and any associated gas compressors (air separation unit main compressor, oxygen compressor, and nitrogen compressor) that are associated with power production plus 75 percent of the useful thermal output measured relative to ISO conditions that is not used to generate additional electrical or mechanical output or to enhance the performance of the unit (*i.e.,* steam delivered to an industrial process). Auxiliary loads that are associated with power production are determined based on the energy in the coproduced chemicals compared to the energy of the syngas combusted in combustion turbine engine and associated duct burners.


*24-hour period* means the period of time between 12:01 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.


*Integrated gasification combined cycle electric utility steam generating unit* or *IGCC electric utility steam generating unit* means an electric utility combined cycle gas turbine that is designed to burn fuels containing 50 percent (by heat input) or more solid-derived fuel not meeting the definition of natural gas. The Administrator may waive the 50 percent solid-derived fuel requirement during periods of the gasification system construction, startup and commissioning, shutdown, or repair. No solid fuel is directly burned in the unit during operation.


*ISO conditions* means a temperature of 288 Kelvin, a relative humidity of 60 percent, and a pressure of 101.3 kilopascals.


*Lignite* means coal that is classified as lignite A or B according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).


*Natural gas* means a fluid mixture of hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane, or propane), composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or that has a gross calorific value between 35 and 41 megajoules (MJ) per dry standard cubic meter (950 and 1,100 Btu per dry standard cubic foot), that maintains a gaseous state under ISO conditions. In addition, *natural gas* contains 20.0 grains or less of total sulfur per 100 standard cubic feet. Finally, natural gas does not include the following gaseous fuels: landfill gas, digester gas, refinery gas, sour gas, blast furnace gas, coal-derived gas, producer gas, coke oven gas, or any gaseous fuel produced in a process which might result in highly variable sulfur content or heating value.


*Neighboring company* means any one of those electric utility companies with one or more electric power interconnections to the principal company and which have geographically adjoining service areas.


*Net-electric output* means the gross electric sales to the utility power distribution system minus purchased power on a calendar year basis.


*Net energy output* means the gross energy output minus the parasitic load associated with power production. Parasitic load includes, but is not limited to, the power required to operate the equipment used for fuel delivery systems, air pollution control systems, wastewater treatment systems, ash handling and disposal systems, and other controls (*i.e.,* pumps, fans, compressors, motors, instrumentation, and other ancillary equipment required to operate the affected facility).


*Noncontinental area* means the State of Hawaii, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the Northern Mariana Islands.


*Out-of-control period* means any period beginning with the quadrant corresponding to the completion of a daily calibration error, linearity check, or quality assurance audit that indicates that the instrument is not measuring and recording within the applicable performance specifications and ending with the quadrant corresponding to the completion of an additional calibration error, linearity check, or quality assurance audit following corrective action that demonstrates that the instrument is measuring and recording within the applicable performance specifications.


*Petroleum* for facilities constructed, reconstructed, or modified before May 4, 2011, means crude oil or a fuel derived from crude oil, including, but not limited to, distillate oil, and residual oil. For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 3, 2011, *petroleum* means crude oil or a fuel derived from crude oil, including, but not limited to, distillate oil, residual oil, and petroleum coke.


*Petroleum coke,* also known as “petcoke,” means a carbonization product of high-boiling hydrocarbon fractions obtained in petroleum processing (heavy residues). *Petroleum coke* is typically derived from oil refinery coker units or other cracking processes.


*Potential combustion concentration* means the theoretical emissions (nanograms per joule (ng/J), lb/MMBtu heat input) that would result from combustion of a fuel in an uncleaned state without emission control systems. For sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) the potential combustion concentration is determined under § 60.50Da(c).


*Potential electrical output capacity* means 33 percent of the maximum design heat input capacity of the steam generating unit, divided by 3,413 Btu/KWh, divided by 1,000 kWh/MWh, and multiplied by 8,760 hr/yr (e.g., a steam generating unit with a 100 MW (340 MMBtu/hr) fossil-fuel heat input capacity would have a 289,080 MWh 12 month potential electrical output capacity). For electric utility combined cycle gas turbines the potential electrical output capacity is determined on the basis of the fossil-fuel firing capacity of the steam generator exclusive of the heat input and electrical power contribution by the gas turbine.


*Resource recovery unit* means a facility that combusts more than 75 percent non-fossil fuel on a quarterly (calendar) heat input basis.


*Solid-derived fuel* means any solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from solid fuel for the purpose of creating useful heat and includes, but is not limited to, solvent refined coal, liquified coal, synthetic gas, gasified coal, gasified petroleum coke, gasified biomass, and gasified tire derived fuel.


*Steam generating unit* for facilities constructed, reconstructed, or modified before May 4, 2011, means any furnace, boiler, or other device used for combusting fuel for the purpose of producing steam (including fossil-fuel-fired steam generators associated with combined cycle gas turbines; nuclear steam generators are not included). For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 3, 2011, *steam generating unit* means any furnace, boiler, or other device used for combusting fuel for the purpose of producing steam (including fossil-fuel-fired steam generators associated with combined cycle gas turbines; nuclear steam generators are not included) plus any integrated combustion turbines and fuel cells.


*Subbituminous coal* means coal that is classified as subbituminous A, B, or C according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).


*Wet flue gas desulfurization technology* or *wet FGD* means a SO_2_ control system that is located downstream of the steam generating unit and removes sulfur oxides from the combustion gases of the steam generating unit by contacting the combustion gases with an alkaline slurry or solution and forming a liquid material. This definition applies to devices where the aqueous liquid material product of this contact is subsequently converted to other forms. Alkaline reagents used in wet FGD technology include, but are not limited to, lime, limestone, and sodium.



---

[N] [72 FR 32722, June 13, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 5079, Jan. 28, 2009; 77 FR 9448, Feb. 16, 2012; 77 FR 23402, Apr. 19, 2012; 78 FR 24082, Apr. 24, 2013]




