# ยง 60.501   Definitions.

The terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in ยง 60.2 of this part, or in this section as follows:


*Bulk gasoline terminal* means any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship or barge, and has a gasoline throughput greater than 75,700 liters per day. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.


*Continuous vapor processing system* means a vapor processing system that treats total organic compounds vapors collected from gasoline tank trucks on a demand basis without intermediate accumulation in a vapor holder.


*Existing vapor processing system* means a vapor processing system [capable of achieving emissions to the atmosphere no greater than 80 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded], the construction or refurbishment of which was commenced before December 17, 1980, and which was not constructed or refurbished after that date.


*Flare* means a thermal oxidation system using an open (without enclosure) flame.


*Gasoline* means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 27.6 kilopascals or greater which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.


*Gasoline tank truck* means a delivery tank truck used at bulk gasoline terminals which is loading gasoline or which has loaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.


*Intermittent vapor processing system* means a vapor processing system that employs an intermediate vapor holder to accumulate total organic compounds vapors collected from gasoline tank trucks, and treats the accumulated vapors only during automatically controlled cycles.


*Loading rack* means the loading arms, pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves necessary to fill delivery tank trucks.


*Refurbishment* means, with reference to a vapor processing system, replacement of components of, or addition of components to, the system within any 2-year period such that the fixed capital cost of the new components required for such component replacement or addition exceeds 50 percent of the cost of a comparable entirely new system.


*Thermal oxidation system* means a combustion device used to mix and ignite fuel, air pollutants, and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize hazardous air pollutants. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat air pollutants to combustion temperatures.


*Total organic compounds* means those compounds measured according to the procedures in ยง 60.503.


*Vapor collection system* means any equipment used for containing total organic compounds vapors displaced during the loading of gasoline tank trucks.


*Vapor processing system* means all equipment used for recovering or oxidizing total organic compounds vapors displaced from the affected facility.


*Vapor-tight gasoline tank truck* means a gasoline tank truck which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that its product delivery tank will sustain a pressure change of not more than 750 pascals (75 mm of water) within 5 minutes after it is pressurized to 4,500 pascals (450 mm of water). This capability is to be demonstrated using the pressure test procedure specified in Method 27.



---

[N] [48 FR 37590, Aug. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000; 68 FR 70965, Dec. 19, 2003]




