# ยง 292.3   Administration.

(a) *Delegation to FNS.* FNS must act on behalf of USDA in the administration of the Program.


(b) *Delegation to a State or ITO.* The Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State or ITO will designate one or more Summer EBT agencies to be responsible for the administration of the Summer EBT Program within the State or ITO. If more than one Summer EBT agency is named within a State or ITO, a coordinating Summer EBT agency must be named. All other Summer EBT agencies will be partnering Summer EBT agencies.


(1) *Coordinating Summer EBT agency.* (i) Each coordinating Summer EBT agency must enter into a written agreement with USDA for the administration of the Program in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part.


(ii) The coordinating Summer EBT agency is:


(A) The primary point of contact for the Summer EBT Program within the State or ITO;


(B) Responsible for the complete and timely submission of any required plans, forms, and reports;


(C) Responsible for activities as outlined in the inter-agency written agreement; and


(D) Responsible for the effective and efficient administration of the Program in accordance with the requirements of this part; the Department's regulations governing nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, and 15b); governing administration of grants (2 CFR part 200, subparts A through F, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415); governing non-procurement debarment/suspension (2 CFR part 180 and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR part 417); governing restrictions on lobbying (2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400, 415, and 418); and governing the drug-free workplace requirements (2 CFR part 182); FNS guidelines; and, instructions issued under the FNS Directives Management System.


(2) *Partnering Summer EBT agencies.* (i) Each partnering Summer EBT agency must enter into a written agreement with USDA for the administration of the Program in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part.


(ii) The partnering Summer EBT agency is:


(A) Responsible for activities as outlined in the inter-agency written agreement. If only one Agency will be responsible for the administration of Summer EBT, designation of partnering agencies is not applicable.


(B) Responsible for the effective and efficient administration of the Program in accordance with the requirements of this part; the Department's regulations governing nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, and 15b); governing administration of grants (2 CFR part 200, subparts A through F, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415); governing non-procurement debarment/suspension (2 CFR part 180 and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR part 417); governing restrictions on lobbying (2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400, 415, and 418); and governing the drug-free workplace requirements (2 CFR part 182); FNS guidelines; and, instructions issued under the FNS Directives Management System.


(c) *Designation of responsibility among Summer EBT agencies and requirements for written inter-agency agreements.* To ensure clear roles and responsibilities, the coordinating Summer EBT agency and any partnering Summer EBT agency or agencies must enter into an inter-agency written agreement that defines the roles and responsibilities of each, as well as the administrative structure and lines of authority, if applicable.


(1) The inter-agency written agreement should outline the Summer EBT agencies assignment of responsibilities including, but not limited to:


(i) Certification and enrollment of children;


(ii) Issuance, control, and accountability of Summer EBT benefits and EBT cards;


(iii) Developing and maintaining complaint procedures;


(iv) Developing, conducting, and evaluating training;


(v) Keeping records necessary to determine whether the program is being conducted in compliance with the requirements in this part for the proper storage and use of data. The records must survive the duration of this agreement;


(vi) Submitting accurate and timely financial and program plans, forms, and reports; and


(vii) Public notification and participant support.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Suspension, termination, and closeout procedures.* Whenever it is determined that a Summer EBT agency has materially failed to comply with the provisions of this part, FNS may suspend or terminate the agreement between FNS and the Summer EBT agency or agencies or take any other action as may be available and appropriate. A Summer EBT agency may also terminate the agreement, but must provide FNS at least 60 days advance written notice, including a detailed explanation and the proposed effective date of the change. FNS and the Summer EBT agency shall comply with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415 concerning grant suspension termination and closeout procedures.


(e) *Authority to waive statute and regulations for State Summer EBT agencies.* (1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1760(l), FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State Summer EBT agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.


(2) A State Summer EBT agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.


(3) A State Summer EBT agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.


(4) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part.


(i) Any waiver request submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State Summer EBT agency for review.


(ii) A State Summer EBT agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.


(iii) If a State Summer EBT agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the Summer EBT agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request.


(iv) By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State Summer EBT agency affirms:


(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,


(B) The State Summer EBT agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.


(v) If the State Summer EBT agency denies the request, the State Summer EBT agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State Summer EBT agency's receipt of the request. The State Summer EBT agency response is final and may not be appealed to FNS.


(f) *Waivers for ITO Summer EBT agencies.* (1) The Secretary may waive or modify specific regulatory provisions of this part for one or more ITO Summer EBT agency. Waivers may be issued following an ITO Summer EBT agency request or at the discretion of USDA.


(2) To be approvable, a waiver must:


(i) Address a specific regulatory provision which cannot be implemented effectively by the requesting ITO operation;


(ii) Result in more effective and efficient administration of the Program;


(iii) Be consistent with the provisions of the Act; and


(iv) Not result in material impairment of any statutory or regulatory rights of participants or potential participants.


(3) When submitting requests for waivers, ITO Summer EBT agencies must provide compelling justification for the waiver in terms of how the waiver will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the administration of the Program. At a minimum, requests for waivers must include, but not necessarily be limited to:


(i) Reasons why the waiver is needed;


(ii) Anticipated impact on service to participants or potential participants who would be affected;


(iii) Anticipated time period for which the waiver is needed; and


(iv) A thorough description of the proposed waiver and how it would be implemented.






