# ยง 124.41   Definitions applicable to PSD permits.

Whenever PSD permits are processed under this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


*Administrator, EPA,* and *Regional Administrator* shall have the meanings set forth in ยง 124.2, except when EPA has delegated authority to administer those regulations to another agency under the applicable subsection of 40 CFR 52.21, the term *EPA* shall mean the delegate agency and the term *Regional Administrator* shall mean the chief administrative officer of the delegate agency.


*Application* means an application for a PSD permit.


*Appropriate Act and Regulations* means the Clean Air Act and applicable regulations promulgated under it.


*Approved program* means a State implementation plan providing for issuance of PSD permits which has been approved by EPA under the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR part 51. An *approved State* is one administering an *approved program. State Director* as used in ยง 124.4 means the person(s) responsible for issuing PSD permits under an approved program, or that person's delegated representative.


*Construction* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 52.21.


*Director* means the Regional Administrator.


*Draft permit* shall have the meaning set forth in ยง 124.2.


*Facility or activity* means a *major PSD stationary source* or *major PSD modification.*

*Federal Land Manager* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 52.21.


*Indian Governing Body* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 52.21.


*Major PSD modification* means a *major modification* as defined in 40 CFR 52.21.


*Major PSD stationary source* means a *major stationary source* as defined in 40 CFR 52.21(b)(1).


*Owner or operator* means the owner or operator of any facility or activity subject to regulation under 40 CFR 52.21 or by an approved State.


*Permit* or *PSD permit* means a permit issued under 40 CFR 52.21 or by an approved State.


*Person* includes an individual, corporation, partnership, association, State, municipality, political subdivision of a State, and any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States and any officer, agent or employee thereof.


*Regulated activity* or *activity subject to regulation* means a *major PSD stationary source* or *major PSD modification.*

*Site* means the land or water area upon which a *major PSD stationary source* or *major PSD modification* is physically located or conducted, including but not limited to adjacent land used for utility systems; as repair, storage, shipping or processing areas; or otherwise in connection with the *major PSD stationary source* or *major PSD modification.*

*State* means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa and includes the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.




