# ยง 263.81   Definitions.

(a) *Bank holding company* means any company that controls a bank as defined in section 2 of the BHC Act, 12 U.S.C. 1841, and in the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(b)) or any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof other than a bank subsidiary as defined in section 2(c) of the BHC Act, 12 U.S.C. 1841(c), and in the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(a)). 


(b) *Capital Adequacy Guidelines* means those guidelines for bank holding companies and state member banks contained in appendices A and D to the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR part 225), and in appendix A to the Board's Regulation H (12 CFR part 208), or any succeeding capital guidelines promulgated by the Board.


(c) *Directive* means a final order issued by the Board:


(1) Pursuant to ILSA (12 U.S.C. 3907(b)(2)) requiring a state member bank or bank holding company to increase capital to or maintain capital at the minimum level set forth in the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines or as otherwise established under procedures described in ยง 263.85; or


(2) Pursuant to HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1467a(g)(1)) requiring a savings and loan holding company to increase capital to or maintain capital at a certain level.


(d) *State member bank* means any state-chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System.


(e) *Savings and loan holding company* means any company that controls a savings association as defined in section 10 of the HOLA, 12 U.S.C. 1467a, and in the Board's Regulation LL (12 CFR 238.2) or any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof other than a savings association subsidiary as defined in section 10 of the HOLA, 12 U.S.C. 1467a, and in the Board's Regulation LL (12 CFR 238.2).



---

[N] [56 FR 38052, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 56604, Sept. 13, 2011]




