# ยง 230.485   Effective date of post-effective amendments filed by certain registered investment companies or issuers offering registered non-variable annuities.

(a) *Automatic effectiveness.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement filed by a registered open-end management investment company, unit investment trust or, separate account as defined in section 2(a)(37) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)] or to register an offering of a registered non-variable annuity securities shall become effective on the sixtieth day after the filing thereof, or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment, which date shall be no later than eighty days after the date on which the amendment is filed.(




(2) A post-effective amendment filed by a registered open-end management investment company for the purpose of adding a series shall become effective on the seventy-fifth day after the filing thereof or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment, which date shall be no later than ninety-five days after the date on which the amendment is filed. 


(3) The Commission, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors, may declare an amendment filed under this paragraph (a) effective on an earlier date. 


(b) *Immediate effectiveness.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement filed by a registered open-end management investment company, unit investment trust or separate account as defined in section 2(a)(37) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)] or to register an offering of a registered non-variable annuity securities shall become effective on the date upon which it is filed with the Commission, or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment, which date shall be not later than thirty days after the date on which the amendment is filed, except that a post-effective amendment including a designation of a new effective date pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section shall become effective on the new effective date designated therein, Provided, that the following conditions are met:






(1) It is filed for no purpose other than one or more of the following: 


(i) Bringing the financial statements up to date under section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)] or Rules 3-12 or 3-18 of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210.3-12 and 210.3-18]; 


(ii) Complying with an undertaking to file an amendment containing financial statements, which may be unaudited, within four to six months after the effective date of the registrant's registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*]; 


(iii) Designating a new effective date for a previously filed post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, which has not yet become effective, *Provided,* that the new effective date shall be no earlier than the effective date designated in the previously filed amendment under paragraph (a) of this section and no later than thirty days after that date; 


(iv) Disclosing or updating the information required by Item 5(b) or 10(a)(2) of Form N-1A [17 CFR 239.15A and 274.11A]; 


(v) Making any non-material changes which the registrant deems appropriate; 


(vi) In the case of a separate account registered as a unit investment trust, to make changes in the disclosure in the unit investment trust's registration statement to reflect changes to disclosure in the registration statement of the investment company in which the unit investment trust invests all of its assets; and 


(vii) Any other purpose which the Commission shall approve. 


(2) The registrant represents that the amendment is filed solely for one or more of the purposes specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and that no material event requiring disclosure in the prospectus, other than one listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or one for which the Commission has approved a filing under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section, has occurred since the latest of the following three dates: 


(i) The effective date of the registrant's registration statement; 


(ii) The effective date of its most recent post-effective amendment to its registration statement which included a prospectus; or 


(iii) The filing date of a post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (a) of this section which has not become effective. 


(3) The amendment recites on its facing sheet that the registrant proposes that the amendment will become effective under paragraph (b) of this section. 


(4) The representations of the registrant referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be made by certification on the signature page of the post-effective amendment that the amendment meets all the requirements for effectiveness under paragraph (b) of this section. If counsel prepared or reviewed the post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (b) of this section, counsel shall furnish to the Commission at the time the amendment is filed a written representation that the amendment does not contain disclosures that would render it ineligible to become effective under paragraph (b) of this section. 


(c) *Incomplete or inaccurate amendments; suspension of use of paragraph (b) of this section.* (1) No amendment shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if, prior to the effective date of the amendment, it should appear to the Commission that the amendment may be incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, and the Commission furnishes to the registrant written notice that the effective date of the amendment is to be suspended. Following such action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for such a hearing is included in the petition. If the Commission has suspended the effective date of an amendment, the amendment shall become effective on such date as the Commission may determine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors. 


(2) The Commission may, in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in this paragraph (c)(2), suspend the ability of registrant to file a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section. The notice of such suspension shall be in writing and shall specify the period for which such suspension shall remain in effect. The Commission may issue a suspension if it appears to the Commission that a registrant which files a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section has not complied with the conditions of that paragraph. Any suspension under this paragraph (c)(2) shall become effective at such time as the Commission furnishes written notice thereof to the registrant. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment that has been filed but has not, at the time of such suspension, become effective, and to any post-effective amendment that may be filed after the suspension. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment. Following this action by the Commission the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for a hearing is included in the petition. 




(3) A registrant's ability to file a post-effective amendment, other than an amendment filed solely for purposes of submitting an Interactive Data File, under paragraph (b) of this section is automatically suspended if a registrant fails to submit any Interactive Data File (as defined in ยง 232.11 of this chapter) required by the registration form on which the registrant is filing the post-effective amendment. A suspension under this paragraph (c)(3) shall become effective at such time as the registrant fails to submit an Interactive Data File as required by the relevant registration form. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment that is filed after the suspension becomes effective, but shall not apply to any post-effective amendment that was filed before the suspension became effective. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment. Any suspension under this paragraph (c)(3) shall terminate as soon as a registrant has submitted the Interactive Data File required by the relevant registration form.




(d) *Subsequent amendments.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a post-effective amendment that includes a prospectus shall not become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if a subsequent post-effective amendment relating to the prospectus is filed before such amendment becomes effective. 


(2) A post-effective amendment that includes a prospectus shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section notwithstanding the filing of a subsequent post-effective amendment relating to the prospectus, *Provided,* that the following conditions are met: 


(i) the subsequent amendment is filed under paragraph (b) of this section; and 


(ii) the subsequent amendment designates as its effective date either: 


(A) the date on which the prior post-effective amendment was to become effective under paragraph (a) of this section; or 


(B) a new effective date designated under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. 


(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, if another post-effective amendment relating to the same prospectus is filed under paragraph (a) of this section before the prior amendments filed pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section have become effective, none of such prior amendments shall become effective under this section. 


(e) *Certain separate accounts.* For purposes of this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement for an offering of securities by a registered open-end management investment company or unit investment trust as those terms are used in paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) of this section and as such amendments are referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, shall include a post-effective amendment to an offering of securities by an insurance company funded through a separate account, as defined in section 2(a)(37) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)], where the separate account need not register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 under section 3(c)(11) thereof [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(11)]. 


(f) *Electronic filers.* When ascertaining the date of filing, electronic filers should not presume a registration statement has been accepted until notice of acceptance has been received from the Commission. 



---

[N] [59 FR 43464, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 47938, Sept. 12, 1997; 63 FR 13943, Mar. 23, 1998; 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999; 74 FR 4584, Jan. 26, 2009; 74 FR 7774, Feb. 19, 2009; 83 FR 40873, Aug. 16, 2018; 85 FR 26093, May 1, 2020; 88 FR 70507, Oct. 11, 2023; 89 FR 60084, July 24, 2024]




