# ยง 239.29   Certificates for shares and their transfer.

(a) *Certificates for shares.* Certificates representing shares of capital stock of the subsidiary holding company shall be in such form as shall be determined by the board of directors and approved by the Board. The certificates shall be signed by the chief executive officer or by any other officer of the subsidiary holding company authorized by the board of directors, attested by the secretary or an assistant secretary, and sealed with the corporate seal or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of such officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is manually signed on behalf of a transfer agent or a registrar other than the subsidiary holding company itself or one of its employees. Each certificate for shares of capital stock shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The name and address of the person to whom the shares are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the subsidiary holding company. All certificates surrendered to the subsidiary holding company for transfer shall be cancelled and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and cancelled, except that in the case of a lost or destroyed certificate a new certificate may be issued upon such terms and indemnity to the subsidiary holding company as the board of directors may prescribe.


(b) *Transfer of shares.* Transfer of shares of capital stock of the subsidiary holding company shall be made only on its stock transfer books. Authority for such transfer shall be given only by the holder of record or by a legal representative, who shall furnish proper evidence of such authority, or by an attorney authorized by a duly executed power of attorney and filed with the subsidiary holding company. The transfer shall be made only on surrender for cancellation of the certificate for the shares. The person in whose name shares of capital stock stand on the books of the subsidiary holding company shall be deemed by the subsidiary holding company to be the owner for all purposes.




