# ยง 1659.1   Claims.

(a) Claims for payment of actual and reasonable expenses of:


(1) Emergency medical care, including hospitalization of registrants who suffer illness or injury; and


(2) The transportation and burial of the remains of registrants who suffer death while acting under orders issued by or under the authority of the Director of Selective Service will be paid in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(b) Claims for payment of expenses incurred for the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall be presented to the Director of Selective Service.


(c)(1) The term *emergency medical care, including hospitalization,* as used in this section, shall be construed to mean such medical care or hospitalization that normally must be rendered promptly after an occurrence of illness or injury. Discharge by a physician or facility subsequent to such medical care or hospitalization shall be justification to terminate the period of emergency.


(2) The death of a registrant shall be deemed to have occurred while acting under orders issued by or under the authority of the Director of Selective Service if it results directly from an illness or injury suffered by the registrant while so acting and occurs prior to the completion of an emergency medical care, including hospitalization, occasioned by such illness or injury.


(d) No such claim shall be paid unless it is presented within the period of one year from the date on which the expenses were incurred.


(e) No such claim shall be allowed in case it is determined that the cause of injury, illness, or death was due to negligence or misconduct of the registrant.


(f) Burial expenses shall not exceed the maximum prescribed in Section 11 of the Military Selective Service Act in any one case.


(g) Payment of such claims when allowed shall be made only:


(1) Directly to the person or facility with which the expenses were incurred; or


(2) By reimbursement to the registrant, a relative of the registrant, or the legal representative of the registrant's estate, for original payment of such expenses.



---

[N] [47 FR 4664, Feb. 1, 1982] 








