# § 2.306   Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Toxic Substances Control Act.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


*Act* means the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*

*Chemical substance* has the meaning given it in section 3(2) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2602(2).


*EPA Legal Office* means the EPA Office of General Counsel and any EPA office over which the EPA General Counsel exercises supervisory authority.


*Proceeding* means any rulemaking, adjudication, or licensing conducted by EPA under the Act or under regulations which implement the Act, except for determinations under this subpart.


(b) *Applicability.* This section applies as set forth in 40 CFR 703.1.


(c) *Basic rules that apply without change.* Sections 2.210, 2.211, 2.212, 2.214, and 2.215 of this part apply without change to information to which this section applies. Unless otherwise specified in this section, the provisions in §§ 2.201 through 2.205 and 2.208 do not apply to information subject to this section. Instead, the provisions of 40 CFR part 703 provide the requirements and procedures relevant to confidentiality determinations for information submitted to EPA under the Act.


(d) *Disclosure in special circumstances.* (1) EPA intends to make disclosures pursuant to a request under section 14(d)(4), (5), or (6) of the Act for information to which this section applies in accordance with the requirements of the Act and any applicable EPA guidance required by section 14(c)(4)(B) of the Act.


(2) Section 2.209 applies to information to which this section applies, except that:


(i) The notification specified in § 2.209(b)(2) is 15 business days.


(ii) The following two additional provisions apply to § 2.209(c):


(A) The official purpose for which the information is needed must be in connection with the agency's duties under any law for protection of health or the environment or for specific law enforcement purposes; and


(B) EPA notifies the other agency that the information was acquired under authority of the Act and that any knowing disclosure of the information may subject the officers and employees of the other agency to the penalties in section 14(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(h)).


(e) *Disclosure of information relevant in a proceeding.* (1) Under section 14(d)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(d)(7)), any information to which this section applies may be disclosed by EPA when the information is relevant in a proceeding under the Act, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. However, any such disclosure shall be made in a manner that preserves the confidentiality of the information to the extent practicable without impairing the proceeding. Disclosure of information to which this section applies because of its relevance in a proceeding shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (e).


(2) The provisions of § 2.301(g)(2) through (4) apply to disclosures under this paragraph (e).


(f) *Disclosure of information to contractors and subcontractors.* (1) Under section 14(d)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(d)(2)), any information to which this section applies shall be disclosed by EPA to a contractor or subcontractor of the United States if, in the opinion of the Administrator, the disclosure is necessary for the satisfactory performance of their work in connection with the Act, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Subject to the limitations in this paragraph (f), information to which this section applies may be disclosed:


(i) To a contractor or subcontractor with EPA, if the EPA program office managing the contract first determines in writing that such disclosure is necessary for the satisfactory performance by the contractor or subcontractor of the contract or subcontract; or


(ii) To a contractor or subcontractor with an agency other than EPA, if the EPA program office which provides the information to that agency, contractor, or subcontractor first determines in writing, in consultation with the General Counsel, that such disclosure is necessary for the satisfactory performance by the contractor or subcontractor of the contract or subcontract.


(2) The provisions of § 2.301(h)(2)(ii) through (iv) apply to disclosures under paragraph this (f).


(3) At the time any information is furnished to a contractor or subcontractor under this paragraph (f), the EPA office furnishing the information to the contractor or subcontractor shall notify the contractor or subcontractor that the information was acquired under authority of the Act and that any knowing disclosure of the information may subject the contractor or subcontractor and its employees to the penalties in section 14(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2613(h)).


(g) *Disclosure of information when necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury.* (1) Under section 14(d)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C 2613(d)(3)), any information to which this section applies shall be disclosed by EPA if the Administrator determines that disclosure is necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment, without consideration of costs, or other non-risk factors, including an unreasonable risk to a potentially exposed or susceptible subpopulation identified as relevant by the Administrator under the conditions of use. However, any disclosure shall be made in a manner that preserves the confidentiality of the information to the extent not inconsistent with protecting health or the environment against the unreasonable risk of injury. Disclosure of information to which this section applies because of the need to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (g).


(2) If any EPA office determines that there is an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment and that to protect health or the environment against the unreasonable risk of injury it is necessary to disclose information to which this section applies that otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart, the EPA office shall notify the EPA Legal Office in writing of the nature of the unreasonable risk of injury, the extent of the disclosure proposed, how the proposed disclosure will serve to protect health or the environment against the unreasonable risk of injury, and the proposed date of disclosure. Such notification shall be made as soon as practicable after discovery of the unreasonable risk of injury. If the EPA office determines that the risk of injury is so imminent that it is impracticable to furnish written notification to the EPA Legal Office, the EPA office shall notify the EPA Legal Office orally.


(3) Upon receipt of notification under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the EPA Legal Office shall make a determination in writing whether disclosure of information to which this section applies that otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment is necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury. The EPA Legal Office shall also determine the extent of disclosure necessary to protect against the unreasonable risk of injury as well as when the disclosure must be made to protect against the unreasonable risk of injury.


(4) If the EPA Legal Office determines that disclosure of information to which this section applies that otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment is necessary to protect health or the environment against an unreasonable risk of injury, the EPA Legal Office shall furnish notice to each affected business of the contemplated disclosure and of the Legal Office's determination. Such notice shall be made in writing, via either electronic notice as described in 40 CFR 703.5(h) or by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least 15 business days before the disclosure is to be made. The notice shall state the date upon which disclosure will be made. However, if the EPA Legal Office determines that disclosure of the information is necessary to protect against an imminent and substantial harm to health or the environment, no prior notification is necessary.





---

[N] [88 FR 37165, June 7, 2023]












