# § 17.156   Eligibility for automobile adaptive equipment.

Automobile adaptive equipment may be authorized if the Under Secretary for Health or designee determines that such equipment is deemed necessary to insure that the eligible person will be able to operate the automobile or other conveyance in a manner consistent with such person's safety and so as to satisfy the applicable standards of licensure established by the State of such person's residency or other proper licensing authority subject to the definitions and limitations in §§ 17.157 and 17.158.








(a) Persons eligible for adaptive equipment are: 


(1) Veterans who are entitled to receive compensation for the loss or permanent loss of use of one or both feet; or the loss or permanent loss of use of one or both hands; or ankylosis of one or both knees, or one of both hips if the disability is the result of injury incurred or disease contracted in or aggravated by active military, naval or air service. 


(2) Members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are suffering from any disability described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section incurred or contracted during or aggravated by active military service are eligible to receive automobile adaptive equipment. 




(b) VA will reimburse or pay for adaptive equipment for automobiles and other conveyances subject to the requirements of 38 CFR 17.158(b).



---

[N] [53 FR 46607, Nov. 18, 1988. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997; 89 FR 51232, June 17, 2024] 






