# ยง 180.108   Acephate; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of acephate, *O,S*-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates other than methamidophos, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only acephate, *O,S*-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.


(2) A tolerance of 0.02 ppm is established for residues of acephate, *O,S*-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates other than methamidophos, in or on all food items (other than those already covered by a higher tolerance as a result of use on growing crops) in food handling establishments where food and food products are held, processed, prepared and served, including food service, manufacturing and processing establishments, such as restaurants, cafeterias, supermarkets, bakeries, breweries, dairies, meat slaughtering and packing plants, and canneries, where application of acephate shall be limited solely to spot and/or crack and crevice treatment (a coarse, low-pressure spray shall be used to avoid atomization or splashing of the spray for spot treatments; equipment capable of delivering a pin-stream of insecticide shall be used for crack and crevice treatments). Spray concentration shall be limited to a maximum of 1.0 percent active ingredient. Contamination of food or food-contact surfaces shall be avoided. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only acephate, *O,S*-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.


(3) Tolerances are established for residues of methamidophos, *O,S*-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table as a result of the application of acephate. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only methamidophos, *O,S*-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved]


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* A tolerance with a regional registration is established for residues of acephate, *O,S*-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates other than methamidophos, in or on the commodity in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance level specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only acephate, *O,S*-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [63 FR 13542, Mar. 20, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 49615, July 31, 2002; 73 FR 5108, Jan. 29, 2008; 75 FR 60237, Sept. 29, 2010; 81 FR 34905, June 1, 2016]




