# § 115.12   General program policies and provisions.

(a) *Description of Surety Bond Guarantee Programs.* SBA guarantees Sureties participating in the Surety Bond Guarantee Programs against a portion of their Losses incurred and paid as a result of a Principal's breach of the terms of a Bid Bond, Final Bond or Ancillary Bond, on any eligible Contract. In the Prior Approval Program, the Surety must obtain SBA's approval before a guaranteed bond can be issued. In the PSB Program, selected Sureties may issue, monitor, and service SBA guaranteed bonds without further SBA approval. 


(b) *Eligibility of bonds.* Bid Bonds and Final Bonds are eligible for an SBA guarantee if they are executed in connection with an eligible Contract, as defined in § 115.10, Definitions. Commercial and Fidelity bonds are not eligible for SBA guarantees. Ancillary Bonds may also be eligible for SBA's guarantee. A performance bond must not prohibit a Surety from performing the Contract upon default of the Principal.


(c) *Expiration of Bid Bond Guarantee.* A Bid Bond guarantee expires 120 days after Execution of the Bid Bond, unless the Surety notifies SBA in writing before the 120th day that a later expiration date is required. The notification must include the new expiration date. 


(d) *Guarantee agreement.* The terms and conditions of SBA's bond guarantee agreements, including the guarantee percentage, may vary from Surety to Surety, depending on past experience with SBA. If the guarantee percentage is not fixed by the Investment Act, it is determined by OSG after considering, among other things, the rating or ranking assigned to the Surety by recognized authority, and the Surety's Loss rate, average Contract amount, average bond penalty per guaranteed bond, and ratio of Bid Bonds to Final Bonds, all in comparison with other Sureties participating in the same SBA Surety Bond Guarantee Program (Prior Approval or PSB) to a comparable degree. Any guarantee agreement under this part is made exclusively for the benefit of SBA and the Surety, and does not confer any rights (such as a right of action against SBA) or benefits on any other party. 


(e) *Amount of Contract*—(1) *Determination of Amount of Contract.* For a fixed price Contract, the amount of the Contract is the price excluding any options. For a requirements Contract, the amount of the Contract is the price of the total estimated quantity to be ordered under the Contract. For an indefinite quantity Contract, the amount of the Contract is the price of the specified minimum quantity to be ordered under the Contract and, for each Order issued under such Contract, the price of each such Order. The amount of the Contract or Order to be bonded must not exceed the Applicable Statutory Limit as of the date:


(i) SBA approves a Prior Approval Surety's request for a Bid Bond guarantee;


(ii) A Preferred Surety Executes a Bid Bond; or


(iii) The date Final Bonds (and any Ancillary Bonds) unrelated to an SBA-guaranteed Bid Bond are Executed by a Preferred Surety or by a Prior Approval Surety following SBA's approval of its request for a guarantee of Final Bonds.


(2) *Aggregation of Contract and Order amounts.* (i) The amounts of two or more formally separate Contracts for a single construction project are aggregated to determine the Contract amount unless the Contracts are to be performed in phases and the prior bond is released before the beginning of each succeeding phase. A bond may be considered released even if the warranty period it is covering has not yet expired. For purposes of this paragraph, a “single construction project” means one represented by two or more Contracts of one Principal or its Affiliates with one Obligee or its Affiliates for performance at the same location, regardless of job title or nature of the work to be performed.


(ii) The amounts of two or more Contracts or Orders for supplies and services awarded to the same Principal or its Affiliates are aggregated to determine the Contract or Order amount if SBA determines, after discussion with the contracting official responsible for the award of the contract, that award of a single Contract or Order could reasonably have satisfied the supply or service requirement at the time of issuance.


(3) *Federal Contracts or Orders in excess of $9,000,000* (*as adjusted for inflation in accordance with section 1908 of title 41, United States Code*). SBA is authorized to guarantee bonds on Federal Contracts or Orders greater than $9,000,000 (as adjusted for inflation in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 1908), but not exceeding $14 million, upon a signed certification of a Federal contracting officer that the SBA guarantee is necessary. The certification must be either express mailed to SBA, Office of Surety Guarantees, 409 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20416 or sent by email to *suretybonds@sba.gov,* and include the following additional information:


(i) Name, address and telephone number of the small business;


(ii) Offer or Contract number and brief description of the contract; and


(iii) Estimated Contract value and date of anticipated award determination.




(4) *Alternative authority to guarantee bonds for Contracts and Orders related to a major disaster area.* Subject to the availability of funds appropriated in advance specifically for the purpose of guaranteeing bonds for any Contract or Order related to a major disaster, SBA may, as an alternative to the authority otherwise set forth in this Part, guarantee bonds on any Contract or Order under the following terms and conditions:


(i) The Contract or Order does not exceed $5,000,000 at the time of bond execution, and:


(A) For products or services procured under a Federal Contract or Order, the products will be manufactured or the services will be performed in the major disaster area identified in the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Web site at *http://www.fema.gov,* or the products will be manufactured or the services will be performed outside the major disaster area and the products or services will directly assist in the recovery efforts in the major disaster area; or


(B) For products or services procured under any other Contract or Order, the products will be manufactured or the services will be performed in the major disaster area identified in the FEMA Web site at *http://www.fema.gov;*

(ii) At the request of the Head of the Agency involved in reconstruction efforts in response to a major disaster, SBA may guarantee bonds on Federal Contracts or Orders in excess of $5,000,000, but not more than $10,000,000;


(iii) A guarantee may be issued under this paragraph (e)(4) for any Contract or Order for which an offer is submitted or an award is made within 12 months from the date an area is designated a major disaster area in the _Federal Register._ SBA may, at its discretion, extend this time period for any particular disaster, and will publish a notice of the extension in the _Federal Register._

(f) *Transfers or sales by Surety.* Sureties must not sell or otherwise transfer their files or accounts, whether before or after a default by the Principal has occurred, without the prior written approval of SBA. A violation of this provision is grounds for termination from participation in the program. This provision does not apply to the sale of an entire business division, subsidiary or operation of the Surety. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3271, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 30804, June 8, 2001; 74 FR 36109, July 22, 2009; 76 FR 2572, Jan. 14, 2011; 79 FR 2086, Jan. 13, 2014; 87 FR 48083, Aug. 8, 2022; 89 FR 11712, Feb. 15, 2024]




