# § 31.3121(q)-1   Tips included for employee taxes.

(a) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, tips received after 1965 by an employee in the course of his employment shall be considered remuneration for employment. (For definition of the term “employee” see 3121(d) and § 31.3121(d)-1.) Tips reported by an employee to his employer in a written statement furnished to the employer pursuant to section 6053(a) (see § 31.6053-1) shall be deemed to be paid to the employee at the time the written statement is furnished to the employer. Tips received by an employee which are not reported to his employer in a written statement furnished pursuant to section 6053(a) shall be deemed to be paid to the employee at the time the tips are actually received by the employee. For provisions relating to the collection of employee tax in respect of tips from the employee, see § 31.3102-3.


(b) *Tips not included for employer taxes.* Tips received after 1965 by an employee in the course of his employment do not constitute remuneration for employment for purposes of computing wages subject to the taxes imposed by subsections (a) and (b) of section 3111.


(c) *Tips received by an employee in course of his employment.* Tips are considered to be received by an employee in the course of his employment for an employer regardless of whether the tips are received by the employee from a person other than his employer or are paid to the employee by the employer. However, only those tips which are received by an employee on his own behalf (as distinguished from tips received on behalf of another employee) shall be considered as remuneration paid to the employee. Thus, where employees practice tip splitting (for example, where waiters pay a portion of the tips received by them to the busboys), each employee who receives a portion of a tip left by a customer of the employer is considered to have received tips in the course of his employment.


(d) *Computation of annual wage limitation.* In connection with the application of the annual wage limitation (see § 31.3121(a)(1)-1), tips reported by an employee to his employer in a written statement furnished to the employer pursuant to section 6053(a) shall be taken into account for purposes of the tax imposed by section 3101. However, since tips received by an employee in the course of his employment do not constitute remuneration for employment for purposes of the tax imposed by section 3111, they are disregarded for purposes of the annual wage limitation in respect of such tax. Accordingly, separate computations for purposes of the annual wage limitation may be required in respect of an employee who receives tips. The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:



---

[N] [T.D. 7001, 34 FR 1000, Jan. 23, 1969]




