# § 1090.120   Oxygenate producers.

This section provides an overview of general requirements applicable to an oxygenate producer (*e.g.,* a DFE or isobutanol producer). A DFE producer must comply with the requirements for an oxygenate producer in paragraph (a) of this section and the additional requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(a) *Oxygenate producers.* An oxygenate producer must comply with the following requirements:


(1) *Gasoline standards.* An oxygenate producer must comply with the applicable requirements of subpart C of this part.


(2) *Registration.* An oxygenate producer must register with EPA under subpart I of this part.


(3) *Reporting.* An oxygenate producer must submit reports to EPA under subpart J of this part.


(4) *Certification and designation.* An oxygenate producer must certify and designate the oxygenate they produce under subpart K of this part.


(5) *PTDs.* On each occasion when an oxygenate producer transfers custody or title to any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under subpart L of this part.


(6) *Sampling, testing, and retention requirements.* An oxygenate producer must conduct sampling, testing, and sample retention in accordance with subpart N of this part.


(b) *DFE producers.* In addition to the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, a DFE producer must meet all the following requirements:


(1) Use denaturant that complies with the requirements specified in §§ 1090.270(b) and 1090.275.


(2) Participate in a survey program conducted by an independent surveyor under subpart O of this part if the DFE producer produces DFE made available for use in the production of E15.




