# ยง 98.263   Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process CO_2_ emissions from each wet-process phosphoric acid process line using the procedures in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.


(a) Calculate and report under this subpart the process CO_2_ emissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(b) Calculate and report under this subpart the process CO_2_ emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(1) Calculate the annual CO_2_ mass emissions from each wet-process phosphoric acid process line using the methods in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) If your process measurement provides the inorganic carbon content of phosphate rock as an output, calculate and report the process CO_2_ emissions from each wet-process phosphoric acid process line using Equation Z-1a of this section:


(ii) If your process measurement provides the CO_2_ content directly as an output, calculate and report the process CO_2_ emissions from each wet-process phosphoric acid process line using Equation Z-1b of this section:


(2) You must determine the total emissions from the facility using Equation Z-2 of this section:


(c) If GHG emissions from a wet-process phosphoric acid process line are vented through the same stack as any combustion unit or process equipment that reports CO_2_ emissions using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), then the calculation methodology in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be used to calculate process emissions. The owner or operator shall report under this subpart the combined stack emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66468, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71964, Nov. 29, 2013]




