# § 151.1   Definitions.

Words used in this part in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. As used in this part, the following words, names, or terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless otherwise clearly indicated by the context. 


*The Act.* Item 100.01 in part 1, schedule 1, of title I of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202, schedule 1, part 1, item 100.01). 


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Agent.* Custom broker or other person authorized to act as agent for the importer or owner of an animal. 


*Animal.* Any purebred animal imported specially for breeding purposes except a black, silver, or platinum fox, or any fox which is a mutation or type developed therefrom. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS).


*Book of record.* A printed book or an approved microfilm record sponsored by a registry association and containing breeding data relative to a large number of registered purebred animals used as a basis for the issuance of pedigree certificates. 


*Certificates of pure breeding.* A certificate issued by the Administrator, for Bureau of Customs use only, certifying that the animal to which the certificate refers is a purebred animal of a recognized breed and duly registered in a book of record recognized under the regulations in this part for that breed. 


*Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture. 


*Inspector.* An inspector of APHIS or of the Bureau of Customs of the United States Treasury Department authorized to perform functions under the regulations in this part. 


*Pedigree certificate.* A document issued by a registry association giving the pedigree of an animal and certifying that it is registered in the book of record of the association issuing the document, and containing all pertinent information relating to the registered animal, such as color and natural and artificial markings, a record of the name and address of the breeder, and the name and address of each subsequent owner of the animal. 


*Port of entry.* Any port designated under § 92.102 for birds, § 92.203 for poultry, § 92.303 for horses, § 92.403 for ruminants, or § 92.503 for swine of this chapter. 


*Purebred.* A term applicable to animals which are the progeny of known and registered ancestors of the same recognized breed and for which at least three generations of ancestry can be traced: *Provided, however,* That in the case of sheep registered on the basis of flocks, the term is applicable to animals of a recognized breed which originate in a flock for which available breeding data, as shown in the registry association's records, establish that the flock has been in existence at least ten years. 



---

[N] [23 FR 10103, Dec. 23, 1958, as amended at 24 FR 2643, Apr. 7, 1959; 26 FR 6072, July 7, 1961; 36 FR 23356, Dec. 9, 1971; 54 FR 34969, 34970, Aug. 23, 1989; 55 FR 31562, Aug. 2, 1990] 




