# § 75.564   Reimbursement of indirect costs.

(a) Reimbursement of indirect costs is subject to the availability of funds and statutory or administrative restrictions. 


(b) The application of the negotiated indirect cost rate (determination of the direct cost base) or cost allocation plan (charging methodology) must be in accordance with the agreement/plan approved by the grantee's cognizant agency.




(c) Indirect cost reimbursement is not allowable under grants for—


(1) Fellowships and similar awards if Federal financing is exclusively in the form of fixed amounts such as scholarships, stipend allowances, or the tuition and fees of an institution; 


(2) Construction grants; 


(3) Grants to individuals; 


(4) Grants to organizations located outside the territorial limits of the United States; 


(5) Grants to Federal organizations; and 


(6) Grants made exclusively to support conferences. 


(d) Indirect cost reimbursement on grants received under programs with statutory restrictions or other limitations on indirect costs must be made in accordance with the restrictions in 34 CFR 76.564 through 76.569  and other applicable restrictions. 


(e)(1) Indirect costs for a group of eligible parties (See §§ 75.127 through 75.129) are limited to the amount derived by applying the rate of the applicant, or a restricted rate when applicable, to the direct cost base of the grant in keeping with the terms of the applicant's federally recognized indirect cost rate agreement and program requirements.


(2) If a group of eligible parties applies for a training grant under the group application procedures in §§ 75.127 through 75.129, the grant funds allocated among the members of the group are not considered subawards for the purposes of applying the indirect cost rate in § 75.562(c).







---

[N] [59 FR 59583, Nov. 17, 1994, as amended at 72 FR 69148, Dec. 7, 2007; 89 FR 70331, Aug. 29, 2024]




