# ยง 1200.2   Definitions.

(a) The term *Act* means the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2101-2119]; the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2701-2718]; the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 4801-4819]; and the Potato Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2611-2627]. 


(b) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act for the Administrator. 


(b) *Board* means the board or council established by the order to administer the program. 


(c) *Department* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


(d) _Federal Register_ means the publication provided for by the _Federal Register_ Act, approved July 26, 1935 [44 U.S.C. 1501-1511], and acts supplementing and amending it. 


(e) *Hearing* means that part of the proceeding which involves the submission of evidence. 


(f) *Judge* means any administrative law judge appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or any presiding official appointed by the Secretary, and assigned to conduct the proceeding.


(g) *Hearing* means that part of the proceeding that involves the submission of evidence. 


(h) *Hearing clerk* means the Hearing Clerk, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 


(i) *Order* means any order or any amendment thereto which may be issued pursuant to the Act. The term *order* shall include plans issued under the Acts listed in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(j) *Proceeding* means a proceeding before the Secretary arising under the pertinent section of an Act. 


(k) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act for the Secretary.



---

[N] [67 FR 44350, July 2, 2002, as amended at 82 FR 58098, Dec. 11, 2017]




