# § 679.28   Equipment and operational requirements.

(a) *Applicability.* This section contains the operational requirements for scales, observer sampling stations, vessel monitoring system hardware, catch monitoring and control plans, catcher vessel electronic logbook software, and video monitoring systems. The operator or manager must retain a copy of all records described in this section (§ 679.28) as indicated at § 679.5(a)(5) and (6) and make available the records upon request of NMFS observers and authorized officers as indicated at § 679.5(a)(5).


(b) *Scales used to weigh catch at sea.* In order to be approved by NMFS a scale used to weigh catch at sea must meet the type evaluation requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the initial inspection and annual reinspection requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Once a scale is installed on a vessel and approved by NMFS for use to weigh catch at sea, it must be reinspected annually and must be tested daily and meet the maximum permissible error (MPE) requirements described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(1) *List of scales eligible for approval.* The model of scale must be included on the Regional Administrator's list of scales eligible to be approved for weighing catch at sea before an inspector will schedule or conduct a scale inspection under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A scale will be included on the list when the Regional Administrator receives the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. This information identifies and describes the scale, sets forth contact information regarding the manufacturer, and sets forth the results of required type evaluations and testing. Type evaluation and testing must be conducted by a laboratory accredited by the government of the country in which the tests are conducted.


(i) *Information about the scale.* (A) Name of scale manufacturer.


(B) Name of manufacturer's representative.


(C) Mailing address of scale manufacturer and manufacturer's representative.


(D) Telephone and fax number of manufacturer's representative.


(E) Model and serial number of the scale tested.


(F) A written description of the scale and diagrams explaining how the scale operates and how it compensates for motion.


(G) A list of the model numbers of all scales for which type evaluation results are applicable, identifying the differences between the model evaluated in the laboratory and other models listed. The scales may differ only in the elements of the scale that perform motion compensation, the size or capacity of the scale, and the software used by the scale.


(H) A list of types of scale adjustments that will be recorded on the audit trail, including the name of the adjustment as it will appear on the audit trail, and a written description of the adjustment.


(ii) *Information about the laboratory.* (A) Name of laboratory.


(B) Mailing address of laboratory.


(C) Telephone and fax number of laboratory's representative.


(D) Name and address of government agency accrediting the laboratory.


(E) Name and signature of person responsible for evaluation of the scale and the date of signature.


(iii) *Checklist.* A completed checklist indicating that all applicable technical and performance standards in appendix A to this part and the laboratory tests in the annex to appendix A to this part have been met.


(iv) *Verification of test results.* Verification that a scale meets the laboratory evaluation and testing requirements in appendix A of this part and each of the influence quantity and disturbance tests as specified in the annex to appendix A to this part:


(A) Test results and data on forms supplied by NMFS;


(B) National Type Evaluation Program (NTEP) Certificates of Conformance, test results and data for a component of a scale or for the entire device. NTEP Certificates of Conformance, test results, and data may be submitted only in lieu of the specific influence factor tests conducted to obtain the NTEP Certificates of Conformance. Additional information must be submitted to verify compliance with the laboratory tests that are not performed under the NTEP; and/or


(C) International Organization of Legal Metrology (OIML) Certificates of Conformance, test results and data.


(v) *Exceptions.* A scale manufacturer or their representative may request that NMFS approve a custom built automatic hopper scale under the following conditions:


(A) The scale electronics are the same as those used in other scales on the Regional Administrator's list of scales eligible for approval;


(B) Load cells have received Certificates of Conformance from NTEP or OIML;


(C) The scale compensates for motion in the same manner as other scales made by that manufacturer which have been listed on the Regional Administrator's list of scales eligible for approval;


(D) The scale, when installed, meets all of the requirements set forth in paragraph 3 of appendix A to this part, except those requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2.1.1. 


(2) *Inspection of at-sea scales*—(i) *What is an inspection?* An inspection is a visual assessment and test of a scale after it is installed on the vessel and while the vessel is tied up at a dock and not under power at sea to determine if the scale meets all of the applicable performance and technical requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and in appendix A to this part. A scale will be approved by the inspector if it meets all of the applicable performance and technical requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and appendix A to this part.


(ii) *How often must a scale be inspected?* Each scale must be inspected and approved before the vessel may participate in any fishery requiring the weighing of catch at sea with an approved scale. Each scale must be reinspected within 12 months of the date of the most recent inspection.


(iii) *Who may perform scale inspections and approvals?* Scales must be inspected and approved by a NMFS-staff scale inspector or an inspector designated by NMFS and trained by a NMFS-staff scale inspector.


(iv) *How does a vessel owner arrange for a scale inspection?* The operator must submit a request for a scale inspection at least 10 working days in advance of the requested date of inspection by filing a request online or by printing and faxing the scale inspection request at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov/scales/default.htm.*

(v) *Where will scale inspections be conducted?* Scales inspections by inspectors paid by NMFS will be conducted on vessels tied up at docks in Kodiak, Alaska; Dutch Harbor, Alaska; and in the Puget Sound area of Washington State.


(vi) *Responsibilities of the vessel owner during a scale inspection.* After the vessel owner has installed a model of scale that is on the Regional Administrator's list of scales eligible to be approved for weighing catch at sea, the vessel owner must:


(A) Make the vessel and scale available for inspection by the scale inspector.


(B) Provide a copy of the scale manual supplied by the scale manufacturer to the inspector at the beginning of the inspection.


(C) Transport test weights, test material, and equipment required to perform the test to and from the inspector's vehicle and the location on the vessel where the scale is installed.


(D) Apply test weights to the scale or convey test materials across the scale, if requested by the scale inspector.


(E) Assist the scale inspector in performing the scale inspection and testing.


(vii) *Scale inspection report.* (A) A scale is approved for use when the scale inspector completes and signs a scale inspection report verifying that the scale meets all of the requirements specified in this paragraph (b)(2) and appendix A to this part. 


(B) The scale inspector must provide the original inspection report to the vessel owner and a copy to NMFS. 


(C) The vessel owner must either: 


(*1*) Maintain a copy of the report on board when use of the scale is required and make the report available to the observer, NMFS personnel, or an authorized officer, upon request, or; 


(*2*) Display a valid NMFS-sticker on each approved scale. 


(D) When in use, an approved scale must also meet the requirements described in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(6) of this section. 


(3) *At-sea scale tests.* To verify that the scale meets the MPEs specified in this paragraph (b)(3), the vessel operator must test each scale or scale system used by the vessel to weigh catch at least one time during each calendar day. No more than 24 hours may elapse between tests when use of the scale is required. The vessel owner must ensure that these tests are performed in an accurate and timely manner.


(i) *Belt scales and automatic hopper scales.* (A) The MPE in the daily at-sea scale tests is plus or minus 3 percent of the known weight of the test material.


(B) *Test procedure.* The vessel operator must conduct a material test by weighing no less than 400 kg of test material, supplied by the scale manufacturer or approved by a NMFS-authorized scale inspector, on the scale under test. The test material may be run across the scale multiple times in order to total 400 kg; however, no single batch of test material may weigh less than 40 kg. The known weight of the test material must be determined at the time of each scale test by weighing it on a platform scale approved for use under paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(ii) *Platform and hanging scales.* (A) The MPE for platform and hanging scales is plus or minus 0.5 percent of the known weight of the test material.


(B) *Test weights.* Each test weight must have its weight stamped on or otherwise permanently affixed to it. The weight of each test weight must be annually certified by a National Institute of Standards and Technology approved metrology laboratory or approved for continued use by the NMFS authorized inspector at the time of the annual scale inspection. The amount of test weights that must be provided by the vessel owner is specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(B)(*1*) and (b)(3)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(*1*) *Platform scales used as observer sampling scales or to determine the known weight of test materials.* Any combination of test weights that will allow the scale to be tested at 10 kg, 25 kg, and 50 kg.


(*2*) *Scales used to weigh catch.* Test weights equal to the largest amount of fish that will be weighed on the scale in one weighment.


(iii) *Requirements for all scale tests.* (A) Notify the observer at least 15 minutes before the time that the test will be conducted, and conduct the test while the observer is present.


(B) Conduct the scale test by placing the test material or test weights on or across the scale and recording the following information on the at-sea scale test report form:


(*1*) Vessel name;


(*2*) Month, day, and year of test;


(*3*) Time test started to the nearest minute;


(*4*) Known weight of test material or test weights;


(*5*) Weight of test material or test weights recorded by scale;


(*6*) Percent error as determined by subtracting the known weight of the test material or test weights from the weight recorded on the scale, dividing that amount by the known weight of the test material or test weights, and multiplying by 100; and


(*7*) Signature of vessel operator.


(4) *Scale maintenance.* The vessel owner must ensure that the vessel operator maintains the scale in proper operating condition throughout its use; that adjustments made to the scale are made so as to bring the performance errors as close as practicable to a zero value; and that no adjustment is made that will cause the scale to weigh fish inaccurately.


(5) *Printed reports from the scale* (not applicable to observer sampling scales). The vessel owner must ensure that the printed reports are provided as required by this paragraph. Printed reports from the scale must be maintained on board the vessel until the end of the year during which the reports were made and be made available to observers, NMFS personnel, or an authorized officer. In addition, printed reports must be retained by the vessel owner for 3 years after the end of the year during which the printouts were made. 


(i) *Reports of catch weight and cumulative weight.* Reports must be printed at least once every 24 hours when use of the scale is required. Reports must also be printed before any information stored in the scale computer memory is replaced. Scale weights must not be adjusted by the scale operator to account for the perceived weight of water, mud, debris, or other materials. Scale printouts must show: 


(A) The vessel name and Federal fisheries or processor permit number; 


(B) The haul or set number as recorded in the processor's DCPL (see § 679.5); 


(C) The total weight of the haul or set; 


(D) The total cumulative weight of all fish or other material weighed on the scale. 


(ii) *Printed report from the audit trail.* The printed report must include the information specified in sections 2.3.1.8, 3.3.1.7, and 4.3.1.8 of appendix A to this part. The printed report must be provided to the authorized scale inspector at each scale inspection and must also be printed at any time upon request of the observer, the scale inspector, NMFS staff, or an authorized officer.


(iii) *Printed reports from the calibration log.* The vessel operator must print the calibration log on request by NMFS employees or any individual authorized by NMFS. The calibration log must be printed and retained by the vessel owner and operator before any information stored in the scale computer memory is replaced. The calibration log must detail either the prior 1,000 calibrations or all calibrations since the scale electronics were first put into service, whichever is less. The printout from the calibration log must show:


(A) The vessel name and Federal fisheries or processor permit number;


(B) The month, day, and year of the calibration;


(C) The time of the calibration to the nearest minute in A.l.t.;


(D) The weight used to calibrate the scale; and


(E) The magnitude of the calibration in comparison to the prior calibration.


(iv) *Printed reports from the fault log.* The vessel operator must print the fault log on request by NMFS employees or any individual authorized by NMFS. The fault log must be printed and retained by the vessel owner and operator before any information stored in the scale computer memory is replaced. The fault log must detail either the prior 1,000 faults and startups, or all faults and startups since the scale electronics were first put into service, whichever is less. A fault, for the purposes of the fault log, is any condition other than underflow detected by the scale electronics that could affect the metrological accuracy of the scale. The printout from the fault log must show:


(A) The vessel name and Federal fisheries or processor permit number;


(B) The month, day, year, and time of each startup to the nearest minute in A.l.t.;


(C) The month, day, year, and time that each fault began to the nearest minute in A.l.t.;


(D) The month, day, year, and time that each fault was resolved to the nearest minute in A.l.t.


(6) *Scale installation requirements.* The scale display must be readable from the location where the observer collects unsorted catch unless otherwise authorized by a NMFS-authorized scale inspector.


(7) *Platform scales used as observer sampling scales or to determine the known weight of test materials.* Platform scales used only as observer sampling scales or to determine the known weight of fish for a material test of another scale are required to meet all of the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and appendix A to this part except sections 4.3.1 and 4.3.1.5 of appendix A to this part (printer) or section 4.3.1.8 (audit trail) of appendix A to this part.


(8) *Video monitoring for scales used by the vessel crew to weigh catch.* The owner and operator of a vessel fishing for groundfish who are required to weigh catch under the regulations in this section must provide and maintain a NMFS-approved video monitoring system as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Additionally, the system must:


(i) Provide sufficient resolution and field of view to monitor: All areas where catch enters the scale, moves across the scale and leaves the scale; any access point to the scale from which the scale may be adjusted or modified by vessel crew while the vessel is at sea; and the scale display and the indicator for the scale operating in a fault state.


(ii) Record and retain video for all periods when catch that must be weighed is on board the vessel.


(c) *Scales approved by the State of Alaska.* Scale requirements in this paragraph are in addition to those requirements set forth by the State of Alaska, and nothing in this paragraph may be construed to reduce or supersede the authority of the State to regulate, test, or approve scales within the State of Alaska or its territorial sea. Scales used to weigh groundfish catch that are also required to be approved by the State of Alaska under Alaska Statute 45.75 must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Verification of approval.* The scale must display a valid State of Alaska sticker indicating that the scale was inspected and approved within the previous 12 months.


(2) *Visibility.* The owner and manager of the processor must ensure that the scale and scale display are visible simultaneously to the observer. Observers, NMFS personnel, or an authorized officer must be allowed to observe the weighing of fish on the scale and be allowed to read the scale display at all times.


(3) *Printed scale weights.* (i) The owner and manager of the processor must ensure that printouts of the scale weight of each haul, set, or delivery are made available to observers, NMFS personnel, or an authorized officer at the time printouts are generated and thereafter upon request for the duration of the fishing year. The owner and manager must retain scale printouts as records as specified in § 679.5(a)(5)(ii).


(ii) A scale identified in a CMCP (see paragraph (g) of this section) must produce a printed record for each delivery, or portion of a delivery, weighed on that scale. If approved by NMFS as part of the CMCP, scales not designed for automatic bulk weighing may be exempted from part or all of the printed record requirements. The printed record must include:


(A) The processor name;


(B) The weight of each load in the weighing cycle;


(C) The total weight of fish in each delivery, or portion of the delivery that was weighed on that scale;


(D) The total cumulative weight of all fish or other material weighed on the scale since the last annual inspection;


(E) The date and time the information is printed;


(F) The name and ADF&G number of the vessel making the delivery. This information may be written on the scale printout in pen by the scale operator at the time of delivery.


(4) *Inseason scale testing.* Scales identified in an approved CMCP (see paragraph (g) of this section) must be tested by plant personnel in accordance with the CMCP when testing is requested by NMFS-staff or NMFS-authorized personnel. Plant personnel must be given no less than 20 minutes notice that a scale is to be tested and no testing may be requested if a scale test has been requested and the scale has been found to be accurate within the last 24 hours.


(i) *How does a scale pass an inseason test?* To pass an inseason test, NMFS staff or NMFS-authorized personnel will verify that the scale display and printed information are clear and easily read under all conditions of normal operation, weight values are visible on the display until the value is printed, and the scale does not exceed the maximum permissible errors specified below:


(ii) How much weight is required to do an inseason scale test? Scales must be tested with the amount and type of weight specified for each scale type in the following tables:


(A) Automatic hopper 0 to 150 kg (0 to 300 lb) capacity.


(B) Automatic hopper >150 kg (300 lb) capacity.


(C) Platform or flatbed 0 to 150 kg (0 to 300 lb) capacity.


(D) Platform or flatbead >150 kg (300 lb) capacity.


(E) Observer sampling scale >50 kg capacity.


(iii) *Certified test weights.* Each test weight used for inseason scale testing must have its weight stamped on or otherwise permanently affixed to it. The weight of each test weight must be certified by a National Institute of Standards and Technology approved metrology laboratory every 2 years. An observer platform scale must be provided with sufficient test weights to test the scale at 10 kg, 25 kg, and 50 kg. All other scales identified in an approved CMCP must be provided with sufficient test weights to test the scale as described in this paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Test weights for observer platform scales must be denominated in kilograms. Test weights for other scales may be denominated in pounds.


(iv) *Other test material.* When permitted in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, a scale may be tested with test material other than certified test weights. This material must be weighed on an accurate observer platform scale at the time of each use.


(v) *Observer sampling scales.* Platform scales used as observer sampling scales must:


(A) Have a capacity of no less than 50 kg;


(B) Have a division size of no less than 5 g;


(C) Indicate weight in kilograms and decimal subdivisions; and


(D) Be accurate within plus or minus 0.5 percent when tested at 10 kg, 25 kg, and 50 kg by NMFS staff or an observer.


(d) *Observer sampling station*—(1) *Accessibility.* All the equipment required for an observer sampling station must be available to the observer at all times while a sampling station is required and the observer is aboard the vessel, except that the observer sampling scale may be used by vessel personnel to conduct material tests of the scale used to weigh catch under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, as long as the use of the observer's sampling scale by others does not interfere with the observer's sampling duties.


(2) *Location*—(i) *Motherships and catcher/processors or catcher vessels using trawl gear.* The observer sampling station must be located within 4 m of the location from which the observer collects unsorted catch. Clear, unobstructed passage must be provided between the observer sampling station and the location where the observer collects unsorted catch. When standing where unsorted catch is sampled, the observer must be able to see that no fish have been removed between the bin and the scale used to weigh total catch. 


(ii) *Vessels using nontrawl gear.* The observer sampling station must be located within 5 m of the collection area, described at § 679.28(d)(8)(ii)(B) of this section, unless any location within this distance is unsafe for the observer. Clear, unobstructed passage must be provided between the observer sampling station and the collection area. Access must be provided to the tally station, described at § 679.28(d)(8)(ii)(A) of this section. NMFS may approve an alternative location if the vessel owner submits a written proposal describing the alternative location and the reasons why a location within 5 m of where fish are brought on board the vessel is unsafe, and the proposed observer sampling station meets all other applicable requirements of this section. 


(iii) *What is clear, unobstructed passage?* Where clear and unobstructed passage is required, passageways must be at least 65 cm wide at their narrowest point, be free of tripping hazards, and be at least 1.8 m high. Doorways or companionways must be free of obstacles. 


(3) *Minimum work space.* The observer must have a working area for sampling of at least 4.5 square meters. This working area includes the observer's sampling table. The observer must be able to stand upright and have a work area at least 0.9 m deep in the area in front of the table and scale. 


(4) *Table.* The observer sampling station must include a table at least 0.6 m deep, 1.2 m wide and 0.9 m high and no more than 1.1 m high. The entire surface area of the table must be available for use by the observer. Any area used for the observer sampling scale is in addition to the minimum space requirements for the table. The observer's sampling table must be secured to the floor or wall.


(5) *Observer sampling scale.* The observer sampling station must include a NMFS-approved platform scale with a capacity of at least 50 kg located within 1 m of the observer's sampling table. The scale must be mounted so that the weighing surface is no more than 0.7 m above the floor. The scale must be approved by NMFS under paragraph (b) of this section and must meet the maximum permissible error requirement specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section when tested by the observer. 


(6) *Other requirements.* The sampling station must include flooring that prevents slipping and drains well (grating or other material where appropriate), adequate lighting, and a hose that supplies fresh or sea water to the observer. 


(7) *Catcher/processors and motherships in the BS pollock fishery, including pollock CDQ.* Catcher/processors directed fishing for pollock in the BS or motherships taking deliveries from vessels directed fishing for pollock in the BS also must meet the following requirements:


(i) A salmon storage container must be located adjacent to the observer sampling station;


(ii) The salmon storage container must remain in view of the observer at the observer sampling station at all times during the sorting of each haul; and


(iii) The salmon storage container must be at least 1.5 cubic meters.


(8) *Requirements for sampling catch*—(i) *Motherships and catcher/processors using trawl gear.* The conveyor belt conveying unsorted catch must have a removable board to allow fish to be diverted from the belt directly into the observer's sampling baskets. The diverter board must be located downstream of the scale used to weigh total catch so that the observer can use this scale to weigh large samples. At least 1 m of accessible belt space, located downstream of the scale used to weigh total catch, must be available for the observer's use when sampling a haul. 


(ii) *Catcher/processors using non-trawl gear.* In addition to the sampling station, vessels using non-trawl gear must provide: 


(A) *Tally station.* A place where the observer can see the gear as it leaves the water and can count and identify fish. It must be within 5 m of where fish are brought aboard the vessel and in a location where the observer is not in danger of falling overboard or being injured during gear retrieval. Where exposed to wind or seas, it must be equipped with a railing at least 1.0 m high, grating or other non-slip material, and adequate lighting. 


(B) *Collection area.* A collection area is a place where the observer, or vessel crew under the observer's guidance, collects fish as they come off the line or are removed from pots. It must be located where the observer can see the gear when it leaves the water. Where exposed to wind or seas, it must be equipped with a railing at least 1.0 m high and grating or other non-slip material. 


(9) *Observer deck sampling station.* Motherships and catcher/processors subject to § 679.102 must be equipped with a deck sampling station that meets the following requirements:


(i) *Accessibility.* All equipment required for an observer deck sampling station must be available to the observer at all times when halibut deck sorting.


(ii) *Location.* The observer deck sampling station must be located adjacent to the point of discard.


(iii) *Work space.* The observer must be able to stand upright in front of the table.


(iv) *Table*—(A) *Size.* The observer deck sampling station must include a table at least 0.6 m deep, 1.2 m wide, and 0.9 m high, and no more than 1.1 m high. The entire surface area of the table must be available for use by the observer. The table must be secured to the deck when halibut deck sorting. The table must be constructed to prevent fish from sliding off.


(B) *Length measuring device.* The table must have a NMFS-approved length measuring device secured to the surface of the table.


(v) *Single pathway.* There must be a single pathway for halibut to be conveyed to the observer deck sampling station. All halibut sorted on deck must pass over the observer table. There must be a single point of discard after the observer deck sampling station visible to the observer. Halibut too large to be lifted to the table may be measured on deck.


(10) *Inspection of the observer sampling station.* Each observer sampling station must be inspected and approved by NMFS prior to its use for the first time and then once each year within 12 months of the most recent inspection with the following exceptions: If the observer sampling station is moved or if the space or equipment available to the observer is reduced or removed when use of the observer sampling station is required, the Observer Sampling Station Inspection Report issued under this section is no longer valid, and the observer sampling station must be reinspected and approved by NMFS. Inspection of the observer sampling station is in addition to inspection of the at-sea scales by an authorized scale inspector required at paragraph (b)(2) of this section. 


(i) *How does a vessel owner arrange for an observer sampling station inspection?* The vessel owner must submit an Inspection Request for Observer Sampling Station with all the information fields accurately filled in to NMFS by emailing (*station.inspections@noaa.gov*), or completing the online request form, at least 10 working days in advance of the requested date of inspection. The request form is available on the NMFS Alaska Region website.


(ii) Where will Observer sampling station inspections be conducted? Inspections will be conducted on vessels tied up at docks in Kodiak, Alaska, Dutch Harbor, Alaska, and in the Puget Sound area of Washington State.


(iii) *Observer Sampling Station Inspection Report.* An Observer Sampling Station Inspection Report will be issued by NMFS to the vessel owner if the observer sampling station meets the requirements in this paragraph (d). The vessel owner must maintain a current Observer Sampling Station Inspection Report on board the vessel at all times when the vessel is required to provide an observer sampling station approved for use under this paragraph (d). The Observer Sampling Station Inspection Report must be made available to the observer, NMFS personnel, or to an authorized officer upon request.


(A) *Deck Sorting.* An Observer Sampling Station Inspection Report issued to the owner of a vessel participating in halibut deck sorting as described at § 679.102 will indicate the time limit for halibut deck sorting activities. Considerations used by NMFS to determine the time limit for halibut deck sorting include, but are not limited to, deck space and configuration, and best available halibut viability information.


(B) [Reserved].


(e) *Video Monitoring System Requirements*—(1) *What requirements must a vessel owner and operator comply with for a video monitoring system?* (i) The system must have sufficient data storage capacity to store all video data from an entire trip. Each frame of stored video data must record a time/date stamp in Alaska local time (A.l.t.).


(ii) The system must include at least one external USB port or other removable storage device approved by NMFS.


(iii) The system must output video files to an open source format or the vessel owner must provide software capable of converting the output video file to an open source format or commercial software must be available for converting the output video file to an open source format.


(iv) Color cameras must have at a minimum 470 TV lines of resolution, auto-iris capabilities, and output color video to the recording device with the ability to revert to black and white video output when light levels become too low for color recognition.


(v) The video data must be maintained by the vessel operator and made available on request by NMFS employees, or any individual authorized by NMFS. The data must be retained on board the vessel for no less than 120 days after the date the video is recorded, unless NMFS has notified the vessel operator that the video data may be retained for less than this 120-day period.


(vi) The system must record at a speed of no less than 5 unique frames per second at all times when the use of a video monitoring system is required.


(vii) NMFS employees, or any individual authorized by NMFS, must be able to view any video footage from any point in the trip using a 16-bit or better color monitor that can display all camera views simultaneously and must be assisted by crew knowledgeable in the operation of the system.


(viii) Unless exempted under paragraph (D) below, a 16-bit or better color monitor must be provided within the observer sampling station or at the location where the observer sorts and weighs samples. The monitor:


(A) Must have the capacity to display all camera views simultaneously;


(B) Must be operating when the use of a video monitoring system is required;


(C) Must be securely mounted at or near eye level;


(D) Is not applicable to longline C/Ps subject to § 679.100(b)(2).


(2) *How does a vessel owner or operator arrange for NMFS to conduct a video monitoring system inspection?* The vessel owner or operator must submit an Inspection Request for a Video Monitoring System to NMFS with all information fields accurately filled in at least 10 working days in advance of the requested date of inspection. The request form is available on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site (*https://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*).


(3) *What additional information is required for a video monitoring system inspection?* (i) A diagram drawn to scale showing all sorting locations, the location of the motion-compensated scale, the location of each camera and its coverage area, and the location of any additional video equipment must be submitted with the Inspection Request for a Video Monitoring System form. Diagrams for C/Ps and motherships in the BSAI pollock fishery, including pollock CDQ, must include the location of the salmon storage container.


(ii) Any additional information requested by the Regional Administrator.


(4) *Where will NMFS conduct video monitoring and bin monitoring system inspections?* Inspections will be conducted on vessels tied to docks at Dutch Harbor, Alaska; Kodiak, Alaska; and in the Puget Sound area of Washington State.


(5) A video monitoring system is approved for use when NMFS employees, or any individual authorized by NMFS, completes and signs a Video Monitoring Inspection Report verifying that the video system meets all applicable requirements of this section.


(6) A vessel owner or operator must maintain a current NMFS-issued Video Monitoring System Inspection Report on board the vessel at all times the vessel is required to provide an approved video monitoring system. The Video Monitoring System Inspection Report must be made available to the observer, NMFS personnel, or to an authorized officer upon request.


(7) *How does a vessel owner make a change to the video monitoring system?* Any change to the video monitoring system that would affect the system's functionality must be submitted by a vessel owner to, and be approved by, the Regional Administrator in writing before that change is made.


(f) *Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) Requirements*—(1) *What is a VMS?* A VMS consists of a NMFS-approved VMS transmitter that automatically determines the vessels position and transmits it to a NMFS-approved communications service provider. The communications service provider receives the transmission and relays it to NMFS.


(2) *How are VMS transmitters and communications service providers approved by NMFS?* (i) NMFS publishes type approval specifications for VMS components in the _Federal Register._

(ii) Transmitter manufacturers or communication service providers may submit products or services to NMFS for evaluation based on the published specifications.


(iii) NMFS will publish a list of NMFS-approved transmitters and communication service providers in the _Federal Register._ As necessary, NMFS will publish amendments to the list of approved components in the _Federal Register._

(3) *What are the vessel owner's responsibilities?* If you are a vessel owner that must participate in a VMS, you or your crew must: 


(i) Obtain a NMFS-approved VMS transmitter with transmission capabilities required for the areas of vessel operation and have it installed onboard your vessel in accordance with the instructions provided by NMFS. You may get a copy of the VMS installation and operation instructions from the Regional Administrator upon request.


(ii) Activate the VMS transmitter and receive confirmation from NMFS that the VMS transmissions are being received before engaging in operations when a VMS is required.


(iii) Continue the VMS transmissions until no longer engaged in operations requiring VMS.


(iv) Stop fishing immediately if:


(A) Informed by NMFS staff or an authorized officer that NMFS is not receiving position reports from the VMS transmitter, or


(B) The vessel operator determines that the VMS is not transmitting properly.


(v) Make the VMS transmitter available for inspection by NMFS personnel, observers or an authorized officer.


(vi) Ensure that the VMS transmitter is not tampered with, disabled, destroyed or operated improperly.


(vii) Pay all charges levied by the communication service provider.


(4) What must the vessel owner do before activating a VMS transmitter for the first time? If you are a vessel owner who must use a VMS and you are activating a VMS transmitter for the first time, you must:


(i) Register the vessel's VMS unit with an appropriate service provider;


(ii) [Reserved]


(iii) Call OLE at 907-586-7225, Monday through Friday, between the hours of 0800 hours, A.l.t., and 1630 hours, A.l.t., at least 72 hours before leaving port and receive confirmation that the transmissions are being received.


(5) *What must the vessel owner do when the vessel replaces a VMS transmitter?* A vessel owner who must use a VMS and who intends to replace a transmitter, must follow the reporting and confirmation procedure for the replacement transmitter, as described in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.


(6) *When must the VMS transmitter be transmitting?* Your vessel's transmitter must be transmitting if:


(i) You operate a vessel in any reporting area (see definitions at § 679.2) off Alaska while any fishery requiring VMS, for which the vessel has a species and gear endorsement on its Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b), is open.


(ii) You operate a vessel required to be federally permitted in reporting areas located in the Aleutian Islands subarea or operate a federally permitted vessel in adjacent State waters;


(iii) You operate a vessel required to be Federally permitted with non-pelagic trawl or dredge gear onboard in reporting areas located in the GOA or operate a federally permitted vessel with non-pelagic trawl or dredge gear onboard in adjacent State waters;


(iv) When that vessel is required to use functioning VMS equipment in the Rockfish Program as described in § 679.7(n)(3);


(v) You operate a vessel in federal reporting areas 610, 620, or 630, and receive and process groundfish from other vessels;


(vi) You operate an Amendment 80 catcher/processor (see § 679.5(s));


(vii) You are fishing for IFQ sablefish in the Bering Sea or Aleutian Islands (see § 679.42(k));


(viii) You are fishing for IFQ sablefish in the GOA using longline pot gear (see § 679.42(l)) or fishing for IFQ or CDQ halibut or CDQ sablefish in the BSAI using pot gear (see § 679.42(m)); or


(ix) You are required under the Crab Rationalization Program regulations at 50 CFR 680.23(d).


(x) You operate a vessel named, or required to be named, on an SFFP issued under § 679.114 in the waters of Cook Inlet during a calendar day when directed fishing for salmon using drift gillnet gear is open in the Cook Inlet EEZ Area and have drift gillnet gear on board or deployed.


(7) *What additional requirements does an operator have if trawling in the Aleutian Islands reporting areas?* Operators of vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b), and that are using trawl gear in the Aleutian Islands reporting areas to harvest groundfish that is required to be deducted from a Federal TAC specified at § 679.20, must set their VMS to transmit the vessel location at least 10 times per hour.


(g) *Catch monitoring and control plan requirements (CMCP)*—(1) *What is a CMCP?* A CMCP is a plan submitted by the owner and manager of a processing plant, and approved by NMFS, detailing how the processor will meet the applicable catch monitoring and control standards detailed in paragraphs (g)(7) through (10) of this section.


(2) *Who is required to prepare and submit a CMCP for approval?* The owner and manager of shoreside or stationary floating processors receiving fish harvested in the following fisheries must prepare, submit, and have approved a CMCP prior to the receipt of fish harvested in these fisheries:


(i) AFA and CDQ pollock,


(ii) AI directed pollock,


(iii) Rockfish Program, unless those fish are harvested under the rockfish entry level longline fishery as described under § 679.83.


(iv) Any shoreside processor or stationary floating processor receiving any delivery from catcher vessels or tender vessels in the trawl EM category as defined at § 679.2.


(3) *How is a CMCP approved by NMFS?* NMFS will approve a CMCP if it meets all the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(7) through (10) of this section. The processor may be inspected by NMFS prior to approval of the CMCP to ensure that the processor conforms to the elements addressed in the CMCP. NMFS will complete its review of the CMCP within 14 working days of receipt. If NMFS disapproves a CMCP, the processor owner or manager may resubmit a revised CMCP or file an administrative appeal as set forth under the administrative appeals procedures described at § 679.43.


(4) *How is a CMCP inspection arranged?* The processor must submit a request for a CMCP inspection. The time and place of a CMCP inspection may be arranged by submitting a written request to NMFS, Alaska Region, or other method of electronic communication designated by NMFS. NMFS will review the inspection request within 10 working days after receiving a complete application for an inspection. The inspection request must include:


(i) Name of the person submitting the application and the date of the application;


(ii) Address, telephone number, and email address of the person submitting the application; and


(iii) A proposed CMCP detailing how the processor will meet each of the applicable performance standards in paragraphs (g)(7) through (10) of this section.


(5) *For how long is a CMCP approved?* NMFS will approve a CMCP for up to 1 year if it meets the applicable performance standards specified in paragraphs (g)(7) through (10) of this section. An owner or manager must notify NMFS in writing if changes are made in plant operations or layout that do not conform to the CMCP.


(6) *How do I make changes to my CMCP?* An owner and manager may change an approved CMCP by submitting a CMCP addendum to NMFS. NMFS will approve the modified CMCP if it continues to meet the applicable performance standards specified in paragraphs (g)(7) through (10) of this section. Depending on the nature and magnitude of the change requested, NMFS may require a CMCP inspection as described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. A CMCP addendum must contain:


(i) Name of the person submitting the addendum;


(ii) Address, telephone number, and email address of the person submitting the addendum; and


(iii) A complete description of the proposed CMCP change.


(7) *Catch monitoring and control standards.* For all shoreside processors or stationary floating processors accepting any delivery from the fisheries listed in paragraph (g)(2) of this section:


(i) *Catch sorting and weighing requirements.* All groundfish delivered to the plant must be sorted and weighed by species. The CMCP must detail the amount and location of space for sorting catch, the number of staff assigned to catch sorting and the maximum rate that catch will flow through the sorting area.


(ii) *Scales used for weighing groundfish.* The CMCP must identify by serial number each scale used to weigh groundfish and describe the rational for its use.


(iii) *Scale testing procedures.* Scales identified in the CMCP must be accurate within the limits specified in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. For each scale identified in the CMCP a testing plan must be developed that:


(A) Describes the procedure the plant will use to test the scale;


(B) Lists the test weights and equipment required to test the scale;


(C) Lists where the test weights and equipment will be stored; and


(D) Lists the plant personnel responsible for conducting the scale testing.


(iv) *Printed record.* The owner and manager must ensure that the scale produces a complete and accurate printed record of the weight of each species in a delivery. All of the groundfish in a delivery must be weighed on a scale capable of producing a complete printed record as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. However, NMFS may exempt scales not designed for automatic bulk weighing from some or all of the printed record requirements if the CMCP identifies any scale that cannot produce a complete printed record, states how the processor will use the scale, and states how the plant intends to produce a complete record of the total weight of each delivery.


(v) *Delivery point.* Each CMCP must identify a single delivery point. The delivery point is the first location where fish removed from a delivering catcher vessel can be sorted or diverted to more than one location. If the catch is pumped from the hold of a catcher vessel or a codend, the delivery point normally will be the location where the pump first discharges the catch. If catch is removed from a vessel by brailing, the delivery point normally will be the bin or belt where the brailer discharges the catch. The CMCP must describe how the catch will be offloaded at the delivery point.


(vi) *Observation area.* Each CMCP must designate an observation area. The observation area is a location designated on the CMCP where an individual may monitor the flow of fish during a delivery. The owner and manager must ensure that the observation area meets the following standards:


(A) *Access to the observation area.* The observation area must be freely accessible to NMFS staff or NMFS-authorized personnel at any time a valid CMCP is required.


(B) *Monitoring the flow of fish.* From the observation area, an individual must have an unobstructed view or otherwise be able to monitor the entire flow of fish between the delivery point and a location where all sorting has taken place and each species has been weighed.


(vii) *Scale Drawing of the Plant.* The CMCP must be accompanied by a scale drawing of the plant showing:


(A) The delivery point;


(B) Flow of fish;


(C) The observation area;


(D) The observer sampling station described in paragraph (g)(7)(ix) of this section;


(E) The location of each scale used to weigh catch;


(F) Each location where catch is sorted including the last location where sorting could occur; and


(G) Information to meet other requirements of this part, if requested by NMFS.


(viii) *Reasonable assistance.* Shoreside processors and stationary floating processors must provide reasonable assistance as described in § 679.51(e)(2)(vi), to observer(s) and to the Rockfish CMCP specialist. The CMCP must identify staff responsible for ensuring reasonable assistance is provided.


(ix) *Observer sampling station.* Each CMCP, except for the Rockfish Program, must identify and include an observer(s) sampling station for the exclusive use of observer(s). Unless otherwise approved by NMFS, the sampling station must meet the following criteria:


(A) *Location of observer sampling station.* (*1*) The observer sampling station must be located in an area protected from the weather where the observer has access to unsorted catch.


(*2*) The observer sampling station must be adjacent to the location where salmon will be counted and biological samples or scientific data are collected.


(*3*) Clear, unobstructed passage must be provided between the observer sampling station and observer sample collection point. The observer(s) must be able to monitor the collection and transport of unsorted catch to the observer sampling station.


(B) *Proximity of observer sampling station.* The observer sampling station must be located within 4 meters of the observer sample collection point without encountering safety hazards, or, reasonable assistance must be given to move samples into the observer sampling station upon request.


(C) *Minimum workspace requirements.* The observer sampling station must include: A working area of at least 4.5 square meters. The observer(s) must be able to stand upright and have a sampling area at least 0.9 meters deep in front of the table and scale. The workspace must include flooring that prevents slipping and drains well, adequate lighting, and a hose that supplies fresh or sea water to the observer.


(D) *Clear, unobstructed passage.* A clear and unobstructed passage is required between the observer sample collection point and sampling station, and within the observer sampling station. Passageways must be at least 65 centimeters wide at their narrowest point, and be free of tripping or head bumping hazards.


(E) *Table.* The observer sampling station must include a table at least 0.6 meters deep, 1.2 meters wide, 0.9 meters high, and no more than 1.1 meters high. The entire surface area of the table must be available for use by the observer(s). Any area used for the observer sampling scale is in addition to the minimum space requirements for the table specified at paragraph (g)(7)(ix)(B) of this section. The observer sampling table must be secure, and stable.


(F) *Observer Platform scale.* The observer sampling station must include a platform scale as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section when tested by the observer. The platform scale must be located within 1 meter of the observer sampling table. The scale must be mounted so that the weighing surface is no more than 0.7 meters above the floor.


(G) *Lockable cabinet.* The observer work station must include a secure and lockable cabinet or locker of at least 0.5 cubic meters, and must be for the exclusive use of the observer(s).


(x) *Communication with observer.* The CMCP, except for the Rockfish Program, must describe what communication equipment such as radios or cellular phones is used to facilitate communications within the plant. The plant owner must ensure that the plant manager provides the observer(s) with the same communications equipment used by plant staff. The plant owner or plant manager must communicate the following information to the observer(s), including:


(A) Daily schedule of expected landings;


(B) Vessel name;


(C) Identify which management areas the vessel was operating in;


(D) If the delivering vessel is operating under the trawl EM category;


(E) Estimated tonnage onboard the vessel;


(F) If there is a deckload;


(G) Estimated start time of each vessel offload;


(H) Estimated time to complete the offload;


(I) If the vessel offload will be interrupted for any reason; and


(J) Any other information required by the applicable CMCP or VMP.


(xi) *Processor liaison.* The CMCP must designate a processor liaison. The processor liaison is responsible for:


(A) Orienting new observer(s) to the plant and providing a copy of the NMFS-approved CMCP and any subsequent addendums or revisions; and


(B) Assisting in the resolution of observer(s) concerns.


(8) *Rockfish Program.* In addition to compliance with requirements set forth at paragraph (g)(7) of this section, all shoreside processors or stationary floating processors receiving deliveries of groundfish harvested under the authority of a rockfish CQ permit must:


(i) *Rockfish CMCP specialist notification.* Describe how the Rockfish CMCP specialist will be notified of deliveries of groundfish harvested under the authority of a rockfish CQ permit.


(ii) [Reserved]


(9) *Processors receiving AFA pollock, CDQ pollock, and trawl EM category deliveries.* In addition to compliance with requirements set forth at paragraph (g)(7) of this section, all shoreside processors and stationary floating processors receiving deliveries from the fisheries described in paragraphs (g)(2)(i),(ii), and (iv) of this section, must comply with the following:


(i) *Salmon storage container.* (A) A salmon storage container must be designated for the exclusive purpose of storing salmon during an offload;


(B) The observer(s) must have a clear, unobstructed view of the salmon storage container to ensure no salmon of any species are removed without the observer's knowledge;


(C) The CMCP must describe the process of sorting and storing salmon; and


(D) The scale drawing of the plant must include the location of the salmon storage container.


(ii) *Salmon sorting and handling practices.* (A) Sort and transport all salmon to the salmon storage container identified in the CMCP (see paragraphs (g)(7)(vi)(C) and (g)(7)(x)(F) of this section). The salmon must remain in that salmon storage container and within the view of the observer(s) at all times during the offload;


(B) If, at any point during the offload, salmon are too numerous to be contained in the salmon storage container, cease the offload and all sorting and give the observer(s) the opportunity to count and collect scientific data or biological samples from all salmon in the storage bin. The counted salmon then must be removed from the area by plant personnel in the presence of the observer(s);


(C) At the completion of the offload, give the observer(s) the opportunity to count the salmon and collect scientific data or biological samples;


(D) When receiving deliveries of pollock from the Bering Sea or CDQ pollock fisheries, give the observer(s) the opportunity to complete the count of salmon and the collection of scientific data or biological samples from the previous offload of catch before sorting of the next offload of any catch may begin. When the observer(s) has completed all counting and sampling duties for the offload, plant personnel must remove the salmon in the presence of the observer(s), from the salmon storage container and location where salmon are counted and biological samples or scientific data are collected; and


(E) Regarding deliveries of pollock from the Gulf of Alaska or Aleutian Islands, the observer(s) must be given the opportunity to complete the count of salmon and the collection of scientific data or biological samples from all offloads selected for monitoring. When the observer(s) has completed all counting and sampling duties for the offload, plant personnel must remove the salmon in the presence of the observer(s), from the salmon storage container and location where salmon are counted and biological samples or scientific data are collected.


(iii) *Observer sample collection point.* The observer sample collection point is the location where the observer collects unsorted catch.


(A) The observer sample collection point (see paragraph (g)(7)(ix)(A)(*3*) of this section) must have a diverter mechanism to allow fish to be diverted from the belt directly into the observer's sampling baskets. The location and design of the diverter mechanism must be described in the CMCP; and


(B) The scale drawing of the plant, specified at paragraph (g)(7)(vii) of this section, must include the location of the observer sample collection point.


(iv) *Observer sampling scales and test weights.* (A) Identify by serial number each observer sampling scale in the CMCP;


(B) Provide observer sampling scales that are accurate and within the limits specified in paragraph (c)(4)(v) of this section;


(C) Test weights must be made available for the observer(s) use, be kept in good condition, be made of stainless steel or other corrosion-resistant material, and must meet requirements specified in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section;


(D) List the serial numbers of the test weights to be used to test the observer sampling scale in the CMCP; and


(E) The CMCP must identify where the test weights will be stored. Test weights must be stored within the observer sampling station or reasonable assistance must be provided upon observer(s) request to move the weights from the storage location to the observer sampling scale.


(10) *AFA pollock and CDQ pollock.* In addition to paragraphs (g)(7) and (9) of this section, all shoreside processors and stationary floating processors accepting deliveries described in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section have the following additional requirements:


(i) Ensure no salmon of any species pass beyond the last point where sorting of fish occurs, as identified in the scale drawing of the plant, paragraph (g)(7)(vii) of this section, in the CMCP;


(ii) The CMCP must describe the process that will be used to sort salmon, including the procedures for handling salmon that have passed beyond the last point where sorting of fish occurs; and


(iii) Meet all salmon handling requirements as described in (g)(9) of this section.


(h) *ELB software*—(1) *How do I get my ELB software approved by NMFS?*—(i) *Specifications.* NMFS will provide specifications for ELB software upon request. Interested parties may contact NMFS by mail at NMFS Alaska Region, Sustainable Fisheries Division, Catch Accounting/Data Quality, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668; by telephone at 907-586-7228. The four types of ELB software are:


(A) Catcher vessel longline or pot gear (see § 679.5(c)(3));


(B) Catcher/processor longline or pot gear (see § 679.5(c)(3));


(C) Catcher vessel trawl gear (see § 679.5(c)(4)); and


(D) Catcher/processor trawl gear (see § 679.5(c)(4)).


(ii) *ELB submittal package.* A vendor or developer wishing to have an ELB approved by NMFS must submit:


(A) A fully operational test copy of the software; and


(B) An application for ELB-approval giving the following information (see paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section):


(*1*) Company, contact person, address, telephone number, and fax number for the company developing the software;


(*2*) Name and type of software; and


(*3*) Printed name and signature of individual submitting the software for approval.


(C) Copies of all manuals and documentation for the software.


(iii) *ELB approval.* NMFS will approve ELB software within 60 working days of receipt of all required information if the software meets the following standards in paragraphs (h)(1)(iii)(A) through (H) of this section):


(A) Has fields for the entry of all information required for a paper DFL or DCPL as described in § 679.5(c)(3) and (4), as appropriate.


(B) The software must automatically time and date stamp each printed copy of the ELB logsheet and ELB discard report and clearly identify the first printed copy as an original. If any changes are made to the data in the ELB, subsequent printed copies must clearly be identified as revised. The software must be designed to prevent the operator from overriding this feature.


(C) The software must export data as an ASCII comma delimited text file, xml file, or other format approved by NMFS.


(D) The software must integrate with the vessel's global positioning system (GPS) to allow vessel location fields to be completed automatically.


(E) When the software is started, it must clearly show the software version number.


(F) The software must be designed to facilitate the transfer of an export file to NMFS as an email attachment.


(G) The software must be designed to ensure that an operator can comply with the requirements for ELB use as described in § 679.5(f).


(H) The software must include sufficient data validation capability to prevent a submitter from accidentally transmitting a data file or printing an ELB logsheet that is incomplete or contains clearly erroneous data.


(2) *What if I need to make changes to NMFS-approved ELB software?*—(i) *NMFS-instigated changes.* NMFS will provide the developer with information that affects the ELB software as soon as it is available for distribution, e.g., changes in species codes or product codes.


(ii) *Developer-instigated changes.* The developer must submit a copy of the changed software along with documentation describing the need for the change to NMFS for review and approval as described in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section. NMFS will review and approve the new version according to the guidelines set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(iii) of this section.


(iii) *NMFS-approved ELB changes.* If changes to ELB software are approved by NMFS, the developer must:


(A) Give the revised software a new version number;


(B) Notify all known ELB users of the software that a new version is available; and


(C) Ensure that the ELB users are provided with a revised copy within 15 days of notification.


(i) *Bin monitoring*—(1) *Bin monitoring standards.* The vessel owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section unless the vessel owner or operator has requested, and NMFS has approved, the video monitoring option described at paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) *Option 1—No crew in bin or tank.* No crew may enter any bin or tank preceding the point where the observer samples unsorted catch, unless:


(A) The flow of fish has been stopped between the tank and the location where the observer samples unsorted catch;


(B) All catch has been cleared from all locations between the tank and the location where the observer samples unsorted catch;


(C) The observer has been given notice that the vessel crew must enter the tank; and either


(D) The observer is given the opportunity to observe the activities of the person(s) in the tank; or


(E) The observer informs the vessel operator, or his designee, that all sampling has been completed for a given haul, in which case crew may enter a tank containing fish from that haul without stopping the flow of fish or clearing catch between the tank and the observer sampling station.


(ii) *Option 2—Video monitoring system option.* A vessel owner and operator must provide and maintain a NMFS-approved video monitoring system as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Additionally, the vessel owner and operator must ensure that the system:


(A) Records and retains all video for all periods when fish are inside the bin; and


(B) Provides sufficient resolution and field of view to see crew activities from any location within the tank where crew could be located.


(2) *Who must have a bin monitoring option inspection?* A vessel owner or operator choosing to operate under the video option (option 2) in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section must receive an annual bin monitoring option inspection.


(3) *How does a vessel owner arrange for a bin monitoring option inspection?* The owner must submit an Inspection Request for Bin Monitoring to NMFS with all the information fields filled in at least 10 working days in advance of the requested date of inspection. The request form is available on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site (*https://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*).


(4) *Where will bin monitoring option inspections be conducted?* Inspections will be conducted on vessels tied to docks at Dutch Harbor, Alaska, Kodiak, Alaska, and in the Puget Sound area of Washington State.


(5) *Bin monitoring option inspection report.* A bin monitoring option inspection report will be issued to the vessel owner if the bin monitoring option meets the requirements of paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section. The vessel owner must maintain a current bin option inspection report on board the vessel at all times the vessel is required to provide an approved bin monitoring option under this paragraph (i)(5). The bin monitoring option inspection report must be made available to the observer, NMFS personnel, or to an authorized officer upon request.


(j) *Video monitoring on catcher/processors and motherships in the BS pollock fishery, including pollock CDQ.* The owner and operator of a catcher/processor or a mothership must provide and maintain a video monitoring system approved under paragraph (e) of this section. These video monitoring system requirements must be met when the catcher/processor is directed fishing for pollock in the BS, including pollock CDQ, and when the mothership is taking deliveries from catcher vessels directed fishing for pollock in the BS, including pollock CDQ. Additionally, the system must—


(1) Record and retain video for all periods when fish are flowing past the sorting area or salmon are in the storage container.


(2) The system must provide sufficient resolution and field of view to observe all areas where salmon are sorted from the catch, all crew actions in these areas, and discern individual fish in the salmon storage container.


(k) *Video monitoring in the longline catcher/processor subsector.* The owner and operator of a catcher/processor subject to § 679.100(b)(2) must provide and maintain a video monitoring system approved under paragraph (e) of this section. These video monitoring system requirements must be met when the vessel is operating in either the BSAI or GOA groundfish fisheries when directed fishing for Pacific cod is open in the BSAI, or while the vessel is groundfish CDQ fishing. Additionally, the system must:


(1) Record and retain video for all periods when Pacific cod are being sorted and weighed.


(2) Provide sufficient resolution and field of view to monitor all areas where Pacific cod are sorted from the catch, all fish passing over the motion-compensated scale, and all crew actions in these areas.


(l) *Video monitoring for halibut deck sorting.* The owner and operator of a mothership or catcher/processor subject to § 679.102 must provide and maintain a video monitoring system approved under paragraph (e) of this section when the vessel is halibut deck sorting. Additionally, the system must—


(1) Record and retain video for an entire trip when halibut deck sorting may occur; and


(2) Provide sufficient resolution and field of view to monitor all areas on deck where halibut may be sorted from the catch and discarded, and all crew actions in these areas.



---

[N] [63 FR 5843, Feb. 4, 1998]


