# § 3175.92   Verification and calibration of mechanical recorders.

(a) *Verification after installation or following repair.* (1) Before performing any verification of a mechanical recorder required in this part, the operator must perform a leak test. The verification must not proceed if leaks are present. The leak test must be conducted in a manner that will detect leaks in the following:


(i) All connections and fittings of the secondary device, including meter manifolds and verification equipment;


(ii) The isolation valves; and


(iii) The equalizer valves.


(2) The operator must adjust the time lag between the differential- and static-pressure pens, if necessary, to be 1/96 of the chart rotation period, measured at the chart hub. For example, the time lag is 15 minutes on a 24-hour test chart and 2 hours on an 8-day test chart.


(3) The meter's differential pen arc must be able to duplicate the test chart's time arc over the full range of the test chart, and must be adjusted, if necessary.


(4) The as-left values must be verified in the following sequence against a certified pressure device for the differential-pressure and static-pressure elements (if the static-pressure pen has been offset for atmospheric pressure, the static-pressure element range is in psia):


(i) Zero (vented to atmosphere);


(ii) 50 percent of element range;


(iii) 100 percent of element range;


(iv) 80 percent of element range;


(v) 20 percent of element range; and


(vi) Zero (vented to atmosphere).


(5) The following as-left temperatures must be verified by placing the temperature probe in a water bath with a certified test thermometer:


(i) Approximately 10 °F below the lowest expected flowing temperature;


(ii) Approximately 10 °F above the highest expected flowing temperature; and


(iii) At the expected average flowing temperature.


(6) If any of the readings required in paragraph (a)(4) or (5) of this section vary from the test device reading by more than the tolerances shown in Table 1 to this section, the operator must replace and verify the element for which readings were outside the applicable tolerances before returning the meter to service.


(7) If the static-pressure pen is offset for atmospheric pressure:


(i) The atmospheric pressure must be calculated under appendix A to this subpart; and


(ii) The pen must be offset prior to obtaining the as-left verification values required in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(b) *Routine verification frequency.* The differential pressure, static pressure, and temperature elements must be verified under the requirements of this section at the frequency specified in Table 1 to § 3175.90, in months.


(c) *Routine verification procedures.* (1) Before performing any verification required in this part, the operator must perform a leak test in the manner required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(2) No adjustments to the pens or linkages may be made until an as-found verification is obtained. If the static pen has been offset for atmospheric pressure, the static pen must not be reset to zero until the as-found verification is obtained.


(3) The operator must obtain the as-found values of differential and static pressure against a certified pressure device at the readings listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, with the following additional requirements:


(i) If there is sufficient data on site to determine the point at which the differential and static pens normally operate, the operator must also obtain an as-found value at those points;


(ii) If there is not sufficient data on site to determine the points at which the differential and static pens normally operate, the operator must also obtain as-found values at 5 percent of the element range and 10 percent of the element range; and


(iii) If the static-pressure pen has been offset for atmospheric pressure, the static-pressure element range is in units of psia.


(4) The as-found value for temperature must be taken using a certified test thermometer placed in a test thermometer well if there is flow through the meter and the meter tube is equipped with a test thermometer well. If there is no flow through the meter or if the meter is not equipped with a test thermometer well, the temperature probe must be verified by placing it along with a test thermometer in an insulated water bath.


(5) The element undergoing verification must be calibrated according to manufacturer specifications if any of the as-found values determined under paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section are not within the tolerances shown in Table 1 to this section, when compared to the values applied by the test equipment.


(6) The operator must adjust the time lag between the differential- and static-pressure pens, if necessary, to be 1/96 of the chart rotation period, measured at the chart hub. For example, the time lag is 15 minutes on a 24-hour test chart and 2 hours on an 8-day test chart.


(7) The meter's differential pen arc must be able to duplicate the test chart's time arc over the full range of the test chart, and must be adjusted, if necessary.


(8) If any adjustment to the meter was made, the operator must perform an as-left verification on each element adjusted using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section.


(9) If, after an as-left verification, any of the readings required in paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section vary by more than the tolerances shown in Table 1 to this section when compared with the test-device reading, any element which has readings that are outside of the applicable tolerances must be replaced and verified under this section before the operator returns the meter to service.


(10) If the static-pressure pen is offset for atmospheric pressure:


(i) The atmospheric pressure must be calculated under appendix A to this subpart; and


(ii) The pen must be offset prior to obtaining the as-left verification values required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(d) The operator must retain documentation of each verification, as required under § 3170.7(g) of this part, and submit it to the BLM upon request. This documentation must include:


(1) The time and date of the verification and the prior verification date;


(2) Primary-device data (meter-tube inside diameter and differential-device size and Beta or area ratio) if the orifice plate is pulled and inspected;


(3) The type and location of taps (flange or pipe, upstream or downstream static tap);


(4) Atmospheric pressure used to offset the static-pressure pen, if applicable;


(5) Mechanical recorder data (make, model, and differential pressure, static pressure, and temperature element ranges);


(6) The normal operating points for differential pressure, static pressure, and flowing temperature;


(7) Verification points (as-found and applied) for each element;


(8) Verification points (as-left and applied) for each element, if a calibration was performed;


(9) Names, contact information, and affiliations of the person performing the verification and any witness, if applicable; and


(10) Remarks, if any.


(e) *Notification of verification.* (1) For verifications performed after installation or following repair, the operator must notify the AO at least 72 hours before conducting the verifications.


(2) For routine verifications, the operator must notify the AO at least 72 hours before conducting the verification or submit a monthly or quarterly verification schedule to the AO in advance.


(f) If, during the verification, the combined errors in as-found differential pressure, static pressure, and flowing temperature taken at the normal operating points tested result in a flow-rate error greater than 2 percent or 2 Mcf/day, whichever is greater, the volumes reported on the OGOR and on royalty reports submitted to ONRR must be corrected beginning with the date that the inaccuracy occurred. If that date is unknown, the volumes must be corrected beginning with the production month that includes the date that is half way between the date of the last verification and the date of the current verification. For example: Meter verification determined that the meter was reading 4 Mcf/day high at the normal operating points. The average flow rate measured by the meter is 90 Mcf/day. There is no indication of when the inaccuracy occurred. The date of the current verification was December 15, 2015. The previous verification was conducted on June 15, 2015. The royalty volumes reported on OGOR B that were based on this meter must be corrected for the 4 Mcf/day error back to September 15, 2015.


(g) Test equipment used to verify or calibrate elements at an FMP must be certified at least every 2 years. Documentation of the recertification must be on-site during all verifications and must show:


(1) Test equipment serial number, make, and model;


(2) The date on which the recertification took place;


(3) The test equipment measurement range; and


(4) The uncertainty determined or verified as part of the recertification.




