# ยง 279.74   Tracking.

(a) *Off-specification used oil delivery.* Any used oil marketer who directs a shipment of off-specification used oil to a burner must keep a record of each shipment of used oil to a used oil burner. These records may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading or other shipping documents. Records for each shipment must include the following information:


(1) The name and address of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner;


(2) The name and address of the burner who will receive the used oil;


(3) The EPA identification number of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner;


(4) The EPA identification number of the burner;


(5) The quantity of used oil shipped; and


(6) The date of shipment.


(b) *On-specification used oil delivery.* A generator, transporter, processor/re-refiner, or burner who first claims that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the fuel specifications under ยง 279.11 must keep a record of each shipment of used oil to the facility to which it delivers the used oil. Records for each shipment must include the following information: 


(1) The name and address of the facility receiving the shipment; 


(2) The quantity of used oil fuel delivered; 


(3) The date of shipment or delivery; and 


(4) A cross-reference to the record of used oil analysis or other information used to make the determination that the oil meets the specification as required under ยง 279.72(a).


(c) *Record retention.* The records described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be maintained for at least three years.



---

[N] [57 FR 41612, Sept. 10, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 26426, May 3, 1993; 63 FR 24969, May 6, 1998; 63 FR 37782, July 14, 1998; 68 FR 44665, July 30, 2003]




