# § 1.1272-1   Current inclusion of OID in income.

(a) *Overview*—(1) *In general.* Under section 1272(a)(1), a holder of a debt instrument includes accrued OID in gross income (as interest), regardless of the holder's regular method of accounting. A holder includes qualified stated interest (as defined in § 1.1273-1(c)) in income under the holder's regular method of accounting. See §§ 1.446-2 and 1.451-1.


(2) *Debt instruments not subject to OID inclusion rules.* Sections 1272(a)(2) and 1272(c) list exceptions to the general inclusion rule of section 1272(a)(1). For purposes of section 1272(a)(2)(E) (relating to certain loans between natural persons), a loan does not include a stripped bond or stripped coupon within the meaning of section 1286(e), and the rule in section 1272(a)(2)(E)(iii), which treats a husband and wife as 1 person, does not apply to loans made between a husband and wife.


(b) *Accrual of OID*—(1) *Constant yield method.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the amount of OID includible in the income of a holder of a debt instrument for any taxable year is determined using the constant yield method as described under this paragraph (b)(1).


(i) *Step one: Determine the debt instrument's yield to maturity.* The yield to maturity or yield of a debt instrument is the discount rate that, when used in computing the present value of all principal and interest payments to be made under the debt instrument, produces an amount equal to the issue price of the debt instrument. The yield must be constant over the term of the debt instrument and, when expressed as a percentage, must be calculated to at least two decimal places. See paragraph (c) of this section for rules relating to the yield of certain debt instruments subject to contingencies.


(ii) *Step two: Determine the accrual periods.* An accrual period is an interval of time over which the accrual of OID is measured. Accrual periods may be of any length and may vary in length over the term of the debt instrument, provided that each accrual period is no longer than 1 year and each scheduled payment of principal or interest occurs either on the final day of an accrual period or on the first day of an accrual period. In general, the computation of OID is simplest if accrual periods correspond to the intervals between payment dates provided by the terms of the debt instrument. In computing the length of accrual periods, any reasonable counting convention may be used (e.g., 30 days per month/360 days per year).


(iii) *Step three: Determine the OID allocable to each accrual period.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the OID allocable to an accrual period equals the product of the adjusted issue price of the debt instrument (as defined in § 1.1275-1(b)) at the beginning of the accrual period and the yield of the debt instrument, less the amount of any qualified stated interest allocable to the accrual period. In performing this calculation, the yield must be stated appropriately taking into account the length of the particular accrual period. *Example 1* in paragraph (j) of this section provides a formula for converting a yield based upon an accrual period of one length to an equivalent yield based upon an accrual period of a different length.


(iv) *Step four: Determine the daily portions of OID.* The daily portions of OID are determined by allocating to each day in an accrual period the ratable portion of the OID allocable to the accrual period. The holder of the debt instrument includes in income the daily portions of OID for each day during the taxable year on which the holder held the debt instrument.


(2) *Exceptions.* Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to—


(i) A debt instrument to which section 1272(a)(6) applies (certain interests in or mortgages held by a REMIC, and certain other debt instruments with payments subject to acceleration);


(ii) A debt instrument that provides for contingent payments, other than a debt instrument described in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or except as provided in § 1.1275-4; or


(iii) A variable rate debt instrument to which § 1.1275-5 applies, except as provided in § 1.1275-5.


(3) *Modifications.* The amount of OID includible in income by a holder under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is adjusted if—


(i) The holder purchased the debt instrument at a premium or an acquisition premium (within the meaning of § 1.1272-2); or


(ii) The holder made an election for the debt instrument under § 1.1272-3 to treat all interest as OID.


(4) *Special rules for determining the OID allocable to an accrual period.* The following rules apply to determine the OID allocable to an accrual period under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.


(i) *Unpaid qualified stated interest allocable to an accrual period.* In determining the OID allocable to an accrual period, if an interval between payments of qualified stated interest contains more than 1 accrual period—


(A) The amount of qualified stated interest payable at the end of the interval (including any qualified stated interest that is payable on the first day of the accrual period immediately following the interval) is allocated on a pro rata basis to each accrual period in the interval; and


(B) The adjusted issue price at the beginning of each accrual period in the interval must be increased by the amount of any qualified stated interest that has accrued prior to the first day of the accrual period but that is not payable until the end of the interval. See *Example 2* of paragraph (j) of this section for an example illustrating the rules in this paragraph (b)(4)(i).


(ii) *Final accrual period.* The OID allocable to the final accrual period is the difference between the amount payable at maturity (other than a payment of qualified stated interest) and the adjusted issue price at the beginning of the final accrual period.


(iii) *Initial short accrual period.* If all accrual periods are of equal length, except for either an initial shorter accrual period or an initial and a final shorter accrual period, the amount of OID allocable to the initial accrual period may be computed using any reasonable method. See *Example 3* in paragraph (j) of this section.


(iv) *Payment on first day of an accrual period.* The adjusted issue price at the beginning of an accrual period is reduced by the amount of any payment (other than a payment of qualified stated interest) that is made on the first day of the accrual period.


(c) *Yield and maturity of certain debt instruments subject to contingencies*—(1) *Applicability.* This paragraph (c) provides rules to determine the yield and maturity of certain debt instruments that provide for an alternative payment schedule (or schedules) applicable upon the occurrence of a contingency (or contingencies). This paragraph (c) applies, however, only if the timing and amounts of the payments that comprise each payment schedule are known as of the issue date and the debt instrument is subject to paragraph (c)(2), (3), or (5) of this section. A debt instrument does not provide for an alternative payment schedule merely because there is a possibility of impairment of a payment (or payments) by insolvency, default, or similar circumstances. See § 1.1275-4 for the treatment of a debt instrument that provides for a contingency that is not described in this paragraph (c). See § 1.1273-1(c) to determine whether stated interest on a debt instrument subject to this paragraph (c) is qualified stated interest.


(2) *Payment schedule that is significantly more likely than not to occur.* If, based on all the facts and circumstances as of the issue date, a single payment schedule for a debt instrument, including the stated payment schedule, is significantly more likely than not to occur, the yield and maturity of the debt instrument are computed based on this payment schedule.


(3) *Mandatory sinking fund provision.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if a debt instrument is subject to a mandatory sinking fund provision, the provision is ignored for purposes of computing the yield and maturity of the debt instrument if the use and terms of the provision meet reasonable commercial standards. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a mandatory sinking fund provision is a provision that meets the following requirements:


(i) The provision requires the issuer to redeem a certain amount of debt instruments in an issue prior to maturity.


(ii) The debt instruments actually redeemed are chosen by lot or purchased by the issuer either in the open market or pursuant to an offer made to all holders (with any proration determined by lot).


(iii) On the issue date, the specific debt instruments that will be redeemed on any date prior to maturity cannot be identified.


(4) *Consistency rule.* [Reserved]


(5) *Treatment of certain options.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) of this section, the rules of this paragraph (c)(5) determine the yield and maturity of a debt instrument that provides the holder or issuer with an unconditional option or options, exercisable on one or more dates during the term of the debt instrument, that, if exercised, require payments to be made on the debt instrument under an alternative payment schedule or schedules (e.g., an option to extend or an option to call a debt instrument at a fixed premium). Under this paragraph (c)(5), an issuer is deemed to exercise or not exercise an option or combination of options in a manner that minimizes the yield on the debt instrument, and a holder is deemed to exercise or not exercise an option or combination of options in a manner that maximizes the yield on the debt instrument. If both the issuer and the holder have options, the rules of this paragraph (c)(5) are applied to the options in the order that they may be exercised. See paragraph (j) *Example 5* through *Example 8* of this section.


(6) *Subsequent adjustments.* If a contingency described in this paragraph (c) (including the exercise of an option described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section) actually occurs or does not occur, contrary to the assumption made pursuant to this paragraph (c) (a change in circumstances), then, solely for purposes of sections 1272 and 1273, the debt instrument is treated as retired and then reissued on the date of the change in circumstances for an amount equal to its adjusted issue price on that date. See paragraph (j) *Example 5* and *Example 7* of this section. If, however, the change in circumstances results in a substantially contemporaneous pro-rata prepayment as defined in § 1.1275-2(f)(2), the pro-rata prepayment is treated as a payment in retirement of a portion of the debt instrument, which may result in gain or loss to the holder. See paragraph (j) *Example 6* and *Example 8* of this section.


(7) *Effective date.* This paragraph (c) applies to debt instruments issued on or after August 13, 1996.


(d) *Certain debt instruments that provide for a fixed yield.* If a debt instrument provides for one or more contingent payments but all possible payment schedules under the terms of the instrument result in the same fixed yield, the yield of the debt instrument is the fixed yield. For example, the yield of a debt instrument with principal payments that are fixed in total amount but that are uncertain as to time (such as a demand loan) is the stated interest rate if the issue price of the instrument is equal to the stated principal amount and interest is paid or compounded at a fixed rate over the entire term of the instrument. This paragraph (d) applies to debt instruments issued on or after August 13, 1996.


(e) *Convertible debt instruments.* For purposes of section 1272, an option is ignored if it is an option to convert a debt instrument into the stock of the issuer, into the stock or debt of a related party (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)), or into cash or other property in an amount equal to the approximate value of such stock or debt. For debt instruments issued on or after February 5, 2013, the term *stock* in the preceding sentence means an equity interest in any entity that is classified, for Federal tax purposes, as either a partnership or a corporation.


(f) *Special rules to determine whether a debt instrument is a short-term obligation*—(1) *Counting of either the issue date or maturity date.* For purposes of determining whether a debt instrument is a short-term obligation (i.e., a debt instrument with a fixed maturity date that is not more than 1 year from the date of issue), the term of the debt instrument includes either the issue date or the maturity date, but not both dates.


(2) *Coordination with paragraph (c) of this section for certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, solely for purposes of determining whether a debt instrument is a short-term obligation under sections 871(g)(1)(B)(i), 881, 1271(a)(3), 1271(a)(4), 1272(a)(2)(C), and 1283(a)(1), the maturity date of a debt instrument is the last possible date that the instrument could be outstanding under the terms of the instrument. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the last possible date that the debt instrument could be outstanding is determined without regard to § 1.1275-2(h) (relating to payments subject to remote or incidental contingencies).


(g) *Basis adjustment.* The basis of a debt instrument in the hands of the holder is increased by the amount of OID included in the holder's gross income and decreased by the amount of any payment from the issuer to the holder under the debt instrument other than a payment of qualified stated interest. See, however, § 1.1275-2(f) for rules regarding basis adjustments on a pro rata prepayment.


(h) *Debt instruments denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar.* Section 1272 and this section apply to a debt instrument that provides for all payments denominated in, or determined by reference to, the functional currency of the taxpayer or qualified business unit of the taxpayer (even if that currency is other than the U.S. dollar). See § 1.988-2(b) to determine interest income or expense for debt instruments that provide for payments denominated in, or determined by reference to, a nonfunctional currency.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. Each example assumes that all taxpayers use the calendar year as the taxable year. In addition, each example assumes a 30-day month, 360-day year, and that the initial accrual period begins on the issue date and the final accrual period ends on the day before the stated maturity date. Although, for purposes of simplicity, the yield as stated is rounded to two decimal places, the computations do not reflect any such rounding convention.



---

[N] [T.D. 8517, 59 FR 4810, Feb. 2, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8674, 61 FR 30140, June 14, 1996; T.D. 9612, 78 FR 8015, Feb. 5, 2013]




