# ยง 40.66   Requirements for advance notice of export shipments of natural uranium.

(a) Each licensee authorized to export natural uranium, other than in the form of ore or ore residue, in amounts exceeding 500 kilograms, shall notify the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by email (preferred method) to *AdvanceNotifications.Resource@nrc.gov* or by an appropriate method listed in ยง 40.5. The notification must be in writing and must be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipping facility.


(b) The notification must include the following information:


(1) The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s);


(2) A physical description of the shipment;


(3) A listing of the mode(s) of shipment, transfer points, and routes to be used;


(4) The estimated date and time that shipment will commence and that each nation (other than the United States) along the route is scheduled to be entered; and


(5) A certification that arrangements have been made to notify the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response when the shipment is received at the receiving facility.


(c) A licensee who needs to amend a notification may do so by telephoning the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, at the numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center listed in Appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.



---

[N] [52 FR 9651, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4110, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24551, May 9, 1995; 68 FR 58808, Oct. 10, 2003; 69 FR 76600, Dec. 22, 2004; 74 FR 62681, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 86 FR 67842, Nov. 30, 2021]




