# § 801.12   Calculating percentage of voting securities.

(a) *Voting securities.* Whenever the act or these rules require calculation of the percentage of voting securities to be held or acquired, the issuer whose voting securities are being acquired shall be deemed the “acquired persons.”


(b) *Percentage of voting securities.* (1) Whenever the act or these rules require calculation of the percentage of voting securities of an issuer to be held or acquired, the percentage shall be the sum of the separate ratios for each class of voting securities, expressed as a percentage. The ratio for each class of voting securities equals:


(i)(A) The number of votes for directors of the issuer which the holder of a class of voting securities is presently entitled to cast, and as a result of the acquisition, will become entitled to cast, divided by,


(B) The total number of votes for directors of the issuer which presently may be cast by that class, and which will be entitled to be cast by that class after the acquisition, multiplied by,


(ii)(A) The number of directors that class is entitled to elect, divided by (B) the total number of directors.


(2) Authorized but unissued voting securities and treasury voting securities shall not be considered securities presently entitled to vote for directors of the issuer.


(3) For purposes of determining the number of outstanding voting securities of an issuer, a person may rely upon the most recent information set forth in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, unless such person knows or has reason to believe that the information contained therein is inaccurate.



---

[N] [43 FR 33537, July 31, 1978; 43 FR 36054, Aug. 15, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 7081, Mar. 6, 1987; 66 FR 8689, Feb. 1, 2001]




