# § 512.505   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions are applicable unless otherwise stated:


*AAPM* stands for Advanced Alternative Payment Model.


*AAPM option* means the advanced alternative payment model option of TEAM for Track 2 and Track 3 TEAM participants that provide their CMS EHR Certification ID and attest to their use of CEHRT in accordance with § 512.522.


*ACO* means an accountable care organization, as defined at § 425.20 of this chapter.


*ACO participant* has the meaning set forth in § 425.20 of this chapter.


*ACO provider/supplier* has the meaning set forth in § 425.20 of this chapter.


*Acute care hospital* means a provider subject to the prospective payment system specified in § 412.1(a)(1) of this chapter.


*Age bracket risk adjustment factor* means the coefficient of risk associated with a patient's age bracket, calculated as described in § 512.545(a)(1).


*Aggregated reconciliation target price* refers to the sum of the reconciliation target prices for all episodes attributed to a given TEAM participant for a given performance year.


*Alignment payment* means a payment from a TEAM collaborator to a TEAM participant under a sharing arrangement, for the sole purpose of sharing the TEAM participant's responsibility for making repayments to Medicare.


*AMI* stands for acute myocardial infarction


*Anchor hospitalization* means the initial hospital stay upon admission for an episode category included in TEAM, as described in § 512.525(c), for which the institutional claim is billed through the inpatient prospective payment system (IPPS).


*Anchor procedure* means a procedure related to an episode category, as described in § 512.525(c), included in TEAM that is permitted and paid for by Medicare when performed in a hospital outpatient department (HOPD) and billed through the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS).


*ADI* stands for Area Deprivation Index.


*APM* stands for Alternative Payment Model.


*APM Entity* means an entity as defined in § 414.1305 of this chapter.


*Baseline episode spending* refers to total episode spending by all providers and suppliers associated with a given MS-DRG/HCPCS episode type for all hospitals in a given region during the baseline period.


*Baseline period* means the 3-year historical period used to construct the preliminary target price and reconciliation target price for a given performance year.


*Baseline year* means any one of the 3 years included in the baseline period.


*Benchmark price* means average standardized episode spending by all providers and suppliers associated with a given MS-DRG/HCPCS episode type for all hospitals in a given region during the applicable baseline period.


*Beneficiary* means an individual who is enrolled in Medicare FFS.


*Beneficiary who is dually eligible* means a beneficiary enrolled in both Medicare and full Medicaid benefits.


*BPCI* stands for Bundled Payments for Care Improvement, which was an episode_based payment initiative with four models tested by the CMS Innovation Center from April 2013 to September 2018.


*BPCI Advanced* stands for the Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Advanced Model, which is an episode-based payment model tested by the CMS Innovation Center from October 2018 to December 2025.


*CABG (Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Surgery)* means any coronary revascularization procedure paid through the IPPS under MS-DRGs 231-236, including both elective CABG and CABG procedures performed during initial acute myocardial infarction (AMI) treatment.


*CCN* stands for CMS certification number.


*CEHRT* means certified electronic health record technology that meets the requirements set forth in § 414.1305 of this chapter.


*Change in control* means any of the following:


(1) The acquisition by any “person” (as this term is used in sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of voting securities of the TEAM participant representing more than 50 percent of the TEAM participant's outstanding voting securities or rights to acquire such securities.


(2) The acquisition of the TEAM participant by any individual or entity.


(3) The sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the TEAM participant.


(4) The approval and completion of a plan of liquidation of the TEAM participant, or an agreement for the sale or liquidation of the TEAM participant.


*CJR* stands for the Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement Model, which is an episode-based payment model tested by the CMS Innovation Center from April 2016 to December 2024.


*Clinician engagement list* means the list of eligible clinicians or MIPS eligible clinicians that participate in TEAM activities and have a contractual relationship with the TEAM participant, and who are not listed on the financial arrangements list, as described in § 512.522(c).


*CMS Electronic Health Record (EHR) Certification ID* means the identification number that represents the combination of Certified Health Information Technology that is owned and used by providers and hospitals to provide care to their patients and is generated by the Certified Health Information Technology Product List.


*Collaboration agent* means an individual or entity that is not a TEAM collaborator and that is either of the following:


(1) A member of a PGP, NPPGP, or TGP that has entered into a distribution arrangement with the same PGP, NPPGP, or TGP in which he or she is an owner or employee, and where the PGP, NPPGP, or TGP is a TEAM collaborator.


(2) An ACO participant or ACO provider/supplier that has entered into a distribution arrangement with the same ACO in which it is participating, and where the ACO is a TEAM collaborator.


*Composite quality score (CQS)* means a score computed for each TEAM participant to summarize the TEAM participant's level of quality performance and improvement on specified quality measures as described in § 512.547.


*Core-based statistical area (CBSA)* means a statistical geographic entity defined by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) consisting of the county or counties associated with at least one core (urbanized area or urban cluster) of at least 10,000 population, plus adjacent counties having a high degree of social and economic integration with the core as measured through commuting ties with the counties containing the core.


*CORF* stands for comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility.


*Covered services* means the scope of health care benefits described in sections 1812 and 1832 of the Act for which payment is available under Part A or Part B of Title XVIII of the Act.


*Critical access hospital (CAH)* means a hospital designated under subpart F of part 485 of this chapter.


*CQS adjustment amount* means the amount subtracted from the positive or negative reconciliation amount to generate the reconciliation payment or repayment amount.


*CQS adjustment percentage* means the percentage CMS applies to the positive or negative reconciliation amount based on the TEAM participant's CQS performance.


*CQS baseline period* means the time period used to benchmark quality measure performance.


*Days* means calendar days.


*Decarbonization and Resilience Initiative* means an initiative for TEAM participants that includes technical assistance on decarbonization and a voluntary reporting program where TEAM participants may annually report metrics and questions related to emissions in accordance with § 512.598.


*Descriptive TEAM materials and activities* means general audience materials such as brochures, advertisements, outreach events, letters to beneficiaries, web pages, mailings, social media, or other materials or activities distributed or conducted by or on behalf of the TEAM participant or its downstream participants when used to educate, notify, or contact beneficiaries regarding TEAM. All of the following communications are not descriptive TEAM materials and activities:


(1) Communications that do not directly or indirectly reference TEAM (for example, information about care coordination generally).


(2) Information on specific medical conditions.


(3) Referrals for health care items and services, except as required by § 512.564.


(4) Any other materials that are excepted from the definition of “marketing” as that term is defined at 45 CFR 164.501.


*Discount factor* means a set percentage included in the preliminary target price and reconciliation target price intended to reflect Medicare's potential savings from TEAM.


*Distribution arrangement* means a financial arrangement between a TEAM collaborator that is an ACO, PGP, NPPGP, or TGP and a collaboration agent for the sole purpose of distributing some or all of a gainsharing payment received by the ACO, PGP, NPPGP, or TGP.


*Distribution payment* means a payment from a TEAM collaborator that is an ACO, PGP, NPPGP, or TGP to a collaboration agent, under a distribution arrangement, composed only of gainsharing payments.


*DME* stands for durable medical equipment.


*Downstream collaboration agent* means an individual who is not a TEAM collaborator or a collaboration agent and who is a member of a PGP, NPPGP, or TGP that has entered into a downstream distribution arrangement with the same PGP, NPPGP, or TGP in which he or she is an owner or employee, and where the PGP, NPPGP, or TGP is a collaboration agent.


*Downstream distribution arrangement* means a financial arrangement between a collaboration agent that is both a PGP, NPPGP, or TGP and an ACO participant and a downstream collaboration agent for the sole purpose of sharing a distribution payment received by the PGP, NPPGP, or TGP.


*Downstream participant* means an individual or entity that has entered into a written arrangement with a TEAM participant, TEAM collaborator, collaboration agent, or downstream collaboration agent under which the downstream participant engages in one or more TEAM activities.


*EHR* stands for electronic health record.


*Eligible clinician* means a clinician as defined in § 414.1305 of this chapter.


*Episode category* means one of the five episodes tested in TEAM as described at § 512.525(d).


*Episode* means all Medicare Part A and B items and services described in § 512.525(e) (and excluding the items and services described in § 512.525(f)) that are furnished to a beneficiary described in § 512.535 during the time period that begins on the date of the beneficiary's admission to an anchor hospitalization or the date of the anchor procedure, as described at § 512.525(c), and ends on the 30th day following the date of discharge from the anchor hospitalization or anchor procedure, with the date of discharge or date of the anchor procedure itself being counted as the first day in the 30-day post-discharge period, as described at § 512.537. If an anchor hospitalization is initiated on the same day as or in the 3 days following an outpatient procedure that could initiate an anchor procedure for the same episode category, the outpatient procedure initiates an anchor hospitalization and the anchor hospitalization start date is that of the outpatient procedure.


*Essential access community hospital* means a hospital as defined under § 412.109 of this chapter.


*Final normalization factor* refers to the national mean of the benchmark price for each MS-DRG/HCPCS episode type divided by the national mean of the risk-adjusted benchmark price for the same MS-DRG/HCPCS episode type.


*Financial arrangements list* means the list of eligible clinicians or MIPS eligible clinicians that have a financial arrangement with the TEAM participant, TEAM collaborator, collaboration agent, and downstream collaboration agent, as described in § 512.522(b).


*Gainsharing payment* means a payment from a TEAM participant to a TEAM collaborator, under a sharing arrangement, composed of only reconciliation payments, internal cost savings, or both.


*HCPCS* stands for Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, which is used to bill for items and services.


*Health disparities* mean preventable differences in the burden of disease, injury, violence, or opportunities to achieve optimal health, health quality, or health outcomes that are experienced by one or more underserved communities within the TEAM participant's population of TEAM beneficiaries that the TEAM participant will aim to reduce.


*Health equity goal* means a targeted outcome relative to health equity plan performance measures.


*Health equity plan* means a document that identifies health equity goals, intervention strategies, and performance measures to improve health disparities identified within the TEAM participant's population of TEAM beneficiaries that the TEAM participant will aim to reduce as described in § 512.563.


*Health equity plan intervention strategy* means the initiative the TEAM participant creates and implements to reduce the identified health disparities as part of the health equity plan.


*Health equity plan performance measure* means a quantitative metric that the TEAM participant uses to measure changes in health disparities arising from the health equity plan intervention strategies.


*Health-related social need* means an unmet, adverse social condition that can contribute to poor health outcomes and is a result of underlying social determinants of health, which refer to the conditions in the environments where people are born, live, learn, work, play, worship, and age that affect a wide range of health, functioning, and quality-of-life outcomes and risks.


*HHA* means a Medicare-enrolled home health agency.


*High-cost outlier cap* refers to the 99th percentile of regional spending for a given MS-DRG/HCPCS episode type in a given region, which is the amount at which episode spending would be capped for purposes of determining baseline and performance year episode spending.


*Hospital* means a hospital as defined in section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act.


*Hospital discharge planning* means the standards set forth in § 482.43 of this chapter.


*ICD-CM* stands for International Classification of Diseases, Clinical Modification.


*Internal cost savings* means the measurable, actual, and verifiable cost savings realized by the TEAM participant resulting from care redesign undertaken by the TEAM participant in connection with providing items and services to TEAM beneficiaries within an episode. Internal cost savings does not include savings realized by any individual or entity that is not the TEAM participant.


*IPF* stands for inpatient psychiatric facility.


*IPPS* stands for Inpatient Prospective Payment System, which is the payment system for subsection (d) hospitals as defined in section 1886(d)(1)(B) of the Act.


*IRF* stands for inpatient rehabilitation facility.


*LIS* stands for Medicare Part D Low-Income Subsidy.


*Lower-Extremity Joint Replacement (LEJR)* means any hip, knee, or ankle replacement that is paid under MS-DRG 469, 470, 521, or 522 through the IPPS or HCPCS code 27447, 27130, or 27702 through the OPPS.


*LTCH* stands for long-term care hospital.


*Major Bowel Procedure* means any small or large bowel procedure paid through the IPPS under MS-DRG 329-331.


*Mandatory CBSA* means a core-based statistical area selected by CMS in accordance with § 512.515 where all eligible hospitals are required to participate in TEAM.


*MDC* stands for Major Diagnostic Category.


*Medically necessary* means reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury, or to improve the functioning of a malformed body member.


*Medicare Severity Diagnosis-Related Group (MS-DRG)* means, for the purposes of this model, the classification of inpatient hospital discharges updated in accordance with § 412.10 of this chapter.


*Medicare-dependent, small rural hospital (MDH)* means a specific type of hospital that meets the classification criteria specified under § 412.108 of this chapter.


*Member of the NPPGP* or *NPPGP member* means a nonphysician practitioner or therapist who is an owner or employee of an NPPGP and who has reassigned to the NPPGP his or her right to receive Medicare payment.


*Member of the PGP* or *PGP member* means a physician, nonphysician practitioner, or therapist who is an owner or employee of the PGP and who has reassigned to the PGP his or her right to receive Medicare payment.


*Member of the TGP* or *TGP member* means a therapist who is an owner or employee of a TGP and who has reassigned to the TGP his or her right to receive Medicare payment.


*MIPS* stands for Merit-based Incentive Payment System.


*MIPS eligible clinician* means a clinician as defined in § 414.1305 of this chapter.


*Model performance period* means the 60-month period from January 1, 2026, to December 31, 2030, during which TEAM is being tested and the TEAM participant is held accountable for spending and quality.


*Model start date* means January 1, 2026, the start of the model performance period.


*MS-DRG/HCPCS episode type* refers to the subset of episodes within an episode category that are associated with a given MS-DRG/HCPCS, as set forth at § 512.540(a)(1).


*Non-AAPM option* means the option of TEAM for TEAM participants in Track 1 or for TEAM participants in Track 2 or Track 3 that do not attest to use of CEHRT as described in § 512.522.


*Nonphysician practitioner* means one of the following:


(1) A physician assistant who satisfies the qualifications set forth at § 410.74(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this chapter.


(2) A nurse practitioner who satisfies the qualifications set forth at § 410.75(b) of this chapter.


(3) A clinical nurse specialist who satisfies the qualifications set forth at § 410.76(b) of this chapter.


(4) A certified registered nurse anesthetist (as defined at § 410.69(b) of this chapter).


(5) A clinical social worker (as defined at § 410.73(a) of this chapter).


(6) A registered dietician or nutrition professional (as defined at § 410.134 of this chapter).


*NPI* stands for National Provider Identifier.


*NPPGP* stands for Non-Physician Provider Group Practice, which means an entity that is enrolled in Medicare as a group practice, includes at least one owner or employee who is a nonphysician practitioner, does not include a physician owner or employee, and has a valid and active TIN.


*NPRA* stands for Net Payment Reconciliation Amount, which means the dollar amount representing the difference between the reconciliation target price and performance year spending, after adjustments for quality and stop-gain/stop-loss limits, but prior to the post-episode spending adjustment.


*OIG* stands for the Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General.


*OP* means an outpatient procedure for which the institutional claim is billed by the hospital through the OPPS.


*OPPS* stands for the Outpatient Prospective Payment System.


*PAC* stands for post-acute care.


*PBPM* stands for per-beneficiary-per-month.


*Performance year* means a 12-month period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year during the model performance period.


*Performance year spending* means the sum of standardized Medicare claims payments during the performance year for the items and services that are included in the episode in accordance with § 512.525(e), excluding the items and services described in § 512.525(f).


*PGP* stands for physician group practice.


*Physician* has the meaning set forth in section 1861(r) of the Act.


*Post-episode spending amount* means the sum of all Medicare Parts A and B payments for items and services furnished to a beneficiary within 30 days after the end of an episode and includes the prorated portion of services that began during the episode and extended into the 30-day post-episode period.


*Preliminary target price* refers to the target price provided to the TEAM participant prior to the start of the performance year, which is subject to adjustment at reconciliation, as set forth at § 512.540.


*Primary care services* has the meaning set forth in section 1842(i)(4) of the Act.


*Prospective normalization factor* refers to the multiplier incorporated into the preliminary target price to ensure that the average of the total risk-adjusted preliminary target price does not exceed the average of the total non-risk adjusted preliminary target price, calculated as set forth in § 512.540(b)(6).


*Prospective trend factor* refers to the multiplier incorporated into the preliminary target price to estimate changes in spending patterns between the baseline period and the performance year, calculated as set forth in § 512.540(b)(7).


*Provider* means a “provider of services” as defined under section 1861(u) of the Act and codified in the definition of “provider” at § 400.202 of this chapter.


*Provider of outpatient therapy services* means an entity that is enrolled in Medicare as a provider of therapy services and furnishes one or more of the following:


(1) Outpatient physical therapy services as defined in § 410.60 of this chapter.


(2) Outpatient occupational therapy services as defined in § 410.59 of this chapter.


(3) Outpatient speech-language pathology services as defined in § 410.62 of this chapter.


*QP* stands for Qualifying APM Participant as defined in § 414.1305 of this chapter.


*Quality-adjusted reconciliation amount* refers to the dollar amount representing the difference between the reconciliation target price and performance year spending, after adjustments for quality, but prior to application of stop-gain/stop-loss limits and the post-episode spending adjustment.


*Raw quality measure score* means the quality measure value as obtained from the Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting Program and the Hospital-Acquired Condition Reduction Program.


*Reconciliation amount* means the dollar amount representing the difference between the reconciliation target price and performance year spending, prior to adjustments for quality, stop-gain/stop-loss limits, and post-episode spending.


*Reconciliation payment amount* means the amount that CMS may owe to a TEAM participant after reconciliation as determined in accordance with § 512.550(g).


*Reconciliation target price* means the target price applied to an episode at reconciliation, as determined in accordance with § 512.545.


*Region* means one of the nine U.S. census divisions, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau.


*Reorganization event* refers to a merger, consolidation, spin off or other restructuring that results in a new hospital entity under a given CCN.


*Repayment amount* means the amount that the TEAM participant may owe to Medicare after reconciliation as determined in accordance with § 512.550(g).


*Retrospective trend factor* refers to the multiplier incorporated into the reconciliation target price to estimate realized changes in spending patterns during the performance year, calculated as set forth in § 512.545(f).


*Rural hospital* means an IPPS hospital that meets one of the following criteria:


(1) Is located in a rural area as defined under § 412.64 of this chapter.


(2) Is located in a rural census tract defined under § 412.103(a)(1) of this chapter.


*Safety Net hospital* means an IPPS hospital that meets at least one of the following criteria:


(1) Exceeds the 75th percentile of the proportion of Medicare beneficiaries considered dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid across all PPS acute care hospitals in the baseline period.


(2) Exceeds the 75th percentile of the proportion of Medicare beneficiaries partially or fully eligible to receive Part D low-income subsidies across all PPS acute care hospitals in the baseline period.


*Scaled quality measure score* means the score equal to the percentile to which the TEAM participant's raw quality measure score would have belonged in the CQS baseline period.


*Sharing arrangement* means a financial arrangement between a TEAM participant and a TEAM collaborator for the sole purpose of making gainsharing payments or alignment payments under TEAM.


*SNF* stands for skilled nursing facility.


*Sole community hospital (SCH)* means a hospital that meets the classification criteria specified in § 412.92 of this chapter.


*Spinal Fusion* means any cervical, thoracic, or lumbar spinal fusion procedure paid through the IPPS under MS-DRG 402, 426, 427, 428, 429, 430, 447, 448, 450, 451, 471, 472, or 473, or through the OPPS under HCPCS codes 22551, 22554, 22612, 22630, or 22633.


*Supplier* means a supplier as defined in section 1861(d) of the Act and codified at § 400.202 of this chapter.


*Surgical Hip and Femur Fracture Treatment (SHFFT)* means a hip fixation procedure, with or without fracture reduction, but excluding joint replacement, that is paid through the IPPS under MS-DRGs 480-482.


*TAA* stands for total ankle arthroplasty.


*TEAM activities* mean any activity related to promoting accountability for the quality, cost, and overall care for TEAM beneficiaries and performance in the model, including managing and coordinating care; encouraging investment in infrastructure and redesigned care processes for high quality and efficient service delivery; or carrying out any other obligation or duty under the model.


*TEAM beneficiary* means a beneficiary who meets the beneficiary inclusion criteria in § 512.535 and who is in an episode.


*TEAM collaborator* means an ACO or one of the following Medicare-enrolled individuals or entities that enters into a sharing arrangement:


(1) SNF.


(2) HHA.


(3) LTCH.


(4) IRF.


(5) Physician.


(6) Nonphysician practitioner.


(7) Therapist in private practice.


(8) CORF.


(9) Provider of outpatient therapy services.


(10) PGP.


(11) Hospital.


(12) CAH.


(13) NPPGP.


(14) Therapy Group Practice (TGP).


*TEAM data sharing agreement* means an agreement entered into between the TEAM participant and CMS that includes the terms and conditions for any beneficiary-identifiable data shared with the TEAM participant under § 512.562.


*TEAM HCC count* refers to the TEAM Hierarchical Condition Category count, which is a categorical risk adjustment variable designed to reflect a beneficiary's overall health status during a lookback period by grouping similar diagnoses into one related category and counting the total number of diagnostic categories that apply to the beneficiary.


*TEAM participant* means an acute care hospital that either—


(1) Initiates episodes and is paid under the IPPS with a CCN primary address located in one of the mandatory CBSAs selected for participation in TEAM in accordance with § 512.515; or


(2) Makes a voluntary opt-in participation election to participate in TEAM in accordance with § 512.510 and is accepted to participate in TEAM by CMS.


*TEAM payment* means a payment made by CMS only to TEAM participants, or a payment adjustment made only to payments made to TEAM participants, under the terms of TEAM that is not applicable to any other providers or suppliers.


*TEAM reconciliation report* means the report prepared after each reconciliation that CMS provides to the TEAM participant notifying the TEAM participant of the outcome of the reconciliation.


*TGP or therapy group practice* means an entity that is enrolled in Medicare as a therapy group in private practice, includes at least one owner or employee who is a therapist in private practice, does not include an owner or employee who is a physician or nonphysician practitioner, and has a valid and active TIN.


*THA* means total hip arthroplasty.


*Therapist* means one of the following individuals as defined at § 484.4 of this chapter:


(1) Physical therapist.


(2) Occupational therapist.


(3) Speech-language pathologist.


*Therapist in private practice* means a therapist that—


(1) Complies with the special provisions for physical therapists in private practice in § 410.60(c) of this chapter;


(2) Complies with the special provisions for occupational therapists in private practice in § 410.59(c) of this chapter; or


(3) Complies with the special provisions for speech-language pathologists in private practice in § 410.62(c) of this chapter.


*TIN* stands for taxpayer identification number.


*TKA* stands for total knee arthroplasty.


*Track 1* means a participation track in TEAM in which any TEAM participant may participate for the first performance year and only TEAM participants who are a safety net hospital, as defined in § 512.505, may participate for performance years 1 through 3 of the model. TEAM participants in Track 1 are subject to all of the following:


(1) CQS adjustment percentage described in § 512.550(d)(1)(i).


(2) Limitations on gain described in § 512.550(e)(2).


(3) The calculation of the reconciliation payment described in § 512.550(g).


*Track 2* means a participation track in TEAM in which certain TEAM participants, as described in § 512.520(b)(4), may request to participate in for performance years 2 through 5. TEAM participants in Track 2 are subject to all of the following:


(1) CQS adjustment percentage described in § 512.550(d)(1)(ii).


(2) Limitations on gain and loss described in § 512.550(e)(2) and § 512.550(e)(3).


(3) The calculation of the reconciliation payment or repayment amount described in § 512.550(g).


*Track 3* means a participation track in TEAM in which a TEAM participant may participate in for performance years 1 through 5. TEAM participants in Track 3 are subject to all of the following:


(1) CQS adjustment percentage described in § 512.550(d)(1)(iii).


(2) Limitations on loss and gain described in § 512.550(e)(1) and in § 512.550(e)(2).


(3) The calculation of the reconciliation payment or repayment amount described in § 512.550(g).


*Underserved community* means a population sharing a particular characteristic, including geography, that has been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life.


*U.S. Territories* means American Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Marshall Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Puerto Rico, U.S. Minor Outlying Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


*Weighted scaled score* means the scaled quality measure score multiplied by its normalized weight.




