# ยง 511.303   Definitions.

Unless otherwise specified in this part, the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are applicable to this subpart. As used in this part:


*Accuracy* means the measure or degree of agreement between a data value or set of values and a source assumed to be correct.


*Availability* means the degree to which data values are present in the attributes (e.g., speed and travel time are attributes of traffic) that require them. Availability is typically described in terms of percentages or number of data values.


*Congestion* means the level at which transportation system performance is unacceptable due to excessive travel times and delays.


*Data quality* means the fitness of data for all purposes that require such data.


*Full construction activities* mean roadway construction or maintenance activities that affect travel conditions by closing and reopening roadways or lanes.


*Metropolitan areas* means the geographic areas designated as Metropolitan Statistical Areas by the Office of Management and Budget in the Executive Office of the President with a population exceeding 1,000,000 inhabitants.


*Real-time information program* means the program by which States gather and make available the data for traffic and travel conditions. Such means may involve State-only activity (including cooperative activities engaging multiple State agencies), State partnership with commercial providers of value-added information products, or other effective means that enable the State to satisfy the provisions for traffic and travel time conditions reporting stated in this section.


*Routes of significance* are non-Interstate roadways in metropolitan areas that are designated by States as meriting the collection and provision of information related to traffic and travel conditions. Factors to be considered in designating routes of significance include roadway safety (e.g., crash rate, routes affected by environmental events), public safety (e.g., routes used for evacuations), economic productivity, severity and frequency of congestion, and utility of the highway to serve as a diversion route for congestion locations. All public roadways including arterial highways, toll facilities and other facilities that apply end user pricing mechanisms shall be considered when designating routes of significance. In identifying these routes, States shall apply the collaborative practices and procedures that are used for compliance with 23 CFR part 940 and 23 CFR part 420.


*Statewide incident reporting system* means a statewide system for facilitating the real-time electronic reporting of surface transportation incidents to a central location for use in monitoring the event, providing accurate traveler information, and responding to the incident as appropriate. This definition is consistent with Public Law 109-59; 119 Stat. 1144, Section 1201(f).


*Timeliness* means the degree to which data values or a set of values are provided at the time required or specified.


*Traffic and travel conditions* means the characteristics that the traveling public experiences. Traffic and travel conditions include, but are not limited to, the following characteristics:


(1) Road or lane closures because of construction, traffic incidents, or other events;


(2) Roadway weather or other environmental conditions restricting or adversely affecting travel; and


(3) Travel times or speeds on limited access roadways in metropolitan areas that experience recurring congestion.


*Validity* means the degree to which data values fall within the respective domain of acceptable values.


*Value-added information products* means crafted products intended for commercial use, for sale to a customer base, or for other commercial enterprise purposes. These products may be derived from information gathered by States and may be created from other party or proprietary sources. These products may be created using the unique means of the value-added information provider.




