# ยง 237.20   Definitions.

Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this subpart:


(a) *Board* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.


(b) *Dodd-Frank Act* means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.


(c) *Foreign bank* has the same meaning as in ยง 211.21(n) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(n)).


(d) *Major security-based swap participant* has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(67) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(67)) and as implemented in rules and orders issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.


(e) *Major swap participant* has the same meaning as in section 1a(33) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(33)) and as implemented in rules and orders issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.


(f) *Security-based swap* has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(68) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)) and as implemented in rules and orders issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.


(g) *Security-based swap dealer* has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(71) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)) and as implemented in rules and orders issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission.


(h) *Swap dealer* has the same meaning as in section 1a(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)) and as implemented in rules and orders issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.


(i) *Swaps entity* means a person that is registered as a swap dealer, security-based swap dealer, major swap participant, or major security-based swap participant under the Commodity Exchange Act or Securities Exchange Act of 1934, other than an insured depository institution that is registered as a major swap participant or major security-based swap participant.




