# ยง 180.515   Depositions.

(a) *Notice.* Upon written notice to the witness and to all other parties, a party may take the testimony of a witness by deposition and may request the production of specified documents or materials by the witness at the deposition. Notice of the taking of a deposition shall be given not less than five days before the deposition is scheduled. The notice shall state: 


(1) The purpose and general scope of the deposition; 


(2) The time and place of the deposition; 


(3) The name and address of the person before whom the deposition is to be taken; 


(4) The name and address of the witness; and 


(5) A specification of the documents and materials that the witness is requested to produce. 


(b) *Deposition of an organization.* If the deposition of a public or private corporation, partnership, association, or governmental agency is sought, the organization so named shall designate one or more officers, directors or agents to testify on its behalf, and may set forth, for each person designated, the matters on which he/she will testify. 


(c) *Procedure at deposition.* Depositions may be taken before any disinterested person having power to administer oaths in the location where the deposition is to be taken. Each deponent shall be placed under oath or affirmation, and the other parties will have the right to cross-examine. The deponent may have counsel present during the deposition. The questions propounded and all answers and objections thereto shall be reduced to writing, read by or to and subscribed by the witness, and certified by the person before whom the deposition was taken. Non-intervening aggrieved persons may be present at depositions in which they are not the deponent. 


(d) *Motion to terminate or limit examination.* During the taking of a deposition, a party or the witness may request suspension of the deposition on the grounds of bad faith in the conduct of the examination, oppression of the witness or party, or improper questioning or conduct. Upon request for suspension, the deposition will be adjourned. The objecting party or witness must immediately move the ALJ for a ruling on the objection. The ALJ may then limit the scope or manner of taking the deposition. 


(e) *Waiver of deposing officer's disqualification.* Objection to taking a deposition because of the disqualification of the officer before whom it is taken is waived unless made before the taking of the deposition begins or as soon thereafter as the disqualification becomes known or could have been discovered with reasonable diligence. 


(f) *Payment of costs of deposition.* The party requesting the deposition shall bear all costs of the deposition. 




