# ยง 633.7   Annual payments.

(a) Person on the farm having an interest in the designated acreage, including tenants and sharecroppers, shall be eligible for an annual payment in the manner agreed upon by them as representing their respective contributions to compliance with the agreement. The State Conservationist shall not approve an agreement if it is determined that the proposed division of payment is not fair and equitable.


(b) The annual per acre payment rates for wetlands and for adjacent land shall be determined for each county by the State Conservationist, based on recommendations of the State Technical Committee.


(c) *Maximum payments.* In order to ensure that limited program funds are expended to maximize program benefits, the State Conservationist, in consultation with the State Technical Committee, may establish uniform maximum annual payment limits for agreements within a State or for geographic areas within a State.


(d) *Preliminary estimates of annual payments.* Upon request prior to filing an application for enrollment, a person may be apprised of the maximum annual payment rates.


(e)* Adjustment of annual rates.* (1) The State Conservationist, in consultation with the State Technical Committee, shall reexamine the payment rates with respect to each agreement at the beginning of the fifth year of any ten-year initial or renewal period and before the renewal expires.


(2) An adjustment in the payment rates shall be made for any initial or renewal period taking into consideration the current land rental rates and crop values in the area. No adjustment shall be made in a payment rate which will result in a reduction of an annual payment rate from the rate which is specified in the initial or renewal agreement.


(3) The rate or rates of annual payments may be increased if the program participant permits access by the general public to the designated acreage for hunting, trapping, fishing, and hiking, subject to applicable State and Federal regulations.




