# ยง 2422.8   What is required to file an intervention or cross-petition?

(a) *Cross-petitions.* A cross-petition is a petition that involves any employees in a unit covered by a pending representation petition. If you file a cross-petition, it must be filed under the requirements of this subpart.


(b) *Intervention requests and cross-petitions.* (1) You may file a request to intervene, along with any necessary showing of interest, with either the Regional Director or the Hearing Officer. This must be filed either in person, or by commercial delivery, first-class mail, certified mail or facsimile. You must file a request to intervene before the hearing opens, unless you show good cause for granting an extension. If no hearing is held, you must file a request to intervene before action is taken under ยง 2422.30.


(2) You may file a cross-petition, along with any necessary showing of interest, with either the Regional Director or the Hearing Officer. This must be filed electronically through the use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at *www.flra.gov* or, in person, by commercial delivery, first-class mail, certified mail or facsimile. Any cross-petition must be filed before the hearing opens, unless you show good cause for granting an extension. If no hearing is held, you must file a cross-petition before action is taken under ยง 2422.30.


(c) *Labor organization intervention requests.* Except for incumbent intervenors, a labor organization seeking to intervene must submit a statement that it has complied with 5 U.S.C. 7111(e) and one of the following:


(1) A showing of interest of ten percent (10%) or more of the employees in the unit covered by a petition seeking an election, with an alphabetical list of the names of the employees establishing the showing of interest; or


(2) A current or recently expired collective bargaining agreement covering any of the employees in the unit affected by issues raised in the petition; or


(3) Evidence that it is or was, before a reorganization, the recognized or certified exclusive representative of any of the employees affected by issues raised in the petition.


(d) *Incumbent.* An incumbent exclusive representative, without regard to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, will be considered a party in any representation proceeding raising issues that affect employees the incumbent represents, unless it serves the Regional Director with a written disclaimer of any representation interest in the claimed unit.


(e) *Employing agency.* An agency or activity will be considered a party if any of its employees are affected by issues raised in the petition.


(f) *Agency or activity intervention.* An agency or activity seeking to intervene in any representation proceeding must submit evidence that one or more employees of the agency or activity may be affected by issues raised in the petition.




