# § 500.1410   N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone.

(a) *Standard for residues.* No residues of *n*-methyl-2-pyrrolidone may be found in the uncooked edible tissues of cattle and swine as determined by methods in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the Food and Drug Administration's Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. It may be obtained from the sources indicated elsewhere in paragraph (b) of this section and at: *https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/center-veterinary-medicine/cvm-foia-electronic-reading-room.* It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fr.inspection@nara.gov,* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(1) Food and Drug Administration, Center for Veterinary Medicine, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855, 240-402-7002.


(i) “Method of Analysis: *N*-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,” September 26, 2011; the method of analysis for uncooked edible tissues of cattle.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) Merck Animal Health, 29160 Intervet Lane, Millsboro, DE 19966, 1-800-211-3573.


(i) “Determinative and Confirmatory Procedures for the Analysis of N-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) in Swine Liver Tissue using LC-MS/MS,” July 20, 2017; the method of analysis for uncooked edible tissues of swine.


(ii) [Reserved]




(c) *Related conditions of use.* See §§ 522.814, 522.955, and 522.1660a of this chapter.



---

[N] [87 FR 10966, Feb. 28, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 55562, Aug. 16, 2023]




