# § 581.102   Definitions.

In this part: (a) *The executive branch of the Government of the United States* means all “governmental entities” as defined in this section, including therein the territories and possessions of the United States, the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, any wholly owned Federal corporation created by an Act of Congress, and the government of the District of Columbia. 


(b) *Governmental entity* means each department, both civilian and military, agency, independent establishment, or instrumentality of the executive branch, including the United States Postal Service, the Postal Rate Commission, any wholly owned Federal corporation created by an Act of Congress, any office, commission, bureau, or other administrative subdivision or creature of the executive branch, and the governments of the District of Columbia and of the territories and possessions of the United States.


(c) *Private person* means a person who does not have sovereign or other special immunity or privilege which causes that person not be be subject to legal process.


(d) *Child support* means the amounts required to be paid for the support and maintenance of a child, including a child who has attained the age of majority under the law of the issuing State, or a child and the parent with whom the child is living, which provides for monetary support, health care, arrearages or reimbursement, and which may include other related costs and fees, interest and penalties, income withholding, attorney's fees, and other relief.


(e) *Alimony* means periodic payments of funds for the support and maintenance of the spouse (or former spouse) of the individual, and (subject to and in accordance with State law) includes separate maintenance, alimony pendente lite, maintenance, and spousal support, and includes attorney's fees, interest, and court costs when and to the extent that the same are expressly made recoverable as such pursuant to a decree, order, or judgment issued in accordance with applicable State law by a court of competent jurisdiction. *Alimony* does not include child support or any payment or transfer of property or its value by an individual to the spouse or a former spouse of the individual in compliance with any community property settlement, equitable distribution of property, or other division of property between spouses or former spouses.


(f) *Legal process* means any writ, order, summons, notice to withhold income pursuant to subsection (a)(1) or (b) of section 666 of title 42, United States Code, or other similar process in the nature of garnishment, which may include an attachment, writ of execution, court ordered wage assignment, or in the case where a child support order is submitted by a child support agency using the standard Order/Notice to withhold income for child support as required by section 324 of Pub. L. 104-193 and which—


(1) Is issued by:


(i) A court of competent jurisdiction, including Indian tribal courts, within any State, territory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia;


(ii) A court of competent jurisdiction in any foreign country with which the United States has entered into an agreement that requires the United States to honor such process; or


(iii) An authorized official pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or pursuant to State or local law; or


(iv) A State agency authorized to issue income withholding notices pursuant to State or local law or pursuant to the requirements of section 666(b) to title 42 of the United States Code; and


(2) Is directed to, and the purpose of which is to compel, a governmental entity, to make a payment from moneys otherwise payable to an individual, to another party to satisfy a legal obligation of the individual to provide child support, alimony or both.


(g) *Legal obligation* means an obligation to pay alimony and/or child support that is enforceable under appropriate State or local law. A legal obligation may include current as well as past due alimony and/or child support debts depending on the law in the jurisdiction from which the legal process was issued.


(h) *Obligor* means an individual having a legal obligation to pay alimony and/or child support.


(i) *Remuneration for employment* means compensation paid or payable for personal services, whether such compensation is denominated as wages, salary, commission, bonus, pay, or otherwise, and includes, but is not limited to, those items set forth in § 581.103.


(j) *Party* means the person or persons to whom alimony and/or child support payments should be made, or, in the case of an agency established by State or local law, the agency which has been assigned, by law or by agreement, the right to receive such payment or payments.


(k) *Individual obligee* means any individual or entity other than a State agency authorized to issue income withholding notices pursuant to the requirements of section 666(b) to title 42 of the United States Code.


(l) *Phased retirement status* has the same meaning given that term in § 838.103 of this chapter; and


(m) *Phased retirement annuity* has the same meaning given that term in § 838.103 of this chapter.



---

[N] [45 FR 85667, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 26279, June 7, 1983; 55 FR 1355, Jan. 16, 1990; 63 FR 14757, Mar. 26, 1998; 79 FR 46618, Aug. 8, 2014]




