# § 721.11004   Anilino substituted bis-triazinyl derivative of 4,4′-diaminostilbene-2,2′-disulfonic acid, mixed amine sodium salt (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as anilino substituted bis-triazinyl derivative of 4,4′-diaminostilbene-2,2′-disulfonic acid, mixed amine sodium salt (PMN P-16-284) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to import or use the substance other than in a solution. It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as an optical brightener for textiles, paper, and paperboard. It is a significant new use to use the substance for non-industrial use or sell the substance for “consumer use” or for “commercial uses” (as the term is defined at § 721.3) when the “saleable goods or service” could introduce the substance into a “consumer” setting (as that term is defined in § 721.3). It is a significant new use to use the substance for an application method that generates a dust, mist, or aerosol unless the application method occurs in an enclosed process.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 48650, Oct. 19, 2017]




