# § 305.25   Television labeling.

(a) *Layout.* All energy labels for televisions shall use one of three shapes: a vertical rectangle, a horizontal rectangle, and a triangle as detailed in Prototype Labels in appendix L. All label size, positioning, spacing, type sizes, positioning of headline, copy, and line widths must be consistent with the prototype and sample labels in appendix L. The minimum label size for the vertical rectangle label is 1.5″ × 5.5″. The minimum size for the horizontal rectangle label is 1.5″ × 5.23″. The minimum size for the triangle label is 4.5″ × 4.5″ (right angle sides).


(b) *Type style and setting.* The Arial series typeface or equivalent shall be used exclusively on the label. Prototype Labels in appendix L contain specific directions for type style and setting and indicate the specific sizes, leading, faces, positioning, and spacing to be used. No hyphenations should be used in setting headline or copy text.


(c) *Colors.* The basic colors of all labels and icons covered by this section shall be process yellow or equivalent and process black. The label shall be printed full bleed process yellow. All type and graphics shall be printed process black.


(d) *Label types.* Except as provided in paragraph (i), the labels must be affixed to the product in the form of either an adhesive label, cling label, or alternative label as follows:


(1) *Adhesive label.* All adhesive labels shall be applied so they can be easily removed without the use of tools or liquids, other than water, but shall be applied with an adhesive with an adhesion capacity sufficient to prevent their dislodgment during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to the retailer and consumer. The paper stock for pressure-sensitive or other adhesive labels shall have a basic weight of not less than 58 pounds per 500 sheets (25 × 38) or equivalent, exclusive of the release liner and adhesive. A minimum peel adhesion capacity for the adhesive of 12 ounces per square inch is suggested, but not required if the adhesive can otherwise meet the above standard.


(2) *Cling label.* Labels may be affixed, using the screen's static charge, to the product in the form of a cling label. The cling label shall be affixed in a manner that prevents dislodgment during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to the retailer and consumer.


(3) *Alternative label.* In lieu of an adhesive or cling label, labels may be affixed using an alternative method to secure the label to the product as long as the method will prevent dislodgment during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to the retailer and consumer. The label may not be affixed using a hang tag as described in § 305.13(e)(2). The label shall consist of paper stock having a basic weight of not less than 110 pounds per 500 sheets (25 
1/2″ × 30 
1/2″) or other material of equivalent durability.


(e) *Placement*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (i), all labels must be clear and conspicuous to consumers viewing the television screen from the front.


(2) *Adhesive label.* The adhesive label shall be in the shape of a horizontal or vertical rectangle and shall be located on the bezel in the bottom right-hand corner of the television. The horizontal rectangular label shall be located on the far right of the bottom bezel and the vertical rectangular label shall be located on the bottom of the right-hand bezel. Another location on the bezel may be used if the television's configuration prevents such placement.


(3) *Cling label.* The cling label shall be in the shape of a triangle and shall be located in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen.


(4) *Alternative label.* The alternative label shall be in the shape of either a horizontal rectangle, vertical rectangle, or triangle. It shall be visible from the front of the television and located in the bottom right-hand corner of the television. Another prominent location visible from the front of the television may be used if the television's configuration or the mechanism to secure the alternative label prevents such placement.


(f) *Label content.* The television label shall contain the following information:


(1) Headlines, texts, and statements as illustrated in the prototype and sample labels in appendix L to this part.


(2) Name of manufacturer or private labeler. This requirement shall, in the case of a corporation, be satisfied only by the actual corporate name, which may be preceded or followed by the name of a particular division of the corporation. In the case of an individual, partnership, or association, the name under which the business is conducted shall be used.


(3) Model number(s) as designated by the manufacturer or private labeler.


(4) Estimated annual energy costs determined in accordance with this part, and based on a usage rate of 5 hours in on mode and 19 hours in standby (sleep) mode per day, and an electricity cost rate of 16 cents per kWh.




(5) The applicable ranges of comparability for estimated annual energy costs based on the labeled product's diagonal screen size, according to the following table:


(6) Placement of the labeled product on the scale proportionate to the lowest and highest estimated annual energy costs as illustrated in Prototype and Sample Labels in appendix L. When the estimated annual energy cost of a given television model falls outside the limits of the current range for that product, the manufacturer shall place the product at the end of the range closest to the model's energy cost.


(7) The model's estimated annual energy consumption as determined in accordance with this part and based on a usage rate of 5 hours in on mode and 19 hours in sleep (standby) mode per day.


(8) No marks or information other than that specified in this part shall appear on or directly adjoining this label except that:


(i) A manufacturer may include a part or publication number identification on the label, as long as it appears in the lower right-hand corner of the label and is set in 6-point type or smaller.


(ii) The manufacturer may include the ENERGY STAR logo on the label as illustrated in Sample Labels in appendix L. The logo must be 0.375″ wide. Only manufacturers that have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Energy or the Environmental Protection Agency covering the televisions to be labeled may add the ENERGY STAR logo to those labels.


(g) *Distribution of labels.* Consistent with § 305.9 of this part, for each covered television that a manufacturer distributes in commerce which is required by this part to bear an EnergyGuide label, the manufacturer must make a copy of the label available on a publicly accessible Web site in a manner that allows catalog sellers to hyperlink to the label or download it for use in Web sites or paper catalogs. The label for each specific model must remain on the Web site for six months after production of the model ceases.



---

[N] [76 FR 1050, Jan. 6, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2209, Jan. 10, 2013; 78 FR 43982, July 23, 2013; 79 FR 19467, Apr. 9, 2014; 80 FR 16260, Mar. 27, 2015. Redesignated at 84 FR 58029, Oct. 30, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 58037, Oct. 30, 2019; 89 FR 7268, Feb. 2, 2024]








