# ยง 50.113   Application of 

An insurer shall apply the PRLP to determine the *pro rata* share of each insured loss to be paid by the insurer on all insured losses in the absence of an agreement on a complete and final settlement as evidenced by a signed settlement agreement or other means reviewable by a third party as of the effective date established by Treasury. Payments based on the application of the PRLP and determination of the *pro rata* share satisfy the insurer's liability for payment under the Program. Application of the PRLP and the determination of the *pro rata* share are the exclusive means for calculating the amount of insured losses for Program purposes. The *pro rata* share is subject to the following:


(a) The *pro rata* share is determined based on the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.


(b) *All policies.* If partial payments have already been made as of the effective date of the PRLP, then the *pro rata* share for that loss is the greater of the amount already paid as of the effective date of the PRLP or the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.


(c) *Certain workers' compensation insurance policies.* If an insurer's payments under a workers' compensation policy cumulatively exceed the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid because such estimated or actual final settlement amount is reduced from a previous estimate, then the insurer may request a review and adjustment by Treasury in the calculation of the Federal share of compensation. In requesting such a review, the insurer must submit information to supplement its Certification of Loss demonstrating a reasonable estimate invalidated by unexpected conditions differing from prior assumptions including, but not limited to, an explanation and the basis for the prior assumptions.


(d) If an insurer has not yet made payments in excess of its insurer deductible, the rules in this paragraph apply.


(1) If the insurer estimates that it will exceed its insurer deductible making payments based on the application of the PRLP to its insured losses, then the insurer shall apply the PRLP as of the effective date specified in ยง 50.112(b).


(2)(i) If the insurer estimates that it will not exceed its insurer deductible making payments based on the application of the PRLP to its insured losses, then the insurer may make payments on the same basis as prior to the effective date of the PRLP. The insurer may also make payments on the basis of applying some other *pro rata* amount it determines that is greater than the PRLP, where the insurer estimates that application of such other *pro rata* amount will result in it not exceeding its insurer deductible. The insurer remains liable for losses in accordance with ยง 50.115(c).


(ii) If an insurer estimates that it will not exceed its insurer deductible and has made payments on the basis provided in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, but thereafter reaches its insurer deductible, then the insurer shall apply the PRLP to any remaining insured losses. When such an insurer submits a claim for the Federal share of compensation, the amount of the insurer's losses will be deemed to be the amount it would have paid if it had applied the PRLP as of the effective date, and the Federal share of compensation will be calculated on that amount. However, an insurer may request an exception if it can demonstrate that its estimate was invalidated as a result of insured losses from a subsequent act of terrorism.




