# § 40.33   What training requirements must a collector meet for urine collection?

To be permitted to act as a urine collector in the DOT drug testing program, you must meet each of the requirements of this section: 


(a) *Basic information.* You must be knowledgeable about this part, the current “DOT Urine Specimen Collection Procedures Guidelines,” and DOT agency regulations applicable to the employers for whom you perform collections. DOT agency regulations, the DOT Urine Specimen Collection Procedures Guidelines, and other materials are available from ODAPC (Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington DC, 20590, 202-366-3784, or on the ODAPC Web site (*https://www.transportation.gov/odapc*). You must keep current on any changes to these materials. You must subscribe to the ODAPC list-serve at: *https://www.transportation.gov/odapc/get-odapc-email-updates.*

(b) *Qualification training.* You must receive qualification training meeting the requirements of this paragraph. Qualification training must provide instruction on the following subjects: 


(1) All steps necessary to complete a collection correctly and the proper completion and transmission of the CCF; 


(2) “Problem” collections (*e.g.,* situations like “shy bladder” and attempts to tamper with a specimen); 


(3) Fatal flaws, correctable flaws, and how to correct problems in collections; and 


(4) The collector's responsibility for maintaining the integrity of the collection process, ensuring the privacy of employees being tested, ensuring the security of the specimen, and avoiding conduct or statements that could be viewed as offensive or inappropriate; 


(c) *Initial Proficiency Demonstration.* Following your completion of qualification training under paragraph (b) of this section, you must demonstrate proficiency in collections under this part by completing five consecutive error-free mock collections. 


(1) The five mock collections must include two uneventful collection scenarios, one insufficient quantity of urine scenario, one temperature out of range scenario, and one scenario in which the employee refuses to sign the CCF and initial the specimen bottle tamper-evident seal. 


(2) Another person must monitor and evaluate your performance, in person or by a means that provides real-time observation and interaction between the instructor and trainee, and attest in writing that the mock collections are “error-free.” This person must be a qualified urine collector who has demonstrated necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities by—


(i) Regularly conducting DOT urine drug test collections for a period of at least one year;


(ii) Conducting urine collector training under this part for at least one year; or


(iii) Successfully completing a urine “train the trainer” course. 


(d) You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section before you begin to perform collector functions.


(e) *Refresher training.* No less frequently than every five years from the date on which you satisfactorily complete the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, you must complete refresher training that meets all the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(f) *Error correction training.* If you make a mistake in the collection process that causes a test to be cancelled (*i.e.,* a fatal or uncorrected flaw), you must undergo error correction training. This training must occur within 30 days of the date you are notified of the error that led to the need for retraining. Errors that cause cancellation but occur outside the collection process (*e.g.,* when a specimen is crushed or otherwise damaged during the transportation process, or is lost in transit), the cancellation would not be the result of an error by the collector during the collection process and does not require the collector to be retrained. 


(1) Error correction training must be provided and your proficiency documented in writing by a person who meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(2) Error correction training is required to cover only the subject matter area(s) in which the error that caused the test to be cancelled occurred. 


(3) As part of the error correction training, you must demonstrate your proficiency in the collection procedures of this part by completing three consecutive error-free mock collections. The mock collections must include one uneventful scenario and two scenarios related to the area(s) in which your error(s) occurred. The person providing the training must monitor and evaluate your performance and attest in writing that the mock collections were “error-free.” 


(g) *Documentation.* You must maintain documentation showing that you currently meet all requirements of this section. You must provide this documentation on request to DOT agency representatives and to employers and C/TPAs who are using or negotiating to use your services. 



---

[N] [65 FR 79526, Dec. 19, 2000; 66 FR 3885, Jan. 17, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 41950, Aug. 9, 2001; 82 FR 52244, Nov. 13, 2017; 88 FR 27638, May 2, 2023; 89 FR 87798, Nov. 5, 2024]






