# § 758.5   Conformity of documents and unloading of items.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this section is to prevent items licensed for export from being diverted while in transit or thereafter. It also sets forth the duties of the parties when the items are unloaded in a country other than that of the ultimate consignee or end user as stated on the export license.


(b) *Conformity of documents.* When a license is issued by BIS, the information entered on related export control documents (e.g., Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing, bill of lading or air waybill) must be consistent with the license.


(c) *Issuance of the bill of lading or air waybill*—(1) *Ports in the country of the ultimate consignee or end user.* No person may issue a bill of lading or air waybill that provides for delivery of licensed items to any foreign port located outside the country of an intermediate consignee, ultimate consignee, or end user named on the BIS license and in the EEI filing.


(2) *Optional ports of unloading*—(i) *Licensed items.* No person may issue a bill of lading or air waybill that provides for delivery of licensed items to optional ports of unloading unless all the optional ports are within the country of ultimate destination or are included on the BIS license and in the EEI filing.


(ii) *Unlicensed items.* For shipments of items that do not require a license, the exporter may designate optional ports of unloading in EEI filing and on other export control documents, so long as the optional ports are in countries to which the items could also have been exported without a license.


(d) *Delivery of items.* No person may deliver items to any country other than the country of an intermediate consignee, ultimate consignee, or end user named on the BIS license and EEI filing without prior written authorization from BIS, except for reasons beyond the control of the carrier (such as acts of God, perils of the sea, damage to the carrier, strikes, war, political disturbances or insurrection).


(e) *Procedures for unscheduled unloading*—(1) *Unloading in country where no license is required.* When items are unloaded in a country to which the items could be exported without a license issued by BIS, no notification to BIS is required. However, any persons disposing of the items must continue to comply with the terms and conditions of any License Exception, and with any other relevant provisions of the EAR. 


(2) *Unloading in a country where a license is required.* (i) When items are unloaded in a country to which the items would require a BIS license, no person may effect delivery or entry of the items into the commerce of the country where unloaded without prior written approval from BIS. The carrier, in ensuring that the items do not enter the commerce of the country, may have to place the items in custody, or under bond or other guaranty. In addition, the carrier must inform the exporter and BIS of the unscheduled unloading in a time frame that will enable the exporter to submit its report within 10 days from the date of unscheduled unloading. The exporter must within 10 days of the unscheduled unloading report the facts to and request authorization for disposition from BIS using either: mail, fax, or E-mail. The report to BIS must include:


(A) A copy of the manifest of the diverted cargo; 


(B) Identification of the place of unloading; 


(C) Statement that explains why the unloading was necessary; and 


(D) A proposal for disposition of the items and a request for authorization for such disposition from BIS. 


(ii) *Contact information.* U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, Office of Exporter Services, Room 2099B, 14th and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230; phone number 202-482-0436; facsimile number 202-482-3322; and E-Mail address: *rpd2@bis.doc.gov.*


---

[N] [65 FR 42573, July 10, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 3946, Jan. 29, 2007; 78 FR 13470, Feb. 28, 2013; 78 FR 22726, Apr. 16, 2013; 79 FR 4619, Jan. 29, 2014]




