# § 148.318   Grant application review.

(a) *Executive Order 12372.* This grant program is not listed by the Secretary under § 100.3 of this title, and therefore the grant program is not subject to review by States under part 100 of this title, which implements Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs” (see part 100 of this title).


(b) *Review team.* A team consisting of staff from CMS and the Department of Health and Human Services will review all applications. The team will meet as necessary on an ongoing basis as applications are received. 


(c) *Eligibility criteria.* To be eligible for a grant, a State must submit sufficient documentation that its high risk pool meets the eligibility requirements described in § 148.310. A State must include sufficient documentation of the losses incurred in the operation of the qualified high risk pool in the period for when it is applying. 


(d) *Review criteria.* If the review team determines that a State meets the eligibility requirements described in § 148.310, the review team will use the following additional criteria in reviewing the applications:


(1) *Documentation of expenses incurred during operation of the qualified high risk pool.* The losses and expenses incurred in the operation of a State's pool are sufficiently documented.


(2) *Funding mechanism.* The State has outlined funding sources, such as assessments and State general revenues, which can cover the projected costs and are reasonably designed to ensure continued funding of losses a State incurs in connection with the operation of the qualified high risk pool after each fiscal year for which it is applying for grant funds.



---

[N] [68 FR 23414, May 2, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 41238, July 27, 2007; 73 FR 22286, Apr. 25, 2008]




