# § 110.224   San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and connecting waters, CA.

(a) *General regulations.* (1) Within the navigable waters of San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, New York Slough, San Joaquin River Deep Water Channel, the Stockton Turning Basin, the Sacramento River Deep Water Ship Channel between Suisun Bay and the east end of the West Sacramento Turning Basin, and connecting waters, anchoring is prohibited outside of designated anchorages except when required for safety or with the written permission of the Captain of the Port. Each vessel anchoring outside an established anchorage area shall immediately notify the Captain of the Port of her position and reason for anchoring. 


(2) No vessel may permanently moor in areas adjacent to the San Joaquin River Deep Water Channel except with the written permission of the Captain of the Port. 


(3) Each vessel anchoring for safety reasons in the San Joaquin River Deep Water Channel, the Sacramento River Deep Water Ship Channel, or the Stockton or West Sacramento Turning Basins shall be positioned as near to the edge of the channel or turning basin as possible so as not to interfere with navigation, or obstruct the approach to any pier, wharf, slip, or boat harbor and shall move as soon as the reason for anchoring no longer exists or when notified to move by the Captain of the Port. 


(4) No vessel may anchor within a tunnel, cable, or pipeline area shown on a Government chart. 


(5) No vessel may moor, anchor, or tie up to any pier, wharf, or other vessel in such a manner as to extend into an adjacent channel or fairway. 


(6) No vessel in such a condition that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or anchorage of other vessels may occupy an anchorage, except when unforeseen circumstances create conditions of imminent peril to personnel and then only for such period as may be authorized by the Captain of the Port. 


(7) Each vessel carrying explosives shall only anchor in an explosives anchorage except as authorized by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(17) of this section. 


(8) No vessel other than a vessel under Federal supervision may go alongside or in any manner moor to any Government-owned vessel, mooring buoy, or pontoon boom, their anchor cables, or any of their appendages. No vessel other than a vessel under Federal supervision may obstruct or interfere in any manner with the mooring, unmooring, or servicing of vessels owned by the United States. 


(9) The Captain of the Port may require any vessel in a designated anchorage area to moor with two or more anchors.


(10) Each vessel that will not have sufficient personnel on board to weigh anchor at any time shall anchor with two anchors with mooring swivel, unless otherwise authorized by the Captain of the Port. 


(11) Deep-draft vessels shall take precedence over vessels of lighter draft in the deeper portions of all anchorages. Light-draft barges and vessels shall anchor away from the deeper portions of the anchorage so as not to interfere with the anchoring of deep-draft vessels. Should circumstances warrant, the Captain of the Port may require lighter draft vessels to move to provide safe anchorage, particularly in Anchorages 7 and 9, for deep-draft vessels. 


(12) Barges towed in tandem to any anchorage shall nest together when anchoring. 


(13) Each vessel that is notified by the Captain of the Port or his authorized representative to shift her position shall promptly shift her position. 


(14) No person may use these anchorages for any purpose other than the purpose stated in these anchorage regulations. 


(15) Where these regulations require that a vessel notify the Captain of the Port, the operator of the vessel shall transmit such report to the San Francisco Vessel Traffic Service. 


(16) Nothing in this section may be construed as relieving any vessel or the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of law for obstructing or interfering with range lights or for not complying with the laws relating to lights, day signals, and fog signals and other navigation laws and regulations. 


(17) The District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, may issue written permission for anchoring a single barge carrying explosives in quantities considered by the District Engineer as safe and necessary in the vicinity of work being done directly under the District Engineer supervision or under a Department of the Army permit. When issuing such a permit, the District Engineer shall prescribe the conditions under which the explosives must be stored and handled and shall furnish a copy of the permit and a copy of the rules and regulations for storing and handling to the Captain of the Port. 


(18) No vessel may anchor in a “dead ship” status (propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) at any anchorage other than in Anchorage 9 as specified in Table 110.224(D)(1) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.


(b) *Naval anchorages.* In addition to the general regulations in paragraph (a) of this section, the following regulations apply to each naval anchorage described in this section. 


(1) Naval anchorages are intended for public vessels of the United States, but may be used by other vessels when not required for use by public vessels. 


(2) Other vessels using a naval anchorage shall promptly notify the Captain of the Port upon anchoring and upon departure and shall be prepared to move within one hour upon notice should the anchorage be required for public vessels.


(c) *Explosive anchorages.* In addition to the general regulations in paragraph (a) of this section, the following regulations apply to each explosives anchorage described in this section. 


(1) Explosives anchorages and, where established, surrounding forbidden anchorage zones, are temporarily activated as needed by the Captain of the Port. When not activated, explosives anchorages and surrounding forbidden anchorage zones become part of the general anchorage which encompasses them or, if not located within the boundaries of a general anchorage, become available for general navigation. 


(2) Notice of activation and deactivation of explosives anchorages will be disseminated by Coast Guard Broadcast Notice to Mariners. 


(3) Each vessel which anchors in an explosives anchorage or surrounding forbidden anchorage zone while such anchorage is not activated shall be prepared to move within one hour if the anchorage is activated. 


(4) Unless otherwise authorized by the Captain of the Port: 


(i) No vessel may anchor in an activated explosives anchorage except vessels loaded with, loading, or unloading explosives. 


(ii) No vessel may enter or remain in an activated explosives anchorage except (A) vessels loaded with, loading or unloading explosives, (B) lighters or barges delivering cargo to or from such vessels, or (C) a tug authorized by paragraph (c)(7)(iii) of this section. 


(iii) No vessel carrying explosives or on which explosives are to be loaded may enter or remain in an activated explosives anchorage without written permission from the Captain of the Port. Such a permit must be obtained before entering the anchorage and may be revoked at any time. 


(iv) No vessel may anchor in the forbidden anchorage zone surrounding an activated explosives anchorage. 


(5) Each vessel loaded with, loading, or unloading explosives, while within an explosives anchorage, shall display by day at her masthead, or at least 10 feet above the upper deck if the vessel has no mast, a red flag at least 16 square feet in area. 


(6) Each passing vessel shall reduce speed as necessary so as to insure that its wake does not interfere with cargo transfer operations aboard any vessel displaying a red flag in an explosives anchorage. 


(7) The Captain of the Port may: 


(i) Issue permission to any vessel carrying flammable solids, oxidizing materials, corrosive liquids, flammable liquids, compressed gases, or poisonous substances to occupy a berth in an activated explosives anchorage. Such a permit must be obtained before entering the anchorage and may be revoked at any time. 


(ii) Require any person having business on board a vessel which is loaded with, loading, or unloading explosives to have a document that is acceptable to the Coast Guard for identification purposes and to show that document to the Captain of the Port. 


(iii) Require a non-self-propelled vessel, or a self-propelled vessel that is unable to maneuver under its own power, that occupies an activated explosives anchorage to be attended by a tug. 


(d) *Anchorage grounds.* (1) Table 110.224(d)(1) lists anchorage grounds, identifies the purpose of each anchorage, and contains specific regulations applicable to certain anchorages. 


(2) The geographic boundaries of each anchorage are contained in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Boundaries*—(1) *Anchorage No. 4.* Bounded by the west shore of San Francisco Bay and the following lines: Beginning on the shore southwest of Point San Quentin at latitude 37°56′28″ N., longitude 122°28′54″ W.; thence east-southeasterly to latitude 37°55′55″ N., longitude 122°26′49″ W., thence southwesterly to latitude 37°54′13″ N., longitude 122°27′24″ W., thence southeasterly to the shore of Tiburon Peninsula at Point Chauncey at latitude 37°53′40.5″ N., longitude 122°26′55″ W. When Explosives Anchorage No. 13 is activated by the Captain of the Port, it and the forbidden anchorage zone surrounding it are excluded from Anchorage No. 4.


(2) *Anchorage No. 5, Southampton Shoal.* In San Francisco Bay at Southampton Shoal bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates: 


(3) *Anchorage No. 6.* Bounded by the east shore of San Francisco Bay and the following lines: Beginning at the shore of the southernmost extremity of Point Isabel at latitude 37°53′46″ N., longitude 122°19′19″ W.; thence westerly along the north shore of Brooks Island to the jetty extending westerly therefrom; thence westerly along the jetty to its bayward end at latitude 37°54′13″ N., longitude 122°23′27″ W.; thence south-southeasterly to latitude 37°49′53″ N.; longitude 122°21′39″ W.; thence southeasterly to latitude 37°49′32.5″ N., longitude 122°21′20.5″ W.; thence easterly to latitude 37°49′34″ N., longitude 122°20′13″ W.; thence east-southeasterly to latitude 37°49′30″ N., longitude 122°19′45.5″ W.; thence east-northeasterly to the shore at Emeryville at latitude 37°50′04″ N., longitude 122°17′41″ W.; excluding from this area, however, the channel to Berkeley Marina delineated by lines joining the following points:


(4) *Anchorage No. 7, Treasure Island.* In San Francisco Bay at Treasure Island bounded a line connecting the following coordinates:


(5) *Anchorage No. 8.* In San Francisco Bay bounded by the west shore of Alameda Island and the following lines: Beginning at 37°47′52″ N, 122°19′58″ W; thence west-northwesterly to 37°48′02.5″ N 122°21′01.5″ W; thence west-southwesterly to 37°47′51.5″ N, 122°21′40″ W; thence south-southwesterly to 37°47′35.5″ N, 122°21′50″ W; thence south-southeasterly to 37°46′40″ N, 122°21′23″ W; thence easterly to 37°46′36.5″ N, 122°19′52″ W; thence northerly to shore at 37°46′53″ N, 122°19′53.5″ W (NAD 83). 


(6) *Anchorage No. 8A.* In San Francisco Bay bounded by the following lines: Beginning at latitude 37°47′35″ N and longitude 122°21′50″ W; thence south-southwesterly to latitude 37°47′07″ N and longitude 122°22′09″ W; thence south-southeasterly to latitude 37°46′30″ N and longitude 122°21′57″ W; thence easterly along the northern border of Anchorage 9 to latitude 37°46′26″ N and longitude 122°20′42″ W; thence northerly to latitude 37°46′38″ N and longitude 122°20′42″ W; thence westerly along the southern border of Anchorage 8 to latitude 37°46′41″ N and longitude 122°21′23″ W; thence northwesterly along the southwestern border of Anchorage 8 back to the beginning point (NAD 83).


(7) *Anchorage No. 9.* In San Francisco Bay bounded on the east by the eastern shore of San Francisco Bay and on the north by the southern shore of Alameda Island and a line beginning at 37°46′21.5″ N, 122°19′07″ W; thence westerly to 37°46′30″ N, 122°21′56″ W; thence south-southeasterly to 37°41′45″ N, 122°20′22″ W (San Bruno Channel Light 1); thence south-southeasterly to 37°38′38.5″ N, 122°18′48.5″ W (San Bruno Channel Light 5); thence southeasterly to 37°36′05″ N, 122°14′18″ W; thence northeasterly to shore at 37°37′38.5″ N, 122°09′06.5″ W (NAD 83). 


(8) *Anchorage No. 10.* In San Francisco Bay bounded by the east shore of Sausalito and the following lines: Beginning on the shore of Sausalito at latitude 37°51′20″ N., longitude 122°28′38″ W.; thence southeasterly to latitude 37°50′57.5″ N., longitude 122°27′57″ W.; thence southwesterly to the shore of Sausalito at latitude 37°50′36″ N., longitude 122°28′34″ W. 


(9) *Anchorage No. 12.* In San Francisco Bay east of the city of San Francisco a circular area having a radius of 500 yards centered at latitude 37°44′32.5″ N., longitude 122°20′27.5″ W. A 667-yard-wide forbidden anchorage zone surrounds this anchorage. 


(10) *Anchorage No. 13.* In San Francisco Bay east of the Tiburon Peninsula a circular area having a radius of 333 yards centered at latitude 37°55′26″ N., longitude 122°27′27″ W. A 667-yard-wide forbidden anchorage zone surrounds this anchorage except where such zone would extend beyond the limits of Anchorage No. 4.


(11) *Anchorage No. 14.* In San Francisco Bay east of Hunters Point an area 1,000 yards wide and 2,760 yards long, the end boundaries of which are semicircles, with a radii of 500 yards and center, respectively at latitude 37°42′37″ N., longitude 122°19′48″ W. and latitude 37°43′29″ N., longitude 122°19′48″ W. (NAD 83); and the side boundaries of which are parallel tangents joining the semicircles. A forbidden anchorage zone extends 667 yards out from the perimeter on each side.


(12) *Anchorage No. 18.* In San Pablo Bay bounded by the west shore of San Pablo Bay and the following lines: Beginning at the shore at Point San Pedro at latitude 37°59′16″ N., longitude 122°26′47″ W.; thence easterly to latitude 37°59′16″ N., longitude 122°26′26″ W.; thence northerly to latitude 38°03′46″ N., longitude 122°25′52.5″ W.; thence northwesterly to the shore south of the entrance to Novato Creek at latitude 38°05′13.5″ N., longitude 122°29′04″ W.; excluding from this area, however, the channel to Hamilton Field and the extension of this channel easterly to the boundary of the anchorage, and the pipeline area therein. 


(13) *Anchorage No. 19.* In San Pablo Bay bounded by the northeast shore of San Pablo Bay and the following lines: Beginning at the shore of Tubbs Island at latitude 38°07′39″ N., longitude 122°25′18″ W.; thence southerly to latitude 38°00′36″ N., longitude 122°25′20″ W.; thence northeasterly to latitude 38°03′13″ N., longitude 122°19′46″ W.; thence east-northeasterly to latitude 38°03′37″ N., longitude 122°17′13″ W.; thence northerly to the long dike extending southwesterly from Mare Island at latitude 38°03′52.5″ N., longitude 122°17′10″ W.; thence along the long dike to the shore at Mare Island. 


(14) *Anchorage No. 20.* In San Pablo Bay bounded by the southeast shore of San Pablo Bay and the following lines: Beginning at the northeast corner of Parr Terminal No. 4 at Point San Pablo at latitude 37°57′59″ N., longitude 122°25′35″ W.; thence northeasterly to latitude 38°01′27.5″ N., longitude 122°21′33″ W.; thence east-northeasterly to the Union Oil Co. pier at Oleum at latitude 38°03′18″ N., longitude 122°15′37″ W.; and thence along this pier to the shore. 


(15) *Anchorage No. 21.* In San Pablo Bay south of Mare Island a rectangular area beginning at latitude 38°03′56″ N., longitude 122°15′56″ W.; thence easterly to latitude 38°04′02″ N., longitude 122°15′20″ W.; thence southerly to latitude 38°03′48″ N., longitude 122°15′16″ W.; thence westerly to latitude 38°03′42″ N., longitude 122°15′52″ W.; thence northerly to the point of beginning. 


(16) *Anchorage No. 22, Carquinez Strait.* In Carquinez Strait an area bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates:


(17) *Anchorage No. 23, Benicia.* In Carquinez Strait an area bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates:


(18) *Anchorage No. 24.* Bounded by the north shore of Carquinez Strait and the following points: Beginning on the shore at Dillon Point at 38°03′44″ N, 122°11′34″ W; thence southeasterly to 38°03′21″ N, 122°10′43″ W; thence southeasterly to 38°02′36″ N, 122°10′03″ W (Carquinez Strait Light 23); thence to the shore at the Benicia City Wharf at 38°02′40″ N, 122°09′55″ W (NAD 83).


(19) *Anchorage No. 26.* On the west side of Suisun Bay, adjacent to and northeast of the city of Benicia within the following boundaries:Beginning on the shore northeast of Army Point at latitude 38°02′54″ N., longitude 122°07′37″ W.; thence south-southeasterly along the Southern Pacific bridge to latitude 38°02′38″ N., longitude 122°07′24″ W.; thence easterly to latitude 38°02′42″ N., longitude 122°07′07.5″ W.; thence northeasterly to latitude 38°05′42″ N., longitude 122°04′06″ W.; thence northwesterly to the shore at latitude 38°05′58″ N., longitude 122°04′28″ W.; thence along the shore to the point of beginning. 


(20) *Anchorage No. 27.* In the northeast portion of Suisun Bay bounded by the north shore and the following lines: Beginning on the shore of Grizzly Island at latitude 38°08′13″ N., longitude 122°02′42.5″ W.; thence southerly to tripod at Preston Point on Roe Island at latitude 38°04′16″ N., longitude 122°02′42″ W.; thence along the south shore of Roe Island to latitude 38°04′05″ N., longitude 122°01′35″ W.; thence east-southeasterly to latitude 38°03′42.5″ N., longitude 121°58′54″ W.; thence easterly to the shore of Chipps Island at latitude 38°03′42.5″ N., longitude 121°55′05″ W. 


(21) *Anchorage No. 28.* The area bounded on the east by the shore of Lower Sherman Island and the following lines: Beginning at Point Sacramento on Lower Sherman Island at latitude 38°03′45″ N., longitude 121°50′17.5″ W.; thence southwesterly to latitude 38°03′37.5″ N., longitude 121°50′31″ W.; thence south-southeasterly to latitude 38°02′11″ N.; longitude 121°49′58″ W.; thence to the shore of Lower Sherman Island at latitude 38°02′23″ N., longitude 121°49′49″ W. 


(22) *Anchorage No. 30.* The portion of the Old San Joaquin River Channel bounded on the west by the shore of Mandeville Point and the following lines: Beginning on the shore of Mandeville Point at latitude 38°04′01″ N., longitude 121°32′05″ W.; thence northeasterly to latitude 38°04′07.5″ N., longitude 121°31′58″ W.; thence southeasterly to latitude 38°03′47″ N., longitude 121°31′42.5″ W.; thence westerly to the shore of Mandeville Point at latitude 38°03′47.5″ N., longitude 121°31′56″ W. 



---

[N] [CGD12 84-07, 51 FR 12315, Apr. 10, 1986]


