# § 96.30   Designated entities in the Citizens Broadband Radio Service.

(a) *Small business.* (1) A small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates, its controlling interests, and the affiliates of its controlling interests, has average gross revenues not exceeding $55 million for the preceding three (3) years.


(2) A very small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates, its controlling interests, and the affiliates of its controlling interests, has average gross revenues not exceeding $20 million for the preceding three (3) years.


(b) *Eligible rural service provider.* For purposes of this section, an eligible rural service provider is an entity that meets the criteria specified in § 1.2110(f)(4) of this chapter.


(c) *Bidding credits.* (1) A winning bidder that qualifies as a small business as defined in this section or a consortium of small businesses may use a bidding credit of 15 percent, as specified in § 1.2110(f)(2)(i)(C) of this chapter. A winning bidder that qualifies as a very small business as defined in this section or a consortium of very small businesses may use a bidding credit of 25 percent, as specified in § 1.2110(f)(2)(i)(B) of this chapter.


(2) An entity that qualifies as eligible rural service provider or a consortium of rural service providers who has not claimed a small business bidding credit may use a bidding credit of 15 percent, as specified in § 1.2110(f)(4) of this chapter.



---

[N] [83 FR 63096, Dec. 7, 2018]




