# § 1355.32   Timetable for the reviews.

(a) *Initial reviews.* Each State must complete an initial full review as described in § 1355.33 of this part during the four-year period after the final rule becomes effective. Each Tribal title IV-E agency must complete an initial full review as described in § 1355.33 of this part, during the four-year period after the ACF determines that the Tribe has approved title IV-B, subpart 1 and 2 and title IV-E plans and has sufficient cases for ACF to apply the procedures in § 1355.33(c).


(b) *Reviews following the initial review.* (1) A title IV-E agency found to be operating in substantial conformity during an initial or subsequent review, as defined in § 1355.34 of this part, must:


(i) Complete a full review every five years; and


(ii) Submit a completed statewide assessment, or in the case of a Tribal title IV-E agency, a completed Tribal assessment of the service area, to ACF three years after the on-site review. The assessment will be reviewed jointly by the title IV-E agency and ACF to determine the State's or Indian Tribe's continuing substantial conformity with the plan requirements subject to review. No formal approval of this interim assessment by ACF is required.


(2) A program found not to be operating in substantial conformity during an initial or subsequent review will:


(i) Be required to develop and implement a program improvement plan, as defined in § 1355.35 of this part; and 


(ii) Begin a full review two years after approval of the program improvement plan. 


(c) *Reinstatement of reviews based on information that a title IV-E agency is not in substantial conformity.* (1) ACF may require a full or a partial review at any time, based on any information, regardless of the source, that indicates the title IV-E agency may no longer be operating in substantial conformity.


(2) Prior to reinstating a full or partial review, ACF will conduct an inquiry and require the title IV-E agency to submit additional data whenever ACF receives information that the title IV-E agency may not be in substantial conformity.


(3) If the additional information and inquiry indicates to ACF's satisfaction that the title IV-E agency is operating in substantial conformity, ACF will not proceed with any further review of the issue addressed by the inquiry. This inquiry will not substitute for the full reviews conducted by ACF under § 1355.32(b).


(4) ACF may proceed with a full or partial review if the title IV-E agency does not provide the additional information as requested, or the additional information confirms that the title IV-E agency may not be operating in substantial conformity.


(d) *Partial reviews based on noncompliance with plan requirements that are outside the scope of a child and family services review.* When ACF becomes aware of a title IV-B or title IV-E compliance issue that is outside the scope of the child and family services review process, we will: 


(1) Conduct an inquiry and require the title IV-E agency to submit additional data.


(2) If the additional information and inquiry indicates to ACF's satisfaction that the title IV-E agency is in compliance, we will not proceed with any further review of the issue addressed by the inquiry.


(3) ACF will institute a partial review, appropriate to the nature of the concern, if the title IV-E agency does not provide the additional information as requested, or the additional information confirms that the title IV-E agency may not be in compliance.


(4) If the partial review determines that the title IV-E agency is not in compliance with the applicable plan requirement, the title IV-E agency must enter into a program improvement plan designed to bring the title IV-E agency into compliance, if the provisions for such a plan are applicable. The terms, action steps and time-frames of the program improvement plan will be developed on a case-by-case basis by ACF and the title IV-E agency. The program improvement plan must take into consideration the extent of noncompliance and the impact of the noncompliance on the safety, permanency or well-being of children and families served through the title IV-E agency's title IV-B or IV-E allocation. If the title IV-E agency remains out of compliance, the title IV-E agency will be subject to a penalty related to the extent of the noncompliance.



---

[N] [65 FR 4076, Jan. 25, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 58675, Nov. 23, 2001; 77 FR 926, Jan. 6, 2012]




