# § 1.664-4   Calculation of the fair market value of the remainder interest in a charitable remainder unitrust.

(a) *Rules for determining present value.* For purposes of sections 170, 2055, 2106, and 2522, the fair market value of a remainder interest in a charitable remainder unitrust (as described in § 1.664-3) is its present value determined under paragraph (d) of this section. The present value determined under this section shall be computed on the basis of—




(1) Life contingencies determined as to each life involved, from the values of l_X_ set forth in Table 2010CM in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter in the case of transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023; or from Table 2000CM contained in § 20.2031-7A(g)(4) of this chapter in the case of transfers for which the valuation date is on or after May 1, 2009, and before June 1, 2023. See § 20.2031-7A(a) through (f) of this chapter, whichever is applicable, for transfers for which the valuation date is before May 1, 2009;


(2) Interest at the section 7520 rate in the case of transfers for which the valuation date is after April 30, 1989, or 10 percent in the case of transfers to charitable remainder unitrusts made after November 30, 1983, for which the valuation date is before May 1, 1989. See § 20.2031-7A (a) through (c) of this chapter, whichever is applicable, for transfers for which the valuation date is before December 1, 1983; and


(3) The assumption that the amount described in § 1.664-3(a)(1)(*i*)(*a*) is distributed in accordance with the payout sequence described in the governing instrument. If the governing instrument does not prescribe when the distribution is made during the period for which the payment is made, for purposes of this section, the distribution is considered payable on the first day of the period for which the payment is made.


(b) *Actuarial Computations by the Internal Revenue Service.* The regulations in this and in related sections provide tables of actuarial factors and examples that illustrate the use of the tables in determining the value of remainder interests in property. Section 1.7520-1(c)(2) refers to government publications that provide additional tables of factors and examples of computations for more complex situations. If the computation requires the use of a factor that is not provided in this section, the Commissioner may supply the factor upon a request for a ruling. A request for a ruling must be accompanied by a recitation of the facts including the date of birth of each measuring life, and copies of the relevant documents. A request for a ruling must comply with the instructions for requesting a ruling published periodically in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter) and include payment of the required user fee. If the Commissioner furnishes the factor, a copy of the letter supplying the factor should be attached to the tax return in which the deduction is claimed. If the Commissioner does not furnish the factor, the taxpayer must furnish a factor computed in accordance with the principles set forth in this section.


(c) *Statement supporting deduction required.* Any claim for a deduction on any return for the value of a remainder interest in a charitable remainder unitrust must be supported by a full statement attached to the return showing the computation of the present value of such interest.




(d) *Valuation.* The fair market value of a remainder interest in a charitable remainder unitrust (as described in § 1.664-3) for transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, is its present value determined under paragraph (e) of this section. The fair market value of a remainder interest in a charitable remainder unitrust (as described in § 1.664-3) for transfers for which the valuation date is before June 1, 2023, is its present value determined under the following sections:


(e) *Valuation of charitable remainder unitrusts having certain payout sequences for transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, in the case of transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, the present value of a remainder interest is determined under paragraphs (e)(3) through (7) of this section, provided that, in a short taxable year, the trustee must prorate the unitrust amount as provided in § 1.664-3(a)(1)(v). See, however, § 1.7520-3(b) (relating to exceptions to the use of the prescribed tables under certain circumstances).


(2) *Transitional rule for valuation of charitable remainder unitrusts.* For purposes of section 170, 2055, 2106, 2522, or 2624, in the case of transfers to a charitable remainder unitrust for which the valuation date is after April 30, 2019, and on or before June 1, 2023, the present value of a remainder interest based on one or more measuring lives is determined under this section by using the section 7520 interest rate for the month in which the valuation date occurs (see §§ 1.7520-1(b) and 1.7520-2(a)(2)) and the appropriate actuarial factors derived from the selected mortality table, either Table 2010CM in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter or Table 2000CM in § 20.2031-7A(g)(4) of this chapter, at the option of the donor or the decedent's executor, as the case may be. If any previously filed income tax return is amended to use the actuarial factors based on Table 2010CM, the amended return must state at the top “AMENDED PURSUANT TO TD 9974.” If any previously filed gift or estate tax return is supplemented to use the actuarial factors based on Table 2010CM, the supplemental return must state at the top “SUPPLEMENTED PURSUANT TO TD 9974.” For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors based on Table 2010CM appear in the current version of Table U(1), and actuarial factors based on Table 2000CM appear in the previous version of Table U(1). Both versions of Table U(1) currently are available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables* (or a corresponding URL as may be updated from time to time). The donor or decedent's executor must consistently use the same mortality basis with respect to each interest (income, remainder, partial, etc.) in the same property, and with respect to all transfers occurring on the same valuation date. For example, gift and income tax charitable deductions with respect to the same transfer must be determined based on factors with the same mortality basis, and all assets includible in the gross estate and/or estate tax deductions claimed must be valued based on factors with the same mortality basis.


(3) *Adjusted payout rate.* For transfers for which the valuation date is after April 30, 1989, the adjusted payout rate is determined by using the appropriate Table F in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, for the section 7520 interest rate applicable to the transfer. If the interest rate is between 4.2 and 14 percent, see paragraph (e)(6) of this section. If the interest rate is below 4.2 percent or greater than 14 percent, see paragraph (b) of this section. The adjusted payout rate is determined by multiplying the fixed percentage described in § 1.664-3(a)(1)(i)(*a*) by the factor describing the payout sequence of the trust and the number of months by which the valuation date for the first full taxable year of the trust precedes the first payout date for such taxable year. If the governing instrument does not prescribe when the distribution or distributions shall be made during the taxable year of the trust, see paragraph (a) of this section. In the case of a trust having a payout sequence for which no figures have been provided by the appropriate table, and in the case of a trust that determines the fair market value of the trust assets by taking the average of valuations on more than one date during the taxable year, see paragraph (b) of this section. 


(4) *Period is a term of years.* If the period described in § 1.664-3(a)(5) is a term of years, the factor that is used in determining the present value of the remainder interest for transfers for which the valuation date is after November 30, 1983, is the factor under the appropriate adjusted payout rate in Table D of paragraph (e)(6) of this section corresponding to the number of years in the term. If the adjusted payout rate is an amount that is between adjusted payout rates for which factors are provided in Table D, a linear interpolation must be made. The present value of the remainder interest is determined by multiplying the net fair market value (as of the appropriate valuation date) of the property placed in trust by the factor determined under this paragraph. For purposes of this section, the valuation date is, in the case of an inter vivos transfer, the date on which the property is transferred to the trust by the donor. However, if an election is made under section 7520 and § 1.7520-2(b) to compute the present value of the charitable interest by use of the interest rate component for either of the 2 months preceding the month in which the date of transfer falls, the month so elected is the valuation date for purposes of determining the interest rate and mortality tables. In the case of a testamentary transfer under section 2055, 2106, or 2624, the valuation date is the date of death, unless the alternate valuation date is elected under section 2032, in which event, and within the limitations set forth in section 2032 and the regulations thereunder, the valuation date is the alternate valuation date. If the decedent's estate elects the alternate valuation date under section 2032 and also elects, under section 7520 and § 1.7520-2(b), to use the interest rate component for one of the 2 months preceding the alternate valuation date, the month so elected is the valuation date for purposes of determining the interest rate and mortality tables. The application of this paragraph (e)(4) may be illustrated by the following example:


(5) *Period is the life of one individual*—(i) *Factor.* If the period described in § 1.664-3(a)(5) is the life of one individual, the factor that is used in determining the present value of the remainder interest for transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, is the factor obtained through the use of the formula in Figure 1 to this paragraph (e)(5)(i) to at least five decimal places. The prescribed mortality table is Table 2010CM as set forth in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter, or for periods before June 1, 2023, the appropriate table found in § 20.2031-7A of this chapter. Table 2010CM is referenced by IRS Publication 1458, *Actuarial Values Version 4B.* The mortality tables prescribed for periods before June 1, 2023, are referenced by prior versions of IRS Publication 1458. Alternatively, the remainder factors have been determined for the convenience of taxpayers and appear in Table U(1) under the appropriate adjusted payout rate. Table U(1) currently is available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables* (or a corresponding URL as may be updated from time to time). Table U(1) is referenced and explained by IRS Publication 1458, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4B,* which will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023. For purposes of the computations described in this paragraph (e)(5), the age of an individual is the age of that individual at the individual's nearest birthday. If the adjusted payout rate is an amount that is between adjusted payout rates for which factors are provided in the appropriate table, an exact method of obtaining the applicable remainder factors (such as through software using the actual adjusted payout rate and the actuarial formula in this paragraph (e)(5)) or a linear interpolation must be used, provided whichever method used is applied consistently in valuing all interests in the same property. The applicable remainder factors derived by an exact method or by interpolation must be expressed to at least five decimal places. The present value of the remainder interest is determined by multiplying the net fair market value (as of the valuation date as determined in § 1.664-4(e)(4)) of the property placed in trust by the factor determined under this paragraph (e)(5). If the adjusted payout rate is from 0.2 to 20.0 percent, inclusive, taxpayers may see the actuarial tables referenced and explained by IRS Publication 1458, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4B.* Alternatively, the Commissioner may supply a factor upon a request for a ruling. See paragraph (b) of this section.


(ii) *Sample factors from actuarial Table U(1).* For purposes of the example in paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section, the following factors from Table U(1) and Table F(3.2) (see paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section) will be used:


(iii) *Example of interpolation.* After June 1, 2023, A, whose age is 76 years and 11 months, transfers $100,000 to a charitable remainder unitrust on January 1st. The trust instrument requires that the trust pay to A semiannually (on June 30 and December 31) 5 percent of the fair market value of the trust assets as of January 1st during A's life. The section 7520 rate for January is 3.2 percent. Under Table F(3.2), the appropriate adjustment factor is 0.976683 for semiannual payments payable at the end of the semiannual period. The adjusted payout rate is 4.883% (5% × 0.976683). Based on interpolating between the remainder factors in Table U(1), the present value of the remainder interest is $61,015, computed as illustrated in Figure 2 to this paragraph (e)(5)(iii).


(6) *Actuarial Table D and Tables F(0.2) through F(20.0) for transfers for which the valuation date is on or after May 1, 1989*—(i) *Remainder factors for charitable remainder unitrusts.* For transfers for which the valuation date is on or after May 1, 1989, the present value of a charitable remainder unitrust interest that is dependent upon a term of years is determined by using the formula in Figure 3 to this paragraph (e)(6)(i) and calculating the final result to at least six decimal places. For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors have been computed by the IRS and appear in Table D. Table D can be found on the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables* (or a corresponding URL as may be updated from time to time). Table D is referenced and explained in IRS Publication 1458, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4B,* which will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023. The remainder factors from Table D also can be found in paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section, but only for adjusted payout rates from 4.2 to 14 percent, inclusive. For transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, where the present value of a charitable remainder unitrust interest is dependent on the termination of a life interest, see paragraph (e)(5) of this section. See, however, § 1.7520-3(b) (relating to exceptions to the use of prescribed tables under certain circumstances).


(ii) *Unitrust payout rate adjustment factors.* For transfers for which the valuation date is on or after May 1, 1989, the unitrust payout rate adjustment factors are determined by using the formula in Figure 4 to this paragraph (e)(6)(ii) and calculating the final result to at least six decimal places. For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors have been computed by the IRS, for interest rates from 0.2 to 20 percent, inclusive, and appear in Tables F(0.2) through F(20.0). Tables F(0.2) through F(20.0) can be found on the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables* (or a corresponding URL as may be updated from time to time). Tables F(0.2) through F(20.0) are referenced and explained in IRS Publication 1458, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4B,* which will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023. The factors from Table F also can be found in paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section, but only for interest rates from 4.2 to 14 percent, inclusive.


(iii) *Table D and Tables F(4.2) through F(14.0).* The unitrust remainder factors from Table D, for interest rates from 4.2 to 14 percent, inclusive, and the unitrust payout factors from Tables F(4.2) through F(14.0) are as follows:


(7) *Actuarial Table U(1) for transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023.* The present value of a remainder interest in a charitable remainder unitrust that is dependent on the termination of a life interest is determined by using the section 7520 rate, Tables F(0.2) through (20.0) (see paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section), and the formula in paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section to derive a remainder factor from the appropriate mortality table to at least five decimal places. For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors have been computed by the IRS and appear in Table U(1). For transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, the actuarial tables are currently available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables.* These actuarial tables are referenced and explained by IRS Publication 1458, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4B* (2023). This publication will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023. See, however, § 1.7520-3(b) (relating to exceptions to the use of prescribed tables under certain circumstances).




(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies on and after June 1, 2023.



---

[N] [T.D. 8540, 59 FR 30117, June 10, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8819, 64 FR 23199, Apr. 30, 1999; T.D. 8886, 65 FR 36919, 36943, June 12, 2000; T.D. 9448, 74 FR 21465, May 7, 2009; T.D. 9540, 76 FR 49595, Aug. 10, 2011; T.D. 9974, 88 FR 37433, June 7, 2023]




