# ยง 1073.201   Applicability and scope.

(a) *Applicability.* The provisions of this subpart apply to the collection of debts owed to the United States arising out of the activities of, or referred to, the Bureau. This subpart is intended to be consistent with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR chapter IX and parts 900 through 904) on administrative offset issued by the Department of Treasury and the Department of Justice.


(b) *Centralized administrative offset.* (1) The Director will refer any eligible debt over 180 days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury or a designated debt collection center for collection by centralized administrative offset. The Director may also refer any eligible debt less than 180 days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury for offset.


(2) At least 60 days prior to referring a debt to the Department of the Treasury in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Director will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1073.204 of this subpart.


(c) *Non-centralized administrative offset.* (1) When centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, the Director may collect past-due, legally enforceable debts through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, the Director may offset a payment internally or make an offset request directly to a paying agency.


(2) At least 30 days prior to offsetting a payment internally or requesting a paying agency to offset a payment in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Director will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1073.204 of this subpart.




