# ยง 28.51   General.

(a) *Bond requirements.* Every person required by this part to file a bond or consent of surety must prepare and execute it on the prescribed form and file it in accordance with its instructions and the procedures of this part. The procedures in parts 19, 24 or 25 of this chapter govern bonds covering distilled spirits plants, bonded wine cellars and breweries, respectively.


(b) *Exemption from bond requirements.* If a taxpayer described in this paragraph exports distilled spirits, wine, or beer for which a bond is otherwise required under this part, the taxpayer is not required to file a bond for the exportation if all the following are true:


(1) In the case of exportation of distilled spirits or wine, the distilled spirits or wine is for nonindustrial use; and


(2) The taxpayer:


(i) Reasonably expects to be liable for not more than $50,000 in taxes described in 26 U.S.C. 5061(d)(4) during the current calendar year;


(ii) Was liable for not more than $50,000 in such taxes in the preceding calendar year; and


(iii) Pays such taxes on a deferred basis using a semimonthly, quarterly, or annual return period as described in 26 U.S.C. 5061(d).


(c) *Definitions.* For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the following terms have the meanings indicated:


*Nonindustrial use.* The nonindustrial uses of distilled spirits and wine are defined in subpart D of part 1 of this chapter.


*Reasonably expects.* When used with reference to a taxpayer, *reasonably expects* means that there is no existing or anticipated circumstances known to the taxpayer (such as an increase in production capacity) that would cause the taxpayer's tax liability to exceed the prescribed limit.


*Taxpayer.* A *taxpayer* is an individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity that is assigned a single Employer Identification Number (EIN) as defined in 26 CFR 301.7701-12.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-477, 67 FR 18089, Apr. 15, 2002, as amended by T.D. TTB-146. 82 FR 1135, Jan. 4, 2017]




