# ยง 126.19   Filing and supplementing the record.

(a) *Filing the record.* The TSA must file a complete record of administrative proceedings, including a certified and unredacted transcript of all proceedings before the ALJ (including ex parte proceedings) and all material filed with the ALJ (including material containing classified information, SSI, or other protected information that was reviewed by the ALJ in camera), with the TSOB Docket Clerk within 30 calendar days after filing or being served with a notice of appeal. Upon motion filed by the TSA, or on its own initiative, the TSOB Review Panel may extend the time to file the record. The TSOB Docket Clerk notifies all parties of the date when the record is filed. Within 30 calendar days of the date the record is filed, non-government parties may file a motion requesting that the TSA provide them with a redacted copy of any part of the record (excluding ex parte proceedings and materials reviewed in camera) that they do not possess. The TSA redacts classified information or other protected information from any part of the record it provides to non-government parties, except to the extent that the TSA has determined that the party had a preexisting need to know specific SSI as a covered person pursuant to 49 CFR 1520.7 and 1520.11.


(b) *Supplementing the record.* (1) A party may file a motion to supplement the record when anything relevant to an issue on appeal occurs after the ALJ issued a decision, or the party can show good cause, as determined by the TSOB Review Panel, for failing to submit material for the record at an earlier stage of the administrative proceedings. When the TSA seeks to supplement the record with material that contains classified information, SSI or other protected information, it may file a motion to supplement the record ex parte.


(2) A TSOB Review Panel may grant a motion to supplement the record when it finds that the supplemental material is relevant to an issue on appeal and that a condition described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies.


(3) A TSOB Review Panel may grant a motion to supplement the record by remanding the case to the ALJ for additional proceedings, where good cause is shown.






