# ยง 408.204   What conditions will prevent you from qualifying for SVB or being entitled to receive SVB payments?

(a) *General rule.* Even if you meet all the qualification requirements in ยง 408.202, you will not be qualified for SVB for or entitled to receive SVB payments for any of the following months. 


(1) *Removal from the United States.* Any month that begins after the month in which we are advised by the Attorney General that you have been removed (including deported) from the United States pursuant to section 237(a) or 212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act and before the month in which you are subsequently lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence. 


(2) *Fleeing felon.* Any month during any part of which you are fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction, under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction in the United States from which you fled, for a crime or an attempt to commit a crime that is a felony under the laws of the place from which you fled, or in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor. 


(3) *Parole violation.* Any month during any part of which you violate a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.


(4) *Residence in certain countries.* Any month during which you are not a citizen or national of the United States and reside in a country to which payments to residents of that country are withheld by the Treasury Department under section 3329 of title 31, United States Code. 


(b) *Condition occurs before we determine that you are qualified.* If one of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section occurs before we determine that you are qualified, we will deny your claim for SVB. 


(c) *Condition occurs after we determine that you are qualified.* If one of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section occurs after we determine that you are qualified for SVB, you cannot receive SVB payments for any month in which the condition exists. 




