# § 173.243   Bulk packaging for certain high hazard liquids and dual hazard materials which pose a moderate hazard.

When § 172.101 of this subchapter specifies that a hazardous material be packaged under this section, only the following bulk packagings are authorized, subject to the requirements of subparts A and B of part 173 of this subchapter and the special provisions specified in column 7 of the § 172.101 table.


(a) *Rail cars:* Class DOT 103, 104, 105, 109, 111, 112, 114, 115, 117, or 120 fusion-welded tank car tanks; and Class 106 or 110 multi-unit tank car tanks. Additional operational requirements apply to high-hazard flammable trains (*see* § 171.8 of this subchapter) as prescribed in § 174.310 of this subchapter. Except as otherwise provided in this section, DOT Specification 111 tank cars and DOT Specification 111 tank cars built to the CPC-1232 industry standard are no longer authorized to transport Class 3 (flammable liquids) in Packing Group I, unless retrofitted to the DOT Specification 117R retrofit standards or the DOT Specification 117P performance standards provided in part 179, subpart D of this subchapter.


(1) DOT Specification 111 tank cars and DOT Specification 111 tank cars built to the CPC-1232 industry standard are no longer authorized for transport of Class 3 (flammable liquids) unless retrofitted prior to the dates corresponding to the specific material in the following table:


(2) Conforming retrofitted tank cars are to be marked “DOT-117R.”


(3) Conforming performance standard tank cars are to be marked “DOT-117P.”


(b) *Cargo tanks.* Specification MC 304, MC 307, MC 330, MC 331 cargo tank motor vehicles; and MC 310, MC 311, MC 312, DOT 407, and DOT 412 cargo tank motor vehicles with tank design pressure of at least 172.4 kPa (25 psig). Cargo tanks used to transport Class 3 or Division 6.1 materials, or Class 8, Packing Group I or II materials must conform to the following special requirements:


(1) Pressure relief system: Except as provided by § 173.33(d), each cargo tank must be equipped with a pressure relief system meeting the requirements of § 178.346-3 or 178.347-4 of this subchapter. However, pressure relief devices on MC 310, MC 311 and MC 312 cargo tanks must meet the requirements for a Specification MC 307 cargo tank (except for Class 8, Packing Group I and II). Pressure relief devices on MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks must meet the requirement in § 178.337-9 of this subchapter.


(2) Bottom outlets: DOT 407 and DOT 412 cargo tanks must be equipped with stop-valves meeting the requirements of § 178.345-11 of this subchapter; MC 304, MC 307, MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks must be equipped with stop-valves capable of being remotely closed within 30 seconds of actuation by manual or mechanic means and (except for Class 8, Packing Group I and II) by a closure activated at a temperature not over 121 °C (250 °F); MC 330 and MC 331 cargo tanks must be equipped with internal self-closing stop-valves meeting the requirements in § 178.337-11 of this subchapter.


(c) *Portable tanks.* DOT Specification 51 and 60 portable tanks; UN portable tanks and IM 101 and IM 102 portable tanks when a T code is specified in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter for a specific hazardous material; and marine portable tanks conforming to 46 CFR part 64 with design pressure of at least 172.4 kPa (25 psig) are authorized. Unless provided by § 173.32(h)(3), an IM 101, 102 or UN portable tank, with a bottom outlet, used to transport a liquid hazardous material that is a Class 3, PG I or II, or PG III with a flash point of less than 38 °C (100 °F); Division 5.1, PG I or II; or Division 6.1, PG I or II, must have internal valves conforming to § 178.275(d)(3) of this subchapter. 


(d) *IBCs.* IBCs are authorized subject to the conditions and limitations of this section provided the IBC type is authorized according to the IBC packaging code specified for the specific hazardous material in Column (7) of the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter and the IBC conforms to the requirements in subpart O of part 178 of this subchapter at the Packing Group performance level as specified in Column (5) of the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter for the material being transported.


(1) IBCs may not be used for the following hazardous materials:


(i) Packing Group I liquids; and


(ii) Packing Group I solids that may become liquid during transportation.


(2) The following IBCs may not be used for Packing Group II and III solids that may become liquid during transportation:


(i) Wooden: 11C, 11D and 11F;


(ii) Fiberboard: 11G;


(iii) Flexible: 13H1, 13H2, 13H3, 13H4, 13H5, 13L1, 13L2, 13L3, 13L4, 13M1 and 13M2; and


(iv) Composite: 11HZ2 and 21HZ2.


(e) A dual hazard material may be packaged in accordance with § 173.242 if:


(1) The subsidiary hazard is Class 3 with a flash point greater than 38 °C (100 °F); or


(2) The subsidiary hazard is Division 6.1, Packing Group III; or


(3) The subsidiary hazard is Class 8, Packaging Group, III.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52663, Dec. 21, 1990]




