# § 1.401(a)(26)-8   Definitions.

In applying this section and §§ 1.401(a)(26)-1 through 1.401(a)(26)-9 the definitions in this section govern unless otherwise provided. 


*Collective bargaining agreement. Collective bargaining agreement* means an agreement that the Secretary of Labor finds to be a collective bargaining agreement between employee representatives and the employer that satisfies § 301.7701-17T. Employees described in section 413(b)(8) who are employees of the union or the plan and are treated as employees of an employer are not employees covered pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement for purposes of section 401(a)(26) unless the employees are actually covered pursuant to such an agreement. 


*Collectively bargained employee. Collectively bargained employee* means a collectively bargained employee within the meaning of § 1.410(b)-6(d)(2). 


*Covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Covered by a collective bargaining agreement* means covered by a collective bargaining agreement within the meaning of § 1.410(b)-6(d)(2)(iii). 


*Defined benefit plan. Defined benefit plan* means a defined benefit plan within the meaning of § 1.410(b)-9. 


*Defined contribution plan. Defined contribution plan* means a defined contribution plan within the meaning of § 1.410(b)-9. 


*Employee. Employee* means an employee, within the meaning of § 1.410(b)-9. 


*Employer. Employer* means the employer within the meaning of § 1.410(b)-9. 


*ESOP. ESOP* means an employee stock ownership plan within the meaning of section 4975(e)(7) or a tax credit employee stock ownership plan within the meaning of section 409(a). 


*Former employee. Former employee* means a former employee within the meaning of § 1.410(b)-9. 


*Highly compensated employee. Highly compensated employee* means an employee who is highly compensated within the meaning of section 414(q). 


*Highly compensated former employee. Highly compensated former employee* means a former employee who is highly compensated within the meaning of section 414(q)(9). 


*Multiemployer plan. Multiemployer plan* means a multiemployer plan within the meaning of section 414(f). 


*Noncollectively bargained employee. Noncollectively bargained employee* means an employee who is not a collectively bargained employee. 


*Nonhighly compensated employee. Nonhighly compensated employee* means an employee who is not a highly compensated employee. 


*Nonhighly compensated former employee. Nonhighly compensated former employee* means a former employee who is not a highly compensated former employee. 


*Plan. Plan* means plan as defined in § 1.401(a)(26)-2(c). 


*Plan year. Plan year* means the plan year of the plan as defined in the written plan document. In the absence of a specifically designated plan year, the plan year is deemed to be the calendar year. 


*Professional employee. Professional employee* means a professional employee as defined in § 1.410(b)-9. 


*Section 401(k) plan. Section 401(k) plan* means a plan consisting of elective contributions described in § 1.401(k)-1 (g)(3) under a qualified cash or deferred arrangement described in § 1.401(k)-1(a)(4)(i). 


*Section 401(m) plan. Section 401(m) plan* means a plan consisting of employee contributions described in § 1.401(m)-1(f)(6) or matching contributions described in § 1.401(m)-1(f)(12), or both. 



---

[N] [T.D. 8375, 56 FR 63418, Dec. 4, 1991]




