# ยง 146.67   Transfer of merchandise for exportation.

(a) *Direct exportation.* Any merchandise in a zone may be exported directly therefrom (without transfer into Customs territory) upon compliance with the procedures of paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Immediate exportation.* Each transfer of merchandise to the customs territory for exportation at the port where the zone is located will be made under an entry for immediate exportation filed in an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter. The person making entry must furnish an export bond on CBP Form 301 containing the bond conditions provided for in ยง 113.63 of this chapter.


(c) *Transportation and exportation.* Each transfer of merchandise to the customs territory for transportation to and exportation from a different port will be made under an entry for transportation and exportation in an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter. The bonded carrier will be responsible for exportation of the merchandise in accordance with ยง 18.26 of this chapter.


(d) *Textiles and textile products.* Textiles and textile products which have been changed as provided for in ยง 146.63(d) may be exported and returned to Customs territory for warehousing provided the entry for warehouse is endorsed by the port director to show that the merchandise may not be withdrawn for consumption.


(e) *Merchandise produced or manufactured in a zone and returned to Customs territory after exportation.* Merchandise produced or manufactured in a zone and exported without having been transferred to Customs territory other than for exportation or for transportation and exportation will be subject, on its return to Customs territory, to the duties and taxes applicable to like articles of wholly foreign origin, unless it is conclusively established that it was produced or manufactured exclusively with the use of domestic merchandise. The identity of the domestic merchandise must have been maintained in accordance with the provisions of this part, in which case that merchandise will be subject to the provisions of Chapter 98, Subchapter I, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).



---

[N] [T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5049, Feb. 11, 1986, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51263, Dec. 21, 1988; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45407, Sept. 28, 2017]




