# ยง 1073.101   Scope.

This part establishes Bureau procedures for the collection of certain debts owed to the United States.


(a) This part applies to collections by the Bureau from:


(1) Federal employees who are indebted to the Bureau;


(2) Employees of the Bureau who are indebted to other agencies; and


(3) Other persons, organizations, or entities that are indebted to the United States, except those excluded in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) This part does not apply:


(1) To debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code (Title 26, U.S. Code), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*), or the tariff laws of the United States;


(2) To a situation to which the Contract Disputes Act (41 U.S.C. 7101 *et seq.*) applies; or


(3) To debts arising out of acquisition contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation. These debts shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with that regulation (see 48 CFR part 32).


(4) In any other case where collection of a debt is exclusively provided for or prohibited by another statute or applicable regulation.


(c) In addition to the procedures set forth in this part, the Bureau shall also follow the procedures set forth in 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, for the collection by offset from indebted government employees, and in 31 CFR part 285 and the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (31 CFR chapter IX and parts 900 through 904) for the collection of debts owed to the United States.


(d) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions, where appropriate, under standards implementing the Debt Collection Improvement Act (DCIA) (31 U.S.C. 3711 *et seq.*), the FCCS, or any other applicable law.




