# ยง 478.28   Transportation of destructive devices and certain firearms.

(a) The Director may authorize a person to transport in interstate or foreign commerce any destructive device, machine gun, short-barreled shotgun, or short-barreled rifle, if he finds that such transportation is reasonably necessary and is consistent with public safety and applicable State and local law. A person who desires to transport in interstate or foreign commerce any such device or weapon shall submit a written request so to do, in duplicate, to the Director. The request shall contain:


(1) A complete description and identification of the device or weapon to be transported;


(2) A statement whether such transportation involves a transfer of title;


(3) The need for such transportation;


(4) The approximate date such transportation is to take place;


(5) The present location of such device or weapon and the place to which it is to be transported;


(6) The mode of transportation to be used (including, if by common or contract carrier, the name and address of such carrier); and


(7) Evidence that the transportation or possession of such device or weapon is not inconsistent with the laws at the place of destination.


(b) No person shall transport any destructive device, machine gun, short-barreled shotgun, or short-barreled rifle in interstate or foreign commerce under the provisions of this section until he has received specific authorization so to do from the Director. Authorization granted under this section does not carry or import relief from any other statutory or regulatory provision relating to firearms.


(c) This section shall not be construed as requiring licensees to obtain authorization to transport destructive devices, machine guns, short-barreled shotguns, and short-barreled rifles in interstate or foreign commerce: *Provided,* That in the case of a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer, such a licensee is qualified under the National Firearms Act (see also Part 479 of this chapter) and this part to engage in the business with respect to the device or weapon to be transported, and that in the case of a licensed collector, the device or weapon to be transported is a curio or relic.



---

[N] [33 FR 18555, Dec. 14, 1968. Redesignated at 40 FR 16385, Apr. 15, 1975, and amended by T.D. ATF-138, 48 FR 35399, Aug. 4, 1983]




