# § 54.30-5   Limitations and requirements.

(a) Class II-L pressure vessels which require stress relief (see table 2 to § 54.01-5) may be mechanically stress relieved provided:


(1) The steels from which they are fabricated do not specifically require thermal stress relief in UCS-56 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC (incorporated by reference; see § 54.01-1) and have a ratio of yield to ultimate tensile strength not greater than 0.8. For example: A-537 steels could be mechanically stress relieved.


(2) Pressure difference across the shell is not greater than 100 pounds per square inch, thickness of shell is not greater than 1 inch, and the design temperature is not greater than 115  °F.


(3) It will carry liquids of specific gravity no greater than 1.05.


(4) Design details are sufficient to eliminate stress concentrators: Mechanical stress relief is not acceptable in designs involving the following types of welded connections shown in UW-16.1 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC:


(i) Types l, m, n, and p because of nonintegral reinforcement. Type o will be acceptable provided the plate, nozzle, and reinforcement assembly are furnace stress relieved and the reinforcement is at least 6 inches or 10t, whichever is larger, from the plate head.


(ii) Types d, e, and f because expansion and contraction stresses are concentrated at the junction points.


(5) That no slip-on flanges in sizes greater than 2 inches are used.


(6) The categories A and B joints are type one as described in table UW-12 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC and all categories C and D joints are full penetration welds. See UW-3 of the ASME BPVC for definition of categories.


(b) When a pressure vessel is to be mechanically stress relieved in accordance with § 54.30-10(a)(1), its maximum allowable working pressure will be 40 percent of the value which would otherwise be determined. However, an increase of this 40 percent factor may be permitted if the stress relief is carried out at a pressure higher than that required by § 54.30-10(a)(1) and an experimental strain analysis is carried out during stress relief. This evaluation should provide information as to the strains at the saddles, welded seams and nozzles as well as the body of the vessel. The hydrostatic pressure applied during stress relief should be such that, except in the case of welds, the stresses in the vessel must closely approach but not exceed 90 percent of the yield stress of the material at the test temperature. The proposed experimental program should be submitted to the Commandant for approval prior to its use. Photo-elastic coating, strain gaging, or a brittle coating technique is suggested for the experimental analysis.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18828, Dec. 18, 1968, as amended by USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65171, Oct. 31, 2008]




