# ยง 72.44   Fundable elements: Rehabilitation and Innovation grant common elements.

(a) All Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals must be based on priorities identified in the applicant jurisdiction's local Recovery Action Program. An applicant may apply for UPARR assistance only in an amount which, together with other available public and private resources, is adequate to complete the work approved by the grant agreement. The applicant must document the availability and source of these resources at the time of preapplication for UPARR assistance. Fundable elements in both Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals may include: materials and labor, site planning, architectural and engineering fees, and other costs for activities necessary to complete the approved project. Reasonable architectural and engineering fees essential to the preparation of a proposal application, incurred within a period 9 months prior to preapplication submission to NPS, are reimbursable. Architectural and engineering fees prior to the 9 month period will not be eligible for reimbursement or cost sharing. Other costs incurred prior to approval of any UPARR grant, and fees to consultants for preparation of UPARR grant applications are not reimbursable. No more than 5 percent of the total grant cost may be used by the grantee or pass-through sub-grantee for grant administrative costs. The remaining funds must be made available for projects. Any costs incurred for travel outside the local applicant jurisdiction will not be reimbursable without prior approval from NPS.


(1) *Local intent.* Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals which provide recreation to residents within a distressed local neighborhood area will be given higher priority. Proposals which have a primary intent to attract or to provide recreation for visitors from outside the applicant jurisdiction, or proposals whose primary objective is the enhancement of the area's economy through the attraction of visitors to the jurisdiction, will not be considered. Innovation proposals which transport residents from distressed neighborhoods to recreation opportunities outside the local jurisdiction, may be considered eligible for funding.


(2) *Conservation and energy.* Proposals which foster the conservation of energy and natural resources are encouraged; e.g. improvements in accessibility which reduce the need of automobile transportation, efficient use of electrical or other power sources, and water conservation.


(3) *Multiple site requests.* Rehabilitation and Innovation proposals may request funding for neighborhood-oriented recreation facilities or services which affect the entire recreation system of the applicant jurisdiction, several specific sites or areas, or a single site or area. Innovation proposals which affect multiple facilities or services must be oriented to a single purpose, or one basic innovative category or approach.


(4) *Support facilities.* The rehabilitation of support facilities for any grant project will be eligible for funding only when such facilities are well defined, are included as part of an overall rehabilitation effort, and provide direct recreation opportunities and benefits to the population being served. Rehabilitation grants may cover costs of remodeling, expanding or developing (see ยง 72.42) existing outdoor or indoor recreation areas and facilities, including improvements in park landscapes and buildings. Assistance for the rehabilitation of multi-service facilities must be prorated to those elements within the proposal necessary for the provision of recreation opportunities.


(5) *Elements excluded from funding.* The Act excludes UPARR assistance for major sport arenas, exhibition areas and conference halls used primarily for commercial sports, spectator, or display activities; routine maintenance and upkeep supplies or activities; and for the acquisition of land or interests in land.




