# § 22.2   Definitions.

(a) *Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, public or private organization or governmental entity, or combination thereof.


(b) *Private person* means any person defined in § 22.2(a) other than an agency, or department of Federal, State, or local government, or any component or combination thereof. Included as a private person is an individual acting in his or her official capacity.


(c) *Research or statistical project* means any program, project, or component thereof which is supported in whole or in part with funds appropriated under the Act and whose purpose is to develop, measure, evaluate, or otherwise advance the state of knowledge in a particular area. The term does not include “intelligence” or other information-gathering activities in which information pertaining to specific individuals is obtained for purposes directly related to enforcement of the criminal laws.


(d) *Research or statistical information* means any information which is collected during the conduct of a research or statistical project and which is intended to be utilized for research or statistical purposes. The term includes information which is collected directly from the individual or obtained from any agency or individual having possession, knowledge, or control thereof.


(e) *Information identifiable to a private person* means information which either—


(1) Is labelled by name or other personal identifiers, or


(2) Can, by virtue of sample size or other factors, be reasonably interpreted as referring to a particular private person.


(f) *Recipient of assistance* means any recipient of a grant, contract, interagency agreement, subgrant, or subcontract under the Act and any person, including subcontractors, employed by such recipient in connection with performances of the grant, contract, or interagency agreement.


(g) *Officer or employee of the Federal Government* means any person employed as a regular or special employee of the U.S. (including experts, consultants, and advisory board members) as of July 1, 1973, or at any time thereafter.


(h) *The act* means the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended.


(i) *Applicant* means any person who applies for a grant, contract, or subgrant to be funded pursuant to the Act.


(j) *The Juvenile Justice Act* means the “Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended.”


(k) *The Victims of Crime Act* means the Victims of Crime Act of 1984.



---

[N] [41 FR 54846, Dec. 15, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 16974, Apr. 21, 1978; 51 FR 6400, Feb. 24, 1986]




