# § 7.70   Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.

(a) *Designated airstrips.* (1) Wahweap, latitude 36°59′45″ N., longitude 111°30′45″ W. 


(2) Bullfrog, latitude 37°33′00″ N., longitude 110°42′45″ W. 


(3) Halls Crossing, latitude 37°28′10″ N., longitude 110°42′00″ W. 


(4) Hite, latitude 37°53′30″ N., longitude 110°23′00″ W. 


(5) Gordon Flats, latitude 38°10′30″ N., longitude 110°09′00″ W. 


(6) The entire surface of Lake Powell, subject to the restrictions contained in § 2.17 of this chapter. 


(b) *Unattended property.* Vehicles or boat trailers, or vehicle/boat trailer combinations, may be left unattended for periods of up to 14 days, when parked in parking areas adjacent to designated boat launching sites, without the prior permission of the Superintendent. Any vehicle or boat trailer or vehicle/boat trailer combination which is left in parking areas adjacent to designated boat launching sites for over 14 days may be impounded by the Superintendent. 


(c) *Colorado River white-water boat trips.* The following regulations shall apply to all persons using the waters of, or Federally owned land administered by the National Park Service along the Colorado River within Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, from the Lees Ferry launch ramp downstream to the eastern boundary of Grand Canyon National Park: 


(1) No person shall operate a vessel engaging in predominantly upstream travel or having a total horsepower in excess of 55 without a permit from the Superintendent. 


(2) U.S. Coast Guard approved life preservers shall be worn by every person while traveling in boats or rafts on this section of the river, or while lining or portaging near rough water. One extra preserver must be carried on each vessel for each ten (10) passengers. 


(3) No person shall conduct, lead or guide a river trip through Glen Canyon Recreation Area unless such person possesses a permit issued by the Superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park. The National Park Service reserves the right to limit the number of such permits issued, or the number of persons traveling on trips authorized by such permits when in the opinion of the National Park Service such limitations are necessary in the interest of public safety or protection of the ecological and environmental values of the area. 


(i) The Superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park shall issue a permit upon a determination that the person leading, guiding, or conducting a river trip is experienced in running rivers in white-water navigation of similar difficulty, and possesses appropriate equipment, which is identified in the terms and conditions of the permit. 


(ii) No person shall conduct, lead, guide, or outfit a commercial river trip without first securing the above permit and possessing an additional permit authorizing the conduct of a commercial or business activity in the recreation area. 


(iii) An operation is commercial if any fee, charge, or other compensation is collected for conducting, leading, guiding, or outfitting a river trip. A river trip is not commercial if there is a bona fide sharing of actual expenses. 


(4) All human waste will be taken out of the Canyon and deposited in established receptacles, or will be disposed of by such means as is determined by the Superintendent. 


(5) No person shall take a dog, cat, or other pet on a river trip. 


(6) The kindling of a fire is permitted only on beaches. All fires must be completely extinguished only with water before abandoning the area. 


(7) Swimming and bathing are permitted except in locations immediately above rapids, eddies, and riffles or near rough water. 


(8) No camping is allowed along the Colorado River bank between the Lees Ferry launch ramp and the Navajo Bridge. 


(9) All persons issued a river trip permit shall comply with all terms and conditions of the permit. 


(d) *Assembly and launching of river rafts and boats.* The following regulations shall apply to all persons designated under paragraph (e) of this section (Colorado white-water trips): 


(1) The assembly and launching of rafts or boats, and parking or storing of any related equipment or supplies is restricted to those areas designated by the Superintendent. 


(2) Within such designated areas, the Superintendent may assign or limit space and designate time periods of operation for each individual river trip or operator. 


(e) *PWC.* (1) A person may launch and operate a PWC in park waters or beach a PWC on park lands, except in the following areas: 


(i) On the Colorado River between Glen Canyon Dam and the downstream river boundary of Glen Canyon National Recreation Area where it adjoins Grand Canyon National Park. 


(ii) On the Colorado River upstream of Sheep Canyon. 


(iii) On the San Juan River upstream of Clay Hills pullout. 


(iv) On the Escalante River upstream of Coyote Creek. 


(v) On the Dirty Devil River upstream of Utah Highway 95 bridge. 


(2) A person may not operate a PWC at speed in excess of flat wake speed on the Escalante River from Cow Canyon to Coyote Creek. 


(3) After December 31, 2012, no one may operate a PWC that does not meet the 2006 emission standards set by EPA for the manufacturing of two-stroke engines. A person operating a PWC that meets the EPA 2006 emission standards through the use of direct injection two-stroke or four-stroke engines, or the equivalent thereof, is not subject to this prohibition and will be allowed to operate as described in this section. 


(4) The Superintendent may temporarily limit, restrict or terminate access to the areas designated for PWC use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.


(f) *Motor vehicle use.* Operating a motor vehicle is allowed within the boundaries of Glen Canyon National Recreation Area under the conditions in this paragraph (f).


(1) *What terms do I need to know?* In addition to the definitions found in § 1.4 of this chapter, the following definitions apply to this paragraph (f) only:


*Conventional motor vehicle* means any motor vehicle that is designed primarily for operation on streets and highways, and that is licensed and registered for interstate travel. Automobiles, vans, highway motorcycles (including dual-sports motorcycles licensed for use on a highway), sport utility vehicles (SUVs), recreational vehicles (RVs), pickup trucks, and buses are examples of conventional motor vehicles.


*GMP road* means a paved or unpaved park road that is identified in the Glen Canyon 1979 General Management Plan as open to motor vehicle travel. There are no park roads within the recreation area other than GMP roads.


*Off-highway vehicle (OHV)* means any motor vehicle designed primarily for off-road travel that is not licensed and registered for interstate travel. ATVs (excluding street legal ATVs, as defined below), dirt bikes, sand rails, side-by-sides, and dune buggies are examples of OHVs.


*Orange Cliffs Special Management Unit* means the area identified as the Orange Cliffs Special Management Unit in the Canyonlands National Park and Orange Cliffs Unit of Glen Canyon National Recreation Area Backcountry Management Plan (NPS 1995).


*Street-legal all-terrain vehicle (ATV)* means an ATV that qualifies under Arizona or Utah motor vehicle and traffic code to be operated on state roads and highways.


(2) *Off-road motor vehicle permit requirement.* (i) The provisions in this paragraph (f)(2) are effective beginning on May 17, 2021.


(ii) A special use permit issued and administered by the superintendent is required to operate a motor vehicle off GMP roads at designated locations in the recreation area. Operating a motor vehicle off GMP roads in the recreation area without a permit is prohibited except for designated ORV routes that do not require a permit as indicated in Table 1 to paragraph (f)(3)(ii).


(iii) Annual permits are valid for one calendar year from the day they are issued. Shorter-term permits are valid from the day issued for the stated duration of the permit.


(iv) A permit applicant must acknowledge that he or she understands and agrees to abide by the rules governing off-road vehicle use in the recreation area.


(v) Each motor vehicle permitted to operate off GMP roads must display an NPS decal issued by the superintendent and affixed to the vehicle in a manner and location specified by the superintendent.


(vi) Permits may be requested at recreation area headquarters, recreation area visitor centers, on the recreation area's website, or at other locations designated by the superintendent.


(vii) Violating any term, condition, or requirement of an off-road vehicle permit is prohibited and may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit and the denial of future permits, in addition to the penalties provided by § 1.3 of this chapter.


(3) *Designated off-road motor vehicle locations.* (i) The operation of a motor vehicle off GMP roads within the recreation area is prohibited except at the locations designated by this paragraph (f). Designated locations and vehicle-free zones are identified on maps available at the recreation area headquarters, visitor contact stations, and on the recreation area's website.


(ii) Motor vehicles may be used off GMP roads at the locations and subject to the management prescriptions in the table below, except for vehicle-free zones where off-road vehicle use is prohibited. Permit requirements in Table 1 to paragraph (f)(3)(ii) are effective beginning on May 17, 2021.




(4) *On-road motor vehicle use.* (i) The operation of a motor vehicle on GMP roads is prohibited except as set forth in Table 2 to paragraph (f)(4)(i):


(ii) The Superintendent may determine whether street-legal ATVs or OHVs are allowed on a 15-20 mile section of an unpaved GMP road known as the upper portion of the Flint Trail within the Orange Cliffs Special Management Unit pursuant to paragraph (f)(6) of this section. Except on the portion of the Poison Spring Loop identified in Table 2 to paragraph (f)(4)(i) and as may be allowed by the Superintendent on the upper portion of the Flint Trail, street-legal ATVs and OHVs are prohibited on unpaved GMP roads in the Orange Cliffs Special Management Unit.


(5) *Motor vehicle and operator requirements.* (i) Motor vehicles must be equipped at all times with noise-suppression devices, including an exhaust muffler in good working order and in constant operation. Operating a motor vehicle that emits more than 96 decibels of sound (using the SAE J1287 test standard) is prohibited. Creating or sustaining unreasonable noise considering the nature and purpose of the actor's conduct, impact on park users, location, and other factors that would govern the conduct of a reasonably prudent person is prohibited.


(ii) All motor vehicles operating in Lone Rock Beach Play Area must be equipped with a solid red or orange safety flag that is a minimum of six by 12 inches in size and that is attached to the vehicle so that the safety flag is at least eight feet above the surface of the level ground, or attached to the protective headgear of a person operating a motorcycle or dirt bike so that the safety flag is at least 18 inches above the top of the person's headgear. Operating a motor vehicle without a safety flag at Lone Rock Beach Play Area is prohibited.


(iii) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 15 mph (unless otherwise posted) at the following off-road motor vehicle locations—Lone Rock Beach, Blue Notch, Bullfrog North and South, Copper Canyon, Crosby Canyon, Dirty Devil, Farley Canyon, Hite Boat Ramp, Neskahi, Nokai Canyon, Paiute Canyon, Paiute Farms, Red Canyon, Stanton Creek, and White Canyon—is prohibited.


(iv) Operating a motor vehicle in excess of 25 mph (unless otherwise posted) on unpaved GMP roads and on off-road motor vehicle routes in Ferry Swale, Middle Moody Canyon Trailhead, East Gypsum Canyon Overlook, Imperial Valley, and Gunsight Springs Trailhead is prohibited.


(v) Operating a motor vehicle within a designated off-road motor vehicle area during quiet hours with the exception of entering and exiting a campsite is prohibited.


(vi) Operating a generator or audio device, such as a radio, deck or compact disc player, within a designated off-road motor vehicle area during quiet hours is prohibited. During the hours of permitted operation, generators must be adequately muffled and not create excessive noise as defined in 36 CFR 2.12(a)(1).


(vii) Operating a motor vehicle within a posted “vehicle-free” zone is prohibited.


(viii) Operating an OHV under the age of 18 without a helmet is prohibited.


(6) *Superintendent's authority.* (i) The superintendent may close or reopen designated areas or routes to motor vehicle use, or impose conditions or restrictions on the use of off-road motor vehicles after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, lake levels, and other management activities and objectives.


(ii) The superintendent will provide public notice of all such actions through one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7 of this chapter.


(iii) Violating any such closure, condition, or restriction is prohibited.


(iv) The superintendent may suspend or revoke an existing permit, and may deny future applications for an off-road motor vehicle permit, based upon violations of any such closure, condition, or restriction.



---

[N] [32 FR 5424, Mar. 31, 1967, as amended at 33 FR 11358, Aug. 9, 1968; 34 FR 2206, Feb. 14, 1969; 34 FR 11302, July 8, 1969; 36 FR 23294, Dec. 8, 1971; 40 FR 27030, June 26, 1975; 41 FR 27723, July 6, 1976; 42 FR 25857, May 20, 1977; 48 FR 30295, June 30, 1983; 68 FR 55465, Sept. 26, 2003; 72 FR 13706, Mar. 23, 2007; 86 FR 3813, Jan. 15, 2021; 86 FR 9289, Feb. 12, 2021]




