# ยง 88.22   Reimbursement for medical treatment and services.

(a) *Review of claims.* Each claim for reimbursement for treatment will be reviewed by the WTC Health Program. Claims that cannot be validated by that process will be further assessed by the Administrator of the WTC Health Program.


(b) *Initial health evaluations, medical monitoring, and medically necessary treatment.* (1) The costs incurred by a CCE or NPN-affiliated provider for providing a WTC Health Program member an initial health evaluation, medical monitoring, and/or medically necessary treatment or services for a WTC-related health condition or a health condition medically associated with a WTC-related health condition will be reimbursed according to the payment rates that apply to the provision of such treatment and services under the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA), 5 U.S.C. 8101 *et seq.,* 20 CFR part 10.


(i) The Administrator will reimburse a CCE or NPN-affiliated provider for treatment for which FECA rates have not been established pursuant to the applicable Medicare fee for service rate, as determined appropriate by the Administrator.


(ii) The Administrator will reimburse a CCE or NPN-affiliated provider for treatment for which neither FECA nor Medicare fee for service rates have been established, at rates as determined appropriate by the Administrator.


(2) If the treatment is determined not to be medically necessary or is inconsistent with WTC Health Program protocols, the Administrator will withhold reimbursement.


(c) *Outpatient prescription pharmaceuticals.* Payment for costs of medically necessary outpatient prescription pharmaceuticals for a WTC-related health condition or health condition medically associated with a WTC-related health condition will be reimbursed by the WTC Health Program under a contract with one or more pharmaceutical benefit management services.




