# ยง 411.111   Frequency and scope of audits.

(a) Within three years of February 22, 2016, each care provider facility that houses UCs will be audited at least once; and during each three-year period thereafter.


(b) ORR may expedite an audit if it believes that a particular care provider facility may be experiencing problems related to sexual abuse or sexual harassment.


(c) ORR must develop and issue an instrument that is coordinated with the HHS Office of the Inspector General that will provide guidance on the conduct and contents of the audit.


(d) The auditor must review all relevant ORR-wide policies, procedures, reports, internal and external audits, and licensing requirements for each care provider facility type.


(e) The audits must review, at a minimum, a sampling of relevant documents and other records and other information for the most recent one-year period.


(f) The auditor must have access to, and must observe, all areas of the audited care provider facilities.


(g) ORR and the care provider facility must provide the auditor with the relevant documentation to complete a thorough audit of the care provider facility.


(h) The auditor must retain and preserve all documentation (including, e.g., videotapes and interview notes) relied upon in making audit determinations. Such documentation must be provided to ORR upon request.


(i) The auditor must interview a representative sample of UCs and staff, and the care provider facility must make space available suitable for such interviews.


(j) The auditor must review a sampling of any available video footage and other electronically available data that may be relevant to the provisions being audited.


(k) The auditor must be permitted to conduct private interviews with UCs.


(l) UCs must be permitted to send confidential information or correspondence to the auditor.


(m) Auditors must attempt to solicit input from community-based or victim advocates who may have insight into relevant conditions in the care provider facility.


(n) All sensitive and confidential information provided to auditors will include appropriate designations and limitations on further dissemination. Auditors must follow appropriate procedures for handling and safeguarding such information.


(o) Care provider facilities bear the affirmative burden on demonstrating compliance with the standards to the auditor.




