# § 1.21003   Competitive bidding process.

(a) *Public Notice of Competitive Bidding Procedures.* Detailed competitive bidding procedures shall be established by public notice prior to the commencement of competitive bidding any time competitive bidding is conducted pursuant to this subpart.


(b) *Competitive Bidding Procedures—Design Options.* The public notice detailing competitive bidding procedures may establish the design of the competitive bidding utilizing any of the following options, without limitation:


(1) *Procedures for Collecting Bids.* (i) Procedures for collecting bids in a single round or in multiple rounds.


(ii) Procedures for collecting bids on an item-by-item basis, or using various aggregation specifications.


(iii) Procedures for collecting bids that specify contingencies linking bids on the same item and/or for multiple items.


(iv) Procedures allowing for bids that specify a support level, indicate demand at a specified support level, or provide other information as specified by the Commission.


(v) Procedures to collect bids in one or more stage or stages, including for transitions between stages.


(2) *Procedures for Assigning Winning Bids.* (i) Procedures for scoring bids by factors in addition to bid amount, such as population coverage or geographic contour, or other relevant measurable factors.


(ii) Procedures to incorporate public interest considerations into the process for assigning winning bids.


(3) *Procedures for Determining Payments.* (i) Procedures to determine the amount of any support for which winning bidders may become authorized, consistent with other auction design choices.


(ii) Procedures that provide for support amounts based on the amount as bid or on other pricing rules, either uniform or discriminatory.


(c) *Competitive Bidding Procedures—Mechanisms.* The public notice detailing competitive bidding procedures may establish any of the following mechanisms, without limitation:


(1) *Limits on Available Information.* Procedures establishing limits on the public availability of information regarding applicants, applications, and bids during a period of time covering the competitive bidding process, as well as procedures for parties to report the receipt of non-public information during such periods.


(2) *Sequencing.* Procedures establishing one or more groups of eligible areas and if more than one, the sequence of groups for which bids will be accepted.


(3) *Reserve Price.* Procedures establishing reserve prices, either disclosed or undisclosed, above which bids would not win in the auction. The reserve prices may apply individually, in combination, or in the aggregate.


(4) *Timing and Method of Placing Bids.* Procedures establishing methods and times for submission of bids, whether remotely, by telephonic or electronic transmission, or in person.


(5) *Opening Bids and Bid Increments.* Procedures establishing maximum or minimum opening bids and, by announcement before or during the auction, maximum or minimum bid increments in dollar or percentage terms.


(6) *Withdrawals.* Procedures by which bidders may withdraw bids, if withdrawals are allowed.


(7) *Stopping Procedures.* Procedures regarding when bidding will stop for a round, a stage, or an entire auction, in order to terminate the auction within a reasonable time and in accordance with public interest considerations and the goals, statutory requirements, rules, and procedures for the auction, including any reserve price or prices.


(8) *Activity Rules.* Procedures for activity rules that require a minimum amount of bidding activity.


(9) *Auction Delay, Suspension, or Cancellation.* Procedures for announcing by public notice or by announcement during the reverse auction, delay, suspension, or cancellation of the auction in the event of a natural disaster, technical obstacle, network disruption, evidence of an auction security breach or unlawful bidding activity, administrative or weather necessity, or for any other reason that affects the fair and efficient conduct of the competitive bidding, and procedures for resuming the competitive bidding starting from the beginning of the current or some previous round or cancelling the competitive bidding in its entirety.


(d) *Apportioning Package Bids.* If the public notice establishing detailed competitive bidding procedures adopts procedures for bidding for support on combinations or packages of geographic areas, the public notice also shall establish a methodology for apportioning such bids among the geographic areas within the combination or package for purposes of implementing any Commission rule or procedure that requires a discrete bid for support in relation to a specific geographic area.


(e) *Public Notice of Competitive Bidding Results.* After the conclusion of competitive bidding, a public notice shall identify the winning bidders that may apply for the offered universal service support and the amount(s) of support for which they may apply, and shall detail the application procedures.



---

[N] [76 FR 73851, Nov. 29, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 15449, Mar. 28, 2017]




