# ยง 122.54   Aircraft of foreign registry.

(a) *Application.* For any commercial aircraft of foreign registry arriving in the U.S., the aircraft commander or agent shall file for an international traffic permit when the aircraft;


(1) Is not an imported article; and


(2) Is ferried (proceeds carrying neither passengers nor cargo) from the airport of first arrival to one or more airports in the U.S. (For permit to proceed with residue cargo, passengers, or crewmembers for discharge in the U.S., see subpart I of this part).


(b) *International traffic permit.* The international traffic permit shall be filed on Customs Form 7507 by the carrier or its agent. Customs Form 7509 may be used if the aircraft arrives directly from Canada on a flight beginning in Canada and ending in the U.S. Either form shall show the following information and must be approved by the appropriate Customs officer:


(1) Type of aircraft;


(2) Nationality and registration number of aircraft;


(3) Name and country of aircraft manufacturer;


(4) Name of aircraft commander;


(5) Country from which aircraft arrived;


(6) Name and location of airport where international traffic permit is issued;


(7) Date international traffic permit is issued;


(8) Name and location of airport to which aircraft is proceeding;


(9) Purpose of stay in the U.S.;


(10) Signature of Customs officer giving permit.


(c) *Permit on board.* The international traffic permit shall be kept on board the aircraft while in the U.S.


(d) *Intermediate airports.* For each airport at which the aircraft lands, the Customs officer, or airport manager if there is no Customs officer present, shall note the following information on the permit:


(1) Name and location of the airport;


(2) Date and arrival time;


(3) Purpose of the visit;


(4) Name and location of the next airport to be visited; and


(5) Date and time of departure.


(e) *Final airport.* The international traffic permit shall be given to the Customs officer in charge at the airport of final clearance for a foreign destination. Before clearance is given, the Customs officer shall make sure that the aircraft was properly inspected by Customs in the U.S.


(f) *Port of issue.* The international traffic permit shall be returned after final clearance to the director of the port where the permit was issued, to be kept on file.


(g) *Enforcement.* Once the permit to proceed has been issued for an aircraft, the director of the port of issue must receive notice that the aircraft has made final clearance. If notice is not received within 60 days, the port director shall report the matter to the Customs agent in charge of the area for investigation.




