# § 1215.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Confidential supervisory information* means information prepared or received by FHFA that meets all of the following criteria:


(1) The information is not a document prepared by a regulated entity or the Office of Finance for its own business purposes that is in its possession;


(2) The information is exempt from the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 (1966); and


(3) The information:


(i) Consists of reports of examination, inspection and visitation, confidential operating and condition reports, and any information derived from, related to, or contained in such reports, or


(ii) Is gathered by FHFA in the course of any investigation, suspicious activity report, cease-and-desist order, civil money penalty enforcement order, suspension, removal or prohibition order, or other supervisory or enforcement orders or actions taken under the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 4501 *et seq.*

(4) The inclusion of the term “confidential” within the definition of “confidential supervisory information” is not intended to invoke the meaning of “confidential,” as that term is used in Executive Order No. 13526, December 29, 2009 (75 FR 707 (Jan. 5, 2010) (President's order on the classification of National Security Information). Confidential supervisory information is used in part 1215 to refer to the distinct category of information defined in § 1215.3. FHFA used the word “confidential” within the label for this category of information simply to be consistent with the manner in which federal banking agencies refer to similar or identical types of information.


*Demand* means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production of records, information, or testimony that is issued in a legal proceeding.


*Employee* means:


(1) Any current or former officer or employee of FHFA or of FHFA-OIG;


(2) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of FHFA who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for FHFA; and


(3) Any individual who has served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to FHFA, whether formal or informal.


*Federal Home Loan Bank* means a bank established under the authority of 12 U.S.C. 1423(a).


*FHFA* means the Federal Housing Finance Agency including the FHFA-OIG.


*FHFA Counsel* means an attorney in FHFA's Office of General Counsel.


*General Counsel* means FHFA's General Counsel or a person within FHFA's Office of General Counsel to whom the General Counsel has delegated responsibilities under this part.


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.


*Produce* means provide, disclose, expose, or grant access to.


*Records or information* means, regardless of the person or entity in possession:


(1) All documents and materials that are FHFA agency records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552;


(2) All other documents and materials contained in FHFA files; and


(3) All other information or materials acquired by an FHFA employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status, including confidential supervisory information.


*Regulated entity* has the same meaning as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 4502(20). For this regulation's purposes, “regulated entity” also includes:


(1) The Office of Finance; and


(2) Any current or former director, officer, employee, contractor or agent of a regulated entity.


*Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, in connection with a legal proceeding, seeking production of records, information, or testimony that has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, and recorded interviews made by an individual about FHFA information in connection with a legal proceeding.




