# ยง 60-30.24   Participation by interested persons.

(a)(1) To the extent that proceedings hereunder involve employment of persons covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and compliance may necessitate a revision of such agreement, any labor organization which is a signatory to the agreement shall have the right to participate as a party. 


(2) Other persons or organizations shall have the right to participate as parties if the final Administrative order could adversely affect them or the class they represent, and such participation may contribute materially to the proper disposition of the proceedings. 


(3) Any person or organization wishing to participate as a party under this section shall file with the Administrative Law Judge and serve on all parties a petition within 25 days after the commencement of the action or at such other time as ordered by the Administrative Law Judge, so long as it does not disrupt the proceeding. Such petition shall concisely state: (i) Petitioner's interest in the proceedings; (ii) who will appear for petitioner; (iii) the issues on which petitioner wishes to participate; and (iv) whether petitioner intends to present witnesses. 


(4) The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether each petitioner has the requisite interest in the proceedings and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. Where petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interest, the Administrative Law Judge may request all such petitioners to designate a single representative to represent all such petitioners: *Provided,* That the representative of a labor organization qualifying to participate under paragraph (a)(1) of the section must be permitted to participate in the proceedings. The Administrative Law Judge shall give each petitioner written notice of the decision on his petition; and if the petition is denied, he shall briefly state the grounds for denial and shall then treat the petition as a request for participation as amicus curiae. The Administrative Law Judge shall give written notice to each party of each petition granted. 


(b)(1) Any other interested person or organization wishing to participate as amicus curiae shall file a petition before the commencement of the final hearing with the Administrative Law Judge. Such petition shall concisely state: (i) The petitioner's interest in the hearing; (ii) who will represent the petitioner; and (iii) the issues on which petitioner intends to present argument. The Administrative Law Judge may grant the petition if he finds that the petitioner has a legitimate interest in the proceedings, and that such participation may contribute materially to the proper disposition of the issues. An amicus curiae is not a party but may participate as provided in this section. 


(2) An amicus curiae may present a brief oral statement at the hearing at the point in the proceeding specified by the Administrative Law Judge. He may submit a written statement of position to the Administrative Law Judge prior to the beginning of a hearing and shall serve a copy on each party. He may also submit a brief or written statement at such time as the parties submit briefs and exceptions, and he shall serve a copy on each party.



---

[N] [43 FR 49259, Oct. 20, 1978; 43 FR 51401, Nov. 3, 1978] 




