# § 75.22   Reference test methods.

(a) The owner or operator shall use the following methods, which are found in appendices A-1 through A-4 to part 60 of this chapter, to conduct the following tests: Monitoring system tests for certification or recertification of continuous emission monitoring Systems; NO_X_ emission tests of low mass emission units under § 75.19(c)(1)(iv); NO_X_ emission tests of excepted monitoring systems under appendix E to this part; and required quality assurance and quality control tests:


(1) Methods 1 or 1A are the reference methods for selection of sampling site and sample traverses.


(2) Method 2 or its allowable alternatives, as provided in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, except for Methods 2B and 2E, are the reference methods for determination of volumetric flow.


(3) Methods 3, 3A, or 3B are the reference methods for the determination of the dry molecular weight O_2_ and CO_2_ concentrations in the emissions.


(4) Method 4 (either the standard procedure described in section 8.1 of the method or the moisture approximation procedure described in section 8.2 of the method) shall be used to correct pollutant concentrations from a dry basis to a wet basis (or from a wet basis to a dry basis) and shall be used when relative accuracy test audits of continuous moisture monitoring systems are conducted. For the purpose of determining the stack gas molecular weight, however, the alternative wet bulb-dry bulb technique for approximating the stack gas moisture content described in section 2.2 of Method 4 may be used in lieu of the procedures in sections 8.1 and 8.2 of the method.


(5) Methods 6, 6A, 6B or 6C, and 7, 7A, 7C, 7D or 7E in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter, as applicable, are the reference methods for determining SO_2_ and NO_X_ pollutant concentrations. (Methods 6A and 6B in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter may also be used to determine SO_2_ emission rate in lb/mmBtu.) Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter must be used to measure total NO_X_ emissions, both NO and NO_2_, for purposes of this part. The owner or operator shall not use the following sections, exceptions, and options of method 7E in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter:


(i) Section 7.1 of the method allowing for use of prepared calibration gas mixtures that are produced in accordance with method 205 in Appendix M of 40 CFR Part 51;


(ii) The sampling point selection procedures in section 8.1 of the method, for the emission testing of boilers and combustion turbines under appendix E to this part. The number and location of the sampling points for those applications shall be as specified in sections 2.1.2.1 and 2.1.2.2 of appendix E to this part;


(iii) Paragraph (3) in section 8.4 of the method allowing for the use of a multi-hole probe to satisfy the multipoint traverse requirement of the method;


(iv) Section 8.6 of the method allowing for the use of “Dynamic Spiking” as an alternative to the interference and system bias checks of the method. Dynamic spiking may be conducted (optionally) as an additional quality assurance check; and


(v) That portion of Section 8.5 of the method allowing multiple sampling runs to be conducted before performing the post-run system bias check or system calibration error check.


(6) Method 3A in appendix A-2 and method 7E in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter are the reference methods for determining NO_X_ and diluent emissions from stationary gas turbines for testing under appendix E to this part.


(b) The owner or operator may use any of the following methods, which are found in appendices A-1 through A-4 to part 60 of this chapter, as a reference method backup monitoring system to provide quality-assured monitor data:


(1) Method 3A for determining O_2_ or CO_2_ concentration;


(2) Method 6C for determining SO_2_ concentration;


(3) Method 7E for determining total NO_X_ concentration (both NO and NO_2_); 


(4) Method 2, or its allowable alternatives, as provided in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, except for Methods 2B and 2E, for determining volumetric flow. The sample point(s) for reference methods shall be located according to the provisions of section 6.5.5 of appendix A to this part.


(c)(1) Instrumental EPA Reference Methods 3A, 6C, and 7E in appendices A-2 and A-4 of part 60 of this chapter shall be conducted using calibration gases as defined in section 5 of appendix A to this part. Otherwise, performance tests shall be conducted and data reduced in accordance with the test methods and procedures of this part unless the Administrator: 


(i) Specifies or approves, in specific cases, the use of a reference method with minor changes in methodology;


(ii) Approves the use of an equivalent method; or


(iii) Approves shorter sampling times and smaller sample volumes when necessitated by process variables or other factors.


(2) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to abrogate the Administrator's authority to require testing under Section 114 of the Act.



---

[N] [58 FR 3701, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 26528, May 17, 1995; 64 FR 28600, May 26, 1999; 67 FR 40433, June 12, 2002; 67 FR 53505, Aug. 16, 2002; 70 FR 28679, May 18, 2005; 73 FR 4345, Jan. 24, 2008; 76 FR 17310, Mar. 28, 2011]




