# § 41.23   Listing of security futures products for trading.

(a) *Initial listing of products for trading.* To list new security futures products for trading, a designated contract market shall submit to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters, either in electronic or hard-copy form, to be received by the Commission no later than the day prior to the initiation of trading, a filing that:


(1) Is labeled “Listing of Security Futures Product;”


(2) Includes a copy of the product's rules, including its terms and conditions;


(3) Includes the certifications required by § 41.22;


(4) Includes a certification that the terms and conditions of the contract comply with the additional conditions for trading of § 41.25;


(5) If the board of trade is a designated contract market pursuant to section 5 of the Act, it includes a certification that the security futures product complies with the Act and rules thereunder; and


(6) Includes a copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in appendix D of part 40.


(7) Includes a request for confidential treatment as permitted under the procedures of § 40.8.


(b) *Voluntary submission of security futures products for Commission approval.* A designated contract market may request that the Commission approve any security futures product under the procedures of § 40.5 of this chapter, *provided however,* that the registered entity shall include the certification required by § 41.22 with its submission under § 40.5 of this chapter. Notice designated contract markets may not request Commission approval of security futures products.



---

[N] [66 FR 55083, Nov. 1, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 67507, Nov. 18, 2004; 74 FR 17394, Apr. 15, 2009; 77 FR 66344, Nov. 2, 2012]




