# § 96.206   Standard requirements.

(a) *Permit requirements.* (1) The CAIR designated representative of each CAIR SO_2_ source required to have a title V operating permit and each CAIR SO_2_ unit required to have a title V operating permit at the source shall:


(i) Submit to the permitting authority a complete CAIR permit application under § 96.222 in accordance with the deadlines specified in § 96.221; and


(ii) Submit in a timely manner any supplemental information that the permitting authority determines is necessary in order to review a CAIR permit application and issue or deny a CAIR permit.


(2) The owners and operators of each CAIR SO_2_ source required to have a title V operating permit and each CAIR SO_2_ unit required to have a title V operating permit at the source shall have a CAIR permit issued by the permitting authority under subpart CCC of this part for the source and operate the source and the unit in compliance with such CAIR permit.


(3) Except as provided in subpart III of this part, the owners and operators of a CAIR SO_2_ source that is not otherwise required to have a title V operating permit and each CAIR SO_2_ unit that is not otherwise required to have a title V operating permit are not required to submit a CAIR permit application, and to have a CAIR permit, under subpart CCC of this part for such CAIR SO_2_ source and such CAIR SO_2_ unit.


(b) *Monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements.* (1) The owners and operators, and the CAIR designated representative, of each CAIR SO_2_ source and each CAIR SO_2_ unit at the source shall comply with the monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of subpart HHH of this part.


(2) The emissions measurements recorded and reported in accordance with subpart HHH of this part shall be used to determine compliance by each CAIR SO_2_ source with the CAIR SO_2_ emissions limitation under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Sulfur dioxide emission requirements.* (1) As of the allowance transfer deadline for a control period, the owners and operators of each CAIR SO_2_ source and each CAIR SO_2_ unit at the source shall hold, in the source's compliance account, a tonnage equivalent in CAIR SO_2_ allowances available for compliance deductions for the control period, as determined in accordance with § 96.254(a) and (b), not less than the tons of total sulfur dioxide emissions for the control period from all CAIR SO_2_ units at the source, as determined in accordance with subpart HHH of this part.


(2) A CAIR SO_2_ unit shall be subject to the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the control period starting on the later of January 1, 2010 or the deadline for meeting the unit's monitor certification requirements under § 96.270(b)(1), (2), or (5) and for each control period thereafter.


(3) A CAIR SO_2_ allowance shall not be deducted, for compliance with the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for a control period in a calendar year before the year for which the CAIR SO_2_ allowance was allocated.


(4) CAIR SO_2_ allowances shall be held in, deducted from, or transferred into or among CAIR SO_2_ Allowance Tracking System accounts in accordance with subparts FFF, GGG, and III of this part.


(5) A CAIR SO_2_ allowance is a limited authorization to emit sulfur dioxide in accordance with the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program. No provision of the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program, the CAIR permit application, the CAIR permit, or an exemption under § 96.205 and no provision of law shall be construed to limit the authority of the State or the United States to terminate or limit such authorization.


(6) A CAIR SO_2_ allowance does not constitute a property right.


(7) Upon recordation by the Administrator under subpart FFF, GGG, or III of this part, every allocation, transfer, or deduction of a CAIR SO_2_ allowance to or from a CAIR SO_2_ source's compliance account is incorporated automatically in any CAIR permit of the source.


(d) *Excess emissions requirements*— If a CAIR SO_2_ source emits sulfur dioxide during any control period in excess of the CAIR SO_2_ emissions limitation, then:


(1) The owners and operators of the source and each CAIR SO_2_ unit at the source shall surrender the CAIR SO_2_ allowances required for deduction under § 96.254(d)(1) and pay any fine, penalty, or assessment or comply with any other remedy imposed, for the same violations, under the Clean Air Act or applicable State law; and


(2) Each ton of such excess emissions and each day of such control period shall constitute a separate violation of this subpart, the Clean Air Act, and applicable State law.


(e) *Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.* (1) Unless otherwise provided, the owners and operators of the CAIR SO_2_ source and each CAIR SO_2_ unit at the source shall keep on site at the source each of the following documents for a period of 5 years from the date the document is created. This period may be extended for cause, at any time before the end of 5 years, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator.


(i) The certificate of representation under § 96.213 for the CAIR designated representative for the source and each CAIR SO_2_ unit at the source and all documents that demonstrate the truth of the statements in the certificate of representation; provided that the certificate and documents shall be retained on site at the source beyond such 5-year period until such documents are superseded because of the submission of a new certificate of representation under § 96.213 changing the CAIR designated representative.


(ii) All emissions monitoring information, in accordance with subpart HHH of this part, provided that to the extent that subpart HHH of this part provides for a 3-year period for recordkeeping, the 3-year period shall apply.


(iii) Copies of all reports, compliance certifications, and other submissions and all records made or required under the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program.


(iv) Copies of all documents used to complete a CAIR permit application and any other submission under the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program or to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program.


(2) The CAIR designated representative of a CAIR SO_2_ source and each CAIR SO_2_ unit at the source shall submit the reports required under the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program, including those under subpart HHH of this part.


(f) *Liability.* (1) Each CAIR SO_2_ source and each CAIR SO_2_ unit shall meet the requirements of the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program.


(2) Any provision of the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program that applies to a CAIR SO_2_ source or the CAIR designated representative of a CAIR SO_2_ source shall also apply to the owners and operators of such source and of the CAIR SO_2_ units at the source.


(3) Any provision of the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program that applies to a CAIR SO_2_ unit or the CAIR designated representative of a CAIR SO_2_ unit shall also apply to the owners and operators of such unit.


(g) *Effect on other authorities.* No provision of the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program, a CAIR permit application, a CAIR permit, or an exemption under § 96.205 shall be construed as exempting or excluding the owners and operators, and the CAIR designated representative, of a CAIR SO_2_ source or CAIR SO_2_ unit from compliance with any other provision of the applicable, approved State implementation plan, a federally enforceable permit, or the Clean Air Act.



---

[N] [70 FR 25362, May 12, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 25388, Apr. 28, 2006; 71 FR 74794, Dec. 13, 2006]




