# § 63.94   Approval of State permit terms and conditions that substitute for a section 112 rule.

Under this section a State may seek approval of State permit terms and conditions to be implemented and enforced in lieu of specified existing and future Federal section 112 rules, emission standards, or requirements promulgated under section 112, for those affected sources permitted by the State under part 70 of this chapter. The State may not seek approval under this section for permit terms and conditions that implement and enforce part 68 requirements. 


(a) *Up-front approval process.* (1) A State must submit a request that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. After receiving a complete request for approval of a State program under this section and making a preliminary determination of equivalence, the Administrator will seek public comment for 21 days through a _Federal Register_ notice. The Administrator will require that comments be submitted concurrently to the State. 


(2) If, after review of all public comments, and State responses to comments submitted to the Administrator, the Administrator finds that the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section and the criteria of § 63.91 are met, the Administrator will approve the State program. The approved program will be published in the _Federal Register_ and incorporated directly or by reference in the appropriate subpart of part 63. 


(3) If the Administrator finds that any of the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section or § 63.91 have not been met, the Administrator will partially approve or disapprove the State program. For any partial approvals or disapprovals, the Administrator will provide the State with the basis for the partial approval or disapproval and what action the State can take to make the programs approvable. 


(4) Within 90 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this section, the Administrator will either approve, partially approve, or disapprove the State request. 


(b) *Criteria for up-front approval.* Any request for program approval under this section shall meet all of the criteria of this paragraph and § 63.91 before approval. The State shall provide the Administrator with: 


(1)(i) To the extent possible, an identification of all specific sources in source categories listed pursuant to subsection 112(c) for which the State is seeking authority to implement and enforce alternative requirements under this section; 


(ii) If the identified sources in any source category comprise a subset of the sources in that category within the State's jurisdiction, the State shall request delegation for the remainder of the sources in that category that are required to be permitted by the State under part 70 of this chapter. The State shall request delegation for the remainder of the sources in that category under another section of this subpart. 


(iii) Prior to submitting a request for one or more sources within a source category, the State shall consult with their EPA Regional Office regarding the number of sources in a category eligible for submittal under this option. Based on the Regional Office's decision, the State shall limit the number of sources for which it submits permit requirements. 


(2) To the extent possible, an identification of all existing and future section 112 emission standards for which the State is seeking authority under this section to implement and enforce alternative requirements. 


(3) If, after approval of the initial list of source categories identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the State adds source categories for approval under this option, the State shall submit an addendum to the up-front approval submission, and identify the addition to the lists. The Administrator will follow the process outlined in paragraph (a) of this section for up-front approval. 


(4) A one-time demonstration that the State has an approved title V operating permit program and that the program permits the affected sources. 


(c) *Approval process for alternative requirements.* (1) After promulgation of a Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement for which the State has up-front approval to implement and enforce alternative requirements in the form of title V permit terms and conditions, the State shall provide the Administrator with pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions that are sufficient, in the Administrator's judgement, to allow the Administrator to determine equivalency. The permit terms and conditions shall reflect all of the requirements of the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. 


(2) [Reserved] 


(3) If, the Administrator receives a complete request and finds the pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions submitted by the State meet the criteria of paragraph (d), the Administrator will approve the State's alternative requirements (by approving the pre-draft permit terms and conditions) and notify the State in writing of the approval. 


(4) The Administrator may approve the State's alternative requirements on the condition that the State makes certain changes to the pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions and includes the changes in the complete pre-draft, proposed, and final title V permits for the affected sources. If the Administrator approves the alternative requirements on the condition that the State makes certain changes to them, the State shall make those changes or the alternative requirements will not be federally enforceable when they are included in the final permit, even if the Administrator does not object to the proposed permit. Until the Administrator affirmatively approves the State's alternative requirements (by approving the pre-draft permit terms and conditions) under this paragraph, and those requirements (permit terms) are incorporated into the final title V permit for any affected source, the otherwise applicable Federal emission standard(s) remain the federally enforceable and applicable requirements for that source. 


(5) If, after evaluating the pre-draft title V permit terms and conditions that were submitted by the State, the Administrator finds that the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section have not been met, the Administrator will disapprove the State's alternative requirements and notify the State in writing of the disapproval. In the notice of disapproval, the Administrator will specify the deficient or nonapprovable elements of the State's alternative requirements. 


(6) Within 90 days of receiving a complete request for approval under this paragraph, the Administrator will either approve, partially approve, or disapprove the State's alternative requirements. 


(7) Nothing in this section precludes the State from submitting alternative requirements in the form of title V permit terms and conditions or title V general permit terms and conditions for approval under this paragraph at the same time the State submits its program to the Administrator for up-front approval under paragraph (a) of this section, provided that the Federal emission standards for which the State submits alternative requirements are promulgated at the time of the State's submittal. If the Administrator finds that the criteria of § 63.91 and the criteria of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section are met, the Administrator will approve both the State program and the permit terms and conditions within 90 days of receiving a complete request for approval. 


(d) *Approval criteria for alternative requirements.* Any request for approval under this paragraph shall meet the following criteria. Taken together, the criteria in this paragraph describe the minimum contents of a State's equivalency demonstration for a promulgated Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. To be approvable, the State submittal must contain sufficient detail to allow the Administrator to make a determination of equivalency between the State's alternative requirements and the Federal requirements. Each submittal of alternative requirements in the form of pre-draft permit terms and conditions for an affected source shall: 


(1) Identify the specific, practicably enforceable terms and conditions with which the source would be required to comply upon issuance, renewal, or revision of the title V permit. The State shall submit permit terms and conditions that reflect all of the requirements of the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. The State shall identify for the Administrator the specific permit terms and conditions that contain alternative requirements. 


(2) Identify specifically how the alternative requirements in the form of permit terms and conditions are the same as or differ from the requirements in the otherwise applicable Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement (including any applicable requirements in subpart A or other subparts or appendices). The State shall provide this identification in a side-by-side comparison of the State's requirements in the form of permit terms and conditions and the requirements of the Federal section 112 rule, emission standard, or requirement. 


(3) The State shall provide the Administrator with detailed documentation that demonstrates that the alternative requirements meet the criteria specified in § 63.93(b), i.e., that the alternative requirements are at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable Federal requirements. 


(e) *Incorporation of permit terms and conditions into title V permits.* (1) After approval of the State's alternative requirements under this section, the State shall incorporate the approved permit terms and conditions into title V permits for the affected sources. The State shall issue or revise the title V permits according to the provisions contained in § 70.7 of this chapter. The alternative permit terms and conditions may substitute for the Federal requirements once they are contained in a valid title V permit. If the State does not write the alternative conditions, exactly as approved, into the permit, EPA may reopen the permit for cause per § 70.7(g) of this chapter, and the delegation may not occur. 


(2) In the notice of pre-draft permit availability, and in each pre-draft, proposed, and final permit, the State shall indicate prominently that the permit contains alternative section 112 requirements. In the notice of pre-draft permit availability, the State shall specifically solicit public comment on the alternative requirements. In addition, the State shall attach all documents supporting the approved equivalency determination for those alternative requirements to each pre-draft, proposed, and final permit. 



---

[N] [65 FR 55841, Sept. 14, 2000]




