# § 21.8120   Vocational training, services, and assistance.

(a) *Purposes.* An eligible child may receive training, services, and assistance to enable the child to prepare for and participate in vocational training or employment. 


(b) *Training permitted.* VA and the child will select vocationally oriented courses of study and training, completion of which usually results in a diploma, certificate, degree, qualification for licensure, or direct placement in employment. The educational and training services to be provided include: 


(1) Remedial, deficiency, and refresher training; and 


(2) Training that leads to an identifiable vocational goal. Under this program, VA may authorize all forms of programs that §§ 21.122 through 21.132 describe. This includes education and training programs in institutions of higher education. VA may authorize the education and training at an undergraduate or graduate degree level, only if the degree program is predominantly vocational in nature. For an eligible child to participate in a graduate degree program, the graduate degree must be a requirement for entry into the child's vocational goal. For example, a master's degree is required to engage in social work. The program of training is predominantly vocational in content if the majority of the instruction provides the technical skills and knowledge employers generally regard as specific to, and required for, entry into the child's vocational goal. 


(c) *Cost of education and training services.* The CP or VRC will consider the cost of training in selecting a facility when: 


(1) There is more than one facility in the area in which the child resides that: 


(i) Meets the requirements for approval under §§ 21.290 through 21.298 (except as provided by § 21.8286(b)),


(ii) Can provide the training, services and other supportive assistance the child's individualized written plan of vocational rehabilitation specifies, and 


(iii) Is within reasonable commuting distance; or 


(2) The child wishes to train at a suitable facility in another area, even though a suitable facility in the area where the child lives can provide the training. In considering the costs of providing training in this case, VA will use the provisions of § 21.120 (except 21.120(a)(3)), § 21.370 (however, the words “under § 21.282” in § 21.370(b)(2)(iii)(B) do not apply), and § 21.372 in a manner comparable to that for veterans under the 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 program. 


(d) *Accessible courses not locally available.* If suitable vocational training courses are not available in the area in which the child lives, or if they are available but not accessible to the child, VA may make other arrangements. These arrangements may include, but are not limited to: 


(1) Transportation of the child, but not the child's family, personal effects, or household belongings, to another area where necessary services are available; or 


(2) Use of an individual instructor to provide necessary training in a manner comparable to that for veterans under the 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 program, as § 21.146 describes. 


