# ยง 426.550   Mandatory provisions of the Board's decision.

(a) *Findings.* The Board's decision must include one of the following: 


(1) A determination that the provision of the NCD is valid under the reasonableness standard. 


(2) A determination that the provision of the NCD is not valid under the reasonableness standard. 


(3) A statement dismissing the complaint regarding the NCD, and a rationale for the dismissal. 


(4) A determination that the LCD or NCD record is complete and adequate to support the validity of the LCD or NCD provisions under the reasonableness standard. 


(b) *Other information.* The Board's decision must include all of the following: 


(1) The date of issuance. 


(2) The docket number of the NCD review. 


(3) A statement as to whether the aggrieved party has filed a claim for the service(s) named in the complaint, the date(s)-of-service, and the disposition, if known. 


(4) A basis for concluding that the NCD was or was not valid based on the application of the reasonableness standard to the record before the Board, including CMS': 


(i) Findings of fact. 


(ii) Interpretations of law. 


(iii) Applications of fact to law. 


(5) A summary of the evidence reviewed. Where proprietary or privileged data were submitted under seal, the decision must state whether the data were material and what role they played in the determination, but without disclosing the substance or contents of the evidence under seal. A separate statement of the rationale for the Board's treatment of the sealed evidence must be prepared and kept under seal itself. If the Board decision is appealed to the court, this statement must be provided to the court, under seal. 


(6) A statement regarding the right to judicial review. 




