# ยง 1263.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) and section 5 of Reese's Law (Notes to 15 U.S.C. 2056e), the following definitions apply for purposes of this part:


*Button cell or coin battery* means:


(1) A single cell battery with a diameter greater than the height of the battery; or


(2) Any other battery, regardless of the technology used to produce an electrical charge, that is determined by the Commission to pose an ingestion hazard.


*Consumer product containing button cell or coin batteries* means a consumer product containing or designed to use one or more button cell or coin batteries, regardless of whether such batteries are intended to be replaced by the consumer or are included with the product or sold separately.


*Ingestion hazard* means a hazard caused by a person swallowing or inserting a button cell or coin battery into their body whereby:


(1) The button cell or coin battery can become lodged in the digestive tract or airways; and


(2) Can potentially cause death or serious injury through choking, generation of hazardous chemicals, leaking of hazardous chemicals, electrical burns, pressure necrosis, or other means.




*Principal display panel* means the display panel for a retail package of button cell or coin batteries that is most likely to be displayed, shown, presented, or examined under normal or customary conditions of display for retail sale. The principal display panel is typically the front of the package.


*Secondary display panel* means a display panel for a retail package of button cell or coin batteries that is opposite or next to the principal display panel. The secondary display panel is typically the rear or side panels of the package.





---

[N] [88 FR 65295, Sept. 21, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 65303, Sept. 21, 2023]












