# ยง 80.11   Project eligibility.

(a) *Voluntary participation.* Eligible acquisition projects are those where the property owner participates voluntarily, and the recipient/subrecipient will not use its eminent domain authority to acquire the property for the open space purposes should negotiations fail.


(b) *Acquisition of improved properties.* Eligible properties are those with at-risk structures on the property, including those that are damaged or destroyed due to an event. In some cases, undeveloped, at-risk land adjacent to an eligible property with existing structures may be eligible.


(c) *Subdivision restrictions.* The land may not be subdivided prior to acquisition except for portions outside the identified hazard area, such as the Special Flood Hazard Area or any risk zone identified by FEMA.


(d) *Subapplicant property interest.* To be eligible, the subapplicant must acquire or retain fee title (full property interest), except for encumbrances FEMA determines are compatible with open space uses, as part of the project implementation. A pass through of funds from an eligible entity to an ineligible entity must not occur.


(e) *Hazardous materials.* Eligible properties include only those that are not contaminated with hazardous materials, except for incidental demolition and household hazardous waste.


(f) *Open space restrictions.* Property acquired or from which a structure is removed must be dedicated to and maintained as open space in perpetuity consistent with this part.



---

[N] [72 FR 61743, Oct. 31, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 47481, Sept. 16, 2009; 86 FR 50671, Sept. 10, 2021]




