# § 11.4   To whom does this part apply?

(a) This part applies to the responsible party for an applicable clinical trial that is required to be registered under § 11.22, a clinical trial for which clinical trial registration information or clinical trial results information is submitted voluntarily in accordance with § 11.60, or an applicable clinical trial that is required by the Director to have clinical trial information submitted to protect the public health under § 11.62.


(b) The responsible party must communicate the identity and contact information of the responsible party to the Director by submitting the Responsible Party, by Official Title and Responsible Party Contact Information data elements under § 11.28(a)(2)(iii)(B) and (a)(2)(iv)(F) as part of the clinical trial information submitted at the time of registration. Changes must be communicated to the Director by updating information in accordance with § 11.64(a).


(c) *Determination of responsible party.* For purposes of this part, each applicable clinical trial or other clinical trial must have one responsible party. With respect to a clinical trial, the sponsor of the clinical trial will be considered the responsible party unless and until a principal investigator has been designated the responsible party, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. With respect to a pediatric postmarket surveillance of a device product that is not a clinical trial, the responsible party is the entity that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), under section 522 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 3601), orders to conduct the pediatric postmarket surveillance of a device product.


(1) *Determination of sponsor.* For purposes of this part, each applicable clinical trial or other clinical trial must have one sponsor.


(i) When an applicable clinical trial or other clinical trial is conducted under an investigational new drug application (IND) or investigational device exemption (IDE), the IND or IDE holder will be considered the sponsor.


(ii) When an applicable clinical trial or other clinical trial is not conducted under an IND or IDE, the single person or entity who initiates the trial, by preparing and/or planning the trial, and who has authority and control over the trial, will be considered the sponsor.


(2) *Designation of a principal investigator as the responsible party.*

(i) The sponsor may designate a principal investigator as the responsible party if such principal investigator meets all of the following requirements:


(A) Is responsible for conducting the trial;


(B) Has access to and control over the data from the trial;


(C) Has the right to publish the results of the trial; and


(D) Has the ability to meet all of the requirements for submitting and updating clinical trial information as specified in this part.


(ii) With regard to an applicable clinical trial or other clinical trial, a designation by the sponsor under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section shall consist of the sponsor obtaining from the principal investigator an acknowledgment of the principal investigator's responsibilities under this part as responsible party, and the principal investigator acknowledging the designation as responsible party to the Director in the format specified at *https://clinicaltrials.gov* or successor site.


(3) *Withdrawal of the designation of a principal investigator as the responsible party.*

In the event that a principal investigator who has been designated the responsible party no longer meets or is no longer able to meet all the requirements for being so designated under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the sponsor must withdraw the designation in the format specified at *https://clinicaltrials.gov* or successor site at which time the sponsor will be considered the responsible party unless and until the sponsor makes a new designation in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.





---

[N] [81 FR 65138, Sept. 21, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 97559, Dec. 9, 2024]




