# § 18.33   Motions and other papers.

(a) *In general.* A request for an order must be made by motion. The motion must:


(1) Be in writing, unless made during a hearing;


(2) State with particularity the grounds for seeking the order;


(3) State the relief sought;


(4) Unless the relief sought has been agreed to by all parties, be accompanied by affidavits, declarations, or other evidence; and


(5) If required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section, include a memorandum of points and authority supporting the movant's position.


(b) *Form.* The rules governing captions and other matters of form apply to motions and other requests.


(c) *Written motion before hearing.* (1) A written motion before a hearing must be served with supporting papers, at least 21 days before the time specified for the hearing, with the following exceptions:


(i) When the motion may be heard ex parte;


(ii) When these rules or an appropriate statute, regulation, or executive order set a different time; or


(iii) When an order sets a different time.


(2) A written motion served within 21 days before the hearing must state why the motion was not made earlier.


(3) A written motion before hearing must state that counsel conferred, or attempted to confer, with opposing counsel in a good faith effort to resolve the motion's subject matter, and whether the motion is opposed or unopposed. A statement of consultation is not required with pro se litigants or with the following motions:


(i) To dismiss;


(ii) For summary decision; and


(iii) Any motion filed as “joint,” “agreed,” or “unopposed.”


(4) Unless the motion is unopposed, the supporting papers must include affidavits, declarations or other proof to establish the factual basis for the relief. For a dispositive motion and a motion relating to discovery, a memorandum of points and authority must also be submitted. A judge may direct the parties file additional documents in support of any motion.


(d) *Opposition or other response to a motion filed prior to hearing.* A party to the proceeding may file an opposition or other response to the motion within 14 days after the motion is served. The opposition or response may be accompanied by affidavits, declarations, or other evidence, and a memorandum of the points and authorities supporting the party's position. Failure to file an opposition or response within 14 days after the motion is served may result in the requested relief being granted. Unless the judge directs otherwise, no further reply is permitted and no oral argument will be heard prior to hearing.


(e) *Motions made at hearing.* A motion made at a hearing may be stated orally unless the judge determines that a written motion or response would best serve the ends of justice.


(f) *Renewed or repeated motions.* A motion seeking the same or substantially similar relief previously denied, in whole or in part, must include the following information:


(1) The earlier motion(s),


(2) When the respective motion was made,


(3) The judge to whom the motion was made,


(4) The earlier ruling(s), and


(5) The basis for the current motion.


(g) *Motion hearing.* The judge may order a hearing to take evidence or oral argument on a motion.



---

[N] [80 FR 28785, May 19, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 37539, July 1, 2015]




