# § 955.15   Certification.

(a) *Processing of application.* (1) Upon receiving an application for an OSM blaster certificate OSM shall:


(i) Notify the applicant of the receipt of, and of any deficiency in, the application.


(ii) Where applicable, notify the applicant that his or her request for admission to a scheduled examination either is granted or denied.


(2) When OSM determines that an applicant has failed to qualify for an OSM blaster certificate, OSM shall reject his or her application and notify him or her accordingly.


(b) *Grant of certificate.* OSM shall:


(1) Issue or reissue an OSM blaster certificate to any qualified applicant who completes the applicable training, passes the examination, and is found by OSM to be competent and to have the necessary knowledge and experience to accept responsibility for blasting operations;


(2) Renew one time the issued or reissued OSM blaster certificate of any qualified applicant;


(3) Replace the OSM blaster certificate of any qualified applicant who presents satisfactory evidence that his or her certificate was lost or destroyed;


(4) Grant an OSM blaster certificate through reciprocity as provided in § 955.16; or


(5) Reinstate a suspended, or reissue a revoked OSM blaster certificate as provided in § 955.17(e).


(c) *Term of certificate.* OSM shall grant an OSM blaster certificate for a term to expire as follows:


(1) Issuance—3 years after issue date;


(2) Renewal—3 years after expiration date of applicant's current or expired certificate;


(3) Reissuance—3 years after expiration date of applicant's current or expired certificate;


(4) Replacement—same expiration date as replaced certificate; or


(5) Reciprocity—60 days after expiration date of corresponding State certificate.


(d) *Limits on renewal.* (1) OSM shall not renew an OSM blaster certificate more than 1 time. A blaster who seeks to extend a renewed certificate may apply to OSM for certificate reissuance.


(2) OSM shall not renew an OSM blaster certificate that expired more than 1 year prior to the date of an application for renewal. An applicant who desires to extend a certificate that expired more than 1 year prior to the date of his or her application may apply to OSM for certificate reissuance.


(e) *Temporary certificate.* Upon request of an applicant who demonstrates that his or her current OSM blaster certificate is about to expire, or expired within 30 days prior to the date of his or her application, for reasons beyond his or her control, OSM may issue a non-renewable temporary OSM blaster certificate for a maximum term of 90 days.


(f) *Conditions of certification.* Any person who holds an OSM blaster certificate shall comply with the conditions specified in §§ 850.15 (d) and (e) of this chapter.


(g) *Change of address.* Any person who holds an OSM blaster certificate shall notify OSM in writing within 30 days of any change in his or her address.




