# ยง 412.264   Evidence and comments in MGCRB proceeding.

(a) *Submission by the parties.* Before a decision is issued and during an oral hearing, the parties may present evidence or comments to the MGCRB regarding the matters at issue in the case.


(b) *Content of evidence and comments.* The MGCRB may receive evidence and comments without regard for the rules of evidence applicable to court procedures.


(c) *Ex parte communications.* (1) The members of the MGCRB and its staff may not consult or be consulted by an individual representing the interests of an applicant hospital or by any other individual on any matter in issue before the MGCRB without notice to the hospital or CMS. If such communication occurs, the MGCRB will disclose it to the hospital or CMS, as appropriate, and make it part of the record after the hospital or CMS has had an opportunity to comment. MGCRB members and staff may not consider any information outside the record about matters concerning a hospital's application for reclassification.


(2) The provisions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section do not apply to the following:


(i) Communications among MGCRB members and staff.


(ii) Communications concerning the MGCRB's administrative functions or procedures.


(iii) Requests from the MGCRB to a party or CMS for a document.


(iv) Material that the MGCRB includes in the record after notice and an opportunity to comment.


(d) *MGCRB rulings on evidence and comments.* The MGCRB rules upon the admissibility of evidence and comments and excludes irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence and comments.




