# § 60.5391c   What GHG standards apply to associated gas wells at well designated facilities?

(a) You must comply with either paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section for each associated gas well, except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. You must also comply with paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section.


(1) Recover the associated gas from the separator and route the recovered gas into a gas gathering flow line or collection system to a sales line.


(2) Recover the associated gas from the separator and use the recovered gas as an onsite fuel source.


(3) Recover the associated gas from the separator and use the recovered gas for another useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve.


(4) Recover the associated gas from the separator and reinject the recovered gas into the well or inject the recovered gas into another well.


(b) If you meet one of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section, you may route the associated gas to a control device that reduces methane emissions by at least 95.0 percent instead of complying with paragraph (a) of this section. The associated gas must be routed through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411c(a) and (c) and the control device must meet the conditions specified in § 60.5412c(a), (b), and (c).


(1) If the annual methane contained in the associated gas from your oil well is 40 tons per year or less at the initial compliance date, determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) If you demonstrate and certify that it is not feasible to comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section due to technical reasons by providing a detailed analysis documenting and certifying the technical reasons for this infeasibility in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) In order to demonstrate that it is not feasible to comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section, you must provide a detailed analysis documenting and certifying the technical reasons for this infeasibility. The demonstration must address the technical infeasibility for all options identified in (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section. Documentation of these demonstrations must be maintained in accordance with § 60.5420c(c)(2)(iv).


(ii) This demonstration must be certified by a professional engineer or another qualified individual with expertise in the uses of associated gas. The following certification, signed and dated by the qualified professional engineer or other qualified individual shall state: “I certify that the assessment of technical and safety infeasibility was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the assessment was conducted, and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of § 60.5391c(b)(2). Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete.”


(iii) This demonstration and certification are valid for no more than 12 months. You must re-analyze the feasibility of complying with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section and finalize a new demonstration and certification each year.


(iv) Documentation of these demonstrations, along with the certifications, must be maintained in accordance with § 60.5420c(c)(2)(iv) and submitted in annual reports in accordance with § 60.5420c(b)(3).


(c) If you are complying with paragraph (a) of this section, you may temporarily route the associated gas to a flare or control device in the situations and for the durations identified in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section. The associated gas must be routed through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411c(a) and (c) and the control device must meet the conditions specified in § 60.5412c. If you are routing to a flare, you must demonstrate that the § 60.18 flare requirements are met during the period when the associated gas is routed to the flare. Records must be kept of all temporary flaring instances in accordance with § 60.5420c(c)(2) and reported in the annual report in accordance with § 60.5420c(b)(3).


(1) For equal to or less than 24 hours during a deviation caused by malfunction causing the need to flare.


(2) For equal to or less than 24 hours during repair, maintenance including blow downs, a bradenhead test, a packer leakage test, a production test, or commissioning.


(3) For wells complying with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for the duration of a temporary interruption in service from the gathering or pipeline system, or 30 days, whichever is less.


(4) For 72 hours from the time that the associated gas does not meet pipeline specifications, or until the associated gas meets pipeline specifications, whichever is less.


(d) If you are complying with paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, you may vent the associated gas in the situations and for the durations identified in paragraphs (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. Records must be kept of all venting instances in accordance with § 60.5420c(c)(2) and reported in the annual report in accordance with § 60.5420c(b)(3).


(1) For up to 12 hours to protect the safety of personnel.


(2) For up to 30 minutes during bradenhead monitoring.


(3) For up to 30 minutes during a packer leakage test.


(e) Calculate the methane content in associated gas as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and comply with paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section.


(1) Calculate the methane content in associated gas from your oil well using the following equation


(2) You must maintain records of the calculation of the methane in associated gas from your oil well results in accordance with § 60.5420c(c)(2), and submit the information, as well as the background information, in the next annual report in accordance with § 60.5420c(b)(3).


(3) If a process change occurs that could increase the methane content in the associated gas, you must recalculate the methane content in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(f) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards that apply to associated gas wells at well designated facilities as required by § 60.5410c(b).


(g) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to associated gas wells at well designated facilities as required by § 60.5415c(b).


(h) You must perform the recordkeeping and reporting as required by § 60.5420c(b)(1), (3), and (10) through (12), as applicable, and § 60.5420c(c)(2) and (7) and (9) through (12), as applicable.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62919, Aug. 1, 2024]






