# § 60.165   Monitoring of operations.

(a) The owner or operator of any primary copper smelter subject to § 60.163 (b) shall keep a monthly record of the total smelter charge and the weight percent (dry basis) of arsenic, antimony, lead and zinc contained in this charge. The analytical methods and procedures employed to determine the weight of the total smelter charge and the weight percent of arsenic, antimony, lead and zinc shall be approved by the Administrator and shall be accurate to within plus or minus ten percent. 


(b) The owner or operator of any primary copper smelter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install and operate: 


(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of gases discharged into the atmosphere from any dryer. The span of this system shall be set at 80 to 100 percent opacity. 


(2) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record sulfur dioxide emissions discharged into the atmosphere from any roaster, smelting furnace or copper converter subject to § 60.163 (a). The span of this system shall be set at a sulfur dioxide concentration of 0.20 percent by volume. 


(i) The continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c) shall be completed prior to the initial performance test required under § 60.8.


(ii) For the purpose of the continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c) the reference method referred to under the Relative Accuracy Test Procedure in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part shall be Method 6. For the performance evaluation, each concentration measurement shall be of one hour duration. The pollutant gas used to prepare the calibration gas mixtures required under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B, and for calibration checks under § 60.13 (d), shall be sulfur dioxide. 


(c) Six-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations shall be calculated and recorded daily for the four consecutive 6-hour periods of each operating day. Each six-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic mean of the appropriate six contiguous one-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations provided by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (b) of this section. 


(d) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as follows: 


(1) *Opacity.* Any six-minute period during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (b) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.164(a). 


(2) *Sulfur dioxide.* All six-hour periods during which the average emissions of sulfur dioxide, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (b) of this section, exceed the level of the standard. The Administrator will not consider emissions in excess of the level of the standard for less than or equal to 1.5 percent of the six-hour periods during the quarter as indicative of a potential violation of § 60.11(d) provided the affected facility, including air pollution control equipment, is maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions during these periods. Emissions in excess of the level of the standard during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction are not to be included within the 1.5 percent.



---

[N] [41 FR 2338, Jan. 15, 1976; 41 FR 8346, Feb. 26, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 57126, Nov. 1, 1977; 48 FR 23611, May 25, 1983; 54 FR 6668, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000] 




