# ยง 169.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Security holder.* (1) The term *security holder* means any person having the right to vote in the affairs of a savings association by virtue of:


(i) Ownership of any security of the association or


(ii) Any indebtedness to the association.


(2) For purposes of this part, the term *security holder* shall include any account holder having the right to vote in the affairs of a mutual savings association.


(b) *Person.* The term *person* includes, in addition to natural persons, corporations, partnerships, pension funds, profit-sharing funds, trusts, and any other group of associated persons of whatever nature.


(c) *Proxy.* The term *proxy* includes every form of authorization by which a person is, or may be deemed to be, designated to act for the security holder in the exercise of his or her voting rights in the affairs of a savings association. Such an authorization may take the form of failure to dissent or object.


(d) *Solicit; solicitation.* (1) The terms *solicit* and *solicitation* refer to:


(i) Any request for a proxy whether or not accompanied by or included in a form of proxy;


(ii) Any request to execute, not execute, or revoke a proxy; or


(iii) The furnishing of a form of proxy or other communication to security holders under circumstances reasonably calculated to result in the procurement, withholding, or revocation of a proxy.


(2) The terms do not apply, however, to the furnishing of a form of proxy to a security holder upon the request of such security holder or to the performance by any person of ministerial acts on behalf of a person soliciting a proxy.




