# § 1.1502-79   Separate return years.

(a) *Carryover and carryback of consolidated net operating losses to separate return years.* For rules regarding the carryover and carryback of consolidated net operating losses to separate return years, *see* § 1.1502-21(b).


(b) *Carryover and carryback of consolidated net capital loss to separate return years.* For rules regarding the carryover and carryback of consolidated net capital losses to separate return years, *see* § 1.1502-22(b).


(c) *Carryover and carryback of consolidated unused investment credit to separate return years*—(1) *In general.* If a consolidated unused investment credit can be carried under the principles of section 46(b) and paragraph (b) of § 1.1502-3 to a separate return year of a corporation (or could have been so carried if such corporation were in existence) which was a member of the group in the year in which such unused credit arose, then the portion of such consolidated unused credit attributable to such corporation (as determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) shall be apportioned to such corporation (and any successor to such corporation in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies) under the principles of § 1.1502-21(b) (or §§ 1.1502-79A(a)(1) and (2), as appropriate) and shall be an investment credit carryover or carryback to such separate return year.


(2) *Portion of consolidated unused investment credit attributable to a member*—(i) *Investment credit carryback.* In the case of a consolidated unused credit which is an investment credit carryback, the portion of such consolidated unused credit attributable to a member of the group is an amount equal to such consolidated unused credit multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the credit earned of such member for the consolidated unused credit year, and the denominator of which is the consolidated credit earned for such unused credit year.


(ii) *Investment credit carryover.* In the case of a consolidated unused credit which is an investment credit carryover, the portion of such consolidated unused credit attributable to a member of the group is an amount equal to such consolidated unused credit multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the credit earned with respect to any section 38 property placed in service in the consolidated unused credit year and owned by such member (whether or not placed in service by such member) at the close of the last day as of which the taxable income of such member is included in a consolidated return filed by the group, and the denominator of which is the consolidated credit earned for such unused credit year.


(d) *Carryover and carryback of consolidated unused foreign tax*—(1) *In general.* If a consolidated unused foreign tax can be carried under the principles of section 904(c) and § 1.1502-4(d) to a separate return year of a corporation (or could have been so carried if such corporation were in existence) that was a member of the group in the year in which the unused foreign tax arose, then the portion of the consolidated unused foreign tax attributable to the corporation (as determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section) is apportioned to the corporation (and any successor to that corporation in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies) under the principles of § 1.1502-21(b) and is deemed paid or accrued in such separate return year to the extent provided in section 904(c).


(2) *Portion of consolidated unused foreign tax attributable to a member.* The portion of a consolidated unused foreign tax for any year attributable to a member is an amount equal to the consolidated unused foreign tax multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the foreign taxes paid or accrued by the member for the year (including those taxes deemed paid or accrued, other than by reason of section 904(c)). The denominator of the fraction is the aggregate of all such taxes paid or accrued for the year (including those taxes deemed paid or accrued, other than by reason of section 904(c)) by all members of the group.




(e) *Carryover of consolidated excess charitable contributions to separate return years*—(1) *In general.* If the consolidated excess charitable contributions for any taxable year can be carried under the principles of section 170(b)(2) and § 1.1502-24(b) to a separate return year of a corporation (or could have been so carried if such corporation were in existence) which was a member of the group in the year in which such excess contributions arose, then the portion of such consolidated excess charitable contributions attributable to such corporation (as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) is apportioned to such corporation (and any successor to such corporation in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies) under the principles of § 1.1502-21(b) and is a charitable contribution carryover to such separate return year.


(2) *Portion of consolidated excess charitable contributions attributable to a member.* The portion of the consolidated excess charitable contributions for any year attributable to a member is an amount equal to the consolidated excess contributions multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the charitable contributions paid by the member for the year. The denominator of the fraction is the aggregate of all charitable contributions paid for the year by all members of the group.


(f) *Disallowed business interest expense carryforwards.* For the treatment of disallowed business interest expense carryforwards (as defined in § 1.163(j)-1(b)(11)) of a member arising in a separate return limitation year, see § 1.163(j)-5(d) and (f).



---

[N] [T.D. 6894, 31 FR 11794, Sept. 8, 1966, as amended by T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980; T.D. 8294, 55 FR 9438, Mar. 14, 1990; T.D. 8319, 55 FR 49038, Nov. 26, 1990; T.D. 8364, 56 FR 47402, Sept. 19, 1991; T.D. 8597, 60 FR 36710, July 18, 1995; T.D. 8677, 61 FR 33324, 33325, 33334, June 27, 1996; T.D. 8823, 64 FR 36100, July 2, 1999; T.D. 9905, 85 FR 56843, Sept. 14, 2020; T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106876, Dec. 30, 2024]




