# ยง 26.3   Prohibitions.

(a) *Community.* A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same community. 


(b) *RMSA.* A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same RMSA and each depository organization has total assets of $50 million or more. 


(c) *Major assets.* A management official of a depository organization with total assets exceeding $10 billion (or any affiliate of such an organization) may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization with total assets exceeding $10 billion (or any affiliate of such an organization), regardless of the location of the two depository organizations. The OCC will adjust these thresholds, as necessary, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, with rounding to the nearest $100 million. The OCC will announce the revised thresholds by publishing a final rule without notice and comment in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [61 FR 40300, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 51678, Sept. 24, 1999; 72 FR 1276, Jan. 11, 2007; 84 FR 54471, Oct. 10, 2019]




