# § 1102.305   Publicly available records.

(a) *Records available on the ASCs World Wide Web site*—(1) Discretionary release of documents. The ASC encourages the public to explore the wealth of resources available on the ASC's Internet World Wide Web site, located at: *http://www.asc.gov.* The ASC has elected to publish a broad range to materials on its Web site.


(2) *Documents required to be made available via computer telecommunications.* (i) The following types of documents created on or after November 1, 1996, and required to be made available through computer telecommunications, may be found on the ASC's Internet World Wide Web site located at: *http://www.asc.gov:*

(A) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, as well as final orders, made in the adjudication of cases;


(B) Statements of policy and interpretations adopted by the ASC that are not published in the _Federal Register_;


(C) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;


(D) Copies of all records (regardless of form or format), such as correspondence relating to field reviews or other regulatory subjects, released to any person under § 1102.306 that, because of the nature of their subject matter, the ASC has determined are likely to be the subject of subsequent requests;


(E) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D) of this section.


(ii) To the extent permitted by law, the ASC may delete identifying details when it makes available or publishes any records. If reduction is necessary, the ASC will, to the extent technically feasible, indicate the amount of material deleted at the place in the record where such deletion is made unless that indication in and of itself will jeopardize the purpose for the redaction.


(b) *Types of written communications.* The following types of written communications shall be subject to paragraph (a) of this section:


(1) The ASC's annual report to Congress;


(2) All final opinions and orders made in the adjudication of cases;


(3) All statements of general policy not published in the _Federal Register._

(4) Requests for the ASC or its staff to provide interpretive advice with respect to the meaning or application of any statute administered by the ASC or any rule or regulation adopted thereunder and any ASC responses thereto;


(5) Requests for a statement that, on the basis of the facts presented in such a request, the ASC would not take any enforcement action pertaining to the facts as represented and any ASC responses thereto: and


(6) Correspondence between the ASC and a State appraiser regulatory agency arising out of the ASC's field review of the State agency's appraiser regulatory program.


(c) *Applicable fees.* (1) If applicable, fees for furnishing records under this section are as set forth in § 1102.306(e).


(2) Information on the ASC's World Wide Web site is available to the public without charge. If, however, information available on the ASC's World Wide Web site is provided pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request processed under g 1102.306 then fees apply and will be assessed pursuant to § 1102.306(e).



---

[N] [59 FR 1902, Jan. 13, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 72497, Dec. 28, 1999]




