# ยง 261.50   Orders.

(a) The Chief, each Regional Forester, each Experiment Station Director, the head of each administrative unit, their deputies, or persons acting in these positions may issue orders, consistent with their delegations of authority, that close or restrict the use of described areas by applying the prohibitions authorized in this subpart, individually or in combination.


(b) The Chief, each Regional Forester, each Experiment Station Director, the head of each administrative unit, their deputies, or persons acting in these positions may issue orders, consistent with their delegations of authority, that close or restrict the use of any National Forest System road or National Forest System trail.


(c) Each order shall:


(1) For orders issued under paragraph (a) of this section, describe the area to which the order applies;


(2) For orders issued under paragraph (b) of this section, describe the road or trail to which the order applies;


(3) Specify the times during which the prohibitions apply if applied only during limited times;


(4) State each prohibition which is applied; and


(5) Be posted in accordance with ยง 261.51.


(d) The prohibitions which are applied by an order are supplemental to the general prohibitions in Subpart A.


(e) An order may exempt any of the following persons from any of the prohibitions contained in the order:


(1) Persons with a permit specifically authorizing the otherwise prohibited act or omission.


(2) Owners or lessees of land in the area;


(3) Residents in the area;


(4) Any Federal, State, or local officer, or member of an organized rescue or fire fighting force in the performance of an official duty; and


(5) Persons engaged in a business, trade, or occupation in the area.


(6) Any other person meeting exemption requirements specified in the order.


(f) Any person wishing to use a National Forest System road or trail or a portion of the National Forest System, should contact the Forest Supervisor, Director, Administrator, or District Ranger to ascertain the special restrictions which may be applicable thereto.



---

[N] [42 FR 2957, Jan. 14, 1977; 42 FR 24739, May 16, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 35959, July 13, 1977; 46 FR 33521, June 30, 1981; 66 FR 3218, Jan. 12, 2001; 89 FR 92816, Nov. 25, 2024]




