# § 607.24   How does the Secretary use an applicant's performance under a previous development grant when awarding a development grant?

(a)(1) In addition to evaluating an application under the selection criteria in § 607.22, the Secretary evaluates an applicant's performance under any previous development grant awarded under the Strengthening Institutions Program that expired within five years of the year when the development grant will begin.


(2) The Secretary evaluates whether the applicant fulfilled, or is making substantial progress toward fulfilling, the goals and objectives of the previous grant, including, but not limited to, the applicant's success in institutionalizing practices developed and improvements made under the grant.


(3) The Secretary bases the evaluation of the applicant's performance on information contained in—


(i) Performance and evaluation reports submitted by the applicant;


(ii) Audit reports submitted on behalf of the applicant; and


(iii) Other information obtained by the Secretary, including reports prepared by the Department.


(b) If the Secretary initially determines that the applicant did not fulfill the goals and objectives of a previous grant or is not making substantial progress towards fulfilling those goals and objectives, the Secretary affords the applicant the opportunity to respond to that initial determination.


(c) If the Secretary determines that the applicant did not fulfill the goals and objectives of a previous grant or is not making substantial progress towards fulfilling those goals and objectives, the Secretary may—


(1) Decide not to fund the applicant; or


(2) Fund the applicant but impose special grant terms and conditions, such as specific reporting and monitoring requirements.



---

[N] [59 FR 41925, Aug. 15, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 70155, Dec. 15, 1999]




