# § 5.81   General.

(a) *Application.* The labeling practices, statements, and representations in this subpart may be used on distilled spirits labels only when used in compliance with this subpart. In addition, if any of the practices, statements, or representations in this subpart are used elsewhere on containers or in packaging, they must comply with the requirements of this subpart. For purposes of this subpart:


(1) The term “label” includes all labels on distilled spirits containers on which mandatory information may appear, as set forth in § 5.61(a), as well as any other label on the container.


(2) The term “container” includes all parts of the distilled spirits container, including any part of a distilled spirits container on which mandatory information may appear, as well as those parts of the container on which information does not satisfy mandatory labeling requirements, as set forth in § 5.61(b).


(3) The term “packaging” includes any carton, case, carrier, individual covering or other packaging of such containers used for sale at retail, but does not include shipping cartons or cases that are not intended to accompany the container to the consumer.


(b) *Statement or representation.* For purposes of the practices in this subpart, the term “statement or representation” includes any statement, design, device, or representation, and includes pictorial or graphic designs or representations as well as written ones. The term “statement or representation” includes explicit and implicit statements and representations.


