# § 238.92   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Affiliate.* (1) The term *affiliate* has the meaning given in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201). For purposes of that section 202, shares held by an individual include shares held by members of his or her immediate family. “Immediate family” means spouse, mother, father, child, grandchild, sister, brother, or any of their spouses, whether or not any of their shares are held in trust.


(2) For purposes of section 202(3)(B) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(3)(B)), an affiliate relationship involving a savings and loan holding company based on common ownership does not exist if the Board determines, after giving the affected persons the opportunity to respond, that the asserted affiliation was established in order to avoid the prohibitions of the Interlocks Act and does not represent a true commonality of interest between the depository organizations. In making this determination, the Board considers, among other things, whether a person, including members of his or her immediate family, whose shares are necessary to constitute the group owns a nominal percentage of the shares of one of the organizations and the percentage is substantially disproportionate to that person's ownership of shares in the other organization.


(b) *Area median income* means:


(1) The median family income for the metropolitan statistical area (MSA), if a depository organization is located in an MSA; or


(2) The statewide nonmetropolitan median family income, if a depository organization is located outside an MSA.


(c) *Community* means a city, town, or village, and contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages.


(d) *Contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages* means cities, towns, or villages whose borders touch each other or whose borders are within 10 road miles of each other at their closest points. The property line of an office located in an unincorporated city, town, or village is the boundary line of that city, town, or village for the purpose of this definition.


(e) *Depository holding company* means a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company (as more fully defined in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201)) having its principal office located in the United States.


(f) *Depository institution* means a commercial bank (including a private bank), a savings bank, a trust company, a savings and loan association, a building and loan association, a homestead association, a cooperative bank, an industrial bank, or a credit union, chartered under the laws of the United States and having a principal office located in the United States. Additionally, a United States office, including a branch or agency, of a foreign commercial bank is a depository institution.


(g) *Depository institution affiliate* means a depository institution that is an affiliate of a depository organization.


(h) *Depository organization* means a depository institution or a depository holding company.


(i) *Low- and moderate-income areas* means census tracts (or, if an area is not in a census tract, block numbering areas delineated by the United States Bureau of the Census) where the median family income is less than 100 percent of the area median income.


(j) *Management official.* (1) The term *management official* means:


(i) A director;


(ii) An advisory or honorary director of a depository institution with total assets of $100 million or more;


(iii) A senior executive officer as that term is defined in § 225.71(c) of this chapter;


(iv) A branch manager;


(v) A trustee of a depository organization under the control of trustees; and


(vi) Any person who has a representative or nominee serving in any of the capacities in this paragraph (j)(1).


(2) The term *management official* does not include:


(i) A person whose management functions relate exclusively to the business of retail merchandising or manufacturing;


(ii) A person whose management functions relate principally to the business outside the United States of a foreign commercial bank; or


(iii) A person described in the provisos of section 202(4) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(4)) (referring to an officer of a State-chartered savings bank, cooperative bank, or trust company that neither makes real estate mortgage loans nor accepts savings).


(k) *Office* means a principal or branch office of a depository institution located in the United States. *Office* does not include a representative office of a foreign commercial bank, an electronic terminal, or a loan production office.


(l) *Person* means a natural person, corporation, or other business entity.


(m) *Relevant metropolitan statistical area (RMSA)* means an MSA, a primary MSA, or a consolidated MSA that is not comprised of designated Primary MSAs to the extent that these terms are defined and applied by the Office of Management and Budget.


(n) *Representative or nominee* means a natural person who serves as a management official and has an obligation to act on behalf of another person with respect to management responsibilities. The Board will find that a person has an obligation to act on behalf of another person only if the first person has an agreement, express or implied, to act on behalf of the second person with respect to management responsibilities. The Board will determine, after giving the affected persons an opportunity to respond, whether a person is a *representative or nominee.*

(o) *Savings association* means:


(1) Any Federal savings association (as defined in section 3(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2)));


(2) Any state savings association (as defined in section 3(b)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3))) the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and


(3) Any corporation (other than a bank as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(1))) the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, that the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the Currency jointly determine to be operating in substantially the same manner as a savings association.


(p) *Total assets.* (1) The term *total assets* means assets measured on a consolidated basis and reported in the most recent fiscal year-end Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.


(2) The term *total assets* does not include:


(i) Assets of a diversified savings and loan holding company as defined by section 10(a)(1)(F) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(1)(F)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate;


(ii) Assets of a bank holding company that is exempt from the prohibitions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 pursuant to an order issued under section 4(d) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(d)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate; or


(iii) Assets of offices of a foreign commercial bank other than the assets of its United States branch or agency.


(3) *Temporary relief for 2020 and 2021.* Notwithstanding paragraph (p)(1) of this section, from December 2, 2020, through December 31, 2021, for purposes of this subpart J, the term *total assets,* with respect to a depository organization, means the lesser of assets of the depository organization reported on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2019, and assets reported on a consolidated basis as of the end of the most recent fiscal year. The relief provided under this paragraph (p)(3) does not apply to a depository organization if the Board determines that permitting the depository organization to determine its assets in accordance with that paragraph would not be commensurate with the risk profile of the depository organization. When making this determination, the Board will consider all relevant factors, including the extent of asset growth of the depository organization since December 31, 2019; the causes of such growth, including whether growth occurred as a result of mergers or acquisitions; whether such growth is likely to be temporary or permanent; whether the depository organization has become involved in any additional activities since December 31, 2019; the asset size of any parent companies; and the type of assets held by the depository organization. In making a determination pursuant to this paragraph (p)(3), the Board will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 263.202.


(q) *United States* means the United States of America, any State or territory of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.



---

[N] [Reg. LL, 76 FR 56532, Sept. 13, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 77363, Dec. 2, 2020]




