# § 841.702   Definitions.

In this subpart—


*Annuity supplement* means the benefit under subpart E of part 842 of this chapter. An *annuity supplement* is only payable to retirees.


*Basic annuity* means the benefits computed under subpart D of part 842 of this chapter and payable to retirees.


*Basic employee death benefit* means the basic employee death benefit as defined in § 843.102 of this chapter.


*Beneficiary of insurable interest annuity* means a person receiving a recurring benefit under FERS that is payable (after the employee's, Members, or retiree's death) to a person designated to receive such an annuity under § 842.605 of this chapter.


*COLA* means a cost-of-living adjustment.


*Combined CSRS/FERS annuity* means the recurring benefit with a CSRS component and a FERS component. A “combined CSRS/FERS annuity” is only payable to a retiree who as an employee elected to transfer to FERS under part 846 of this chapter, who at the time of transfer had at least 5 years of service creditable under CSRS (excluding service that was subject to both social security and partial CSRS deductions), and who was covered by FERS for at least 1 month.


*CSRS* means the Civil Service Retirement System as described in subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code.


*CSRS component* means the portion of a combined CSRS/FERS annuity that is computed under CSRS rules.


*Current spouse annuity* means a current spouse annuity as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter.


*Disability retiree* means a retiree who retired under part 844 of this chapter.


*Effective date* means the date annuities increased by a COLA begin to accrue at the higher rate.


*FERS* means the Federal Employees Retirement System as defined in chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.


*FERS component* means the portion of a combined CSRS/FERS annuity computed under FERS rules.


*Former spouse annuity* means a former spouse annuity as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter.


*Initial monthly rate* means the monthly annuity rate that a retiree (other than a disability retiree) is entitled to receive at the time of retirement (as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter).


*Percentage change* means the percent change in the price index as defined in section 8462(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code.


*Retiree* means a retiree as defined in § 842.602 of this chapter.


*Survivor* means a person receiving a current spouse annuity or a former spouse annuity, or the beneficiary of an insurable interest annuity. As used in this subpart, “survivor” does not include a child annuitant.


*Survivor supplement* means the recurring benefit payable to a survivor under § 843.308 of this chapter.




