# § 203.49   Eligibility of adjustable rate mortgages.

A mortgage containing the provisions for periodic adjustments by the mortgagee in the effective rate of interest charged shall be eligible for insurance under this subpart subject to compliance with the additional requirements of this section. This section shall apply only to mortgage loans described under sections 203(b), 203(h) and 203(k) of the National Housing Act. 


(a) *Types of mortgages insurable.* The types of adjustable rate mortgages that are insurable are those for which the interest rate may be adjusted annually by the mortgagee, beginning after one, three, five, seven, or ten years from the date of the mortgagor's first debt service payment.


(b) *Interest-rate index*—(1) *CMT and SOFR indices.* Changes in the interest rate charged on an adjustable rate mortgage must correspond either to changes in the weekly average yield on U.S. Treasury securities, adjusted to a constant maturity of one year (CMT); to the 30-day average Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or a successor administrator); or to an alternative SOFR tenor approved by the Secretary. The Secretary may publish approved SOFR tenors as alternatives to the 30-day average SOFR tenor through notice.


(2) *Transition for existing mortgages indexed to LIBOR.* Mortgages with an existing adjustable interest rate indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) must be transitioned to the spread-adjusted SOFR replacement index approved by the Secretary by the next interest rate adjustment date for the mortgage on or after the Replacement Date, which means the first London banking day after June 30, 2023, unless the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System determines that any LIBOR tenor will cease to be published or cease to be representative on a different date. In such case, Replacement Date means the first business day following the date announced by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Notice of the transition to the SOFR replacement index must be sent to the borrower in accordance with the mortgage documents. The Secretary will publish through Mortgagee Letter any additional requirements for the transition of existing mortgages.


(3) *Changes in the mortgage interest rate.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, each change in the mortgage interest rate must correspond to the upward and downward change in the index.


(c) *Amortization provisions.* The mortgage must contain amortization provisions satisfactory to the Secretary, allowing for periodic adjustments in the rate of interest charged corresponding to changes in the interest rate index.


(d) *Frequency of interest rate changes.* (1) The interest rate adjustments must occur annually, calculated from the date of the mortgagor's first debt service payment, except that, for these types of mortgages, the first adjustment shall be no sooner or later than the following:


(i) One-year adjustable rate mortgages—no sooner than 12 months or later than 18 months;


(ii) Three-year adjustable rate mortgages—no sooner than 36 months or later than 42 months;


(iii) Five-year adjustable rate mortgages—no sooner than 60 months or later than 66 months;


(iv) Seven-year adjustable rate mortgages—no sooner than 84 months or later than 90 months; and


(v) Ten-year adjustable rate mortgages—no sooner than 120 months or later than 126 months.


(2) To set the new interest rate, the mortgagee will determine the change between the initial (*i.e.,* base) index figure and the current index figure, or will add a specific margin to the current index figure. The initial index figure shall be the most recent figure available before the date of mortgage loan origination. The current index figure shall be the most recent index figure available 30 days before the date of each interest rate adjustment, except that for forward mortgages originated on or after January 10, 2015, 30 days shall mean 45 days.


(e) *Method of rate changes.* Interest rate changes may only be implemented through adjustments to the mortgagor's monthly payments. 


(f) *Magnitude of changes.* The adjustable rate mortgage initial contract interest rate shall be agreed upon by the mortgagee and the mortgagor. The first adjustment to the contract interest rate shall take place in accordance with the schedule set forth under paragraph (d) of this section. Thereafter, for all adjustable rate mortgages, the adjustment shall be made annually and shall occur on the anniversary date of the first adjustment, subject to the following conditions and limitations:


(1) For one- and three-year adjustable rate mortgages, no single adjustment to the interest rate shall result in a change in either direction of more than one percentage point from the interest rate in effect for the period immediately preceding that adjustment. Index changes in excess of one percentage point may not be carried over for inclusion in an adjustment for a subsequent year. Adjustments in the effective rate of interest over the entire term of the mortgage may not result in a change in either direction of more than five percentage points from the initial contract interest rate.


(2) For five-, seven-, and ten-year adjustable rate mortgages, no single adjustment to the interest rate shall result in a change in either direction of more than two percentage points from the interest rate in effect for the period immediately preceding that adjustment. Index changes in excess of two percentage points may not be carried over for inclusion in an adjustment in a subsequent year. Adjustments in the effective rate of interest over the entire term of the mortgage may not result in a change in either direction of more than six percentage points from the initial contract rate.


(3) At each adjustment date, changes in the index interest rate, whether increases or decreases, must be translated into the adjusted mortgage interest rate, except that the mortgage may provide for minimum interest rate change limitations and for minimum increments of interest rate changes.


(g) *Pre-Loan Disclosure.* The mortgagee is required to make available to the mortgagor, at the time of loan application, a written explanation of the features of an adjustable rate mortgage consistent with the disclosure requirements applicable to variable rate mortgages secured by a principal dwelling under the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*

(h) *Disclosures.* The mortgagee of an adjustable rate mortgage shall provide mortgagors with the disclosures in the timing, content, and format required by the regulations implementing the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) at 12 CFR 1026.20(c) and (d).


(i) *Cross-reference.* Sections 203.21 (level payment amortization provisions) and 203.44 (open-end advances) do not apply to this section. This section does not apply to a mortgage that meets the requirements of §§ 203.18(a)(4) (mortgagors of secondary residences), 203.18(c) (eligible non-occupant mortgagors), 203.18(d) (outlying area properties), 203.43 (miscellaneous type mortgages), 203.43c (mortgages involving a dwelling unit in a cooperative housing development), 203.43d (mortgages in certain communities), 203.43e (mortgages covering houses in federally impacted areas), 203.45 (graduated payment mortgages), or 203.47 (growing equity mortgages).


(j) *Aggregate amount of mortgages insured.* The aggregate number of adjustable rate mortgages insured pursuant to this section and 24 CFR part 234 in any fiscal year may not exceed 30 percent of the aggregate number of mortgages and loans insured by the Secretary under Title II of the National Housing Act during the preceding fiscal year.


(k) *Insurance authority.* Mortgages complying with the requirements of this section shall be insured under this subpart pursuant to section 251 of the National Housing Act.



---

[N] [49 FR 23584, June 6, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 8881, Mar. 18, 1988; 54 FR 111, Jan. 4, 1989; 55 FR 34805, Aug. 24, 1990; 61 FR 36264, July 9, 1996; 69 FR 11501, Mar. 10, 2004; 70 FR 16082, Mar. 29, 2005; 72 FR 40050, July 20, 2007; 79 FR 50840, Aug. 26, 2014; 88 FR 12828, Mar. 1, 2023]




