# ยง 30.3   What do these regulations contain?

This part 30 sets forth the regulations governing administration of all claims that are filed with OWCP, except to the extent specified in certain provisions. Its provisions are intended to assist persons seeking benefits under EEOICPA, as well as personnel in the various federal agencies and DOL who process claims filed under EEOICPA or who perform administrative functions with respect to EEOICPA. The various subparts of this part contain the following:


(a) *Subpart A.* The general statutory and administrative framework for processing claims under both Parts B and E of EEOICPA. It contains a statement of purpose and scope, together with definitions of terms, information regarding the disclosure of OWCP records, and a description of rights and penalties involving EEOICPA claims, including convictions for fraud.


(b) *Subpart B.* The rules for filing claims for entitlement under EEOICPA. It also addresses general standards regarding necessary evidence and the burden of proof, descriptions of basic forms and special procedures for certain cancer claims.


(c) *Subpart C.* The eligibility criteria for occupational illnesses and covered illnesses compensable under Parts B and E of EEOICPA, respectively.


(d) *Subpart D.* The rules governing the adjudication process leading to recommended and final decisions on claims for entitlement filed under Parts B and E of EEOICPA. It also describes the hearing and reopening processes.


(e) *Subpart E.* The rules governing medical care, second opinion and referee medical examinations and impairment evaluations directed by OWCP as part of its adjudication of entitlement, and medical reports and records in general. It also addresses the kinds of medical treatment that may be authorized and how medical bills are paid.


(f) *Subpart F.* The rules relating to the payment of monetary compensation available under Parts B and E of EEOICPA. It includes provisions on medical monitoring for beryllium sensitivity, on the identification, processing and recovery of overpayments of compensation, and on the maximum aggregate amount of compensation payable under Part E.


(g) *Subpart G.* The rules concerning the representation of claimants in connection with the administrative adjudication of claims before OWCP, subrogation of the United States, the effect of tort suits against beryllium vendors and atomic weapons employers, and the coordination of benefits under Part E of EEOICPA with state workers' compensation benefits for the same covered illness.


(h) *Subpart H.* Information for medical providers. It includes rules for medical reports, medical bills, and the OWCP medical fee schedule, as well as the provisions for exclusion of medical providers.


(i) *Subpart I.* The rules relating to the adjudication of alleged periods of wage-loss of covered Part E employees. It also includes provisions on the use by OWCP of Social Security Administration earnings information and certain medical evidence to establish compensable wage-loss.


(j) *Subpart J.* The rules relating to the adjudication of alleged permanent impairment due to the exposure of covered Part E employees to toxic substances. It includes provisions relating to the medical evaluation of ratable impairments, the rating of progressive conditions, and qualifications of physicians.




