# ยง 18.05   Maintenance of books and records.

(a) Every volume threshold account controller; person who owns a volume threshold account; reportable sub-account controller; person who owns a reportable sub-account; and trader who owns, holds, or controls a reportable futures or option position shall keep books and records showing all details concerning all positions and transactions in the commodity or swap:


(1) On all reporting markets;


(2) Executed over the counter or pursuant to part 35 of this chapter; and


(3) On foreign boards of trade.


(b) Every such volume threshold account controller; person who owns a volume threshold account; reportable sub-account controller; person who owns a reportable sub-account; and trader who owns, holds, or controls a reportable futures or option position shall also keep books and records showing all details concerning all positions and transactions in the cash commodity or swap, its products and byproducts, and all commercial activities that it hedges in the futures, option, or swap contract in which it is reportable.


(c) Every volume threshold account controller; person who owns a volume threshold account; reportable sub-account controller; person who owns a reportable sub-account; and trader who owns, holds, or controls a reportable futures or option position shall upon request furnish to the Commission any pertinent information concerning such positions, transactions, or activities in a form acceptable to the Commission.



---

[N] [72 FR 60771, Oct. 26, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 12192, Mar. 23, 2009; 77 FR 66334, Nov. 2, 2012; 78 FR 69259, Nov. 18, 2013; 80 FR 59577, Oct. 2, 2015]




