# ยง 92.50   Formula allocation.

(a) *Jurisdictions eligible for a formula allocation.* HUD will provide allocations of funds in amounts determined by the formula described in this section to units of general local governments that, as of the end of the previous fiscal year, are metropolitan cities, urban counties, or consortia approved under ยง 92.101; and States. 


(b) *Amounts available for allocation; State and local share.* The amount of funds that are available for allocation by the formula under this section is equal to the balance of funds remaining after reserving amounts for insular areas, housing education and organizational support, other support for State and local housing strategies, and other purposes authorized by Congress, in accordance with the Act and appropriations. 


(c) *Formula factors.* The formula for determining allocations uses the following factors. The first and sixth factors are weighted 0.1; the other four factors are weighted 0.2. 


(1) Vacancy-adjusted rental units where the household head is at or below the poverty level. These rental units are multiplied by the ratio of the national rental vacancy rate over a jurisdiction's rental vacancy rate. 


(2) Occupied rental units with at least one of four problems (overcrowding, incomplete kitchen facilities, incomplete plumbing, or high rent costs). *Overcrowding* is a condition that exists if there is more than one person per room occupying the unit. *Incomplete kitchen facilities* means the unit lacks a sink with running water, a range, or a refrigerator. *Incomplete plumbing* means the unit lacks hot and cold piped water, a flush toilet, or a bathtub or shower inside the unit for the exclusive use of the occupants of the unit. *High rent costs* occur when more than 30 percent of household income is used for rent. 


(3) Rental units built before 1950 occupied by poor households. 


(4) Rental units described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section multiplied by the ratio of the cost of producing housing for a jurisdiction divided by the national cost. 


(5) Number of families at or below the poverty level. 


(6) Population of a jurisdiction multiplied by a net per capita income (pci). To compute net pci for a jurisdiction or for the nation, the pci of a three person family at the poverty threshold is subtracted from the pci of the jurisdiction or of the nation. The index is constructed by dividing the national net pci by the net pci of a jurisdiction.


(d) *Calculating formula allocations for units of general local government.* (1) Initial allocation amounts for units of general local government described in paragraph (a) of this section are determined by multiplying the sum of the shares of the six factors in paragraph (c) of this section by 60 percent of the amount available under paragraph (b) of this section for formula allocation. The shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for each jurisdiction over the corresponding factor for the total for all of these units of general local government. 


(2) If any of the initial amounts for such units of general local government in Puerto Rico exceeds twice the national average, on a per rental unit basis, that amount is capped at twice the national average. 


(3) To determine the maximum number of units of general local government that receive a formula allocation, only one jurisdiction (the unit of general local government with the smallest allocation of HOME funds) is dropped from the pool of eligible jurisdictions on each successive recalculation, except that jurisdictions that are participating jurisdictions (other than consortia that fail to renew the membership of all of their member jurisdictions) are not dropped. Then the amount of funds available for units of general local government is redistributed to all others. This recalculation/redistribution continues until all remaining units of general local government receive an allocation of $500,000 or more or are participating jurisdictions. Only units of general local government which receive an allocation of $500,000 or more under the formula or which are participating jurisdictions will be awarded an allocation. In fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion of HOME funds, $335,000 is substituted for $500,000. 


(4) The allocation amounts determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section are reduced by any amounts that are necessary to provide increased allocations to States that have no unit of general local government receiving a formula allocation (see paragraph (e)(4) of this section). These reductions are made on a *pro rata* basis, except that no unit of general local government allocation is reduced below $500,000 (or $335,000 in fiscal years in which Congress appropriates less than $1.5 billion of HOME funds) and no participating jurisdiction allocation which is below this amount is reduced.


(e) *Calculating formula allocations for States.* (1) Forty percent of the funds available for allocation under paragraph (b) of this section are allocated to States. The allocation amounts for States are calculated by determining initial amounts for each State, based on the sum of the shares of the six factors. For 20 percent of the funds to be allocated to States, the shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for the entire State over the corresponding factor for the total for all States. For 80 percent of the funds to be allocated to States, the shares are the ratio of the weighted factor for all units of general local government within the State that do not receive a formula allocation over the corresponding factor for the total for all States. 


(2) If the initial amounts for Puerto Rico (based on either or both the 80 percent of funds or 20 percent of funds calculation) exceed twice the national average, on a per rental unit basis, each amount that exceeds the national average is capped at twice the national average, and the resultant funds are reallocated to other States on a prorata basis. 


(3) If the initial amounts when combined for any State are less than the $3,000,000, the allocation to that State is increased to the $3,000,000 and all other State allocations are reduced by an equal amount on a prorata basis, except that no State allocation is reduced below $3,000,000. 


(4) The allocation amount for each State that has no unit of general local government within the State receiving an allocation under paragraph (d) of this section is increased by $500,000. Funds for this increase are derived from the funds available for units of general local government, in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section. 



---

[N] [61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28928, May 28, 1997; 67 FR 61755, Oct. 1, 2002]




