# § 301.6222(b)-3   Partner receiving incorrect schedule.

(a) *In general.* A partner shall be treated as having complied with section 6222(b)(1)(B) and § 301.6222(b)-1 with respect to a partnership item if the partner— 


(1) Demonstrates that the treatment of the partnership item on the partner's return is consistent with the treatment of that item on the schedule prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service and furnished to the partner by the partnership showing the partner's share of income, credits, deductions, etc.; and 


(2) Elects in accordance with the rules prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section to have this section apply with respect to that item. 


(b) *Election provisions*—(1) *Time and manner of making election.* The election described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made by filing a statement with the Internal Revenue Service office issuing the notice of computational adjustment within 30 days after the notice is mailed to the partner. 


(2) *Contents of statement.* The statement described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be— 


(i) Clearly identified as an election under section 6222(b)(2); 


(ii) Signed by the partner making the election; and 


(iii) Accompanied by copies of the schedule furnished to the partner by the partnership and of the notice of computational adjustment. The partner need not enclose a copy of the notice of computational adjustment, however, if the partner clearly identifies the notice of computational adjustment. Generally, the requirement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be satisfied by attaching to the statement a copy of the schedule furnished to the partner by the partnership. However, if it is not clear from the information contained on the schedule that the treatment of the partnership item on the schedule is consistent with the partner's treatment of such item on the partner's return the statement shall also include an explanation of how the treatment of such item on the schedule is consistent with the treatment on the partner's return with respect to the characterization, timing, and amount of such item. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6222(b)-3T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50546, Oct. 4, 2001]






