# ยง 10.2   What do these regulations contain?

This part 10 sets forth the regulations governing administration of all claims filed under the FECA, except to the extent specified in certain particular provisions. Its provisions are intended to assist persons seeking compensation benefits under the FECA, as well as personnel in the various Federal agencies and the Department of Labor who process claims filed under the FECA or who perform administrative functions with respect to the FECA. This part 10 applies to part 25 of this chapter except as modified by part 25. The various subparts of this part contain the following:


(a) *Subpart A.* The general statutory and administrative framework for processing claims under the FECA. It contains a statement of purpose and scope, together with definitions of terms, descriptions of basic forms, information about the disclosure of OWCP records, and a description of rights and penalties under the FECA, including convictions for fraud.


(b) *Subpart B.* The rules for filing notices of injury and claims for benefits under the FECA. It also addresses evidence and burden of proof, as well as the process of making decisions concerning eligibility for benefits.


(c) *Subpart C.* The rules governing claims for and payment of continuation of pay.


(d) *Subpart D.* The rules governing emergency and routine medical care, second opinion and referee medical examinations directed by OWCP, and medical reports and records in general. It also addresses the kinds of treatment which may be authorized and how medical bills are paid.


(e) *Subpart E.* The rules relating to the payment of monetary compensation benefits for disability, impairment and death. It includes the provisions for identifying and processing overpayments of compensation.


(f) *Subpart F.* The rules governing the payment of continuing compensation benefits. It includes provisions concerning the employee's and the employer's responsibilities in returning the employee to work. It also contains provisions governing reports of earnings and dependents, recurrences, and reduction and termination of compensation benefits.


(g) *Subpart G.* The rules governing the appeals of decisions under the FECA. It includes provisions relating to hearings, reconsiderations, and appeals before the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board.


(h) *Subpart H.* The rules concerning legal representation and for adjustment and recovery from a third party. It also contains provisions relevant to three groups of employees whose status requires special application of the provisions of the FECA: Federal grand and petit jurors, Peace Corps volunteers, and non- Federal law enforcement officers.


(i) *Subpart I.* Information for medical providers. It includes rules for medical reports, medical bills, and the OWCP medical fee schedule, as well as the provisions for exclusion of medical providers.


(j) *Subpart J.* Death Gratuity. The rules relating to the payment of the death gratuity benefit under 5 U.S.C. 8102a.




