# ยง 12.207   Summary disposition.

(a) *Filing of motions, answers.* Any parties who believe that there is no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that they are entitled to a decision as a matter of law concerning all issues of liability in the proceeding may file a motion for summary disposition at any time until the parties have concluded their submissions of proof. Any adverse party, within ten (10) days after service of the motion, may file and serve opposing papers or may countermove for summary disposition.


(b) *Supporting papers.* A motion for summary disposition shall include a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue, supported by the pleadings, and by affidavits, other verified statements, admissions, stipulations, and interrogatories. The motion may also be supported by briefs containing points and authorities in support of the contention of the party making the motion. When a motion is made and supported as provided in this section, unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Judge, adverse parties may not rest upon the mere allegations, but shall serve and file in response a statement setting forth those material facts as to which they contend a genuine issue exists, supported by affidavits and other verified material. They may also submit a brief of points and authorities.


(c) *Summary disposition upon motion of the Administrative Judge.* If the Administrative Judge believes that there may be no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that one of the parties may be entitled to a decision as a matter of law, the Administrative Judge may direct the parties to submit papers in support of and in opposition to summary disposition, substantially as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(d) *Ruling on summary disposition.* The Administrative Judge may grant summary disposition if the undisputed pleaded facts, affidavits, other verified statements, admissions, stipulations, and matters of official notice show that:


(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact;


(2) There is no necessity that further facts be developed in the record; and


(3) A party is entitled to a decision in that party's favor as a matter of law.


(e) *Review of ruling; appeal.* An application for interlocutory review of an order denying a motion for summary disposition shall not be allowed. An order granting summary disposition as to all of the issues and all of the parties in the proceeding shall have the same effect as an initial decision (see ยง 12.210(d)), and may be appealed to the Commission, in accordance with ยง 12.401 of these rules.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984, as amended at 86 FR 64357, Nov. 18, 2021]




