# § 400.1   Scope of regulations.

(a) Title I of the Government Securities Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3208) amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 881-905; 15 U.S.C. chapter 2B) (“Act”) by adding section 15C, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to promulgate regulations concerning the financial responsibility, protection of customer securities and balances, recordkeeping and reporting of brokers and dealers in government securities. Those regulations constitute subchapter A of this chapter. Unless otherwise explicitly provided, all regulations in this subchapter apply to all government securities brokers or dealers, including registered brokers or dealers and financial institutions. Registered brokers or dealers include OTC derivatives dealers.


(b) Section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(A)) requires all government securities brokers and government securities dealers, except those who are brokers or dealers registered pursuant to section 15 or section 15B of the Act or financial institutions, to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”). Regulations concerning registration are at § 240.15Ca2-1 *et seq.* of this title. The Commission is responsible for the interpretation of the definitions of government securities broker and government securities dealer and of the regulations at § 240.15Ca2-1 *et seq.*

(c) Section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(B)(i)) requires all government securities brokers or dealers that are also registered brokers or dealers to notify the Commission of their status as government securities brokers or dealers. Regulations concerning notice are at § 240.15Ca1-1 of this title. 


(d) Section 15C(a)(1)(B)(i) of the Act also requires all government securities brokers or dealers that are financial institutions to notify the appropriate regulatory agency, as defined in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G)), of their status as government securities brokers or dealers. The form of notice, Form G-FIN, is at § 449.1 of this chapter. Forms are available from the appropriate regulatory agency. 


(e) Section 104 of the Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993 (Pub. L. 103-202, 107 Stat. 2344) amended Section 15C of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78*o*-5) by adding a new subsection (f), authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to adopt rules to require specified persons holding, maintaining or controlling a large position in to-be-issued or recently-issued Treasury securities to report such a position and make and keep records related to such a position. Part 420 of this subchapter contains the rules governing large position reporting. 



---

[N] [52 FR 27926, July 24, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 48348, Sept. 12, 1996; 71 FR 54410, Sept. 15, 2006] 




