# § 98.273   Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) For each chemical recovery furnace located at a kraft or soda facility, you must determine CO_2_, biogenic CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. CH4 and N2O emissions must be calculated as the sum of emissions from combustion of fuels and combustion of biomass in spent liquor solids.


(1) Calculate CO_2_ emissions from fuel combustion using direct measurement of fuels consumed and default emissions factors according to the Tier 1 methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(a)(1). Tiers 2 or 3 from § 98.33(a)(2) or (3) may be used to calculate CO_2_ emissions if the respective monitoring and QA/QC requirements described in § 98.34 are met.


(2) Calculate CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions from fuel combustion using direct measurement of fuels consumed, default or site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors and convert to metric tons of CO_2_ equivalent according to the methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(c).


(3) Calculate biogenic CO_2_ emissions and emissions of CH_4_ and N_2_O from biomass using measured quantities of spent liquor solids fired, site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors, according to equation AA-1 to this section:


(4) Calculate biogenic CO_2_ emissions from combustion of biomass (other than spent liquor solids) with other fuels according to the applicable methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(e).


(b) For each chemical recovery combustion unit located at a sulfite or stand-alone semichemical facility, you must determine CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section:


(1) Calculate CO_2_ emissions from fuel combustion using direct measurement of fuels consumed and default emissions factors according to the Tier 1 Calculation Methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(a)(1). Tiers 2 or 3 from § 98.33(a)(2) or (3) may be used to calculate CO_2_ emissions if the respective monitoring and QA/QC requirements described in § 98.34 are met.


(2) Calculate CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions from fuel combustion using direct measurement of fuels consumed, default or site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors and convert to metric tons of CO_2_ equivalent according to the methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(c).


(3) Calculate biogenic CO_2_ emissions using measured quantities of spent liquor solids fired and the carbon content of the spent liquor solids, according to equation AA-2 to this section:


(4) Calculate biogenic CO_2_ emissions from combustion of biomass (other than spent liquor solids) with other fuels according to the applicable methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(e).


(c) For each pulp mill lime kiln located at a kraft or soda facility, you must determine CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) Calculate CO_2_ emissions from fuel combustion using direct measurement of fuels consumed and default HHV and default emissions factors, according to the Tier 1 Calculation Methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(a)(1). Tiers 2 or 3 from § 98.33(a)(2) or (3) may be used to calculate CO_2_ emissions if the respective monitoring and QA/QC requirements described in § 98.34 are met.


(2) Calculate CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions from fuel combustion using direct measurement of fuels consumed, default or site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors and convert to metric tons of CO_2_ equivalent according to the methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(c); use the default HHV listed in table C-1 to subpart C of this part and the default CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions factors listed in table AA-2 to this subpart.


(3) Biogenic CO_2_ emissions from conversion of CaCO_3_ to CaO are included in the biogenic CO_2_ estimates calculated for the chemical recovery furnace in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(4) Calculate biogenic CO_2_ emissions from combustion of biomass with other fuels according to the applicable methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(e).


(d) For makeup chemical use, you must calculate CO_2_ emissions by using direct or indirect measurement of the quantity of chemicals added and ratios of the molecular weights of CO_2_ and the makeup chemicals, according to equation AA-3 to this section:



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79166, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71965, Nov. 29, 2013; 81 FR 89264, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31931, Apr. 25, 2024]










