# § 526.1810   Pirlimycin.

(a) *Specifications.* Each single-dose, 10-milliliter syringe contains 50 milligrams (mg) of pirlimycin (as pirlimycin hydrochloride).


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.515 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use in lactating cows*—(1) *Amount.* Infuse the contents of one syringe (50 mg pirlimycin) into each infected quarter. Daily treatment may be repeated at 24-hour intervals for up to 8 consecutive days.


(2) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of clinical and subclinical mastitis in lactating dairy cattle associated with *Staphylococcus* species such as *Staphylococcus aureus* and *Streptococcus* species such as *Streptococcus agalactiae*, *Streptococcus dysgalactiae*, and *Streptococcus uberis.*

(3) *Limitations.* Milk taken from animals during treatment and for 36 hours following the last treatment must not be used for food regardless of treatment duration. Following infusion twice at a 24-hour interval, treated animals must not be slaughtered for 9 days. Following any extended duration of therapy (infusion longer than twice at a 24-hour interval, up to 8 consecutive days), animals must not be slaughtered for 21 days. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [58 FR 58486, Nov. 2, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 61091, Oct. 16, 2000; 73 FR 811, Jan. 4, 2008; 79 FR 10973, Feb. 27, 2014; 86 FR 13188, Mar. 8, 2021]




