# § 572.34   Thorax.

(a) The thorax consists of the upper torso assembly in drawing 78051-89, revision K and shall conform to each of the drawings subtended therein.


(b) When impacted by a test probe conforming to § 572.36(a) at 22 fps ±0.40 fps in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, the thorax of a complete dummy assembly (78051-218, revision U, without shoes, shall resist with a force of 1242.5 pounds ±82.5 pounds measured by the test probe and shall have a sternum displacement measured relative to spine of 2.68 inches ±0.18 inches. The internal hysteresis in each impact shall be more than 69% but less than 85%. The force measured is the product of pendulum mass and deceleration.


(c) *Test procedure.* (1) Soak the test dummy in an environment with a relative humidity from 10% to 70% until the temperature of the ribs of the test dummy have stabilized at a temperature between 69 degrees F and 72 degrees F.


(2) Seat the dummy without back and arm supports on a surface as shown in Figure 23, and set the angle of the pelvic bone at 13 degrees plus or minus 2 degrees, using the procedure described in S11.4.3.2 of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208 of this chapter).


(3) Place the longitudinal centerline of the test probe so that it is .5 ±.04 in. below the horizontal centerline of the No. 3 Rib (reference drawing number 79051-64, revision A-M) as shown in Figure 23.


(4) Align the test probe specified in § 572.36(a) so that at impact its longitudinal centerline coincides within .5 degree of a horizontal line in the dummy's midsagittal plane.


(5) Impact the thorax with the test probe so that the longitudinal centerline of the test probe falls within 2 degrees of a horizontal line in the dummy midsagittal plane at the moment of impact.


(6) Guide the probe during impact so that it moves with no significant lateral, vertical, or rotational movement.


(7) Measure the horizontal deflection of the sternum relative to the thoracic spine along the line established by the longitudinal centerline of the probe at the moment of impact, using a potentiometer (ref. drawing 78051-317, revision A) mounted inside the sternum as shown in drawing 78051-89, revision I.


(8) Measure hysteresis by determining the ratio of the area between the loading and unloading portions of the force deflection curve to the area under the loading portion of the curve.



---

[N] [51 FR 26701, July 25, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 8765, Mar. 17, 1988; 62 FR 27518, May 20, 1997; 63 FR 53851, Oct. 7, 1998]




