# ยง 102-3.25   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Act* means the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), as amended, 5 U.S.C. chapter 10.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of General Services.


*Advisory committee* means any committee, board, commission, council, conference, panel, task force, or other similar group, which is established by statute, or established or utilized by the President or by an agency official, for the purpose of obtaining the group's advice or recommendations for the President or on issues or policies within the scope of agency responsibilities (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1001). Advisory committees are subject to the Act unless specifically exempted by the Act, or by other statutes, or not covered by this part.


*Agency* has the same meaning as in 5 U.S.C. 551(1).


*Agency head* means the head of an executive branch agency, department, or commission, or their designated delegate.


*Chairperson* means the advisory committee or subcommittee member who serves in this role on an advisory committee or subcommittee by statutory requirement, or by appointment or invitation by Presidential authority or an agency's authority.


*Committee Management Officer (CMO)* means the individual designated by the agency head to implement the provisions of sec. 8(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1007(b)) and any delegated responsibilities of the agency head under the Act.


*Committee Management Secretariat (Secretariat)* means the organization established pursuant to sec. 7(a) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1006(a)), which is responsible for all matters relating to advisory committees and carries out the responsibilities of the Administrator under the Act and E.O. 12024 (3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 158).


*Committee meeting* means any gathering of advisory committee members (whether in person or electronically, such as using telecommunications or through a virtual platform), held with the approval of an agency, and with a Designated Federal Officer in attendance, for the purpose of deliberating on the matters upon which the advisory committee provides advice or recommendations.


*Committee member* means an individual who serves by appointment or invitation by the appointing authority on an advisory committee or subcommittee.


*Committee staff* means any Federal employee, private individual, or other party (whether under contract or not) who is not a committee member, and who serves in a support capacity to an advisory committee or subcommittee. Committee staff serve in coordination with the Designated Federal Officer.


*Designated Federal Officer (DFO)* means an individual designated by the agency head, for each advisory committee for which the agency head is responsible, to implement the provisions of secs. 10(e) and (f) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(e) and (f)) and any advisory committee procedures of the agency under the control and supervision of the CMO.


*Discretionary advisory committee* means any advisory committee that is established under the authority of an agency head or authorized by statute. An advisory committee referenced in general (non-specific) authorizing language or Congressional committee report language is discretionary, and its establishment or termination is within the legal discretion of an agency head.


*Group Federal Officer (GFO)* means an individual who assists the CMO in overseeing and managing a portion of the agency's Federal advisory committee management program.


*Independent Presidential advisory committee* means any Presidential advisory committee not assigned by the Congress, or by the President or the President's delegate, to an agency for administrative and other support.


*Non-discretionary advisory committee* means any advisory committee either required by statute or by Presidential directive. A non-discretionary advisory committee required by statute generally is identified specifically in a statute by name, purpose, or function(s), and its establishment or termination is beyond the legal discretion of an agency head.


*Presidential advisory committee* means any advisory committee authorized by the Congress or directed by the President to advise the President.


*Subcommittee* means a group that reports to an advisory committee, and not directly to a Federal officer or agency, whether or not its members are drawn in whole or in part from the parent advisory committee. However, if a subcommittee makes advice or recommendations directly to a Federal officer or agency, it is no longer functioning as a subcommittee, and must: file a charter following the requirements of ยง 102-3.70, that includes the information required in ยง 102-3.75; comply with all of the requirements of this part; and will be counted as a chartered advisory committee at an agency.


*Utilized by* means a committee that is one over which the President or a Federal officer or agency exercises actual management or control of its operation, whether or not it was established by the Federal Government.






