# ยง 550.249   What air emissions information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?

The following air emissions information, as applicable, must accompany your DPP or DOCD:


(a) *Projected emissions.* Tables showing the projected emissions of criteria air pollutants, volatile organic compounds (VOC), and total suspended particulates (TSP) generated by your proposed development and production activities.


(1) For each source on or associated with the facility you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities, you must list:


(i) The projected peak hourly emissions;


(ii) The total annual emissions in tons per year;


(iii) Emissions over the duration of the proposed development and production activities;


(iv) The frequency and duration of emissions; and


(v) The total of all emissions listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(2) If your proposed production and development activities would result in an increase in the emissions of a criteria air pollutant, VOC, or TSP from your facility to an amount greater than the amount specified in your previously approved DPP or DOCD, you must show the revised emission rates for each source as well as the incremental change for each source.


(3) You must provide the basis for all calculations, including engine size and rating, and applicable operational information.


(4) You must base the projected emissions on the maximum rated capacity of the equipment and the maximum throughput of the facility you will use to conduct your proposed development and production activities under its physical and operational design.


(5) If the specific drilling unit has not yet been determined, you must use the maximum emission estimates for the type of drilling unit you will use.


(b) *Emission reduction measures.* A description of any proposed emission reduction measures, including the affected source(s), the emission reduction control technologies or procedures, the quantity of reductions to be achieved, and any monitoring system you propose to use to measure emissions.


(c) *Processes, equipment, fuels, and combustibles.* A description of processes, processing equipment, combustion equipment, fuels, and storage units. You must include the frequency, duration, and maximum burn rate of any flaring activity.


(d) *Distance to shore.* Identification of the distance of the site of your proposed development and production activities from the mean high water mark (mean higher high water mark on the Pacific coast) of the adjacent State.


(e) *Non-exempt facilities.* A description of how you will comply with ยง 550.303 when the projected emissions reported under paragraph (a) of this section are greater than the respective emission exemption thresholds (EET) calculated using the formulas in ยง 550.303(d). When BOEM requires air quality dispersion modeling, you must use the guidelines in appendix W of 40 CFR part 51 for dispersion modeling with a model approved by the Director. You must also submit the best available meteorological information and data consistent with the model(s) used.


(f) *Modeling report.* A modeling report or the modeling results (if ยง 550.303 requires you to use an approved air quality model to model projected air emissions in developing your DPP or DOCD), or a reference to such report or results if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.



---

[N] [76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34936, June 5, 2020]




