# § 381.76   Post-mortem inspection under Traditional Inspection, the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS), the New Line Speed (NELS) Inspection System, the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), the New Turkey Inspection System (NTI), and Ratite Inspection.

(a) A post-mortem inspection shall be made on a bird-by-bird basis on all poultry eviscerated in every official establishment. Each carcass, or all parts comprising such carcass, must be examined by an inspector, except for parts that are not needed for inspection purposes and are not intended for human food and are condemned. Each carcass eviscerated shall be prepared as ready-to-cook poultry.


(b)(1) There are six systems of post-mortem inspection: the New Poultry Inspection System (NPIS), which may be used for young chickens and turkeys; the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS) and the New Line Speed Inspection System (NELS), both of which may be used only for broilers and cornish game hens; the New Turkey Inspection (NTI) System, which may be used only for turkeys; Traditional Inspection, which may be used for all poultry, except for ratites; and Ratite Inspection.


(i) The SIS shall be used only for broilers and cornish game hens if:


(*a*) The Administrator determines that SIS will increase inspector efficiency; or


(*b*) The operator requests SIS and the Administrator determines that the system will result in no loss of inspection efficiency.


(ii) The NELS Inspection System shall be used only for broilers and cornish game hens if:


(*a*) The operator requests the NELS Inspection System, and


(*b*) The Administrator determines that the establishment has the intent and capability to operate at line speeds greater than 70 birds per minute, and meets all the facility requirements in § 381.36(d). 


(iii) The NTI System shall be used only for turkeys if:


(*a*) The operator requests it, and


(*b*) The Administrator determines that the establishment meets all the facility requirements in § 381.36(e). 


(iv) The NPIS may be used for young chickens and turkeys if the official establishment requests to use it and meets or agrees to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section and the Administrator approves the establishment's request. The Administrator may permit establishments that slaughter classes of poultry other than young chickens and turkeys to operate under the New Poultry Inspection System under a waiver from the provisions of the regulations as provided in § 381.3(b).


(v) Traditional Inspection shall be used for turkeys when neither the NTI System nor the NPIS is used. For other classes of poultry, Traditional Inspection shall be used when SIS, NELS, and the NPIS are not used.


(2) Official establishments that operate under Traditional Inspection, SIS, NELS, NTI, or Ratite Inspection must meet the following requirements:


(i) No viscera or any part thereof may be removed from any poultry processed in any official establishment, except at the time of post-mortem inspection, unless its identity with the rest of the carcass is maintained in a manner satisfactory to the inspector until such inspection is made.


(ii) Each carcass to be eviscerated must be opened so as to expose the organs and the body cavity for proper examination by the inspector.


(iii) If a carcass is frozen, it must be thoroughly thawed before being opened for examination by an inspector.


(3) The following requirements are applicable to SIS:


(i) *Definitions.* For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply:


(*a*) *Cumulative sum (CUSUM).* A statistical concept used by the establishment and monitored by the inspector whereby compliance is determined based on sample results collected over a period of time. For purposes of determining compliance with the finished product standards, the CUSUM is equal to the sum of prior test results plus the weighted result of the current test minus the tolerance, with the condition that the resulting CUSUM cannot go below zero.


(*b*) *Tolerance number.* A weighted measure that equates to product being produced at a national product quality level. See Table 2.


(*c*) *Action number.* A level reached by the CUSUM where the process is out of control and product action is required by the establishment or the inspector. See Table 2.


(*d*) “Start number”. A value halfway between zero and the action number. The start number is used to determine the starting CUSUM for the first subgroup of a shift and to reset the CUSUM value if the CUSUM is equal to or greater than the action number. See Table 2.


(*e*) *Subgroup.* A 10-bird sample collected before product enters the chiller and after product leaves the chiller.


(*f*) *Subgroup absolute limit.* The tolerance number plus 5. See Table 2.


(*g*) *Prechill testing.* Testing conducted by the establishment to determine the CUSUM on consecutive 10-bird subgroup samples collected prior to product entering the chilling system.


(*h*) *Postchill testing.* Testing conducted by the establishment to determine the CUSUM on consecutive 10-bird subgroup samples collected as the product leaves the chilling system.


(*i*) *Rework.* Reprocessing the product to correct the condition or conditions causing the nonconformances listed in Table 1.


(ii) *General. (a*) Under SIS, one inspector inspects the outside, inside, and viscera of each bird. There may be two inspectors on one processing line, each inspecting every other bird. For the establishment to run its processing line(s) at maximum speed, optimal conditions must be maintained so that inspection may be conducted efficiently. The inspector in charge determines the speed at which each processing line may be operated to permit inspection. A variety of conditions may affect this determination including the health of each flock and the manner in which birds are being presented to the inspector for inspection.


(*b*) SIS may be performed by one inspector (SIS-1) or two inspectors (SIS-2). SIS-1 requires that the establishment provide one inspection station for each line and adequate reinspection facilities so carcasses can be removed from each line for evaluation. The maximum line speed for SIS-1 is 35 birds per minute. SIS-2 requires that the establishment provide two inspection stations for each line and adequate reinspection facilities so carcasses can be removed from each line for evaluation. The maximum line speed for SIS-2 is 70 birds per minute.


(*c*) Under all inspection systems, including SIS, inspectors conduct post-mortem inspection and look for a number of conditions, as specified elsewhere in this subpart, which may indicate adulteration. Adulterated product is condemned and destroyed, except that carcasses and parts which may be made unadulterated by reprocessing (reworking) may be so reprocessed under the supervision of an inspector and reinspected. Under SIS, inspectors also reinspect product by sampling finished birds (both before and after chilling) for nonconformances with finished product standards (see Table 1). If such nonconformances are present at certain statistical levels, it may indicate process difficulties requiring corrective action by the establishment. If the establishment does not take adequate corrective action, the inspector shall initiate corrective actions such as conducting closer post-mortem inspections and requiring reprocessing and reinspection of previously processed carcasses and parts. Thus, SIS is conducted in two phases—a post-mortem inspection phase and a reinspection phase. The following paragraphs describe the inspection requirements (not addressed elsewhere in this subpart) under each.


(iii) *Post-mortem inspection.* (*a*) Facilities: Each inspection station must comply with the facility requirements in § 381.36(c).


(*b*) Presentation: Each inspector shall be flanked by an establishment employee assigned to be the inspector's helper. The one inspector on the SIS-1 line shall be presented every bird. Each inspector on the SIS-2 line shall be presented every other bird on the line. An establishment employee shall present each bird to the inspector properly eviscerated with the back side toward the inspector and the viscera uniformly trailing or leading. Each inspector shall inspect the inside, viscera, and outside of all birds presented.


(*c*) Disposition: The inspector shall determine which birds shall be salvaged, reprocessed, condemned, retained for disposition by the veterinarian, or allowed to proceed down the line as a passed bird subject to trim and reinspection. Carcasses with certain defects not requiring condemnation of the entire carcass shall be passed by the inspector, but shall be subject to reinspection to ensure the physical removal of the defects. The helper, under the supervision of the inspector, shall mark such carcasses for trim when the defects are not readily observable. Trimming of birds passed subject to reinspection shall be performed by:


(*1*) The helper, time permitting, and


(*2*) One or more plant trimmers positioned after all giblets are harvested and prior to reinspection.


(iv) *Reinspection.* (*a*) Facilities: Reinspection stations are required at both the prechill and postchill locations. The Agency will determine the number of stations needed in those establishments having more than one processing line or more than one chiller. One or more prechill reinspection stations shall be conveniently located at the end of the line or lines prior to chilling. One or more postchill stations must be conveniently located at the end of the chiller or chillers. The prechill and postchill reinspection stations must meet the following provisions:


(*1*) Floor space shall consist of 3 feet along each conveyor line. The space shall be level and protected from all traffic and overhead obstructions.


(*2*) A table at least 2 feet wide and 2 feet deep and 3 feet in height designed to be readily cleanable and drainable shall be provided for reinspecting the sampled birds.


(*3*) A minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index of 85 on the table surface.


(*4*) A separate clip board holder shall be provided for holding the recording sheets.


(*5*) Hangback racks designed to hold 10 carcasses shall be provided for and positioned within easy reach of the person at the station.


(*b*) Disposition: An inspector shall monitor the establishment's application of the Finished Product Standards program and shall take corrective action including retaining product to prevent adulterated product from leaving the establishment when the inspector determines that the establishment has failed to apply the program as prescribed in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*c*) of this section).


(*c*) Finished Product Standards: Finished Product Standards (FPS) are criteria applied to processed birds before and after chill to ensure that the product being produced is consistently wholesome and unadulterated. These criteria consist of nonconformances (listed in Table 1), the incidence of which is determined from 10 bird subgroup samples, reduced to a CUSUM number, and measured against the standards (Table 2). The standards are applied to permit the Agency to estimate when the production process is in control and when it is out of control. The establishment is responsible for maintaining FPS which, in turn, is monitored by the inspector. FPS is applied in two separate parts. The first is called prechill testing. It is designed to ensure that the slaughter and evisceration procedures are in control. Compliance is measured by determining the CUSUM on consecutive 10-bird subgroup samples collected prior to product entering the chilling system. The second part of the FPS is called postchill testing. It is designed to monitor the production through the chill system to ensure that it meets the postchill FPS. This test is independent of the prechill test. Compliance is measured by determining the CUSUM on consecutive 10-bird subgroup samples as they exit the chilling system. When the system is operating within compliance, the establishment applies the FPS to product samples at the prechill reinspection station. Testing time and time between tests are such that birds represented by the test are still within the chiller. If an out-of-compliance condition is found, the product leaving the chiller is segregated for rework and retested before it may proceed into commerce. A second 10 bird subgroup sample of the birds is taken after they leave the chiller to ensure that the product meets the postchill FPS. Since the product is closer to the end of processing, the controls on releasing reworked product are stricter than controls under prechill testing, again to ensure that no adulterated product enters into commerce.


(*d*) *Prechill testing.* The prechill FPS have been divided into processing and trim categories. The processing category is designed to monitor the output of the dressing and evisceration procedures. The trim category monitors the establishment's ability to remove unwholesome lesions and conditions from inspected and passed carcasses. Each category is monitored independently of the other category using a separate CUSUM for each category.


(*1*) *Actions to be taken when the process is in control.* If the CUSUM is less than the action number and the subgroup absolute limit is not exceeded, the process is judged to be in control.


(*i*) Establishment Actions. The establishment shall:


(*A*) Randomly select and record subgroup sampling times for each production unit of time before product reaches the prechill reinspection station on the production line. In no case shall the time between tests exceed 1 hour of production time.


(*B*) Conduct a 10-bird subgroup test at a random time on each poultry slaughter line. These times are preselected by the establishment and available to the inspector prior to the start of the shift/day's operations. All 10 samples of the subgroup shall be collected at the random time.


(*C*) Obtain the weighted value of each nonconformance by multiplying the number recorded for each nonconformance by the “factor” in Table 1, sum the total of all the nonconformances, and calculate the CUSUM value for that test.


(*ii*) Inspector Actions. The inspector shall:


(*A*) Select random times for monitoring subgroup tests for each half-shift on the evisceration line. In establishments that have multiple evisceration lines on a production shift, monitor all lines of product at the random times.


(*B*) Collect the subgroup samples to be monitored at preselected times. All 10 samples of the subgroup shall be collected at the random time selected in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*d*)(*1*)(*ii*)(*A*) of this section.


(*C*) Conduct the 10-bird monitoring subgroup test.


(*2*) *Actions to be taken when the subgroup absolute limit is exceeded.* If either an inspector or establishment subgroup test exceeds the subgroup absolute limit of tolerance plus 5 (T + 5), the establishment shall determine if any of the immediate past 5 plant prechill subgroups for that category (processing or trim) resulted in a CUSUM above the start number.


(*i*) If all of the past 5 plant prechill subgroups are at or below the start number, the establishment shall immediately conduct a retest subgroup on that category of prechill to determine sample validity. If retest subgroup total equals tolerance or less, the establishment resumes random time testing. If the retest subgroup total exceeds tolerance, the establishment shall proceed as if CUSUM reaches the action number and shall begin process actions as set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*d*)(*4*) of this section. In either case, the prechill retest results will be used to calculate CUSUM.


(*ii*) If any of the past 5 plant prechill subgroups resulted in a CUSUM above the start number, the establishment shall proceed as if CUSUM reaches the action number and shall begin process actions as set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*d*)(*4*) of this section.


(*3*) *Actions to be taken when a trimmable lesion/condition is found.* If either inspection or plant monitoring finds any trimmable lesion or condition as specified in item B(7) of Table 1 during a prechill subgroup test, the establishment shall immediately conduct an additional prechill subgroup test for the same trimmable lesion/condition category. This is a requirement on the subgroup testing for the prechill trim nonconformance that is in addition to the CUSUM test described in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*d*)(*1*) of this section.


(*i*) If no additional item in the same category is found on retest, the establishment shall resume random time sampling.


(*ii*) If an additional item in the same category is found on retest, the establishment shall proceed as if CUSUM reaches the action number and shall initiate corrective action set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*d*)(*4*) of this section for this category only.


(*4*) *Actions to be taken when the CUSUM reaches the action number.* Once CUSUM reaches the action number, the process is judged to be not in control.


(*i*) Establishment Actions. The establishment shall:


(*A*) Immediately notify the inspector in charge and the production supervisor responsible for the affected evisceration line.


(*B*) Suspend random time prechill testing of the affected nonconformance category (processing or trim). Suspend random time postchill subgroup testing when the processing category is the affected nonconformance category.


(*C*) Conduct subgroup retests on carcasses leaving the chill system. Apply the prechill criteria in Table 1 (A) or (B), depending upon which category caused the action, and apply prechill Finished Product Standards as listed in Table 2 to determine product compliance. In no case shall the time between retests exceed 30 minutes of production time. Apply prechill standard criteria at the postchill location after notifying the establishment's production supervisor. If any of these subgroup retests on product leaving the chill system result in a subgroup total exceeding tolerance, identify for rework subsequent product at the postchill location. All noncomplying product will be brought into compliance prior to release into commerce. Product from the chiller will continue accumulating for rework until a subsequent subgroup test results in a subgroup total equal to or less than tolerance.


(*D*) Conduct additional subgroup tests at the prechill reinspection station to determine the adequacy of production corrective action. If the prechill tests results in a subgroup total exceeding the tolerance, notify the production supervisor. The number of additional tests at the postchill reinspection station using prechill standards is increased as required to include the product in the chiller represented by this additional prechill test.


(*E*) After two consecutive additional prechill subgroup tests result in subgroup totals equal to or less than tolerance:


(*ii*) Inspector Actions. The inspector shall monitor product and process actions by making spot-check observations to ensure that all program requirements are met.


(*e*) *Postchill testing.* Postchill subgroups shall be collected after the product leaves the chiller but before the product is divided into separate processes. Each bird sampled shall be observed and its conformance measured against the postchill criteria. The subgroup nonconformance weights shall be totaled and the CUSUM calculated by subtracting the tolerance from the sum of the subgroup total and the starting CUSUM.


(*1*) *Actions to be taken when the process is in control.* If the CUSUM is less than the action number and the subgroup absolute limit is not exceeded, the process is judged to be in control.


(*i*) Establishment Actions. The establishment shall conduct a 10-bird subgroup test for each chiller system at a randomly selected time of production. In no case shall the time between tests exceed 2 hours of production time.


(*ii*) Inspector Actions. The inspector shall:


(*A*) Select random times for postchill monitoring.


(*B*) Monitor each chill system twice per shift.


(*C*) Conduct subgroup tests at preselected random times.


(*2*) *Actions to be taken when the subgroup absolute limit is exceeded.* If either an inspector or establishment subgroup test exceeds the subgroup absolute limit of tolerance plus 5(T + 5), the establishment shall determine if any of the last 5 postchill monitoring subgroups resulted in a CUSUM above the start number.


(*i*) If all of the past 5 postchill monitoring subgroups resulted in a CUSUM at or below the start number, the establishment shall immediately retest a subgroup to determine sample validity. If this retest subgroup total exceeds tolerance, the establishment shall proceed as if CUSUM reaches the action number and shall begin process actions as set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*e*)(*3*) of this section.


(*ii*) If any of the past 5 postchill monitoring subgroups resulted in a CUSUM above the start number, the establishment shall proceed as if CUSUM reaches the action number and shall begin process actions as set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(*e*)(*3*) of this section.


(*3*) *Actions to be taken when the CUSUM reaches the action number.* Once CUSUM reaches the action number, the process is judged to be not in control.


(*i*) Establishment Actions. The establishment shall:


(*A*) Notify the inspector in charge and the production supervisor responsible for product in the chiller.


(*B*) Suspend random time postchill subgroup testing.


(*C*) Immediately conduct an additional postchill subgroup test. If the retest subgroup total exceeds tolerance, the establishment shall identify subsequent product for rework. Product will continue accumulating for rework until a subsequent subgroup test results in a subgroup total equal to or less than tolerance.


(*D*) After two consecutive additional postchill subgroup tests results in subgroup totals equal to or less than tolerance:




(*ii*) Inspector Actions. The inspector shall monitor product and process actions to ensure that program requirements are met.


(v) When the prechill or postchill product has been identified as having been produced when the process was not in control, additional online subgroup testing by the establishment is required to determine its conformance to the standard. If any of the additional plant subgroup testing results in a subgroup total exceeding tolerance, offline product corrective actions must take place. The responsibilities of the establishment and the inspector change depending on the CUSUM.


All corrective actions such as identifying affected product, segregating product, and maintaining control through rework actions are the establishment's responsibility. Corrective actions by the inspector depends upon the establishment's ability to control rework of affected product. If the establishment fails in its responsibilities, the inspector will identify, segregate, and retain affected product to prevent adulterated product from reaching consumers.


(*a*) Offline product. The establishment shall identify the affected product so that it may be segregated and accumulated offline for rework. The inspector shall spot check the establishment's identification, segregation, and control of reworked product to ensure that program requirements are met.


(*b*) Reworked product. Reworked product must be tested by the establishment with a randomly selected subgroup test of the accumulated reworked lot. Before product is released, the random subgroup test must result in a subgroup total equal to or less than tolerance. If the subgroup test of a reworked lot results in a subgroup total exceeding tolerance, the lot must be reworked again before another subgroup is selected. The following actions are required.


(*1*) Establishment Actions. The establishment shall:


(*i*) Select the random subgroup from throughout the lot only after the total lot has been reworked.


(*ii*) Conduct the subgroup test using the same criteria (prechill or postchill) that resulted in the rework action.


(*iii*) Release the lot if the reworked subgroup test resulted in a subgroup total equal to or less than tolerance.


(*iv*) Identify and control the lot to be reworked if the reworked subgroup total again exceeds tolerance.


(*2*) Inspector Actions: The inspector shall spot check the rework procedure to ensure that plant monitoring and production meet the requirements of the program.


(vi) After the 10 bird subgroup tests are completed, the prechill and postchill processing nonconformances shall be corrected on all bird samples prior to returning the samples to the product flow. Samples with trim nonconformances shall be returned to the trim station for correction prior to their return to the product flow.


(4) The following requirements are also applicable to NELS inspection:


(i) Inspection under NELS is conducted in two phases, as post-mortem inspection phase and a reinspection phase.


(*a*) *Post-mortem inspection.* The establishment shall provide three inspection stations on each eviscerating line in compliance with the facility requirements § 381.36(d)(1). The three inspectors shall inspect the inside, viscera, and outside of all birds presented. Each inspector shall be flanked by two establishment employees—the presenter and the helper. The presenter shall ensure that the bird is properly eviscerated and presented for inspection and the viscera uniformly trailing or leading. The inspector shall determine which birds shall be salvaged, reprocessed, condemned, retained for disposition by the veterinarian, or allowed to proceed down the line as a passed bird subject to reinspection. Poultry carcasses with certain defects not requiring condemnation of the entire carcass shall be passed by the inspector, but shall be subject to reinspection to ensure the physical removal of the specified defects. The helper, under the supervision of the inspector, shall mark such carcasses for trim when the defects are not readily observable. Trimming or birds passed subject to reinspection shall be performed by: 


(*1*) The helper, time permitting, and


(*2*) One or more plant trimmers positioned after giblet harvest and prior to reinspection.


(*b*) A reinspection station shall be located at the end of each line. This station shall comply with the facility requirements in § 381.36(d)(2). The inspector shall ensure that the establishment has performed the indicated trimming of carcasses passed subject to reinspection by visually monitoring, checking data, or gathering samples at the station or at other critical points on the line. 


(ii)-(iii) [Reserved] 


(iv) The maximum inspection rate for NELS shall be 91 birds per minute per eviscerating line.


(5) The following requirements are also applicable to the NTI System:


(i) Inspection under the NTI System is conducted in two phases, a post-mortem inspection phase and a reinspection phase. The NTI-1 Inspection System requires that the establishment provide one inspection station for each line and adequate reinspection facilitiates so carcasses can be removed from each line for evaluation. The NTI-2 Inspection System requires that the establishment provide two inspection stations for each line and adequate reinspection facilities so carcasses can be removed from each line for evaluation.


(*a*) *Post-mortem inspection.* Each inspection station must comply with the facility requirements in § 381.36(e)(1). Each inspector shall be flanked by and establishment employee assigned to be the inspector's helper. The one inspector on an NTI-1 Inspection System shall be presented every bird. Each inspector on an NTI-2 Inspection System line shall be presented every other bird on the line. An establishment employee shall present each bird to the inspector properly eviscerated with the back side toward the inspector and the viscera uniformly trailing or leading. Each inspector shall inspect the inside, viscera, and outside of all birds presented. The inspector shall determine which bird shall be salvaged, reprocessed, condemned, retained for disposition by a veterinarian, or allowed to proceed down the line as a passed bird subject to reinspection. Turkey carcasses with certain defects not requiring condemnation of the entire carcass shall be passed by the inspector, but shall be subject to reinspection to ensure the physical removal of the specified defects. The helper, under the supervision of the inspector, shall mark such carcasses for trim when the defects of birds passed subject to reinspection shall be performed by: 


(*1*) The helper, time permitting, and 


(*2*) One or more plant trimmers positioned after the giblet harvest and prior to reinspection.


(*b*) *Reinspection.* A reinspection station shall be located at the end of the lines. This station shall comply with the facility requirements in § 381.36(e)(2). The inspector shall ensure that establishments have performed the indicated trimming of each carcass passed subject to reinspection by visually monitoring, checking data, and/or sampling product at the reinspection station and, if necessary, at other points, critical to the wholesomeness of product, on the eviscerating line. 


(ii)-(iii) [Reserved] 


(6) The following requirements are applicable to the NPIS:


(i) *Facilities.* The establishment must comply with the facilities requirements in § 381.36(f).


(ii) *Carcass sorting and disposition.* (A) The establishment must conduct carcass with associated viscera sorting activities, dispose of carcasses and parts exhibiting condemnable conditions, and conduct appropriate trimming and reprocessing activities before carcasses are presented to the online carcass inspector.


(B) Any carcasses removed from the line for reprocessing activities or salvage must be returned to the line before the online carcass inspection station. The establishment must include in its written HACCP plan, or sanitation SOP, or other prerequisite program a process by which parts, other than parts identified as “major portions” as defined in § 381.170(b)(22), are available for inspection offline after reprocessing or salvage.


(C) The establishment must develop, implement, and maintain written procedures to ensure that poultry carcasses contaminated with septicemic and toxemic conditions do not enter the chiller. The establishment must incorporate these procedures into its HACCP plan, or sanitation SOP, or other prerequisite program. These procedures must cover, at a minimum, establishment sorting activities required under paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.


(D) The establishment must maintain records to document that the products resulting from its slaughter operation meet the definition of ready-to-cook poultry in § 381.1. These records are subject to review and evaluation by FSIS personnel.


(iii) *Presentation for online carcass inspection.* To ensure the online carcass inspector may properly inspect every carcass, the establishment must present carcasses as follows:


(A) Each carcass, except carcasses and parts identified as “major portions” under 9 CFR 381.179(b)(22), must be held by a single shackle;


(B) Both hocks of each carcass must be held by the shackle;


(C) The back side of the carcass must be faced toward the inspector;


(D) There must be minimal carcass swinging motion;


(E) The establishment must ensure that it can sufficiently identify viscera and parts corresponding with each carcass inspected by the online carcass inspector so that if the carcass inspector condemns a carcass all corresponding viscera and parts are also condemned.





---

[N] [47 FR 23435, May 28, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 42555, Oct. 23, 1984; 50 FR 37513, Sept. 16, 1985; 50 FR 38097, Sept. 20, 1985; 51 FR 3574, Jan. 29, 1986; 53 FR 46861, Nov. 21, 1988; 62 FR 5143, Feb. 4, 1997; 65 FR 34390, May 30, 2000; 66 FR 22906, May 7, 2001; 79 FR 49635, Aug. 21, 2014; 88 FR 55913, Aug. 17, 2023]




