# ยง 654.2   Definitions.

*Evaluated life.* The time period for which project or measure benefits and costs have been evaluated. The evaluated life starts after the last project measure of the evaluation unit has been completed.


*Landuser.* Those who individually or collectively use land as owner, lessee, occupier, or by other arrangements which give them conservation planning or implementation concern and responsibility for the land involved.


*Maintenance.* The work and actions required to keep works of improvement in a condition to function for their intended purpose and the replacement of portions of project measures as specified in the O&M agreement.


*Operation.* The administration, management, and performance of services needed to insure the continued proper functioning of completed project measures.


*Operation and maintenance agreement.* A written agreement between the sponsor(s) and NRCS or other recipient(s) in which responsibilities and actions are established for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and inspection of project measures.


*Plan of operation and maintenance.* A detailed program of action to provide for performing the operation and maintenance of a specific project measure.


*Project measures.* An undertaking for watershed protection; flood prevention; the conservation, development, utilization, and disposal of water; the conservation and proper utilization of land; or a combination thereof. The undertaking may consist of vegetative, structural, or management measures or a combination thereof. Vegetative measures are those measures involving only seedbed preparation and/or the planting of vegetative material.


*Public recreation and/or fish and wildlife facility.* A project measure or part thereof which (a) creates or improves the potential for public recreational use and enjoyment, or (b) materially contributes to the preservation, production, or harvest of fish and wildlife.


*Sponsor.* An agency or organization with authority to provide local responsibility for a Federal financially-assisted local project under a program administered by NRCS.


*State Conservationist.* The NRCS officer responsible for NRCS activities within a particular State, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.


*Structural measures.* Structural measures are those measures that are excavated or constructed with concrete, earth, masonry, metal, rock, or other materials, and associated vegetation.




