# § 512.547   Quality measures, composite quality score, and display of quality measures.

(a) *Quality measures.* CMS calculates the quality measures used to evaluate the TEAM participant's performance using Medicare claims data or patient-reported outcomes data that TEAM participants report under the Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting Program and the Hospital-Acquired Condition Reduction Program. The following quality measures and CQS baseline periods are used for public reporting and for determining the TEAM participant's CQS as described in paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) For performance year 1:


(i) For all episode categories: Hybrid Hospital-Wide All-Cause Readmission Measure with Claims and Electronic Health Record Data (CMIT ID #356) with a CY 2025 CQS baseline period;


(ii) For all episode categories: CMS Patient Safety and Adverse Events Composite (CMS PSI 90) (CMIT ID #135) with a CY 2025 CQS baseline period; and


(iii) For LEJR episodes: Hospital-Level Total Hip and/or Total Knee Arthroplasty (THA/TKA) Patient-Reported Outcome-Based Performance Measure (PRO-PM) (CMIT ID #1618) with a CY 2025 CQS baseline period.


(2) For performance years 2 through 5:


(i) For all episode categories: Hybrid Hospital-Wide All-Cause Readmission Measure with Claims and Electronic Health Record Data (CMIT ID #356) with a CY 2025 CQS baseline period;


(ii) For all episode categories: Hospital Harm—Falls with Injury (CMIT ID #1518) with a CY 2026 CQS baseline period;


(iii) For all episode categories: Hospital Harm—Postoperative Respiratory Failure (CMIT ID #1788) with a CY 2026 CQS baseline period;


(iv) For all episode categories: Thirty-day Risk-Standardized Death Rate among Surgical Inpatients with Complications (Failure-to-Rescue) (CMIT ID #134) with a CY 2026 CQS baseline period; and


(v) For LEJR episodes: Hospital-Level Total Hip and/or Total Knee Arthroplasty (THA/TKA) Patient-Reported Outcome-Based Performance Measure (PRO-PM) (CMIT ID #1618) with a CY 2025 CQS baseline period.


(b) *Calculation of the composite quality score (CQS).* (1) CMS converts the TEAM participant's raw quality measure score for the performance year into a scaled quality measure score by comparing the raw quality measure score to the distribution of raw quality measure score percentiles among a national cohort of hospitals, consisting of TEAM participants and hospitals not participating in TEAM, in the CQS baseline period.


(i) CMS assigns a scaled quality measure score equal to the percentile to which the TEAM Participant's raw quality measure score would have belonged in the CQS baseline period.


(A) CMS assigns the higher scaled quality measure score if the TEAM participant's raw quality measure score straddles two percentiles in the CQS baseline period.


(B) For the Hospital-Level Total Hip and/or Total Knee Arthroplasty (THA/TKA) Patient-Reported Outcome-Based Performance Measure (PRO-PM) (CMIT ID #1618):


(*1*) CMS assigns a scaled quality measure score of 100 if the TEAM participant's raw quality measure score is greater than the maximum of the raw quality measure scores in the CQS baseline period.


(*2*) CMS assigns a scaled quality measure score of 0 if the raw quality measure score is less than the minimum of the raw quality measure scores in the baseline period.


(C) For the Hybrid Hospital-Wide All-Cause Readmission Measure with Claims and Electronic Health Record Data (CMIT ID #356) measure, the CMS Patient Safety and Adverse Events Composite (CMS PSI 90) (CMIT ID #135) measure, the Hospital Harm—Falls with Injury (CMIT ID #1518) measure, the Hospital Harm—Postoperative Respiratory Failure (CMIT ID #1788) measure, and the Thirty-day Risk-Standardized Death Rate among Surgical Inpatients with Complications (Failure-to-Rescue) (CMIT ID #134) measure:


(*1*) CMS assigns a scaled quality measure score of 0 if the TEAM participant has a raw quality measure score greater than the maximum of the raw quality measure scores in the CQS baseline period.


(*2*) CMS assigns a scaled quality measure score of 100 if the TEAM participant has a raw quality score less than the minimum of the raw scores in the CQS baseline period.


(D) CMS does not assign a scaled quality measure score if the TEAM participant has no raw quality measure score.


(2) CMS calculates a normalized weight for each quality measure by dividing the TEAM participant's volume of attributed episodes for a given quality measure by the total volume of all the TEAM participant's attributed episodes.


(3) CMS calculates a weighted scaled score for each quality measure by multiplying each quality measure's scaled quality measure score, computed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, by its normalized weight, computed under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(4) CMS sums each quality measure's weighted scaled score, computed under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, to construct the CQS.


(c) *Display of quality measures.* CMS does all of the following:


(1) Displays quality measure results on the publicly available CMS website that is specific to TEAM, in a form and manner consistent with other publicly reported measures.


(2) Shares quality measures with the TEAM participant prior to display on the CMS website.


(3) Uses the following time periods to share quality measure performance:


(i) Quality measure performance in performance year 1 is reported in 2027.


(ii) Quality measure performance in performance year 2 is reported in 2028.


(iii) Quality measure performance in performance year 3 is reported in 2029.


(iv) Quality measure performance in performance year 4 is reported in 2030.


(v) Quality measure performance in performance year 5 is reported in 2031.




