# § 102-35.20   What definitions apply to GSA's personal property regulations?

The following are definitions of, or cross-references to, some key terms that apply to GSA's personal property regulations in the FMR (CFR parts 102-36 through 102-42). Other personal property terms are defined in the sections or parts to which they primarily apply.


*Accountable Personal Property* includes nonexpendable personal property whose expected useful life is two years or longer and whose acquisition value, as determined by the agency, warrants tracking in the agency's property records, including capitalized and sensitive personal property.


*Accountability* means the ability to account for personal property by providing a complete audit trail for property transactions from receipt to final disposition.


*Acquisition cost* means the original purchase price of an item.


*Capitalized Personal Property* includes property that is entered on the agency's general ledger records as a major investment or asset. An agency must determine its capitalization thresholds as discussed in Financial Accounting Standard Advisory Board (FASAB) Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards No. 6 Accounting for Property, Plant and Equipment, Chapter 1, paragraph 13.


*Control* means the ongoing function of maintaining physical oversight and surveillance of personal property throughout its complete life cycle using various property management tools and techniques taking into account the environment in which the property is located and its vulnerability to theft, waste, fraud, or abuse.


*Excess personal property* (see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).


*Exchange/sale* (see § 102-39.20 of this subchapter B).


*Executive agency* (see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).


*Federal agency* (see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).


*Foreign gifts and decorations* (for the definition of relevant terms, see § 102-42.10 of this subchapter B).


*Forfeited property* (see § 102-41.20 of this subchapter B).


*Inventory* includes a formal listing of all accountable property items assigned to an agency, along with a formal process to verify the condition, location, and quantity of such items. This term may also be used as a verb to indicate the actions leading to the development of a listing. In this sense, an inventory must be conducted using an actual physical count, electronic means, and/or statistical methods.


*National property management officer* means an official, designated in accordance with § 102-36.45(b) of this subchapter B, who is responsible for ensuring effective acquisition, use, and disposal of excess property within your agency.


*Personal property* (see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).


*Property management* means the system of acquiring, maintaining, using and disposing of the personal property of an organization or entity.


*Seized property* means personal property that has been confiscated by a Federal agency, and whose care and handling will be the responsibility of that agency until final ownership is determined by the judicial process.


*Sensitive Personal Property* includes all items, regardless of value, that require special control and accountability due to unusual rates of loss, theft or misuse, or due to national security or export control considerations. Such property includes weapons, ammunition, explosives, information technology equipment with memory capability, cameras, and communications equipment. These classifications do not preclude agencies from specifying additional personal property classifications to effectively manage their programs.


*Surplus personal property* (see § 102-37.25 of this subchapter B).


*Utilization* means the identification, reporting, and transfer of excess personal property among Federal agencies.




