# ยง 908.104   Requirements.

(a) *Automated HAs.* Housing agencies that currently use automated software packages to transmit Forms HUD-50058 and HUD-50058-FSS information by tape or diskette to the Department's data processing contractor must convert to telephonic electronic transmission of that data in a HUD specified format by June 30, 1995.


(b) *Nonautomated HAs.* Housing agencies that currently prepare and transmit the HUD-50058 and HUD-50058-FSS information to HUD paper must:


(1) Complete a vendor search and obtain either:


(i) The necessary hardware and software required to develop and maintain an in-house automated data processing system (ADP) used to generate electronic submission of the data for these forms via telephonic network; or


(ii) A service contract for the operation of an automated system to generate electronic submission of the data for these forms via telephonic network;


(2) Complete their data loading; and


(3) Begin electronic transmission by March 2, 1996.


(c) *Electronic transmission of data.* Electronic transmission of data consists of submission of all required data fields (correctly formatted) from the forms HUD-050058 and HUD-50058-FSS telephonically, in accordance with HUD instructions. Regardless of whether an HA obtains the ADP system itself or contracts with a service bureau to provide the system, the software must be periodically updated to incorporate changes or revisions in legislation, regulations, handbooks, notices, or HUD electronic transmission data format requirements.


(d) *Service contract.* HAs that determine that the purchase of hardware and/or software is not cost effective may contract out the electronic data transmission function to organizations that provide such services, including, but not limited to the following organizations: local management associations and management agents with centralized facilities. HAs that contract out the electronic transmission function must retain the ability to monitor the day-to-day operations of the project at the HA site and be able to demonstrate the ability to the relevant HUD Field Office.


(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Department may approve transmission of the data by tape or diskette if it determines that the cost of telephonic transmission would be excessive.


