# § 1717.160   Application contents.

An application for RUS approval of a merger must include the documents listed in this section. Documents listed in this section may be combined with the documents required by §§ 1717.152 and/or 1717.157 where appropriate. 


(a) *Transmittal letters* signed by the managers of all borrowers and non-borrowers who are parties to the proposed merger. These letters must include the actual corporate name, address, and taxpayer identification number of all parties to the proposed merger. The transmittal letters must be signed originals on corporate letterhead stationery. 


(b) *Resolutions from the boards of directors* of all borrowers and non-borrowers who are parties to the proposed merger. This document is the formal request by each entity for RUS approval of the proposed merger. The board resolution must include a description of the proposed merger, including timeframes, and authorization for RUS to release appropriate information to supplemental or other lenders, and for these lenders to release appropriate information to RUS. Each board resolution must be a certified original. 


(c) *Evidence* that the proposed merger will result in a viable entity, and that the security of outstanding RUS loans will not be adversely affected by the action. This evidence shall include financial forecasts, and any available studies such as net present value analyses covering a period of not less than 10 years from the effective date of the merger, as well as information about any threatened actions by other parties that could adversely affect the financial condition of any of the parties to the proposed merger, or of the successor. Such threatened actions may include annexations or other actions affecting service territory, loads, rates or other such matters. 


(d) *Regulatory information* about pending federal or state proceedings pertaining to any of the parties that could have material effects on the successor. 


(e) *Rate information.* Distribution and power supply borrowers shall submit schedules of proposed rates after the merger, including the effects of the proposed action on rates and the status of any pending rate cases before a state regulatory authority. The rates of power supply borrowers are subject to RUS approval. If rates are not projected to change after the merger, a statement to that effect will suffice. 


(f) *Area coverage and line extension policies.* If any distribution systems are parties to the proposed merger, a statement of proposed area coverage and line extension policies for the successor. 




