# § 230.3   Implementation.

Except as provided in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the locomotive owner and/or operator shall perform a 1472 service day inspection that meets the requirements of § 230.17 when the locomotive's flues would be required to be removed pursuant to § 230.10, of the regulations in effect prior to January 18, 2000. (See 49 CFR parts 200-999, revised October 1, 1978) At the time the locomotive owner and/or operator completes this inspection, it must begin to comply with the rest of the provisions of this part. Up until such time, and except as provided in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, compliance with the regulations in effect prior to January 18, 2000 (See 49 CFR parts 200-999, revised October 1, 1978) will constitute full compliance with this part. Any interested person may obtain the October 1, 1978 revision of 49 CFR parts 200-999 by contacting the Federal Railroad Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.


(a) One year after January 18, 2000. The following sections of this part must be complied with by January 18, 2001: §§ 230.7, 230.51, 230.57, 230.68, 230.70, 230.85, 230.87, 230.115, and 230.116.


(b) *Interim flue removal extensions.* FRA will continue to consider requests for flue removal extensions under the provisions of § 230.10 of the regulations in effect prior to January 18, 2000 (See 49 CFR parts 200-999, revised October 1, 1978) until January 18, 2002.


(c) *Petition for special consideration.* The locomotive owner or operator may petition FRA for special consideration of this part's implementation with respect to any locomotive that has either fully or partially satisfied the requirements of § 230.17 within the three (3) year period prior to September 25, 1998—provided the locomotive is in full compliance with § 230.17 by the time the petition is actually filed.
1

(1) *Petition process.* Petitions must be filed by January 18, 2001 and must be accompanied by all relevant documentation to be considered, including a FRA Form No. 4 (see appendix C of this part) that has been calculated in accordance with § 230.17, and all records that demonstrate the number of days the locomotive has been in service. Based upon the documentation provided, FRA will calculate the number of “service days” the locomotive has accrued and will notify the petitioner of the number of service days that remain in the locomotive's 1472 service day cycle. Petitions should be sent to FRA by some form of registered mail to ensure a record of delivery. FRA will investigate these petitions and will respond to these petitions within one year of their receipt. FRA will send its response by some form of registered mail to ensure that a record of delivery is created. In its response, FRA may grant the petition or deny it. If FRA grants the petition, the entirety of the revised requirements will become effective upon receipt of FRA's response, unless FRA's response indicates otherwise. If FRA denies the petition, the rule will become effective as provided in the first paragraph of this section.


(2) *FRA silence.* Anyone who does not receive a response within one year of the date they filed their petition, whether through administrative or postal error, must notify FRA that the response has not been received. The notification should be provided to FRA by some form of registered mail to ensure a record of delivery. Upon receipt of this notification, FRA will ensure that a response is either issued, or re-issued, as soon as possible. In the interim, however, any operator who is at the end of their inspection cycle under the rules in effect prior to January 18, 2000 (See 49 CFR parts 200-999, revised October 1, 1978) will be allowed to remain in service without conducting the required inspection under § 230.17 for an additional six months, or until they receive FRA's decision, whichever occurs first.



---

[N] [64 FR 62865, Nov. 17, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 25174, May 27, 2009]




