# § 240.13n-5   Data collection and maintenance.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section—


(1) *Asset class* means those security-based swaps in a particular broad category, including, but not limited to, credit derivatives and equity derivatives.


(2) *Position* means the gross and net notional amounts of open security-based swap transactions aggregated by one or more attributes, including, but not limited to, the:


(i) Underlying instrument, index, or reference entity;


(ii) Counterparty;


(iii) Asset class;


(iv) Long risk of the underlying instrument, index, or reference entity; and


(v) Short risk of the underlying instrument, index, or reference entity.


(3) *Transaction data* means all information reported to a security-based swap data repository pursuant to the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, except for information provided pursuant to Rule 906(b) of Regulation SBSR (17 CFR 242.906(b)).


(b) *Requirements.* Every security-based swap data repository registered with the Commission shall comply with the following data collection and data maintenance standards:


(1) *Transaction data.* (i) Every security-based swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed for the reporting of complete and accurate transaction data to the security-based swap data repository and shall accept all transaction data that is reported in accordance with such policies and procedures.


(ii) If a security-based swap data repository accepts any security-based swap in a particular asset class, the security-based swap data repository shall accept all security-based swaps in that asset class that are reported to it in accordance with its policies and procedures required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(iii) Every security-based swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to satisfy itself that the transaction data that has been submitted to the security-based swap data repository is complete and accurate, and clearly identifies the source for each trade side and the pairing method (if any) for each transaction in order to identify the level of quality of the transaction data.


(iv) Every security-based swap data repository shall promptly record the transaction data it receives.


(2) *Positions.* Every security-based swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to calculate positions for all persons with open security-based swaps for which the security-based swap data repository maintains records.


(3) Every security-based swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the transaction data and positions that it maintains are complete and accurate.


(4) Every security-based swap data repository shall maintain transaction data and related identifying information for not less than five years after the applicable security-based swap expires and historical positions for not less than five years:


(i) In a place and format that is readily accessible and usable to the Commission and other persons with authority to access or view such information; and


(ii) In an electronic format that is non-rewriteable and non-erasable.


(5) Every security-based swap data repository shall establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent any provision in a valid security-based swap from being invalidated or modified through the procedures or operations of the security-based swap data repository.


(6) Every security-based swap data repository shall establish procedures and provide facilities reasonably designed to effectively resolve disputes over the accuracy of the transaction data and positions that are recorded in the security-based swap data repository.


(7) If a security-based swap data repository ceases doing business, or ceases to be registered pursuant to section 13(n) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)) and the rules and regulations thereunder, it must continue to preserve, maintain, and make accessible the transaction data and historical positions required to be collected, maintained, and preserved by this section in the manner required by the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and for the remainder of the period required by this section.


(8) Every security-based swap data repository shall make and keep current a plan to ensure that the transaction data and positions that are recorded in the security-based swap data repository continue to be maintained in accordance with Rule 13n-5(b)(7) (§ 240.13n-5(b)(7)), which shall include procedures for transferring the transaction data and positions to the Commission or its designee (including another registered security-based swap data repository).



---

[N] [80 FR 14550, Mar. 19, 2015]




