# § 71.1   Petitions.

(a) Any interested person may propose the listing of a color additive for use in or on any food, drug, or cosmetic or for coloring the human body. Such proposal shall be made in a petition in the form prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. The petition shall be submitted in triplicate (quadruplicate, if intended uses include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product). If any part of the material submitted is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an accurate and complete English translation. The petitioner shall state the post-office address in the United States to which published notices or orders issued or objections filed pursuant to section 721 of the act may be sent.


(b) Pertinent information may be incorporated in, and will be considered as part of, a petition on the basis of specific reference to such information submitted to and retained in the files of the Food and Drug Administration. However, any reference to unpublished information furnished by a person other than the applicant will not be considered unless use of such information is authorized in a written statement signed by the person who submitted the information. Any reference to published information offered in support of a color additive petition should be accompanied by reprints or photostatic copies of such references.


(c) Petitions shall include the following data and be submitted in the following form:


(d) The petitioner will be notified of the date on which his petition is filed; and an incomplete petition, or one that has not been submitted in triplicate, will be retained but not filed. A petition shall be retained but shall not be filed if any of the data listed in the above form are lacking or are not set forth so as to be readily understood or if the prescribed fee has not been submitted. The petitioner will be notified in what respects his petition is incomplete.


(e) The petition must be signed by the petitioner or by his attorney or authorized agent, who is a resident of the United States.


(f) The data specified under the several lettered headings should be submitted on separate sheets or sets of sheets, suitably identified. If such data have already been submitted with an earlier application, the present petition may incorporate it by specific reference to the earlier petition.


(g) If nonclinical laboratory studies are involved, petitions filed with the Commissioner under section 721(b) of the act shall include with respect to each nonclinical study contained in the petition, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance.


(h) [Reserved]


(i) If clinical investigations involving human subjects are involved, petitions filed with the Commissioner under section 721(b) of the act shall include statements regarding each such clinical investigation contained in the petition that it either was conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review set forth in part 56 of this chapter, or was not subject to such requirements in accordance with §§ 56.104 or 56.105, and that it was conducted in compliance with the requirements for informed consent set forth in part 50 of this chapter.


(j)(1) If intended uses of the color additive include uses in meat, meat food product, or poultry product subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) under the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) (21 U.S.C. 451 *et seq.*) or the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*), FDA shall, upon filing of the petition, forward a copy of the petition or relevant portions thereof to the Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA, for simultaneous review under the PPIA and FMIA.


(2) FDA will ask USDA to advise whether the proposed meat and poultry uses comply with the FMIA and PPIA or, if not, whether use of the substance would be permitted in products under USDA jurisdiction under specified conditions or restrictions.



---

[N] [42 FR 15639, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 60021, Dec. 22, 1978; 46 FR 8952, Jan. 27, 1981; 50 FR 7491, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 16668, Apr. 26, 1985; 54 FR 24890, June 12, 1989; 61 FR 14478, Apr. 2, 1996; 62 FR 40598, July 29, 1997; 65 FR 51762, Aug. 25, 2000; 66 FR 56035, Nov. 6, 2001; 81 FR 49895, July 29, 2016]




