# § 53.178   Exportations, uses, sales, and resales included.

(a) *In general.* The payment of tax imposed by chapter 32 of the Code on the sale of any article, will be considered to be an overpayment by reason of any exportation, use, sale, or resale described in any one of paragraphs (b) to (e), inclusive, of this section. This section applies only in those cases where the exportation, use, sale, or resale (or any combination thereof) referred to in any one or more of these paragraphs occurs before any other use. If any article is sold or resold for a use described in any one of these paragraphs and is not in fact so used, the paragraph is treated in all respects as inapplicable.


(b) *Exportation of tax-paid articles.* A payment of tax under chapter 32 of the Code on the sale of any article will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(A) of the Code if the article is by any person exported to a foreign country or shipped to a possession of the United States. It is immaterial for purposes of this paragraph, whether the person who made the taxable sale had knowledge at the time of the sale that the article was being purchased for export to a foreign country or shipment to a possession of the United States. See § 53.184 for the circumstances under which a claim for refund by reason of the exportation of an article may be claimed by the exporter or shipper, rather than by the person who paid the tax. For definition of the term “possession of the United States”, see § 53.11.


(c) *Supplies for vessels or aircraft.* A payment of tax under chapter 32 of the Code on the sale of any article, will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(B) of the Code if the article is used by any person, or is sold by any person for use by the purchaser, as supplies for vessels or aircraft. The term “supplies for vessels or aircraft”, as used in this paragraph, has the same meaning as when used in sections 4221(a)(3), 4221(d)(3), and 4221(e)(1) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder (§ 53.134(b)(1)).


(d) *Use by State or local government.* A payment of tax under chapter 32 of the Code on the sale of any article will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(C) of the Code if the article is sold by any person to a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia for the exclusive use of a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia. For provisions relating to tax-free sales to a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, see section 4221(a)(4) of the Code and § 53.131.


(e) *Use by nonprofit educational organization.* A payment of tax under chapter 32 of the Code on the sale of any article will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(D) of the Code if the article is sold by any person to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use. The term “nonprofit educational organization”, as used in this paragraph (e), has the same meaning as when used in section 4221 (a)(5) or (d)(5) of the Code, whichever applies, and the regulations under § 53.136.




