# § 191.15   Transmission systems; gathering systems; liquefied natural gas facilities; and underground natural gas storage facilities: Incident report.

(a) *Pipeline systems*—(1) *Transmission, offshore gathering, or regulated onshore gathering.* Each operator of a transmission, offshore gathering, or a regulated onshore gathering pipeline system must submit Department of Transportation (DOT) Form PHMSA F 7100.2 as soon as practicable but not more than 30 days after detection of an incident required to be reported under § 191.5.


(2) *Reporting-regulated gathering.* Each operator of a reporting-regulated gathering pipeline system must submit DOT Form PHMSA F 7100.2-2 as soon as practicable but not more than 30 days after detection of an incident required to be reported under § 191.5 that occurs after May 16, 2022.


(b) *LNG.* Each operator of a liquefied natural gas plant or facility must submit DOT Form PHMSA F 7100.3 as soon as practicable but not more than 30 days after detection of an incident required to be reported under § 191.5 of this part.


(c) *Underground natural gas storage facility.* Each operator of a UNGSF must submit DOT Form PHMSA F7100.2 as soon as practicable but not more than 30 days after the detection of an incident required to be reported under § 191.5.


(d) *Supplemental report.* Where additional related information is obtained after an operator submits a report under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, the operator must make a supplemental report as soon as practicable, with a clear reference by date to the original report.



---

[N] [75 FR 72905, Nov. 26, 2010; as amended by Amdt. 191-24, 81 FR 91871, Dec. 19, 2016; Amdt. 191-27, 85 FR 8125, Feb. 12, 2020; Amdt. 191-30, 86 FR 63295, Nov. 15, 2021; 87 FR 35677, June 13, 2022]




