# § 73.3540   Application for voluntary assignment or transfer of control.

(a) Prior consent of the FCC must be obtained for a voluntary assignment or transfer of control.


(b) Application should be filed with the FCC at least 45 days prior to the contemplated effective date of assignment or transfer of control.


(c) Application for consent to the assignment of construction permit or license must be filed on FCC Form 2100 Schedule 314 “Assignment of License or Construction Permit” or FCC Form 2100 Schedule 316 (See paragraph (f) of this section). For International Broadcast Stations, the application shall be filed electronically in the International Communications Filing System (ICFS).


(d) Application for consent to the transfer of control of an entity holding a construction permit or license must be filed on FCC Form 2100 Schedule 315 “Transfer of Control” or FCC Form 2100 Schedule 316 (see paragraph (f) of this section). For International Broadcast Stations, applications shall be filed electronically in ICFS.


(e) Application for consent to the assignment of construction permit or license or to the transfer of control of an entity licensee or permittee for an FM or TV translator station, a low power TV station and any associated auxiliary station, such as translator microwave relay stations and UHF translator booster stations, only must be filed on FCC Form 2100 Schedule 345 “Application for Consent to Assign Construction Permit or License for TV or FM Translator or Low Power TV Station or to Transfer Control of Entity Holding TV or FM Translator, or a Low Power TV Station.”


(f) The following assignment or transfer applications may be filed on FCC Form 2100 Schedule 316:


(1) Assignment from an individual or individuals (including partnerships) to a corporation owned and controlled by such individuals or partnerships without any substantial change in their relative interests;


(2) Assignment from a corporation to its individual stockholders without effecting any substantial change in the disposition of their interests;


(3) Assignment or transfer by which certain stockholders retire and the interest transferred is not a controlling one;


(4) Corporate reorganization which involves no substantial change in the beneficial ownership of the corporation;


(5) Assignment or transfer from a corporation to a wholly owned subsidiary thereof or vice versa, or where there is an assignment from a corporation to a corporation owned or controlled by the assignor stockholders without substantial change in their interests; or


(6) Assignment of less than a controlling interest in a partnership.



---

[N] [44 FR 38496, July 2, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 21486, May 12, 1983; 49 FR 47843, Dec. 7, 1984; 50 FR 32416, Aug. 12, 1985; 86 FR 54402, Oct. 1, 2021; 88 FR 21448, Apr. 10, 2023; 89 FR 7259, Feb. 1, 2024]




