# § 1050.103   Definitions.

(a) *Employee* means—


(1) An employee of DOE or FERC as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105 (employees of DOE contractors are specifically excluded);


(2) A special Government employee as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(a), and an expert or consultant who is under contract to the DOE pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3109, including, in the case of an organization performing services under such section, any individual involved in the performance of such services;


(3) A member of a Uniformed Service or an employee of another Government agency assigned or detailed to the DOE or FERC;


(4) The spouse of an individual described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section (unless such individual and his or her spouse are legally separated) or a dependent (within the meaning ot section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954) of such an individual, other than a spouse or dependent who is an employee under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3). 


(b) *Foreign government* means: 


(1) Any unit of foreign governmental authority, including any foreign national, State, local, or municipal government; 


(2) Any international or multinational organization whose membership is composed of any unit of foreign government described in paragraph (b)(1); and 


(3) Any agent or representative of any such unit or such organization, while acting as such. 


(c) *Gift* means a tangible or intangible present (other than a decoration) tendered by, or received from, a foreign government. 


(d) *Decoration* means an order, device, medal, badge, insignia, emblem, or award tendered by, or received from, a foreign government. 


(e) *Minimal value* means that value as defined in regulations prescribed by the Administrator of General Services, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to reflect changes in the consumer price index for the immediately preceding 3-year period in accordance with the definition of “minimal value” as set forth in the Federal Property Management Regulations of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations as applied to the Utilization, Donation, and Disposal of Foreign Gifts and Decorations. 


(f) *The Act* means the Foreign Gifts and Decorations Act, 5 U.S.C. 7342. 


(g) *Appropriate General Counsel* means either the DOE General Counsel when the employee involved is an employee of that portion of the DOE which excludes FERC, or the FERC General Counsel when the employee involved is an employee of FERC. 



---

[N] [45 FR 53972, Aug. 13, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 44896, Aug. 31, 1994]




