# ยง 735.13   Submission of estimated annual budgets and allocation of funds.

(a) Budget summaries for Federal budget. For each fiscal year, the agency shall submit to the Director or his authorized designee 18 months prior to the Federal fiscal year for which the grant will be requested, a projection of its program budget (personnel and fringe benefits, travel, equipment and supplies, contractual, indirect charges, and other), including the costs of administering State-Federal cooperative agreements pursuant to ยง 211.75 of this title, and any aircraft which the agency proposes to acquire. The Director will use these budget summaries in preparing the Federal budget estimates which he is required to submit.


(b) Updated budget summary. For each fiscal year, the agency shall submit to the Director or his authorized designee a current program budget (personnel and fringe benefits, travel, equipment and supplies, contractual, indirect charges, and other) three months prior to the beginning of the Federal fiscal year for which a grant will be requested. 


(c) *Allocation of funds.* (1) The Director shall allocate to the agencies the full amount requested and approved in the States' revised or actual budgets provided that the amount available in the Federal budget is sufficient.


(2) If the funds available for grants are insufficient to cover the total grant needs, including cooperative agreement grants, the Director shall allocate the funds available according to the proportion of each requested and approved agency's budget to the total of all agencies' requested and approved budgets. 


(3) Allocation of a specific amount of funds to an agency does not assure that grants for that amount will be approved. Each agency must apply for and secure approval of grants in accordance with the requirements of this part.


(4) The Director shall reallocate any funds which are not requested by agencies as of June 1 of that year. Such funds shall be allocated primarily to those agencies which have received less than the allowable percentage of their eligible costs. 


(5) Agencies which are allocated such additional funds may submit new or revised grant applications for the additional amounts on or before August 15, of that year.



---

[N] [42 FR 62706, Dec. 13, 1977. Redesignated at 44 FR 15312, Mar. 13, 1979, and amended at 47 FR 38491, Aug. 31, 1982]




