# § 411.5   General definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*ACF* means the Administration for Children and Families.


*Care provider facility* means any ORR funded program that is licensed, certified, or accredited by an appropriate State or local agency to provide residential or group services to UCs, including a program of group homes or facilities for children with special needs or staff-secure services for children. Emergency care provider facilities are included in this definition but may or may not be licensed, certified, or accredited by an appropriate State or local agency.


*Contractor* means a person who, or entity that, provides services on a recurring basis pursuant to a contractual agreement with ORR or with a care provider facility or has a sub-contractual agreement with the contractor.


*DHS* means the Department of Homeland Security.


*Director* means the Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement.


*DOJ* means the Department of Justice.


*Emergency* means a sudden, urgent, usually unexpected occurrence or occasion requiring immediate action.


*Emergency care provider* facility is a type of care provider facility that is temporarily opened to provide temporary emergency shelter and services for UCs during an influx. Emergency care provider facilities may or may not be licensed by an appropriate State or local agency.


*Exigent circumstances* means any set of temporary and unforeseen circumstances that require immediate action in order to combat a threat to the security of a care provider facility or a threat to the safety and security of any person.


*Gender* refers to the attitudes, feelings, and behaviors that a given culture associates with a person's biological sex.


*Gender identity* refers to one's sense of oneself as male, female, or transgender.


*Gender nonconforming* means a person whose appearance or manner does not conform to traditional societal gender expectations.


*HHS* means the Department of Health and Human Services.


*Intersex* means a person whose sexual or reproductive anatomy or chromosomal pattern does not seem to fit typical definitions of male or female. Intersex medical conditions are sometimes referred to as disorders of sex development.


*Law enforcement* means any local, State, or Federal enforcement agency with the authority and jurisdiction to investigate whether any criminal laws were violated.


*LGBTQI* means lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, or intersex.


*Limited English proficient* (LEP) means individuals for whom English is not the primary language and who may have a limited ability to read, write, speak, or understand English.


*Medical practitioner* means a health professional who, by virtue of education, credentials, and experience, is permitted by law to evaluate and care for patients within the scope of his or her professional practice. A “qualified medical practitioner” refers to a professional who also has successfully completed specialized training for treating sexual abuse victims.


*Mental health practitioner* means a mental health professional who, by virtue of education, credentials, and experience, is permitted by law to evaluate and care for patients within the scope of his or her professional practice. A “qualified mental health practitioner” refers to a professional who also has successfully completed specialized training for treating sexual abuse victims.


*ORR* refers to the Office of Refugee Resettlement.


*Pat-down search* means a sliding or patting of the hands over the clothed body of an unaccompanied child by staff to determine whether the individual possesses contraband.


*Secure care provider facility* is a type of care provider facility with a physically secure structure and staff responsible for controlling violent behavior. ORR uses a secure care provider facility as the most restrictive placement option for a UC who poses a danger to him or herself or others or has been charged with having committed a criminal offense. A secure care provider facility is a juvenile detention center.


*Sex* refers to a person's biological status and is typically categorized as male, female, or intersex. There are a number of indicators of biological sex, including sex chromosomes, gonads, internal reproductive organs, and external genitalia.


*Sexual Assault Forensic Examiner* (SAFE) means a “medical practitioner” who has specialized forensic training in treating sexual assault victims and conducting forensic medical examinations.


*Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner* (SANE) means a registered nurse who has specialized forensic training in treating sexual assault victims and conducting forensic medical examinations.


*Special needs* means mental and/or physical conditions that require special services and treatment by staff. A UC may have special needs due to a disability as defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12102(2).


*Staff* means employees or contractors of ORR or a care provider facility, including any entity that operates within a care provider facility.


*Strip search* means a search that requires a person to remove or arrange some or all clothing so as to permit a visual inspection of the person's breasts, buttocks, or genitalia.


*Substantiated allegation* means an allegation that was investigated and determined to have occurred.


*Traditional foster care* means a type of care provider facility where a UC is placed with a family in a community-based setting. The State or locally licensed foster family is responsible for providing basic needs in addition to responsibilities as outlined by the State or local licensed child placement agency, State and local licensing regulations, and any ORR policies related to foster care. The UC attends public school and receives on-going case management and counseling services. The care provider facility facilitates the provision of additional psychiatric, psychological, or counseling referrals as needed. Traditional foster care may include transitional or short-term foster care as well as long-term foster care providers.


*Transgender* means a person whose gender identity (*i.e.*, internal sense of feeling male or female) is different from the person's assigned sex at birth.


*Unaccompanied child* (UC) means a child:


(1) Who has no lawful immigration status in the United States;


(2) Who has not attained 18 years of age; and


(3) With respect to whom there is no parent or legal guardian in the United States or there is no parent or legal guardian in the United States available to provide care and physical custody.


*Unfounded allegation* means an allegation that was investigated and determined not to have occurred.


*Unsubstantiated allegation* means an allegation that was investigated and the investigation produced insufficient evidence to make a final determination as to whether or not the event occurred.


*Volunteer* means an individual who donates time and effort on a recurring basis to enhance the activities and programs of ORR or the care provider facility.


*Youth care worker* means employees primarily responsible for the supervision and monitoring of UCs in housing units, educational areas, recreational areas, dining areas, and other program areas of a care provider facility.




