# ยง 870.104   Incontestability.

(a) If an individual erroneously becomes insured, the coverage will remain in effect if at least 2 years pass before the error is discovered, and if the individual has paid applicable premiums during that time. This applies to errors discovered on or after October 30, 1998, and applies only to employees, not retirees or compensationers.


(b) If an employee is erroneously allowed to continue insurance into retirement or while receiving compensation, the coverage will remain in effect if at least 2 years pass before the error is discovered, and if the annuitant or compensationer has paid applicable premiums during that time. This applies to such errors discovered on or after October 30, 1998.


(c) If an individual is erroneously enrolled in life insurance on or after the date he or she retires or begins receiving compensation, the coverage cannot remain in effect even if 2 years pass and the individual paid applicable premiums.


(d) If an individual who is allowed to continue erroneous coverage under this section does not want the coverage, he or she may cancel the coverage on a prospective basis, effective at the end of the pay period in which the waiver is properly filed. There is no refund of premiums. *Exception:* If an employee obtained Option C erroneously and did not have any eligible family members, that coverage may be cancelled retroactively and the insured will obtain a refund of the erroneous Option C premiums.



---

[N] [75 FR 60576, Oct. 1, 2010]




