# ยง 300.229   Mobulid ray restrictions.

The requirements of this section apply in all exclusive economic zones and all areas of high seas in the Convention Area, excluding the Overlap Area. For the purpose of this section, mobulid ray is defined as any ray in the family Mobulidae, which includes manta rays and devil rays (*Mobula spp.*).


(a) The owner and operator of a fishing vessel of the United States used for commercial fishing for HMS cannot set or attempt to set on or around a mobulid ray if the animal is sighted at any time prior to the commencement of the set or the attempted set.


(b) The owner and operator of a fishing vessel of the United States used for commercial fishing for HMS cannot retain on board, transship, store, or land any part or whole carcass of a mobulid ray, unless subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section.


(c) The owner and operator of a fishing vessel of the United States used for commercial fishing for HMS must release any mobulid ray, as soon as possible, and must ensure that all reasonable steps are taken to ensure its safe release, without compromising the safety of any persons, unless subject to the provisions of paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section.


(d) Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section do not apply in the event that a WCPFC observer collects, or requests the assistance of the vessel crew, operator, or owner in the collection of, samples of a mobulid ray in the Convention Area.


(e) The crew, operator, and owner of a vessel must allow and assist a WCPFC observer to collect samples of a mobulid ray in the Convention Area, if requested to do so by a WCPFC observer.


(f) Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section do not apply in the event that a mobulid ray is not seen by the crew, operator, or owner of a purse seine vessel, or any WCPFC observer on board that vessel, prior to being delivered into the vessel hold and frozen. In such a case, a mobulid ray could be stored and landed, but the vessel owner or operator must notify the on-board observer and surrender the whole ray to the responsible government authorities or discard the animal at the first point of landing or transshipment. In U.S. ports, the responsible government authority is the NOAA Office of Law Enforcement. Any mobulid ray surrendered in this manner may not be sold or bartered, but may be donated for human consumption, consistent with any applicable laws and policies.









---

[N] [88 FR 30679, May 12, 2023]










