# § 7.1012   Establishment, operation, or use of a messenger service by a national bank.

(a) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, a “messenger service” means any service, such as a courier service or armored car service, used by a national bank and its customers to pick up from, and deliver to, specific customers at locations such as their homes or offices, items relating to transactions between the bank and those customers. 


(b) *Pick-up and delivery of items constituting nonbranching activities.* Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh), a national bank may establish and operate a messenger service, or use, with its customers, a third party messenger service. The bank may use the messenger service to transport items relevant to the bank's transactions with its customers without regard to the branching limitations set forth in 12 U.S.C. 36, provided the service does not engage in branching functions within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 36(j). In establishing or using such a facility, the national bank may establish terms, conditions, and limitations consistent with this section and appropriate to assure compliance with safe and sound banking practices. 


(c) *Pick-up and delivery of items constituting branching functions by a messenger service established by a third party.* (1) Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 24 (Seventh), a national bank and its customers may use a messenger service to pick up from and deliver to customers items that relate to branching functions within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 36, provided the messenger service is established and operated by a third party. In using such a facility, a national bank may establish terms, conditions, and limitations, consistent with this section and appropriate to assure compliance with safe and sound banking practices.


(2) The OCC reviews whether a messenger service is established by a third party on a case-by-case basis, considering all of the circumstances. However, a messenger service is clearly established by a third party if:


(i) A party other than the national bank owns or rents the messenger service and its facilities and employs the persons who provide the service;


(ii)(A) The messenger service retains the discretion to determine in its own business judgment which customers and geographic areas it will serve; or


(B) If the messenger service and the bank are under common ownership or control, the messenger service actually provides its services to the general public, including other depository institutions, and retains the discretion to determine in its own business judgment which customers and geographic areas it will serve;


(iii) The messenger service maintains ultimate responsibility for scheduling, movement, and routing;


(iv) The messenger service does not operate under the name of the bank, and the bank and the messenger service do not advertise, or otherwise represent, that the bank itself is providing the service, although the bank may advertise that its customers may use one or more third party messenger services to transact business with the bank;


(v) The messenger service assumes responsibility for the items during transit and for maintaining adequate insurance covering thefts, employee fidelity, and other in-transit losses; and


(vi) The messenger service acts as the agent for the customer when the items are in transit. The bank deems items intended for deposit to be deposited when credited to the customer's account at the bank's main office, one of its branches, or another permissible facility, such as a back-office facility that is not a branch. The bank deems items representing withdrawals to be paid when the items are given to the messenger service.


(3) A national bank may defray all or part of the costs incurred by a customer in transporting items through a messenger service. Payment of those costs may only cover expenses associated with each transaction involving the customer and the messenger service. The national bank may impose terms, conditions, and limitations that it deems appropriate with respect to the payment of such costs.


(d) *Pickup and delivery of items pertaining to branching activities where the messenger service is established by the national bank.* A national bank may establish and operate a messenger service to transport items relevant to the bank's transactions with its customers if such transactions constitute one or more branching functions within the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 36(j), provided the bank receives approval to establish a branch pursuant to 12 CFR 5.30. 



---

[N] [61 FR 4862, Feb. 9, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 60098, Nov. 4, 1999; 85 FR 83728, Dec. 22, 2020]




