# § 51.1820   Tolerances.

In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 25 count sample, are provided as specified:


(a) *Defects.* (1) U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Golden, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. No. 1 Russet, U.S. No. 2 Bright, U.S. No. 2, and U.S. No. 2 Russet grades.


(i) *For defects at shipping point.*1 Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade: *Provided,* that included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay or wormy fruit.


(ii) *For defects en route or at destination.* Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade: *Provided,* that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:


(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,


(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.


(2) U.S. No. 3.


(i) *For defects at shipping point. 
* that included in this amount not more than 1 percent shall be for decay or wormy fruit.


(ii) *For defects en route or at destination.* Not more than 12 percent of the fruit which fail to meet the requirements of the grade: *Provided,* that included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:


(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or,


(B) 3 percent for decay or wormy fruit.


(b) *Discoloration*—(1) *U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 2 Bright, and U.S. No. 2.* Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements relating to discoloration as specified in each grade. No sample may have more than 20 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration: *And provided further,* that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.


(2) *U.S. No. 1 Golden.* Not more than 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of their surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to increase this percentage. No sample may have more than 40 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration: *And provided further,* that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.


(3) *U.S. No. 1 Bronze, and U.S. No. 1 Russet.* At least 30 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-third of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage. No sample may have less than 20 percent of the fruit with required discoloration: *And provided further,* that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.


(4) *U.S. No. 2 Russet.* At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have in excess of one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage: *And provided further,* that the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.



---

[N] [61 FR 20713, May 8, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 40290, Aug. 2, 1996; 62 FR 2897, Jan. 21, 1997]




