# § 1.1503(d)-7   Examples.

(a) *In general.* This section provides examples that illustrate the application of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-6. This section also provides facts that are presumed for such examples.


(b) *Presumed facts for examples.* For purposes of the examples in this section, unless otherwise indicated, the following facts are presumed:


(1) Each entity has only a single class of equity outstanding, all of which is held by a single owner.


(2) P, a domestic corporation and the common parent of the P consolidated group, owns S, a domestic corporation and a member of the P consolidated group.


(3) DRC_X_, a domestic corporation, is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, and is a dual resident corporation.


(4) DE1_X_ and DE2_X_ are both Country X entities, subject to Country X tax on their worldwide income or on a residence basis, and disregarded as entities separate from their owners for U.S. tax purposes. DE3_Y_ is a Country Y entity, subject to Country Y tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, and disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. tax purposes. All the interests in DE1_X_, DE2_X_, and DE3_Y_ constitute hybrid entity separate units.


(5) FB_X_ is a Country X business operation that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch, as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1), and is a Country X foreign branch separate unit.


(6) Neither the assets nor the activities of an entity constitute a foreign branch separate unit.


(7) FS_X_ is a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis and is classified as a foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes.


(8) The applicable foreign country has a consolidation regime that—


(i) Includes as members of a consolidated group any commonly controlled branches and permanent establishments in such jurisdiction, and entities that are subject to tax in such jurisdiction on their worldwide income or on a residence basis; and


(ii) Allows the losses of members of consolidated groups to offset income of other members.


(9) There is no mirror legislation, within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(1), in the applicable foreign country.


(10) There is no elective agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(b) between the United States and the applicable foreign country.


(11) There is no income tax convention between the United States and the applicable foreign country.


(12) If a domestic use election, within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-6(d), is made, all the necessary filings related to such election are properly completed on a timely basis.


(13) If there is a triggering event requiring recapture of a dual consolidated loss, the amount of recapture is not reduced pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2).


(14) There are no other items of income, gain, deduction, and loss. In addition, the United States and the applicable foreign country recognize the same items of income, gain, deduction, and loss in each taxable year.


(15) All taxpayers use the calendar year as their taxable year.


(c) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-6:


(1) *Example 1. Separate unit combination rule*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE3_Y_ which, in turn, owns DE1_X_. DE1_X_ owns FB_X_. PRS, an entity treated as a partnership for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes, is owned 50 percent by P and 50 percent by an unrelated foreign person. PRS carries on a business operation in Country X that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). In addition, P owns DRC_X_, a member of the consolidated group of which P is the parent, which carries on business operations in Country X that constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). S owns DE2_X_.


(ii) *Result.* Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), the interest in DE1_X_, the interest in DE2_X_, FB_X_, P's share of the Country X business operations carried on by PRS (which is owned by P indirectly through its interest in PRS), and DRC_X_'s Country X business operations are combined and treated as a single separate unit of the consolidated group of which P is the parent. This is the case regardless of whether the losses of each individual separate unit are made available to offset the income of the other individual separate units under Country X tax laws. Because DRC_X_ is a dual resident corporation, it is not combined and treated as part of this combined separate unit and, as a result, DRC_X_'s income or dual consolidated loss is not taken into account in determining the income or dual consolidated loss of the combined separate unit. In addition, P's interest in DE3_Y_ is not combined and is another separate unit because it is subject to tax in Country Y, rather than Country X.


(2) *Example 2. Definition of a separate unit and application of domestic use limitation—foreign branch separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P carries on business operations in Country X that constitute a permanent establishment under the U.S.-Country X income tax convention. In year 1, a loss is attributable to P's Country X permanent establishment, as determined under § 1.1503(d)-5.


(ii) *Result.* Under §§ 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(A) and 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1), P's Country X permanent establishment constitutes a foreign branch separate unit. Therefore, the year 1 loss attributable to the foreign branch separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(5)(ii). The dual consolidated loss rules apply to the dual consolidated loss even though there is no affiliate of the foreign branch separate unit in Country X, because it is still possible that all or a portion of the dual consolidated loss can be put to a foreign use. For example, there may be a foreign use with respect to a Country X affiliate acquired in a year subsequent to the year in which the dual consolidated loss was incurred. See § 1.1503(d)-6(a)(2). Accordingly, unless an exception under § 1.1503(d)-6 applies (such as a domestic use election), the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X permanent establishment is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). As a result, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(c), the year 1 dual consolidated loss cannot offset income of P that is not attributable to its Country X foreign branch separate unit, nor can it offset income of any other domestic affiliate. The loss can, however, offset income of the Country X foreign branch separate unit, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c). The result would be the same even if Country X did not have a consolidation regime that includes as members of consolidated groups Country X branches or permanent establishments of nonresident corporations. The dual consolidated loss rules apply even in the absence of a consolidation regime in the foreign country because it is possible that all or a portion of a dual consolidated loss can be put to a foreign use by other means, such as through a sale, merger, or similar transaction. See § 1.1503(d)-6(a)(2).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, except that P's Country X business operations constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1), but do not constitute a permanent establishment under the U.S.-Country X income tax convention. Although the activities carried on by P in Country X would otherwise constitute a foreign branch separate unit as described in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(A), the exception under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(iii) applies because the activities do not constitute a permanent establishment under the U.S.-Country X income tax convention. Thus, the Country X business operations do not constitute a foreign branch separate unit, and the year 1 loss is not subject to the dual consolidated loss rules. If P instead carried on its Country X business operations through DE1_X_, then the exception under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(iii) would not apply because P carries on the business operations through a hybrid entity and, as a result, the business operations would constitute a foreign branch separate unit. Thus, in such a case the year 1 loss would be subject to the dual consolidated loss rules.


(3) *Example 3. Domestic use limitation—foreign branch separate unit owned through a partnership*—(i) *Facts.* P and S organize a partnership, PRS_X_, under the laws of Country X. PRS_X_ is treated as a partnership for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. PRS_X_ owns FB_X_. PRS_X_ earns U.S. source income that is unconnected with its FB_X_ branch operations, and such income is not subject to tax by Country X. In addition, such U.S. source income is not attributable to FB_X_ under § 1.1503(d)-5.


(ii) *Result.* Under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(A), P's and S's shares of FB_X_ owned indirectly through their interests in PRS_X_ are individual foreign branch separate units. Pursuant to § 1.1503(b)-1(b)(4)(ii), these individual separate units are combined and treated as a single separate unit of the consolidated group of which P is the parent. Unless an exception under § 1.1503(d)-6 applies, any dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_X_ cannot offset income of P or S (other than income attributable to FB_X_, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)), including their distributive share of the U.S. source income earned through their interests in PRS_X_, nor can it offset income of any other domestic affiliates.


(4) *Example 4. Definition of a separate unit and domestic use limitation—interest in hybrid entity partnership and indirectly owned foreign branch separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* HPS_X_ is a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. HPS_X_ is classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes. P, S, and FS_X_, are the sole partners of HPS_X_. For U.S. tax purposes, P, S, and FS_X_ each has an equal interest in each item of HPS_X_'s profit or loss. HPS_X_ carries on operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1).


(ii) *Result.* Under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(B), the partnership interests in HPS_X_ held by P and S are individual hybrid entity separate units. These individual separate units are combined into a single separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In addition, P's and S's share of the Country Y operations owned indirectly through their interests in HPS_X_ are individual foreign branch separate units under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(i)(B). These individual separate units are also combined into a single separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). Unless an exception under § 1.1503(d)-6 applies, dual consolidated losses attributable to P's and S's combined interests in HPS_X_ can only be used to offset income attributable to their combined interests in HPS_X_ (other than income attributable to P's and S's combined interests in the Country Y foreign branch separate unit), subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c). Similarly, dual consolidated losses attributable to P's and S's combined interests in the Country Y operations of HPS_X_ can only be used to offset income attributable to their combined interests in such Country Y operations, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c). Neither FS_X_'s interest in HPS_X_, nor its share of the Country Y operations owned by HPS_X_, is a separate unit because FS_X_ is not a domestic corporation.


(5) *Example 5. Foreign use—general rule and de minimis reduction exception*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_. DE1_X_ owns FS_X_. In year 1, there is a $100x loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ that is a dual consolidated loss. Also in year 1, FS_X_ earns $200x of income. DE1_X_ and FS_X_ file a Country X consolidated tax return. For Country X tax purposes, the year 1 $100x loss of DE1_X_ is used to offset $100x of year 1 income generated by FS_X_. Under Country X tax law, unused losses are carried forward and available to offset income in subsequent taxable years.


(ii) *Result.* The $100x loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ is available to, and in fact does, offset FS_X_'s income under the laws of Country X. In addition, under U.S. tax principles, such income is considered to be an item of FS_X_, a foreign corporation. As a result, under § 1.1503(d)-3(a), there has been a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. Therefore, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to the loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), and such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). The result would be the same even if FS_X_, under Country X tax law, had no income against which the dual consolidated loss of DE1_X_ could be offset (unless FS_X_'s ability to use the loss under Country X tax law requires an election, and no such election is made).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, except that FS_X_ cannot use the loss of DE1_X_ under Country X tax law without an election, and no such election is made. Pursuant to the exception in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(2), there is no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. In addition, P files a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to its interest in DE1_X_ and, at the beginning of year 3, P sells its interest in DE1_X_ to F, a Country Y entity that is a foreign corporation. The sale of the interest in DE1_X_ to F results in a foreign use triggering event pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(i) because, immediately after the sale, the loss attributable to the interest in DE1_X_ carries over under Country X law and, therefore, is available under U.S. tax principles to offset income of the owner of the interest in DE1_X_ which, in the hands of F, is not a separate unit. It is also a foreign use because the loss is available under U.S. tax principles to offset the income of F, a foreign corporation. See § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1). Finally, the transfer is a triggering event pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v).


(iv) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, except that P only sells 5 percent of its interest in DE1_X_ to F. Pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5 (1999-1 CB 434), see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter, the transaction is treated as if P sold 5 percent of its interest in each of DE1_X_'s assets to F, and then immediately thereafter P and F transferred their interests in the assets of DE1_X_ to a partnership in exchange for an ownership interest therein. The sale of the 5 percent interest in DE1_X_ generally results in a foreign use triggering event because a portion of the dual consolidated loss carries over under Country X tax law and is available under U.S. tax principles to offset income of the owner of the interest in DE1_X_, a hybrid entity, which in the hands of F is not a separate unit. It is also a foreign use because the loss is available under U.S. tax principles to offset the income of F, a foreign corporation. See § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1). However, pursuant to the exception under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(5) (relating to a de minimis reduction of an interest in a separate unit), such availability does not result in a foreign use. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(1) and (3), the deemed transfers pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5 as a result of the sale are not treated as triggering events described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) or (v).


(6) *Example 6. Foreign use and indirect foreign use—foreign reverse hybrid structure and disregarded payments*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_. DE1_X_ owns 99 percent and S owns 1 percent of FRH_X_, a Country X partnership that elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. tax purposes. FRH_X_ conducts a trade or business in Country X. In year 1, DE1_X_ incurs interest expense on a third-party loan, which constitutes a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. In year 1, for Country X tax purposes, DE1_X_ takes into account its distributive share of income generated by FRH_X_ and offsets such income with its interest expense.


(ii) *Result.* In year 1, the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ is available to, and in fact does, offset income recognized in Country X and, under U.S. tax principles, the income is considered to be income of FRH_X_, a foreign corporation. Accordingly, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1), there is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss. Therefore, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to its interest in DE1_X_, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), and such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* (A) The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, except as follows. Instead of owning DE1_X_, P owns DE3_Y_ which, in turn, owns DE1_X_. In addition, DE3_Y_, rather than DE1_X_, is the obligor on the third-party loan and therefore incurs the interest expense on such loan. Finally, DE3_Y_ on-lends the loan proceeds from the third-party loan to DE1_X_, and DE1_X_ pays interest to DE3_Y_ on such loan that is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes.


(B) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(ii), for purposes of calculating income or a dual consolidated loss, DE3_Y_ and DE1_X_ do not take into account interest income or interest expense, respectively, with respect to amounts paid on the disregarded loan from DE3_Y_ to DE1_X_. But see § 1.1503(d)-1(d), which takes into account certain payments that are otherwise disregarded for purposes of section 1503(d) and the regulations thereunder. As a result, such items neither create a dual consolidated loss with respect to the interest in DE1_X_, nor do they reduce (or eliminate) the dual consolidated loss attributable to the interest in DE3_Y_. Thus, in year 1, there is a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3_Y_, but not to P's indirect interest in DE1_X_.


(C) In year 1, interest expense paid by DE1_X_ to DE3_Y_ on the disregarded loan is taken into account as a deduction in computing DE1_X_'s taxable income for Country X tax purposes, but does not give rise to a corresponding item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes (because it is generally disregarded). In addition, such interest has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3_Y_ available for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss for foreign tax purposes, and creates another deduction or loss that may reduce or offset income of DE1_X_ for foreign tax purposes that, under U.S. tax principles, is treated as income of FRH_X_, a foreign corporation. Moreover, because the disregarded item is incurred or taken into account as interest for foreign tax purposes, it is deemed to have been incurred or taken into account with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d). Accordingly, there is an indirect foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3_Y_, and P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). Thus, the loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).


(7) *Example 7. Indirect foreign use—hybrid instrument*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FS_X_. DE1_X_ borrows cash from an unrelated lender and transfers the cash to FS_X_ in exchange for an instrument (hybrid instrument). The hybrid instrument is treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes and debt for Country X tax purposes. Interest expense on the loan from the unrelated lender results in a dual consolidated loss being attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ in year 1. DE1_X_ does not elect under Country X law to consolidate with FS_X_. In year 1, FS_X_ distributes its stock as a payment on the hybrid instrument to DE1_X_. For U.S. tax purposes, such payment is excluded from P's gross income under section 305. However, for Country X tax purposes, such payment is treated as interest and gives rise to a deduction taken into account in computing FS_X_'s Country X tax liability; the payment also gives rise to interest income to DE1_X_ for Country X tax purposes.


(ii) *Result.* The payment on the hybrid instrument does not give rise to an item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes and therefore does not reduce (or eliminate) the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. In addition, such payment is taken into account as a deduction in computing FS_X_'s taxable income for Country X tax purposes. Moreover, such payment has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ available for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss for foreign tax purposes, and creates a deduction that reduces or offsets income of FS_X_ for foreign tax purposes that, under U.S. tax principles, is income of a foreign corporation. Further, because the item is incurred, or taken into account, using an instrument that is treated as equity for U.S. tax purposes and debt for foreign tax purposes, it is deemed to have been engaged in with the principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d). As a result, there has been an indirect foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss, and P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). Thus, the year 1 dual consolidated loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).


(8) *Example 8. No indirect foreign use—transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ and FB_Y_. FB_Y_ is a foreign branch separate unit located in Country Y. DE1_X_ owns FB_X_ and FS_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). Under Country X tax laws, DE1_X_ elects to consolidate with FS_X_. FB_Y_ engages in the business of providing services and, in connection with its ordinary course of business, provides services to unrelated third parties and to DE1_X_. As compensation for services, DE1_X_ makes a payment to FB_Y_. Under Country X tax law, the payment is deductible. However, the payment is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes and, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(ii), is not taken into account in calculating the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit or FB_Y_. In year 1, the Country X separate unit and FB_Y_ each has a dual consolidated loss. The dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit is subject to the domestic use limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) because DE1_X_ and FS_X_ elect to consolidate and, as a result, the dual consolidated loss is put to a foreign use.


(ii) *Result.* The payment made by DE1_X_ to FB_Y_ in connection with the performance of services is taken into account as a deduction in computing DE1_X_'s taxable income for Country X tax purposes, but does not give rise to an item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes. In addition, such payment has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_Y_ available for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss of FB_Y_ for foreign tax purposes, and creates another deduction that reduces or offsets income of FS_X_ for foreign tax purposes (because DE1_X_ and FS_X_ elect to file a consolidated return) that, under U.S. tax principles, is income of a foreign corporation. However, the transaction between DE1_X_ and FB_Y_ was entered into in the ordinary course of FB_Y_'s trade or business. As a result, if P can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the transaction was not entered into with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d), FB_Y_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss will not be treated as having been made available for an indirect foreign use. In such a case, P would be entitled to make a domestic use election with respect to such loss.


(9) *Example 9. Foreign use—dual resident corporation with hybrid entity joint venture*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DRC_X_, a member of the P consolidated group. DRC_X_ owns 80 percent of HPS_X_, a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. HPS_X_ is classified as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes. FS_X_ owns the remaining 20 percent of HPS_X_. In year 1, DRC_X_ generates a $100x net operating loss (without regard to items attributable to DRC_X_'s interest in HPS_X_). Also in year 1, HPS_X_ generates $100x of income, $80x of which is attributable to DRC_X_'s interest in HPS_X_. DRC_X_ and HPS_X_ file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes, and HPS_X_ offsets its $100x of income with the $100x loss generated by DRC_X_.


(ii) *Result.* DRC_X_ and its interest in HPS_X_ are not combined because DRC_X_ is a dual resident corporation and the combination rule under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii) only applies to separate units. The $100x year 1 net operating loss incurred by DRC_X_ (without regard to items attributable to DRC_X_'s interest in HPS_X_) is a dual consolidated loss. In addition, HPS_X_ is a hybrid entity and DRC_X_'s interest in HPS_X_ is a hybrid entity separate unit; however, there is no dual consolidated loss attributable to such separate unit in year 1 (instead, there is $80x of income attributable to such separate unit). DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss offsets $100x of income for Country X purposes, and $20x of such income is, under U.S. tax principles, income of FS_X_, which owns an interest in HPS_X_ that is not a separate unit (in addition, FS_X_ is a foreign corporation). As a result, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a), there is a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_, and P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). Therefore, such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). The result would be the same even if HPS_X_, under Country X laws, had no income against which the dual consolidated loss could be offset (unless the ability to use the loss under Country X laws required an election, and no such election is made).


(10) *Example 10. Foreign use—foreign parent corporation*—(i) *Facts.* F1 and F2, nonresident alien individuals, each owns 50 percent of FP_X_, a Country X entity that is subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FP_X_ is classified as a foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes. FP_X_ owns DRC_X_. DRC_X_ is the parent of a consolidated group that includes as a member DS, a domestic corporation. In year 1, DRC_X_ incurs a dual consolidated loss of $100x and, for Country X tax purposes, FP_X_ generates $100x of income. In year 1, FP_X_ elects to consolidate with DRC_X_ for Country X tax purposes, and the $100x year 1 loss of DRC_X_ is used to offset the income of FP_X_ under the laws of Country X. For U.S. tax purposes, the items of FP_X_ do not constitute items of income in year 1.


(ii) *Result.* The year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_ offsets the income of FP_X_ under the laws of Country X. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a), the offset constitutes a foreign use because the items constituting such income are considered under U.S. tax principles to be items of a foreign corporation. This is the case even though the United States does not recognize such items as income in year 1. Therefore, DRC_X_ cannot make a domestic use election with respect to its year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). As a result, such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, except that FP_X_ is classified as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes. The result would be the same as in paragraph (c)(10)(ii) of this section, because the offset of the income generated by FP_X_ is a foreign use pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a). This is the case because the items constituting such income are considered under U.S. tax principles to be items of F1 and F2, the owners of interests in FP_X_ (a hybrid entity), that are not separate units. Moreover, the result would be the same if F1 and F2 owned their interests in FP_X_ indirectly through another partnership.


(11) *Example 11. No foreign use—deemed ordering rule.*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ and DRC_X_. DRC_X_ is a member of the P consolidated group and owns FS_X_. DE1_X_ owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and P's indirect interest in FB_X_ are individual separate units that are combined into a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, DRC_X_ incurs a $200x net operating loss and $200x of income is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. The $200x net operating loss incurred by DRC_X_ is a dual consolidated loss. FS_X_ also earns $200x of income in year 1. DRC_X_, DE1_X_, and FS_X_ file a Country X consolidated tax return.


(ii) *Result.* Under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3)(i), DRC_X_'s $200x loss shall be treated as having been made available to offset the $200x of income attributable to P's Country X separate unit. P's Country X separate unit is not, under U.S. tax principles, a foreign corporation, and there is no interest in DE1_X_ (which is a hybrid entity) that is not a separate unit. As a result, DRC_X_'s loss being made available to offset the income attributable to P's Country X separate unit is not considered a foreign use of such loss. Therefore, P can make a domestic use election with respect to DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss.


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this section, except that in year 1 only $150x of income is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. Because only $150x of income is attributed to P's Country X separate unit, $50x of DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss is treated as being made available to offset the income of FS_X_, a foreign corporation, and therefore constitutes a foreign use. As a result, DRC_X_ cannot make a domestic use election with respect to its year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), and such loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).


(12) *Example 12. No foreign use—absence of foreign loss usage ordering rules*—(i) *Facts.* (A) P owns DRC_X_, a member of the P consolidated group. DRC_X_ owns FS_X_. Under the Country X consolidation regime, a consolidated group may elect in any given year to use all or a portion of the losses of one consolidated group member to offset income of other consolidated group members. If no such election is made in a year in which losses are generated by a consolidated member, such losses carry forward and are available, at the election of the consolidated group, to offset income of consolidated group members in subsequent taxable years. Country X law does not provide ordering rules for determining when a loss from a particular taxable year is used because, under Country X law, losses never expire. In addition, Country X law does not provide ordering rules for determining when a particular type of loss (for example, capital or ordinary) is used.


(B) In year 1, DRC_X_ incurs a capital loss of $80x which, under § 1.1503(d)-5(b)(2), is not a dual consolidated loss. DRC_X_ also incurs a net operating loss of $80x in year 1 which is a dual consolidated loss. FS_X_ generates $60x of capital gain in year 1 which, for Country X purposes, can be offset by capital losses and net operating losses. Under the laws of Country X, DRC_X_ elects to use $60x of its total year 1 loss of $160x to offset the $60x of capital gain generated by FS_X_ in year 1; the remaining $100x of year 1 loss carries forward. In both year 2 and year 3, DRC_X_ incurs a net operating loss of $100x, while FS_X_ incurs no income or loss in years 2 and 3. DRC_X_'s $100x losses incurred in year 2 and year 3 are dual consolidated losses. Because DRC_X_ does not elect under the laws of Country X to use all or a portion of its year 2 or year 3 net operating losses of $100x to offset the income of other members of the Country X consolidated group, P is permitted to make (and in fact does make) a domestic use election with respect to both the year 2 and year 3 dual consolidated losses of DRC_X_. In year 4, DRC_X_ has a net operating loss of $10x and FS_X_ generates $125x of income. Country X law permits, upon an election, FS_X_'s $125x of income generated in year 4 to be offset by losses (including carryover losses from prior years) of other group members. Accordingly, in year 4, DRC_X_ elects to use $125x of its accumulated losses to offset the $125x of year 4 income generated by FS_X_.


(ii) *Result.* (A) Under the ordering rules of § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(3), a pro rata amount of DRC_X_'s year 1 net operating loss ($30x) and capital loss ($30x) is considered to be used to offset FS_X_'s year 1 $60x capital gain. As a result, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to DRC_X_'s year 1 $80x dual consolidated loss because a portion of such loss is put to a foreign use.


(B) DRC_X_'s $10x year 4 net operating loss is also a dual consolidated loss. Under the ordering rules of § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(1), such loss is considered to be used to offset $10x of FS_X_'s year 4 $125x of income. Consequently, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. Under the ordering rules of § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(2), $50x of capital loss carryover and $50x of ordinary loss from year 1 will be considered to offset $100x of FS_X_'s year 4 income because the income is first deemed to have been offset by losses the use of which would not constitute a triggering event that would result in the recapture of a dual consolidated loss. The remaining $15x of FS_X_'s year 4 income is considered to be offset by losses from year 3 because it is the most recent taxable year from which a loss may be carried forward. Thus, a portion of the year 3 dual consolidated loss has been put to a foreign use and the entire year 3 dual consolidated loss is recaptured. However, none of DRC_X_'s $100x year 2 net operating loss will be deemed to offset FS_X_'s year 4 income. As a result, DRC_X_'s year 2 dual consolidated loss will not be recaptured.


(13) *Example 13. Exception to foreign use through partnership interest*—(i) *Facts.* (A) P owns 80 percent of HPS_X_, a Country X entity subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FS_Z_, an unrelated foreign corporation, owns the remaining 20 percent of HPS_X_. HPS_X_ is classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes and carries on operations in Country X that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). P's interest in HPS_X_ and P's indirect interest in the Country X branch are individual separate units that are combined into a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii).


(B) In year 1, HPS_X_ incurs a loss of $100x, $80x of which is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. The $80x of loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. In year 2, HPS_X_ generates $50x of income, $40x of which is attributable to P's interest in the Country X separate unit. Under Country X income tax laws, the $100x of year 1 loss incurred by HPS_X_ is carried forward and offsets the $50x of income generated by HPS_X_ in year 2; the remaining $50x of loss is carried forward and is available to offset income generated by HPS_X_ in subsequent years. P and FS_Z_ maintain their ownership interests in HPS_X_ throughout years 1 and 2.


(ii) *Result.* In year 2, under the laws of Country X, the $100x of year 1 loss, which includes the $80x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, is made available to offset income of HPS_X_. Such income is attributable to P's interest in HPS_X_, which is a separate unit. Such income also is income of FS_Z_, a foreign corporation that is an owner of an interest in HPS_X_, which is not a separate unit. However, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4), there is no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss in year 2. This is the case because P's interest in HPS_X_ as of the end of year 1 has not been reduced by more than a de minimis amount, and the portion of the $80x dual consolidated loss was made available for a foreign use in year 2 solely as a result of FS_Z_'s ownership in HPS_X_ and the allocation or carry forward of the dual consolidated loss as a result of such ownership.


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section, except that P also owns FS_X_. In addition, FS_X_ and HPS_X_ elect to file a consolidated return under Country X law. The exception to foreign use under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4) does not apply because there is a foreign use other than by reason of the dual consolidated loss being made available as a result of FS_Z_'s ownership in HPS_X_ and the allocation or carry forward of the dual consolidated loss as a result of such ownership. That is, the exception does not apply because there is also a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss as a result of FS_X_ and HPS_X_ filing a consolidated return under Country X law.


(iv) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section, except that at the end of year 2, FS_Z_ contributes cash to HPS_X_ in exchange for additional equity of HPS_X_. As a result of the contribution, FS_Z_'s interest in HPS_X_ increases from 20 percent to 30 percent, and P's interest in HPS_X_ decreases from 80 percent to 70 percent. P's interest in HPS_X_ is reduced within a single 12-month period by 12.5 percent (10/80), as compared to P's interest in HPS_X_ as of the beginning of such 12-month period. Accordingly, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4)(iii), the exception to foreign use provided under § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4)(i) does not apply. Therefore, in year 2 there is a foreign use of the $80x year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit. Such foreign use constitutes a triggering event in year 2 and the $80x year 1 dual consolidated loss is recaptured. Alternatively, if FS_Z_ were a domestic corporation, there would not be a foreign use of the $80x year 1 dual consolidated loss because the loss would not be available to offset income that, under U.S. tax principles, is income of a foreign corporation or a direct or indirect owner of an interest in a hybrid entity that is not a separate unit.


(14) *Example 14. Exception to foreign use through partnership interest—combination rule*—(i) *Facts.* (A) P and FS_X_ form PRS_X_. P and FS_X_ each own 50 percent of PRS_X_ throughout years 1 and 2. PRS_X_ is treated as a partnership for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. PRS_X_ owns DE_Y_. DE_Y_ is a Country Y entity subject to Country Y tax on its worldwide income and disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. tax purposes. DE_Y_ conducts business operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). P's interest in the Country Y operations conducted by DE_Y_ is an individual foreign branch separate unit. P's interest in DE_Y_, owned indirectly through PRS_X_, is a hybrid entity individual separate unit. P also owns FB_Y_, a Country Y foreign branch individual separate unit. Under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), FB_Y_ and P's indirect interests in DE_Y_ and DE_Y_'s Country Y business operations are treated as a combined separate unit (Country Y separate unit).


(B) In year 1, there is a $100x loss attributable to the Country Y business operations conducted by DE_Y_. Thus, there is a $50x loss attributable to P's interest in DE_Y_'s Country Y business operations in year 1. Also in year 1, there is a $200x loss attributable to FB_Y_. No income or loss is attributable to P's interest in DE_Y_ in year 1. Under § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii), the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's combined Country Y separate unit is $250x ($50x loss attributable to P's indirect interest in DE_Y_'s Country Y operations, plus $200x loss attributable to FB_Y_). In year 2, neither DE_Y_ nor DE_Y_'s Country Y operations generates income or loss. Under Country Y law, the $100x of year 1 loss incurred by DE_Y_ is carried forward and is available to offset income of DE_Y_ in year 2.


(ii) *Result.* As a result of the carryover of the year 1 $100x loss (which includes $50x of the year 1 dual consolidated loss) under Country Y law, a portion of such loss will be available to offset income of DE_Y_ that is attributable to P's interest in DE_Y_ owned indirectly through PRS_X_. A portion of such loss will also be available to offset income of DE_Y_ that is attributable to FS_X_'s indirect ownership of DE_Y_. Accordingly, under § 1.1503(d)-3(a), there would be a foreign use of a portion of P's $250x year 1 dual consolidated loss because it is available to offset an item of income of the owner of an interest in a hybrid entity, which is not a separate unit (there would also be a foreign use in this case because FS_X_ is a foreign corporation). However, there has not been a reduction of P's interest in DE_Y_, DE_Y_ has not consolidated under the laws of Country Y, and there has not been any other foreign use of the dual consolidated losses. As a result, no foreign use occurs as a result of the carryforward pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(4)(i) and (ii).


(15) *Example 15. No foreign use—asset basis carryover exception*—(i) *Facts.* P owns FB_X_ and FS_X_. In year 1, there is a dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_X_. P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are taken into account in calculating FB_X_'s dual consolidated loss include depreciation deductions attributable to FB_X_'s assets. P makes a domestic use election under § 1.1503(d)-6(d) with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of FB_X_. At the end of year 2, P contributes a portion of FB_X_'s assets to FS_X_, in exchange for stock in FS_X_. The aggregate adjusted basis of the assets transferred by P to FS_X_ is less than 10 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis of all of FB_X_'s assets held at the beginning of year 2. In addition, no other assets of FB_X_ are transferred during the certification period. Under Country X law, FS_X_'s basis in the transferred assets is determined by reference to P's basis in such assets. In addition, under Country X law, a portion of the depreciation deductions that were taken into account in year 1 for U.S. tax purposes, are taken into account in year 2 for Country X tax purposes.


(ii) *Result.* As a result of the transfer of assets from P to FS_X_, a portion of the year 1 dual consolidated loss is available for a foreign use. This is the case because a portion of the basis in FB_X_'s assets, which gave rise to depreciation deductions that were taken into account in computing the year 1 dual consolidated loss, will give rise to a depreciation deduction under Country X laws that will be available, under U.S. tax principles, to offset the income of FS_X_, a foreign corporation, in year 2. However, the aggregate adjusted basis of all the assets transferred by P to FS_X_, within the 12-month period ending at the end of year 2, is less than 10 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis of all of FB_X_'s assets at the beginning of such 12-month period. Moreover, the aggregate adjusted basis of the assets transferred by P to FS_X_ at any time during the certification period is less than 30 percent of the aggregate adjusted basis of FB_X_'s assets held at the end of year 1. In addition, the item of deduction giving rise to the foreign use is being made available solely as a result of the adjusted basis of the transferred assets being determined in whole, or in part, by reference to the adjusted basis of such transferred assets in the hands of FB_X_. As a result, this transfer will not result in a foreign use pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(6).


(16) *Example 16. No foreign use—liability assumption exception*—(i) *Facts.* P owns FB_X_. In year 1, there is a dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_X_ for which P makes a domestic use election under § 1.1503(d)-6(d). The dual consolidated loss includes a deduction for salary expense that was deductible for U.S. tax purposes at the end of year 1, even though it was not paid until year 2. The deduction was incurred in the ordinary course of FB_X_'s trade or business. During year 2, and before the accrued salary expense liability was paid, P sells all the assets of FB_X_ to FS_X_ in exchange for cash and FS_X_'s assumption of the liabilities of the FB_X_ trade or business, including the obligation to pay the accrued salary expense. Under Country X law, the accrued salary expense of FB_X_ is deductible, and is taken into account for purposes of computing the taxable income of FB_X_, when paid. FB_X_ pays the accrued salary expense after the sale of FB_X_ to FS_X_.


(ii) *Result.* (A) As a result of FS_X_'s assumption of the FB_X_ liabilities, including the accrued salary expense, a portion of the dual consolidated loss is available for a foreign use in year 2. This is the case because the deduction that was taken into account in year 1 in computing the dual consolidated loss under U.S. tax principles will, under Country X tax law, be taken into account and will be available to offset the income of FS_X_, a foreign corporation, in year 2. However, because this item of expense is made available solely as a result of the assumption of a liability of FB_X_, and such liability was incurred in the ordinary course of FB_X_'s trade or business, there will not be a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(7).


(B) The transfer of all the assets of FB_X_ to FS_X_ is a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv), unless P can rebut the triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2). For purposes of determining whether, under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(ii), the transfer of assets resulted in a carryover under foreign law of FB_X_'s losses, expenses, or deductions, the exception to foreign use for the assumption of liabilities is taken into account. However, the other exceptions to foreign use do not apply for this purpose (or for purposes of demonstrating that no foreign use of a dual consolidated loss can occur in any other year under § 1.1503(d)-6(c), (e)(2)(i) or (j)(2)). See § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(1). Provided the other requirements of § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(ii) and (iii) are satisfied, P may be able to rebut the occurrence of a triggering event upon the transfer of FB_X_'s assets to FS_X_.


(17) *Example 17. Mirror legislation rule—dual resident corporation and hybrid entity separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DRC_X_, a member of the P consolidated group. DRC_X_ owns FS_X_. In year 1, DRC_X_ incurs a $100x net operating loss that is a dual consolidated loss. To prevent corporations like DRC_X_ from offsetting losses both against income of affiliates in Country X and against income of foreign affiliates under the tax laws of another country, Country X mirror legislation prevents a corporation that is subject to the income tax of another country on its worldwide income or on a residence basis from using the Country X form of consolidation. Accordingly, the Country X mirror legislation prevents the loss of DRC_X_ from being made available to offset income of FS_X_.


(ii) *Result.* Under § 1.1503(d)-3(e), because the losses of DRC_X_ are subject to Country X's mirror legislation, there is a deemed foreign use of DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss. The stand-alone exception to the mirror rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2) does not apply because, absent the mirror legislation, DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss would be available for a foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3), without regard to whether such availability is limited by election or similar procedure. That is, absent the mirror legislation, all or a portion of the dual consolidated loss would be available to offset the income of FS_X_ under the Country X consolidation regime. This is the case even if Country X did not recognize DRC_X_ as having a loss in year 1. Therefore, P may not make a domestic use election with respect to DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(d)(2).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(17)(i) of this section, except that P owns DE1_X_ (rather than DRC_X_) and, in year 1, there is a $100 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ (rather than of DRC_X_). The Country X mirror legislation only applies to Country X dual resident corporations and, therefore, does not apply to losses attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. As a result, the mirror legislation rule under § 1.1503(d)-3(e) would not deny the opportunity of such loss from being put to a foreign use (for example, by offsetting the income of FS_X_ through the Country X consolidation regime). Therefore, a domestic use election can be made with respect to the dual consolidated loss (provided the conditions for such an election are otherwise satisfied).


(18) *Example 18. Mirror legislation rule—standalone foreign branch separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P owns FB_X_. In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_X_. Country X enacted mirror legislation to prevent Country X branches and permanent establishments of nonresident corporations from offsetting losses both against income of Country X affiliates and against other income of its owner (or foreign affiliates thereof) under the tax laws of another country. The Country X mirror legislation prevents a Country X branch or permanent establishment of a nonresident corporation from offsetting its losses against the income of Country X affiliates if such losses may be deductible against income (other than income of the Country X branch or permanent establishment) under the laws of another country.


(ii) *Result.* In general, under § 1.1503(d)-3(e), because the losses of FB_X_ are subject to Country X's mirror legislation, there is a deemed foreign use of FB_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss. However, in the absence of the Country X mirror legislation, no item of deduction or loss composing FB_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss would be available in the year incurred for a foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3), without regard to whether such availability is limited by election or otherwise. This is the case because there is no Country X entity through which the dual consolidated loss could be put to a foreign use (absent a sale, merger, or similar transaction involving FB_X_). As a result, the stand-alone exception in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2) may apply, provided P complies with the requirements of § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2)(ii). Accordingly, P may make a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of FB_X_ pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d). If, however, any item of the dual consolidated loss would otherwise be available for a foreign use during the certification period (for example, as a result of P acquiring a foreign corporation that is organized under the laws of Country X such that losses of FB_X_ could be put to a foreign use through consolidation or similar means), then such loss would be recaptured pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(ix).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section, except that the Country X mirror legislation operates in a manner similar to the rules under section 1503(d). That is, it allows the taxpayer to elect to use the loss to either offset income of an affiliate in Country X, or income of an affiliate (or other income of the owner of the Country X branch or permanent establishment) in the other country, but not both. Because the Country X mirror legislation permits the taxpayer to choose to put the dual consolidated loss to a foreign use, it does not deny the opportunity to put the loss to a foreign use. Therefore, there is no deemed foreign use of the dual consolidated loss pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(e) and a domestic use election can be made for such loss.


(19) *Example 19. Application of mirror legislation rule to combined separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P owns FB_X_, FS_X_, and DE1_X_. In year 1, there is a $50x dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_X_ and $10x of income attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. FS_X_ has income of $100x. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), FB_X_ and P's interest in DE1_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) which has a year 1 dual consolidated loss of $40x. Country X enacted mirror legislation to prevent Country X branches or permanent establishments of nonresident corporations from offsetting losses both against income of Country X affiliates and against other income of its owner (or foreign affiliates thereof) under the tax laws of another country. The Country X mirror legislation prevents a Country X branch or permanent establishment of a nonresident corporation from offsetting its losses against the income of Country X affiliates if such losses may be deductible against income (other than income of the Country X branch or permanent establishment) under the laws of another country. However, the United States and Country X have entered into an agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(b) pursuant to the U.S.-Country X income tax convention (mirror agreement). The mirror agreement applies to Country X foreign branch separate units of domestic corporations, but not to Country X hybrid entity separate units. The mirror agreement provides that neither the Country X mirror legislation nor the mirror legislation rule under § 1.1503(d)-3(e) will apply to losses attributable to Country X foreign branch separate units, provided certain conditions and reporting requirements are satisfied (including a domestic use election, if the loss is to be used to offset income of a domestic affiliate). Thus, losses attributable to Country X foreign branch separate units can, subject to the requirements of the mirror agreement, be used to offset income of a domestic affiliate or a Country X affiliate (but not both).


(ii) *Result.* The Country X mirror legislation only applies to Country X foreign branch separate units and does not apply to hybrid entity separate units. In addition, if P complies with the terms and conditions of the mirror agreement, the Country X mirror legislation would not apply to FB_X_. As a result, the income tax laws of Country X would not deny the opportunity of a loss of either individual separate unit that composes P's combined Country X separate unit from being put to a foreign use. Therefore, notwithstanding § 1.1503(d)-3(e), a domestic use election can be made with respect to the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, provided the terms and conditions of the mirror agreement are satisfied. See § 1.1503(d)-6(b)(2).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(19)(i) of this section, except that the Country X mirror legislation also applies to losses attributable to DE1_X_, but the mirror agreement does not apply to such losses. The mirror legislation rule would apply with respect to P's interest in DE1_X_ and, as a result, there is a deemed foreign use of the dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit and a domestic use election cannot be made for such loss. This is the case even though, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(A), P's interest in DE1_X_ (which is subject to the Country X mirror legislation) does not, as an individual separate unit, have a dual consolidated loss in year 1. Further, the stand-alone exception to the mirror legislation rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(2) does not apply because, absent the mirror legislation, the Country X combined separate unit's dual consolidated loss would be available in the year incurred for a foreign use (as defined in § 1.1503(d)-3) because it could be used to offset income of FS_X_ under the Country X consolidation regime. This is the case even if Country X requires an election to consolidate and no such election is made. The result would be the same even if Country X did not recognize DE1_X_ as having a loss.


(20) *Example 20. Dual consolidated loss limitation after section 381 transaction. disposition of assets and subsequent liquidation of dual resident corporation*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DRC_X_, a member of the P consolidated group. In year 1, DRC_X_ incurs a dual consolidated loss and P does not make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. Under § 1.1503(d)-4(b), DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss is subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c) and, therefore, may not be used to offset the income of P or S (or any other domestic affiliate) on the group's U.S. income tax return. At the beginning of year 2, DRC_X_ sells all of its assets for cash and distributes the cash to P pursuant to a liquidation that qualifies under section 332.


(ii) *Result.* In general, under section 381, P would succeed to, and be permitted to use, DRC_X_'s net operating loss carryover. However, § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(i) prohibits the dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_ from carrying over to P. Therefore, DRC_X_'s year 1 net operating loss carryover is eliminated.


(21) *Example 21. Dual consolidated loss limitation applied to a separate unit transferred in a section 381 transaction*—(i) *Facts.* S owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. S's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, a dual consolidated loss is attributable to the Country X separate unit, and P does not make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. Under § 1.1503(d)-4(b), the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit may not be used to offset the income of P or S (other than income attributable to the Country X separate unit, subject to the application of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)) on the group's consolidated U.S. income tax return (nor may it be used to offset the income of any other domestic affiliates). At the beginning of year 2, S transfers its entire interest in DE1_X_, and thus its entire indirect interest in FB_X_, to FS_X_ in a transaction described in section 381.


(ii) *Result.* Section 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii) provides that the dual consolidated loss attributable to a separate unit that is subject to the domestic use limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) is eliminated if the separate unit ceases to be a separate unit of its affiliated domestic owner and all other members of the affiliated domestic owner's separate group. As a result of the transfer of the Country X separate unit to FS_X_, the Country X separate unit ceases to be a separate unit of S, and is not a separate unit of any other member of the P consolidated group. In addition, the exceptions in § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii) do not apply because FS_X_ is not a domestic corporation. Thus, the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit is eliminated.


(iii) *Alternative facts.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (c)(21)(i) of this section, except S transfers its assets to DC, a domestic corporation that is not a member of the P consolidated group, in a transaction described in section 381(a). Immediately after the transaction, the Country X separate unit is a separate unit of DC. Under § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii), the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit would be eliminated because it ceases to be a separate unit of S, and is not a separate unit of any other member of the P consolidated group. However, because the transferee is a domestic corporation and the Country X separate unit is a separate unit in the hands of DC immediately after the transaction, the exception under § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii)(A) applies. As a result, the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is not eliminated and any income generated by DC that is attributable to the Country X separate unit following the transfer may be offset by the carryover dual consolidated losses attributable to the Country X separate unit, subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c) applied as if DC generated the dual consolidated loss and such loss was attributable to the Country X separate unit.


(iv) *Alternative facts.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (c)(21)(iii) of this section, except that P owns DE2_X_ and the interest in DE2_X_ is combined with and therefore included in the Country X separate unit. In addition, a portion of the dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is attributable to P's interest in DE2_X_. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii)(A), the result would be the same as in paragraph (c)(21)(iii) of this section, with respect to the portion of the dual consolidated loss attributable to the combined separate unit that is succeeded to and taken into account by DC pursuant to section 381. The portion of the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE2_X_, however, does not carry over to DC but is retained by P and continues to be subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c) with respect to P's interest in DE2_X_.


(v) *Alternative facts.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (c)(21)(iv) of this section, except that DC is a member of the P consolidated group. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(2)(iii)(B), the dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is not eliminated and income attributable to the Country X separate unit may continue to be offset by the dual consolidated loss that is succeeded to and taken into account by DC pursuant to section 381, subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c). The result would be the same even if the interest in DE1_X_ ceased to be a separate unit in the hands of DC (for example, because it dissolved under Country X law in connection with the transaction), provided P, or another member of the P consolidated group, continued to own a portion of the Country X separate unit.


(22) *Example 22. Tainted income*—(i) *Facts.* P owns 100 percent of DRC_Z_, a domestic corporation that is included as a member of the P consolidated group. DRC_Z_ conducts a business in the United States. During year 1, DRC_Z_ was managed and controlled in Country Z and therefore was subject to tax as a resident of Country Z and was a dual resident corporation. In year 1, DRC_Z_ incurred a dual consolidated loss of $200x, and P did not make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. As a result, such loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). At the end of year 1, DRC_Z_ moved its management and control to the United States and, as a result, ceased being a dual resident corporation. At the beginning of year 2, P transferred asset A, a non-depreciable asset, to DRC_Z_ in exchange for common stock in a transaction that qualified for nonrecognition under section 351. At the time of the transfer, P's tax basis in asset A equaled $50x and the fair market value of asset A equaled $100x. The tax basis of asset A in the hands of DRC_Z_ immediately after the transfer equaled $50x pursuant to section 362. Asset A did not constitute replacement property acquired in the ordinary course of business. DRC_Z_ did not generate income or gain during years 2, 3, or 4. On June 30, year 5, DRC_Z_ sold asset A to a third party for $100x, its fair market value at the time of the sale, and recognized $50x of income on such sale. In addition to the $50x income generated on the sale of asset A, DRC_Z_ generated $100x of operating income in year 5. At the end of year 5, the fair market value of all the assets of DRC_Z_ was $400x.


(ii) *Result.* DRC_Z_ ceased being a dual resident corporation at the end of year 1. Therefore, its year 1 dual consolidated loss cannot be offset by tainted income. Asset A is a tainted asset because it was acquired in a nonrecognition transaction after DRC_Z_ ceased being a dual resident corporation (and was not replacement property acquired in the ordinary course of business). As a result, the $50x of income recognized by DRC_Z_ on the disposition of asset A is tainted income and cannot be offset by the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_Z_. In addition, absent evidence establishing the actual amount of tainted income, $25x of the $100x year 5 operating income of DRC_Z_ (($100x/$400x) × $100x) also is treated as tainted income and cannot be offset by the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_Z_ under § 1.1503(d)-4(e)(2)(ii). Therefore, $75x of the $150x year 5 income of DRC_Z_ constitutes tainted income and may not be offset by the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_Z_; however, the remaining $75x of year 5 income of DRC_Z_ may be offset by such dual consolidated loss. The result would be the same if, instead of P transferring asset A to DRC_Z_, such asset was received from a separate unit or a transparent entity of DRC_Z_.


(23) *Example 23. Treatment of disregarded item and books and records of a hybrid entity*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FS_X_. In year 1, P borrows from a third party and on-lends the proceeds to DE1_X_. In year 1, P incurs interest expense attributable to the third-party loan. Also in year 1, DE1_X_ incurs interest expense attributable to its loan from P, but such expense is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes because DE1_X_ is disregarded as an entity separate from P. The third-party loan and related interest expense are reflected on the books and records of P (and not on the books and records of DE1_X_). The loan from P to DE1_X_ and related interest expense are reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_. There are no other items of income, gain, deduction, or loss reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_ in year 1.


(ii) *Result.* Because the interest expense on P's third-party loan is not reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_, no portion of such expense is attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3) for purposes of calculating the year 1 dual consolidated loss, if any, attributable to such interest. In addition, even though P's interest in DE1_X_ is treated as a separate domestic corporation for purposes of determining the amount of income or dual consolidated loss attributable to it pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(ii), such treatment does not cause the interest expense incurred on the loan from P to DE1_X_ that is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes to be regarded for purposes of calculating the year 1 dual consolidated loss, if any, attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. As a result, even though the disregarded interest expense is reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_, it is not taken into account for purposes of calculating income or a dual consolidated loss. But see § 1.1503(d)-1(d), which takes into account certain payments that are otherwise disregarded for purposes of section 1503(d) and the regulations thereunder. Therefore, there is no dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ in year 1.


(24) *Example 24. Dividend income attributable to a separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). DE1_X_ owns DE3_Y_. DE3_Y_ owns the stock of FS_X_. P's Country X separate unit would, without regard to year 1 dividend income (or related section 78 gross-up) received from FS_X_, have a dual consolidated loss of $75x in year 1. In year 1, FS_X_ distributes $50x to DE3_Y_ that is taxable as a dividend. DE3_Y_ distributes the same amount to DE1_X_. P computes foreign taxes deemed paid on the dividend under section 902 of $25x and includes that amount in gross income under section 78.


(ii) *Result.* The $50x dividend is reflected on the books and records of DE3_Y_ and, therefore, is attributable to P's interest in DE3_Y_ pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). In addition, the $25x section 78 gross-up is attributable to P's interest in DE3_Y_ pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(iv). The distribution of $50x from DE3_Y_ to DE1_X_ is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes and, therefore, does not give rise to an item that is taken into account for purposes of calculating income or a dual consolidated loss. This is the case even though the item would be reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(iii), each separate unit must calculate its own income or dual consolidated loss, and each item of income, gain, deduction, and loss must be taken into account only once. As a result, the dual consolidated loss of $75x attributable to P's Country X separate unit in year 1 is not reduced by the amount of dividend income attributable to P's indirect interest in DE3_Y_.


(25) *Example 25. Items reflected on books and records of a combined separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). The following items are reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_ in year 1: Sales, depreciation expense, a political contribution, royalty expense paid to P, repairs and maintenance expense paid to a third party, and Country X income tax expense. The amount of sales under U.S. tax principles equals the amount of sales reported for accounting purposes. The depreciation expense is calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset for accounting purposes, but is subject to accelerated depreciation for U.S. tax purposes. In addition, the repairs and maintenance expense, which is deducted when paid for accounting purposes, is properly capitalized and amortized over five years for U.S. tax purposes. Finally, P elects to claim as a credit under section 901 the Country X income tax expense that was paid in year 1.


(ii) *Result.* (A) For purposes of determining the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, items of income, gain, deduction, and loss must first be attributed to the individual separate units (that is, P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_). For purposes of attributing items to P's interest in DE1_X_, P's items that are reflected on DE1_X_'s books and records, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. See § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). For purposes of attributing items (other than interest expense) to FB_X_, the principles of section 864(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) (as set forth in § 1.864-4(c) and §§ 1.864-5 through 1.864-7) must be applied and, for interest expense, the principles of § 1.882-5, as modified under § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(ii), must be applied; however, for these purposes, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(i)(A), FB_X_ only takes into account items attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ and the assets, liabilities, and activities of such interest. In addition, to the extent such items are taken into account by FB_X_, they are not taken into account in determining the items attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(i)(B). Because P's interest in DE1_X_ has no assets or liabilities, and conducts no activities, other than through its ownership of FB_X_, all of the items that are reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are attributable to FB_X_; no items are attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_.


(B) The items reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_ must be adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles. No adjustment is required to sales because the amount of sales under U.S. tax principles equals the amount of sales for accounting purposes. The amount of straight-line depreciation expense reflected on DE1_X_'s books and records must be adjusted to reflect the amount of depreciation on the asset that is allowable for U.S. tax purposes. The political contribution is not taken into account because it is not deductible for U.S. tax purposes. Similarly, because the royalty expense is paid to P, and therefore is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes, it is not taken into account. But see § 1.1503(d)-1(d), which takes into account certain payments that are otherwise disregarded for purposes of section 1503(d) and the regulations thereunder. The repair and maintenance expense that is deducted in year 1 for accounting purposes also must be adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles. Thus, the repair and maintenance expense will be taken into account in computing the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit over five years (even though no item related to such expense would be reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_ for years 2 through 5). Finally, because P elected to claim as a credit the Country X foreign taxes paid during year 1, no deduction is allowed for such amount pursuant to section 275(a)(4) and, therefore, the Country X tax expense is not taken into account.


(C) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(B), the combined Country X separate unit of P calculates its income or dual consolidated loss by taking into account all the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that were separately attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ and FB_X_. However, in this case, there are no items attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. Therefore, the items attributable to the Country X separate unit are the items attributable to FB_X_.


(26) *Example 26. Items attributable to a combined separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_. DE1_X_ owns a 50 percent interest in PRS_Z_, a Country Z entity that is classified as a partnership both for Country Z tax purposes and for U.S. tax purposes. FS_X_, which is unrelated to P, owns the remaining 50 percent interest in PRS_Z_. PRS_Z_ carries on operations in Country X that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch as defined in § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). Therefore, P's share of the Country X operations carried on by PRS_Z_ constitutes a foreign branch separate unit. PRS_Z_ also owns assets that do not constitute a part of its Country X branch, including all of the interests in TE_T_, a disregarded entity. TE_T_ is an entity incorporated under the laws of Country T, a country that does not have an income tax. Under the laws of Country X, an interest holder of TE_T_ does not take into account on a current basis the interest holder's share of items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of TE_T_.


(ii) *Result.* (A) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), P's interest in DE1_X_, and P's indirect ownership of a portion of the Country X operations carried on by PRS_Z_, are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(A), for purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to the Country X separate unit, the items of P are first attributed to each separate unit that composes the Country X separate unit.


(B) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(i), the principles of section 864(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) (as set forth in § 1.864-4(c) and §§ 1.864-5 through 1.864-7), apply for purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction (other than interest expense), and loss that are attributable to P's indirect interest in the Country X operations carried on by PRS_Z_. For purposes of determining P's interest expense that is attributable to P's indirect interest in the Country X operations carried on by PRS_Z_, the principles of § 1.882-5, as modified under § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(ii), shall apply. For purposes of applying these rules, P is treated as a foreign corporation, the Country X operations carried on by PRS_Z_ are treated as a trade or business within the United States, and the assets of P (including its share of the PRS_Z_ assets, other than those of the Country X operations) are treated as assets that are not U.S. assets. In addition, because P carries on its share of the Country X operations through DE1_X_, a hybrid entity, § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(i)(A) provides that only the items attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_, and only the assets, liabilities, and activities of P's interest in DE1_X_, are taken into account for purposes of this determination.


(C) TE_T_ is a transparent entity as defined in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(16) because it is not taxable as an association for Federal tax purposes, is not subject to income tax in a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, and is not treated as a pass-through entity under the laws of Country X (the applicable foreign country). TE_T_ is not a pass-through entity under the laws of Country X because a Country X holder of an interest in TE_T_ does not take into account on a current basis the interest holder's share of items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of TE_T_. For purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's interest in TE_T_, only those items of P that are reflected on the books and records of TE_T_, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). Because the interest in TE_T_ is not a separate unit, a loss attributable to such interest is not a dual consolidated loss and is not subject to section 1503(d) and these regulations. Items must nevertheless be attributed to the interests in TE_T_. For example, such attribution is required for purposes of calculating the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit, and for purposes of applying the domestic use limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) to a dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit.


(D) For purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_, only those items of P that are reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). For this purpose, DE1_X_'s distributive share of the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are reflected on the books and records of PRS_Z_, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are treated as being reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_, except to the extent such items are taken into account by the Country X operations of PRS_Z_. See § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(ii) and (4)(i)(B). Because TE_T_ is a transparent entity, the items reflected on its books and records are not treated as being reflected on the books and records of DE1_X_.


(E) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(B), the combined Country X separate unit of P calculates its income or dual consolidated loss by taking into account all the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that were separately attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ and the Country X operations of PRS_Z_ owned indirectly by P.


(27) *Example 27. Sale of separate unit by another separate unit*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE3_Y_ which, in turn, owns DE1_X_. DE3_Y_ also owns other assets that do not constitute a foreign branch separate unit. DE1_X_ owns FB_X_. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), P's indirect interests in DE1_X_ and FB_X_ are combined and treated as one Country X separate unit (Country X separate unit). DE3_Y_ sells its interest in DE1_X_ at the end of year 1 to an unrelated foreign person for cash. The sale results in an ordinary loss of $30x. Items of income, gain, deduction, and loss derived from the assets that gave rise to the $30x loss would be attributable to the Country X separate unit under § 1.1503(d)-5(c) through (e). Without regard to the sale of DE1_X_, no items of income, gain, deduction, and loss are attributable to P's Country X separate unit in year 1.


(ii) *Result.* Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(iii)(A), the $30x ordinary loss recognized on the sale is attributable to the Country X separate unit, and not P's interest in DE3_Y_. This is the case because the Country X separate unit is treated as owning the assets that gave rise to the loss under § 1.1503(d)-5(f). Thus, the loss attributable to the sale creates a year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2), P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to the dual consolidated loss because the sale of the interest in DE1_X_ is a triggering event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v). Further, although the year 1 dual consolidated loss would otherwise be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b), it is eliminated pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii). Finally, if there were a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3_Y_, the sale of the interest in DE1_X_ would not be taken into account for purposes of determining whether there is an asset triggering event with respect to such dual consolidated loss under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv).


(28) *Example 28. Gain on sale of tiered separate units*—(i) *Facts.* P owns 75 percent of HPS_X_, a Country X entity subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FS_X_ owns the remaining 25 percent of HPS_X_. HPS_X_ is classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes. HPS_X_ carries on operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). HPS_X_ also owns assets that do not constitute a part of its Country Y operations and would not themselves constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1) if owned by a U.S. person. Neither HPS_X_ nor the Country Y operations has liabilities. P's indirect interest in the Country Y operations carried on by HPS_X_, and P's interest in HPS_X_, are each separate units. P sells its interest in HPS_X_ and recognizes a gain of $150x on such sale. Immediately prior to P's sale of its interest in HPS_X_, P's portion of the assets of the Country Y operations (that is, assets the income, gain, deduction and loss from which would be attributable to P's Country Y foreign branch separate unit) had a built-in gain of $200x, and P's portion of HPS_X_'s other assets (that is, assets the income, gain, deduction and loss from which would be attributable to P's interest in HPS_X_) had a built-in gain of $100x.


(ii) *Result.* Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(iii)(B), $100x of the total $150x of gain recognized ($200x/$300x × $150x) is attributable to P's indirect interest in its share of the Country Y operations carried on by HPS_X_. Similarly, $50x of such gain ($100x/$300x × $150x) is attributable to P's interest in HPS_X_.


(29) *Example 29. Effect on domestic affiliate*—(i) *Facts.* (A) P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In years 1 and 2, the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's Country X separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5 are as follows: 


(B) P does not make a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to its Country X separate unit. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c)(2), the year 1 dual consolidated loss of $50x is treated as a loss incurred by a separate domestic corporation and is subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(3). The P consolidated group has $100x of consolidated taxable income in year 2.


(ii) *Result.* (A) P must compute its taxable income for year 1 without taking into account the $50x dual consolidated loss, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(2). Such amount consists of a pro rata portion of the expenses that were taken into account in calculating the year 1 dual consolidated loss. Thus, the items of the dual consolidated loss that are not taken into account by P in computing its taxable income are as follows: $25x of salary expense ($75x/$150x × $50x); $16.67x of research and experimental expense ($50x/$150x × $50x); and $8.33x of interest expense ($25x/$150x × $50x). The remaining amounts of each of these items, together with the $100x of sales income, are taken into account by P in computing its taxable income for year 1 as follows: $50x of salary expense ($75x − $25x); $33.33x of research and experimental expense ($50x − $16.67x); and $16.67x of interest expense ($25x − $8.33x).


(B) Subject to the limitations provided under § 1.1503(d)-4(c), the year 1 $50x dual consolidated loss is carried forward and is available to offset the $10x of income attributable to the Country X separate unit in year 2. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(4), a pro rata portion of each item of deduction or loss included in such dual consolidated loss is considered to be used to offset the $10x of income, as follows: $5x of salary expense ($25x / $50x × $10x); $3.33x of research and experimental expense ($16.67x/$50x × $10x); and $1.67x of interest expense ($8.33x / $50x × $10x). The remaining amount of each item shall continue to be subject to the limitations under § 1.1503(d)-4(c).


(30) *Example 30. Exception to domestic use limitation—no possibility of foreign use because items are not deducted or capitalized under foreign law*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FS_X_. In year 1, the sole item of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-5, is $100x of interest expense paid on a loan to an unrelated lender. For Country X tax purposes, the $100x interest expense attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ in year 1 is treated as a repayment of principal and therefore cannot be deducted (at any time) or capitalized.


(ii) *Result.* The $100x of interest expense attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ constitutes a dual consolidated loss. However, because the sole item constituting the dual consolidated loss cannot be deducted or capitalized (at any time) for Country X tax purposes, P can demonstrate that there can be no foreign use of the dual consolidated loss at any time. As a result, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(1), if P prepares a statement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(2) and attaches it to its timely filed tax return, the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_ will not be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).


(31) *Example 31. No exception to domestic use limitation—inability to demonstrate no possibility of foreign use*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, the sole items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, as provided under § 1.1503(d)-5, are $75x of sales income and $100x of depreciation expense. For Country X tax purposes, DE1_X_ also generates $75x of sales income in year 1, but the $100x of depreciation expense is not deductible until year 2.


(ii) *Result.* The year 1 $25x net loss attributable to P's interest in the Country X separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss. In addition, even though DE1_X_ has positive income in year 1 for Country X tax purposes, P cannot demonstrate that there is no possibility of foreign use with respect to the Country X separate unit's dual consolidated loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(1)(i). P cannot make such a demonstration because the depreciation expense, an item composing the year 1 dual consolidated loss, is deductible (in a later year) for Country X tax purposes and, therefore, may be available to offset or reduce income for Country X purposes that would constitute a foreign use. For example, if DE1_X_ elected to be classified as a corporation pursuant to § 301.7701-3(c) of this chapter effective as of the end of year 1, and the deferred depreciation expense were available for Country X tax purposes to offset year 2 income of DE1_X_, an entity treated as a foreign corporation in year 2 for U.S. tax purposes, there would be a foreign use.


(iii) *Alternative facts.* (A) The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(31)(i) of this section, except as follows. In year 1, the sole items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, as provided in § 1.1503(d)-5, are $75x of sales income, $100x of interest expense, and $25x of depreciation expense. For Country X tax purposes, DE1_X_ generates $75x of sales income in year 1; the $100x interest expense is treated as a repayment of principal and therefore cannot be deducted or capitalized (at any time); and the $25x of depreciation expense is not deductible in year 1, but is deductible in year 2.


(B) In year 1, the $50x net loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss. Even though the $100x interest expense, a nondeductible and noncapital item for Country X tax purposes, exceeds the $50x year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit, P cannot demonstrate that there is no possibility of foreign use of the dual consolidated loss as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(c)(1)(i). P cannot make such a demonstration because the $25x depreciation expense, an item of deduction or loss composing the year 1 dual consolidated loss, is deductible under Country X law (in year 2) and, therefore, may be available to offset or reduce income for Country X tax purposes that would constitute a foreign use.


(32) *Example 32. Triggering event rebuttal—expiration of losses in foreign country*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DRC_X_, a member of the P consolidated group. In year 1, DRC_X_ incurs a dual consolidated loss of $100x. P makes a domestic use election with respect to DRC_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss and such loss therefore is included in the computation of the P group's consolidated taxable income. DRC_X_ has no income or loss in year 2 through year 5. In year 5, P sells the stock of DRC_X_ to FS_X_. At the time of the sale of the stock of DRC_X_, all of the losses and deductions that were included in the computation of the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_ had expired for Country X tax purposes because the laws of Country X only provide for a three-year carryover period for such items.


(ii) *Result.* The sale of DRC_X_ to FS_X_ generally would be a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(ii), which would require DRC_X_ to recapture the year 1 dual consolidated loss (and pay an applicable interest charge) on the P consolidated group's tax return for the year that includes the date on which DRC_X_ ceases to be a member of the P consolidated group. However, upon adequate documentation that the losses and deductions have expired for Country X tax purposes, P can rebut the presumption that a triggering event has occurred pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(i). If the triggering event presumption is rebutted, the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_ is terminated and has no further effect pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(i). If the presumptive triggering event is not rebutted, the domestic use agreement would terminate and have no further effect pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii) because the dual consolidated loss would be recaptured.


(33) *Example 33. Triggering events and rebuttals—tax basis carryover transaction*—(i) *Facts.* (A) P owns DE1_X_. DE1_X_'s sole asset is A, which it acquired at the beginning of year 1 for $100x. DE1_X_ does not have any liabilities. For U.S. tax purposes, DE1_X_'s tax basis in A at the beginning of year 1 is $100x and DE1_X_'s sole item of income, gain, deduction, and loss for year 1 is a $20x depreciation deduction attributable to A. As a result, the $20x depreciation deduction constitutes a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. P makes a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss.


(B) For Country X tax purposes, DE1_X_ has a $100x tax basis in A at the beginning of year 1, but A is not a depreciable asset. As a result, DE1_X_ does not have any items of income, gain, deduction, and loss in year 1 for Country X tax purposes.


(C) During year 2, P sells its interest in DE1_X_ to FS_X_ for $80x. P's disposition of its interest in DE1_X_ constitutes a presumptive triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v) requiring the recapture of the year 1 $20x dual consolidated loss (plus the applicable interest charge). For Country X tax purposes, DE1_X_ retains its tax basis of $100x in A following the sale.


(ii) *Result.* The year 1 dual consolidated loss is a result of the $20x depreciation deduction attributable to A. Although no item of deduction or loss was recognized by DE1_X_ at the time of the sale for Country X tax purposes, the deduction composing the dual consolidated loss was retained by DE1_X_ after the sale in the form of tax basis in A. As a result, a portion of the dual consolidated loss may be available to offset income for Country X tax purposes in a manner that would constitute a foreign use. For example, if DE1_X_ were to dispose of A, the amount of gain recognized by DE1_X_ would be reduced (or an amount of loss recognized by DE1_X_ would be increased) and, therefore, an item composing the dual consolidated loss would be available, under U.S. tax principles, to reduce income of a foreign corporation (and an owner of an interest in a hybrid entity that is not a separate unit). Thus, P cannot demonstrate pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(i) that there can be no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss following the triggering event, and must recapture the year 1 dual consolidated loss. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss is terminated and has no further effect.


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as paragraph (c)(33)(i) of this section, except that instead of P selling its interest in DE1_X_ to FS_X_, DE1_X_ sells asset A to FS_X_ for $80x and, for Country X tax purposes, FS_X_'s tax basis in A immediately after the sale is $80x. P's disposition of Asset A constitutes a presumptive triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) requiring the recapture of the year 1 $20x dual consolidated loss (plus the applicable interest charge). For Country X tax purposes, FS_X_'s tax basis in A was not determined, in whole or in part, by reference to the basis of A in the hands of DE1_X_. As a result, the deduction composing the dual consolidated loss will not give rise to an item of deduction or loss in the form of tax basis for Country X tax purposes (for example, when FS_X_ disposes of A). Therefore, P may be able to demonstrate (for example, by obtaining the opinion of a Country X tax advisor) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(2)(i) that there can be no foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss and, thus, would not be required to recapture the year 1 dual consolidated loss.


(34) *Example 34. Triggering event resulting in a single consolidated group where acquirer files a new domestic use agreement*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DRC_X_, a member of the P consolidated group. In year 1, DRC_X_ incurs a dual consolidated loss and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. No member of the P consolidated group incurs a dual consolidated loss in year 2. At the end of year 2, T, the parent of the T consolidated group, acquires all the stock of P, and all the members of the P group, including DRC_X_, become members of a consolidated group of which T is the common parent.


(ii) *Result.* (A) Under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(ii)(B), the acquisition by T of the P consolidated group is not an event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(ii) requiring the recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_ (and the payment of an interest charge), provided that the T consolidated group files a new domestic use agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii)(A). If a new domestic use agreement is filed, then pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(ii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_ is terminated and has no further effect.


(B) Assume that T files a new domestic use agreement and a triggering event occurs at the end of year 3. As a result, the T consolidated group must recapture the dual consolidated loss that DRC_X_ incurred in year 1 (and pay an interest charge), as provided in § 1.1503(d)-6(h). Each member of the T consolidated group, including DRC_X_ and any former members of the P consolidated group, is severally liable for the additional tax (and the interest charge) due upon the recapture of the dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_. In addition, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the new domestic use agreement filed by the T group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of DRC_X_ is terminated and has no further effect.


(35) *Example 35. Triggering event exceptions for certain deemed transfers*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_. In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1_X_. P files a domestic use agreement under § 1.1503(d)-6(d) with respect to such loss. During year 2, P sells 33 percent of its interest in DE1_X_ to T, an unrelated domestic corporation.


(ii) *Result.* Pursuant to Rev. Rul. 99-5, the transaction is treated as if P sold 33 percent of its interest in each of DE1_X_'s assets to T and then immediately thereafter P and T transferred their interests in the assets of DE1_X_ to a partnership in exchange for an ownership interest therein. Upon the transfer of 33 percent of P's interest to T, a domestic corporation, no foreign use occurs and, therefore, there is no foreign use triggering event. However, P's deemed transfer of 67 percent of its interest in the assets of DE1_X_ to a partnership is nominally a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv). Because the initial transfer of 33 percent of DE1_X_'s interest was to a domestic corporation and there is only a triggering event because of the deemed transfer under Rev. Rul. 99-5, the deemed asset transfer is not treated as resulting in a triggering event pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(4).


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(35)(i) of this section, except that P sells 60 percent (rather than 33 percent) of its interest in DE1_X_ to T. The sale is a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v) without regard to the occurrence of a deemed transaction. Therefore, § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(4) does not apply.


(36) *Example 36. Triggering event exception involving multiple parties*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. No member of the P consolidated group incurs a dual consolidated loss in year 2. At the end of year 2, T, the parent of the T consolidated group, acquires all of P's interest in DE1_X_ for cash.


(ii) *Result.* (A) Under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i)(B), the acquisition by T of the interest in DE1_X_ is not an event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) or (v) requiring the recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit (and the payment of an interest charge), provided: (1) the T consolidated group files a new domestic use agreement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii)(A) with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit; and (2) the P consolidated group files a statement described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii)(B) with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss. If these requirements are satisfied, then pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(ii) the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss is terminated and has no further effect (if these requirements are not satisfied such that the P consolidated group recaptures the dual consolidated loss, the domestic use agreement would terminate pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii)).


(B) Assume a triggering event occurs at the end of year 3 that requires recapture by the T consolidated group of the year 1 dual consolidated loss, as well as the payment of an interest charge, as provided in § 1.1503(d)-6(h). T continues to own the Country X separate unit after the triggering event. In that case, each member of the T consolidated group is severally liable for the additional tax (and the interest charge) due upon the recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss. The T consolidated group must prepare a statement that computes the recapture tax amount as provided under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(3)(iii). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(3)(iv)(A), the recapture tax amount is assessed as an income tax liability of the T consolidated group and is considered as having been properly assessed as an income tax liability of the P consolidated group. If the T consolidated group does not pay in full the income tax liability attributable to the recapture tax amount, the unpaid balance of such recapture tax amount may be collected from the P consolidated group in accordance with the provisions of § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(3)(iv)(B). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the new domestic use agreement filed by the T consolidated group is terminated and has no further effect. Finally, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(iii), T is treated as if it incurred the dual consolidated loss that is recaptured for purposes of applying § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i). Thus, T has a reconstituted net operating loss equal to the amount of the year 1 dual consolidated loss that was recaptured, and such loss is attributable to the Country X separate unit (and subject to the rules and limitations under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i)). Because T is treated as if it incurred the year 1 dual consolidated loss, P shall not be treated as having a net operating loss under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i).


(37) *Example 37. No foreign use following multiple-party event exception to triggering event*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. T, a domestic corporation unrelated to P, owns 95 percent of PRS, a partnership. FS_X_ owns the remaining 5 percent of PRS. At the beginning of year 3, PRS purchases 100 percent of the interest in DE1_X_ from P for cash. For Country X tax purposes, the $100x loss incurred by DE1_X_ in year 1 carries forward and is available to offset income of DE1_X_ in subsequent years.


(ii) *Result.* P's sale of its interest in DE1_X_ is a triggering event under § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1)(iv) and (v). However, if P and T comply with the requirements under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii), the sale would qualify for the multiple-party event exception under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i). In addition, because the $100x loss of DE1_X_ carries forward to subsequent years for Country X purposes and is available to offset income of DE1_X_, there would be a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss immediately after the sale pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(a)(1). This is the case because the dual consolidated loss would be available to offset or reduce income that is considered, under U.S. tax principles, to be an item of FS_X_, a foreign corporation (it would also be a foreign use because FS_X_ is an indirect owner of an interest in a hybrid entity that is not a separate unit). However, there is no foreign use in this case as a result of FS_X_'s 5 percent interest in DE1_X_ pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(8).


(38) *Example 38. Character and source of recapture income*—(i) *Facts.* (A) P owns FB_X_. In year 1, the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to FB_X_ for purposes of determining whether it has a dual consolidated loss are as follows: 


(B) P makes a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_X_ and, thus, the $25x dual consolidated loss is used to offset the P group's consolidated taxable income.


(C) Pursuant to § 1.861-8, the $75x of salary expense incurred by FB_X_ is allocated and apportioned entirely to foreign source general limitation income. Pursuant to § 1.861-9T, $25x of the $50x interest expense attributable to FB_X_ is allocated and apportioned to domestic source income, $15x of such interest expense is allocated and apportioned to foreign source general limitation income, and the remaining $10x of such interest expense is allocated and apportioned to foreign source passive income.


(D) During year 2, $5x of income is attributable to FB_X_ under the rules of § 1.1503(d)-5, and the P consolidated group has $100x of consolidated taxable income. At the end of year 2, FB_X_ undergoes a triggering event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1), and P continues to own FB_X_ following the triggering event. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2)(i), P is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the $25x dual consolidated loss attributable to FB_X_ in year 1 would have offset the $5x of income attributable to FB_X_ in year 2, if no domestic use election were made with respect to the year 1 loss such that it was subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c).


(ii) *Result.* P must recapture and report as ordinary income $20x ($25x − $5x) of FB_X_'s year 1 dual consolidated loss, plus applicable interest. The $20x recapture income is attributable to FB_X_ pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(vi). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(5), the recapture income is treated as ordinary income whose source and character (including section 904 separate limitation character) is determined by reference to the manner in which the recaptured items of expense or loss taken into account in calculating the dual consolidated loss were allocated and apportioned. Further, pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(5), the pro rata computation described in § 1.1503(d)-4(c)(4) shall apply. Thus, the character and source of the recapture income is determined in the same proportion as each item of deduction or loss that contributed to the dual consolidated loss being recaptured. Accordingly, P's $20x of recapture income is characterized and sourced as follows: $4x of domestic source income (($25x/$125x) × $20x); $14.4x of foreign source general limitation income (($75x + $15x)/$125x) × $20x); and $1.6x of foreign source passive income (($10x/$125x) × $20x). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i), commencing in year 3, the $20x recapture amount is reconstituted and treated as a net operating loss incurred by FB_X_ in a separate return limitation year, subject to the limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the restrictions of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of FB_X_ is terminated and has no further effect.


(39) *Example 39. Interest charge without recapture*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. P's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, a dual consolidated loss of $100x is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss and uses the loss to offset the P group's consolidated taxable income. In year 2, there is $100x of income attributable to P's Country X separate unit and the P consolidated group has $200x of consolidated taxable income. At the end of year 2, the Country X separate unit undergoes a triggering event within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1). P demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, that if no domestic use election were made with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss such that it was subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c), the year 1 $100x dual consolidated loss would have been offset by the $100x of year 2 income.


(ii) *Result.* There is no recapture of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit because it is reduced to zero under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2)(i). However, P is liable for one year of interest charge under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(1)(ii), even though P's recapture amount is zero. This is the case because the P consolidated group had the benefit of the dual consolidated loss in year 1, and the income that offset the recapture income was not recognized until year 2. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss is terminated and has no further effect.


(40) *Example 40. Reduced recapture and interest charge, and reconstituted dual consolidated loss*—(i) *Facts.* S owns DE1_X_ which, in turn, owns FB_X_. S's interest in DE1_X_ and its indirect interest in FB_X_ are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii). In year 1, there is a $100x dual consolidated loss attributable to S's Country X separate unit, and P earns $100x. P makes a domestic use election with respect to the Country X separate unit's year 1 dual consolidated loss. Therefore, the consolidated group is permitted to offset P's $100x of income with the Country X separate unit's $100x dual consolidated loss. In year 2, $30x of income is attributable to the Country X separate unit under the rules of § 1.1503(d)-5 and such income is offset by a $30x net operating loss incurred by P in such year. In year 3, $25x of income is attributable to the Country X separate unit under the rules of § 1.1503(d)-5, and P earns $15x of income. In addition, at the end of year 3 there is a foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss that constitutes a triggering event. S continues to own the Country X separate unit after the triggering event.


(ii) *Result.* (A) Under the presumptive rule of § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(1)(i), S must recapture $100x (plus applicable interest). However, under § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2)(i), S may be able to demonstrate that a lesser amount is subject to recapture. The lesser amount is the amount of the $100x dual consolidated loss that would have remained subject to § 1.1503(d)-4(c) at the time of the foreign use triggering event if a domestic use election had not been made for such loss.


(B) Although the combined separate unit earned $30x of income in year 2, there was no consolidated taxable income in such year. As a result, as of the end of year 2 the $100x dual consolidated loss would continue to be subject to § 1.1503(d)-4(c) if a domestic use election had not been made for such loss. However, the $30x earned in year 2 can be carried forward to subsequent taxable years and may reduce the recapture income to the extent of consolidated taxable income generated in subsequent years. In year 3, $25x of income was attributable to the Country X separate unit and P earns $15x of income. Thus, the P consolidated group has $40x of consolidated taxable income in year 3. As a result, the $100x of recapture income can be reduced by $40x. This is the case because if a domestic use election had not been made for the $100x year 1 dual consolidated loss such that it was subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c), only $60x of the loss would have remained subject to such limitations at the time of the foreign use triggering event. Accordingly, if S can adequately document the lesser amount, the amount of recapture income is $60x ($100x − $40x). The $60x recapture income is attributable to the Country X separate unit pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(vi).


(C) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(i), commencing in year 4, the $60x recapture amount is reconstituted and treated as a net operating loss incurred by the Country X separate unit of S in a separate return limitation year, subject to the limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (and therefore subject to the restrictions of § 1.1503(d)-4(c)). The loss is only available for carryover to taxable years after year 3 (and is not available for carryback). The carryover period of the loss, for purposes of section 172(b), will start from year 1, when the dual consolidated loss that was subject to recapture was incurred. In addition, such reconstituted net operating loss is not eligible for the exceptions contained in § 1.1503(d)-6(b) through (d). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(j)(1)(iii), the domestic use agreement filed by the P consolidated group with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss of the Country X separate unit is terminated and has no further effect.


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(40)(i) of this section, except that the triggering event that occurs at the end of year 3 is a sale by S of its entire interest in DE1_X_ to B, an unrelated domestic corporation. The sale does not qualify as a transaction described in section 381. The results are the same as in paragraph (c)(40)(ii) of this section, except that pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(6)(ii) the $60x net operating loss is not reconstituted (with respect to either S or B). The loss is not reconstituted with respect to S because the Country X separate unit ceases to be a separate unit of S (or any other member of the consolidated group that includes S) and therefore would have been eliminated pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-4(d)(1)(ii) if no domestic use election had been made with respect to such loss. The loss is not reconstituted with respect to B because B was not the domestic owner of the combined separate unit when the dual consolidated loss that is recaptured was incurred, and B did not acquire the Country X separate unit in a section 381 transaction.


(41) *Example 41. Domestic consenting corporation—treated as dual resident corporation*—(i) *Facts.* FSZ1, a Country Z entity that is subject to Country Z tax on its worldwide income or on a residence basis and is classified as a foreign corporation for U.S. tax purposes, owns all the interests in DCC, a domestic eligible entity that has filed an election to be classified as an association. Under Country Z tax law, DCC is fiscally transparent. For taxable year 1, DCC's only item of income, gain, deduction, or loss is a $100x deduction and such deduction comprises a $100x net operating loss of DCC. For Country Z tax purposes, FSZ1's only item of income, gain, deduction, or loss, other than the $100x loss attributable to DCC, is $60x of operating income.


(ii) *Result.* DCC is a domestic consenting corporation because by electing to be classified as an association, it consents to be treated as a dual resident corporation for purposes of section 1503(d). *See* § 301.7701-3(c)(3) of this chapter. For taxable year 1, DCC is treated as a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii) because FSZ1 (a specified foreign tax resident that bears a relationship to DCC that is described in section 267(b) or 707(b)) derives or incurs items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of DCC. *See* § 1.1503(d)-1(c). FSZ1 derives or incurs items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of DCC because, under Country Z tax law, DCC is fiscally transparent. Thus, DCC has a $100x dual consolidated loss for taxable year 1. *See* § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(5). Because the loss is available to, and in fact does, offset income of FSZ1 under Country Z tax law, there is a foreign use of the dual consolidated loss in year 1. Accordingly, the dual consolidated loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b). The result would be the same if FSZ1 were to indirectly own its DCC stock through an intermediate entity that is fiscally transparent under Country Z tax law, or if an individual were to wholly own FSZ1 and FSZ1 were a disregarded entity. In addition, the result would be the same if FSZ1 had no items of income, gain, deduction, or loss, other than the $100x loss attributable to DCC.


(iii) *Alternative facts—DCC not treated as a dual resident corporation.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(41)(i) of this section, except that DCC is not fiscally transparent under Country Z tax law and thus under Country Z tax law FSZ1 does not derive or incur items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of DCC. Accordingly, DCC is not treated as a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii) for year 1 and, consequently, its $100x net operating loss in that year is not a dual consolidated loss.


(iv) *Alternative facts—mirror legislation.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(41)(i) of this section, except that, under provisions of Country Z tax law that constitute mirror legislation under § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(1) and that are substantially similar to the recommendations in Chapter 6 of OECD/G-20, *Neutralising the Effects of Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements, Action 2: 2015 Final Report* (October 2015), Country Z tax law prohibits the $100x loss attributable to DCC from offsetting FSZ1's income that is not also subject to U.S. tax. As is the case in paragraph (c)(41)(ii) of this section, DCC is treated as a dual resident corporation under § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(2)(iii) for year 1 and its $100x net operating loss is a dual consolidated loss. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-3(e)(3), however, the dual consolidated loss is not deemed to be put to a foreign use by virtue of the Country Z mirror legislation. Therefore, DCC is eligible to make a domestic use election for the dual consolidated loss.


(42) *Example 42. Disregarded payment loss rules—triggering event resulting in DPL inclusion amount and suspended deduction*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1X, and DE1X owns FSX. In year 1, DE1X pays $100x to P pursuant to a note. For U.S. tax purposes, the payment is disregarded as a transaction between DE1X and P, but if the payment were regarded it would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12). Under Country X tax law, the $100x is interest for which DE1X is allowed a deduction in year 1. In year 1, pursuant to a Country X group relief regime, DE1X's $100x deduction is made available to offset income of FSX. At the end of year 1, DE1X extinguishes the note by repaying the outstanding principal. In year 2, P enters into a licensing arrangement with DE1X pursuant to which P makes a $60x payment to DE1X in each of years 2 and 3. For U.S. tax purposes, the payment is disregarded as a transaction between DE1X and P, but if the payment were regarded it would be a royalty within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(16). Under Country X tax law, the $60x is a royalty and included in the income of DE1X in years 2 and 3.


(ii) *Result.*—(A) *Year 1.* Because P owns all of the interests in DE1X, a disregarded entity, P is a DPE owner. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). In addition, DE1X, a disregarded payment entity with respect to P, incurs a $100x disregarded payment loss with respect to its Country X taxable year for year 1. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(i)(A) and (d)(5)(ii)(B). DE1X's $100x deduction being made available to offset income of FSX pursuant to the Country X group relief regime constitutes a foreign use of, and thus a triggering event with respect to, the disregarded payment loss during the DPL certification period. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(3)(i) and (d)(5)(iii). As a result, in year 1, P must include in gross income $100x, the DPL inclusion amount with respect to the disregarded payment loss. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1) and (d)(2)(i). The $100x DPL inclusion amount is treated for U.S. tax purposes as ordinary interest income, the source and character of which is determined as if DE1X were a foreign corporation, and the amount were interest income paid by the foreign corporation to P. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(iv)(A). The result would be the same if DE1X recognized income in year 1 that was regarded for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes, or if P made payments (other than interest, structured payments, or royalties) to DE1X that were disregarded for U.S. tax purposes but regarded for Country X tax purposes. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(3)(i) (describing the application of the principles of the deemed ordering rule in § 1.1503(d)-3(c)(3)).


(B) *Years 2 and 3.* In year 2, P establishes a suspended deduction of $100x related to the year 1 DPL inclusion amount. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1) and (d)(2)(ii). In each of years 2 and 3, DE1X derives $60x of disregarded payment income with respect to its Country X taxable year. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(A). For year 2, P is allowed a $60x deduction with respect to the suspended deduction, and $40x remains suspended. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(ii). For year 3, P is allowed a $40x deduction with respect to the suspended deduction. See *id.* Thus, in years 2 and 3 P is allowed a $60x deduction and $40x deduction, respectively, with respect to the suspended deduction relating to the year 1 DPL inclusion amount. The deductions are treated as interest deductions the source and character of which are determined in the same manner as the income for the DPL inclusion amount to which they relate. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(iv)(B). At the end of year 3, the DPL cumulative register is $20x (that is, the $120x of disregarded payment income for years 2 and 3, less the $100 of DPL cumulative register that is used under § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(ii) in years 2 and 3). See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(2)(iii).


(43) *Example 43. Income from U.S. business operations to avoid the purposes of the dual consolidated loss rules*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1X. DE1X owns FSX. DE1X and FSX file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes such that deductions and losses of DE1X are available to offset income of FSX. P conducts business operations in the United States that are expected to generate items of income or gain (U.S. business operations). With a view to avoid the purposes of the rules under §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8 by eliminating what would otherwise be a dual consolidated loss and obtaining a double deduction outcome, P transfers the U.S. business operations to DE1X. But for P's items of income or gain from the U.S. business operations (held indirectly through DE1X), there would be a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1X and a foreign use of that dual consolidated loss (as a result of the Country X consolidation regime). For purposes of determining taxable income under the income tax laws of Country X, items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to a permanent establishment (or similar taxable presence) in another country, which would include the U.S. business operations, are not taken into account.


(ii) *Result.* Because P transferred the U.S. business operations to DE1X with a view to avoid the purposes of the rules under §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8, and the transfer would otherwise result in a double deduction outcome (that is, in effect putting DE1X's items of deduction or loss that would compose a dual consolidated loss to both a domestic use and a foreign use), the anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) applies. As a result, the income or gain that P takes into account from the U.S. business operations (held indirectly through DE1X) is not taken into account for purposes of determining the amount of income or dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1X under § 1.1503(d)-5(c). The result would be the same if, instead of the income tax laws of Country X not taking into account the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to a permanent establishment (or similar taxable presence) in another country for purposes of determining taxable income, the income tax laws of Country X took such items into account for this purpose but provided a foreign tax credit with respect to taxes paid on the taxable income determined by taking such items into account.


(44) *Example 44. Disallowed interest deductions*—(i) *Facts.* P owns S. S owns DE1X, a disregarded entity and, thus, is a DPE owner. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). DE1X owns FSX. DE1X and FSX file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes such that deductions and losses of DE1X are available to offset income of FSX. With a view to avoid the purposes of the rules under §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8, and obtain a double deduction or similar outcome, P transfers cash to DE1X in exchange for an interest-bearing note. Under the terms of the note, payments of interest are made in cash or, at the option of DE1X, in stock of S. In year 1, DE1X accrues $100x of interest expense under the note. The taxpayer takes the position that for U.S. tax purposes, the interest expense deductions are disallowed under section 163(l) because DE1X has the option to pay the interest with S stock. Further, because S's interest expense deductions on the note held by P are disallowed, the taxpayer takes the position that P's interest income on the loan is treated as tax-exempt income under the intercompany transaction rules in § 1.1502-13. In year 1, DE1X is allowed a $100x interest expense deduction for Country X tax purposes; the $100x deduction is available to offset FSX's income for Country X tax purposes.


(ii) *Result.* DE1X issued the note to P in exchange for cash with a view to avoid the purposes of §§ 1.1503(d)-1 through 1.1503(d)-8. Moreover, under the taxpayer's position, the issuance would otherwise result in a double deduction or similar outcome (that is, a foreign use of DE1X's $100x interest expense deduction where P does not recognize a corresponding income inclusion for U.S. tax purposes). Accordingly, the anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) applies. As a result, adjustments are made such that the $100x interest expense deduction is treated as a disregarded payment loss of DE1X, a disregarded payment entity. This is the case even though the $100x interest payment is not disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity and its tax owner or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner under § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(*2*). Because the $100x disregarded payment loss is made available under the Country X consolidation regime to offset income of FSX, a foreign corporation, a foreign use triggering event (within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(3)(i)) occurs. As a result, S includes in income a $100x DPL inclusion amount in year 1 and establishes a suspended deduction of $100x in year 2. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1), (d)(2)(i), and (d)(2)(ii).


(45) *Example 45. Restructuring to avoid the application of the DPL rules*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1X and S. DE1X owns FSX. DE1X and FSX file a consolidated tax return for Country X tax purposes such that deductions and losses of DE1X are available to offset income of FSX. P holds an interest-bearing note issued by DE1X. For U.S. tax purposes, interest accrued and paid on the note is disregarded. For Country X tax purposes, DE1X is allowed a $100x interest expense deduction each year for interest accrued under the note. At the end of year 1, and with a view to avoid the application of the disregarded payment loss rules under § 1.1503(d)-1(d) in year 2, P transfers the note to S. In year 2, DE1X is allowed a $100x interest expense deduction for Country X tax purposes. For U.S. tax purposes, the $100x interest expense deduction in year 2 gives rise to a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE1X, a hybrid entity separate unit, and that loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b).


(ii) *Result.* Although P transferred the note to S with a view to avoid the application of the disregarded payment loss rules under § 1.1503(d)-1(d), the anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) does not apply with respect to the transfer. This is because the resulting year 2 $100x dual consolidated loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) (or the terms of a domestic use agreement, if a domestic use election were to be made) and thus cannot be put to both a domestic use and a foreign use (that is, it does not result in a double deduction or similar outcome). The same result would obtain if, instead of P transferring the note to S at the end of year 1, DE1X extinguished the note at the end of year 1 such that there are no disregarded payments in year 2 and, thus, no double non-taxation outcome.


(iii) *Alternative facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(45)(i) of this section, except that P does not transfer the note to S in year 1. Instead, with a view to prevent a foreign use of a disregarded payment loss attributable to DE1X, at the end of year 1 FSX distributes all its property to DE1X in a complete liquidation described in section 332. The anti-avoidance rule in § 1.1503(d)-1(f)(1) does not apply because the disregarded payment loss is not put to a foreign use (that is, there is no double deduction or similar outcome).


(46) *Example 46. Disregarded payment loss rules—scope*—(i) *Facts.* P owns DE1X. DE1X owns FBZ. FBZ is a foreign branch, within the meaning of § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(iv), located in Country Z. DE1X makes a $10x payment to P, which, under the laws of Country Z, gives rise to a $10x deduction allowable to FBZ. If such payment were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12). In addition, under the laws of Country Z, FBZ is allowed a $60x interest deduction for an accrual or other transaction between FBZ and DE1X, and if such item were regarded for U.S. tax purposes, it would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12).


(ii) *Result.* P is a DPE owner because it owns DE1X, a disregarded entity. See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). As such, P determines disregarded payment income or disregarded payment loss of DE1X, a disregarded payment entity described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(i)(A), and of FBZ, a disregarded payment entity described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(i)(B). See § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(1). The payment from DE1X to P is disregarded for U.S. tax purposes as a transaction between a disregarded entity (DE1X) and its tax owner (P) and therefore satisfies the condition in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(*2*). The payment also satisfies the conditions described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(*1*) and (*3*) because FBZ is allowed a deduction under Country Z law for a payment that, if regarded for U.S. tax purposes, would be interest within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(12). As such, the $10x deduction attributable to the payment from DE1X to P is taken into account in determining whether FBZ has disregarded payment income or a disregarded payment loss under § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(A) and (B), respectively. The $60x item of deduction allowed to FBZ, however, does not satisfy the condition described in § 1.1503(d)-1(d)(5)(ii)(C)(*2*), because the accrual or other transaction giving rise to the deduction is not between a disregarded entity and its tax owner (here, P), or between disregarded entities with the same tax owner. Accordingly, the $60x item of deduction is not taken into account in determining whether FBZ has disregarded payment income or a disregarded payment loss. The result would be the same with respect to the $60x deduction allowed to FBZ under the laws of Country Z if, instead of P owning FBZ indirectly through DE1X, P owned FBZ directly and the accrual or other transaction giving rise to the deduction is between FBZ and P.



---

[N] [T.D. 9315, 72 FR 12914, Mar. 19, 2007; 72 FR 20424, Apr. 25, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19855, Apr. 8, 2020; 85 FR 48651, Aug. 12, 2020; T.D. 10026, 90 FR 3018, Jan. 14, 2025]




