# § 2003.22   Functional organization of RUS.

(a) *General.* The Secretary established RUS pursuant to § 232 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6942).


(b) *Office of the Administrator.* According to 7 CFR 2.47, the Administrator has responsibility for managing and administering the programs and support functions of RUS to provide financial and technical support for rural infrastructure to include electrification, clean drinking water, telecommunications, and water disposal systems, pursuant to the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1921 *et. seq.*), and the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et. seq.*). The office develops and implements strategic plans concerning the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended.


(1) *Borrower and Program Support Services.* Borrower and Program Support Services consist of the three following staffs which are responsible to the Administrator for planning and carrying out a variety of program and administrative services in support of all RUS programs, and providing expert advice and coordination for the Administrator:


(i) *Administrative Liaison Staff.* Headed by a staff director, this staff advises the Administrator on management issues and policies relating to human resources, EEO, labor-management partnership, administrative services, travel management, automated information systems, and administrative budgeting and funds control.


(ii) *Program Accounting Services Division.* Headed by a division director, this division develops and evaluates the accounting systems and procedures of Electric, Telecommunications, and Water and Wastewater borrowers; assures that accounting policies, systems, and procedures meet regulatory, Departmental, General Accounting Office, OMB, and Treasury Department requirements; examines borrowers' records and operations, and reviews expenditures of loans and other funds; develops audit requirements; and approves Certified Public Accountants to perform audits of borrowers.


(iii) *Program and Financial Services Staff.* Headed by a staff director, this staff evaluates the financial conditions of troubled borrowers, negotiates settlements of delinquent loans, and makes recommendations to program Assistant Administrators on ways to improve the financial health of borrowers.


(2) *Office of Assistant Administrator—Electric Program.* Headed by the Assistant Administrator—Electric Program, this office is responsible to the Administrator for directing and coordinating the Rural Electrification program of RUS nationwide. This office develops, maintains, and implements regulations and program procedures on processing and approving loans and loan-related activities for rural electric borrowers. The office directs the following three divisions:


(i) *Electric Regional Divisions.* Headed by division directors, these two divisions are responsible for administering the Rural Electrification program in specific geographic areas and serving as the single point of contact for all distribution borrowers. The divisions provide guidance to borrowers on RUS loan policies and procedures, maintain oversight of borrower rate actions, and make recommendations to the Administrator on borrower applications for RUS financing. The divisions also assure that power plant, distribution, and transmission systems and facilities are designed and constructed in accordance with the terms of the loan and proper engineering practices and specifications.


(ii) *Power Supply Division.* Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for administering the Rural Electrification program responsibilities with regard to power supply borrowers nationwide and serves as primary point of contact between RUS and all such borrowers. The division develops and maintains a loan processing program for Rural Electrification Act purposes, and develops and administers engineering and construction policies related to planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance for power supply borrowers.


(iii) *Electric Staff Division.* Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for engineering activities related to the design, construction, and technical operations and maintenance of power plants; distribution of power; and transmission systems and facilities, including load management and communications. The division develops criteria and techniques for evaluating the financing and performance of electric borrowers and forecasting borrowers' future power needs; and maintains financial expertise on the distribution and power supply loan program, and retail and wholesale rates.


(3) *Office of Assistant Administrator*—*Telecommunications Program.* Headed by the Assistant Administrator—Telecommunications Program, this office is responsible to the Administrator for directing and coordinating the National Rural Telecommunications, Distance Learning, and Telemedicine programs of RUS. The Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program, is responsible for developing, maintaining, and implementing regulations and program procedures on the processing and approval of grants, loans, and loan-related activities for all rural telecommunications borrowers and grant recipients. The office directs the following three divisions:


(i) *Telecommunications Standards Division.* Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for engineering staff activities related to the design, construction, and technical operation and maintenance of rural telecommunications systems and facilities. The office develops engineering practices, policies, and technical data related to borrowers' telecommunications systems; and evaluates the application of new communications network technology, including distance learning and telemedicine, to rural telecommunications systems.


(ii) *Advanced Telecommunications Services Staff.* Headed by a staff director, this staff primarily serves the Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program in the role of the Assistant Governor of the RTB. The office performs analyses and makes recommendations to the AAT on issues raised by the RTB Governor, Board of Directors, or RTB borrowers. This staff maintains official records for the RTB Board and prepares minutes of RTB Board meetings. The staff director serves as the Assistant Secretary to the RTB. The staff performs the calculations necessary to determine the cost of money rate to RTB borrowers and recommends and develops program- wide procedures for loan and grant programs. The office is responsible for the Telecommunications Program's home page on the Internet.


(iii) *Telecommunications Area Offices.* Headed by area directors, these four offices are responsible for administering the Telecommunications, Distance Learning, and Telemedicine programs for specific geographic areas, and serving as the single point of contact for all program applicants and borrowers within their respective areas. The offices provide guidance to applicants and borrowers on RUS loan policies and procedures and make recommendations to the Administrator on applications for loans, guarantees, and grants. The offices assure that borrower systems and facilities are designed and constructed in accordance with the terms of the loan, acceptable engineering practices and specifications, and acceptable loan security standards.


(4) *Office of the Assistant Administrator—Water and Environmental Programs.* Headed by the Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, this office is responsible to the Administrator for directing and coordinating a nationwide Water and Waste Disposal Program for RUS as authorized under Section 306 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926). The office oversees administration of RUS policies on making and servicing loans and grants for water and waste facilities in rural America, and the development of engineering policies, and practices related to the construction and operation of community water and waste disposal systems. This office is responsible for development and coordination of environmental programs with regard to the Water and Waste Disposal Program and directs the following two divisions:


(i) *Water Programs Division.* Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for administering the Water and Waste Disposal loan and grant making and servicing and special authorities activities nationwide. This office also makes allocation of loan and grant funds to field offices and manages National Office reserves.


(ii) *Engineering and Environmental Staff.* Headed by a staff director, this staff is responsible for engineering activities at all stages of program implementation, including: review of preliminary engineering plans and specifications, procurement practices, contract awards, construction monitoring, and system operation and maintenance. The staff also develops Agency engineering practices, policies, and technical data related to the construction and operation of community water and waste disposal systems. The staff is responsible for coordinating environmental policy and providing technical support in areas such as: hazardous waste, debarment and suspension, flood insurance, drug free workplace requirements, and computer program software.



---

[N] [62 FR 67259, Dec. 24, 1997, as amended at 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]




