# § 1065.545   Verification of proportional flow control for batch sampling.

For any proportional batch sample such as a bag or PM filter, demonstrate that proportional sampling was maintained using one of the following, noting that you may omit up to 5% of the total number of data points as outliers:




(a) For any pair of sample and total flow rates, use continuous recorded data or 1 Hz means. Total flow rate means the raw exhaust flow rate for raw exhaust sampling and the dilute exhaust flow rate for CVS sampling. For each test interval, determine the standard error of the estimate, *SEE,* of the sample flow rate versus the total flow rate as described in § 1065.602, forcing the intercept to zero. Determine the mean sample flow rate over each test interval as described in § 1065.602. For each test interval, demonstrate that *SEE* is at or below 3.5% of the mean sample flow rate.


(b) For any pair of sample and total flow rates, use continuous recorded data or 1 Hz means. Total flow rate means the raw exhaust flow rate for raw exhaust sampling and the dilute exhaust flow rate for CVS sampling. For each test interval, demonstrate that each flow rate is constant within ±2.5% of its respective mean or target flow rate. You may use the following options instead of recording the respective flow rate of each type of meter:




(1) *Critical-flow venturi option.* For critical-flow venturis, you may use recorded venturi-inlet conditions or their 1 Hz means. Demonstrate that the flow density at the venturi inlet was constant within ±2.5% of the mean or target density over each test interval. For a CVS critical-flow venturi, you may demonstrate this by showing that the absolute temperature at the venturi inlet was constant within ±4% of the mean or target absolute temperature over each test interval.


(2) *Positive-displacement pump option.* You may use recorded pump-inlet conditions or their 1 Hz means. Demonstrate that the flow density at the pump inlet was constant within ±2.5% of the mean or target density over each test interval. For a CVS pump, you may demonstrate this by showing that the absolute temperature at the pump inlet was constant within ±2% of the mean or target absolute temperature over each test interval.


(c) Using good engineering judgment, demonstrate with an engineering analysis that the proportional-flow control system inherently ensures proportional sampling under all circumstances expected during testing. For example, you might use CFVs for both sample flow and total dilute exhaust (CVS) flow and demonstrate that they always have the same inlet pressures and temperatures and that they always operate under critical-flow conditions.



---

[N] [79 FR 23777, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 34548, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4679, Jan. 24, 2023]




