# § 38.6   Basic compensation for educators and education positions.

(a) *Schedule of basic compensation rates.* The Director shall establish a schedule for each pay level specified in part 62 of the Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual (BIAM). The schedule will be revised at the same time as and be consistent with rates in effect under the General Schedule or Federal Wage System for individuals with comparable qualifications, and holding comparable positions.


(b) *Range of pay rates for positions within pay levels.* The range of basic compensation rates for positions assigned to each pay level will be consistent with the General Schedule or Federal Wage System rates that would otherwise be applicable if the position were classified under chapter 51 or subchapter IV of chapter 53 of title 5 of the United States Code (U.S.C.). The maximum pay shall not exceed step 10 of the comparable General Schedule position by more than ten percent.


(c) *Schedule of compensation rates for teachers and counselors.* The basic compensation for teachers and counselors, including dormitory counselors and homeliving counselors, shall be determined in accordance with rates set by the Defense Department Overseas Teachers Pay and Personnel Practices Act. The schedule used shall be the current published schedule for the school year beginning on or after July 1 of each year.


(d) *Adjusting employee basic compensation rates.* (1) Except for employees occupying positions of teachers and counselors, including dormitory counselors and homeliving counselors, adjustments in an employee's basic compensation made in connection with each contract renewal will be based on the following:


(i) Contract renewal incentive—one pay increment for each renewal, not to exceed four increments, unless the educator is covered by a negotiated labor union agreement.


(ii) Performance—employees whose performance is rated “above satisfactory”; one pay increment; employees whose performance is rated “outstanding”; two pay increments.


(2) Pay increments based on education may be awarded as outlined in 62 BIAM.


(e) *Special additions to basic compensation.* The Director is authorized to established the following special additions to rates of basic compensation:


(1) The Director may authorize payment of a staffing differential not exceeding 25 per centum of the rate of basic compensation based on a formally-documented request by an ASE or AEPA. Such a staffing differential shall only be authorized in writing when the Director determines that:


(i) It is warranted by the geographic isolation of the work site or other unusually difficult environmental working or living conditions and/or,


(ii) It is necessary as a recruitment or retention incentive. This staffing differential is to be computed on the basic schedule rate before any other additions are computed.


(2) Special rates may be established for recruitment and retention applicable only to a specific position or to specific types of positions in specific locations based on a formally documented request by an ASE or AEPA and submitted to the Director for approval.


(f) *Payment of compensation to educators.* This section applies to those individuals employed under the provisions of section 1131(m) of Pub. L. 95-561 or title 5 U.S.C.


(1) *Pay periods.* Educators shall be paid on the basis of a biweekly pay period during the term of the contract. Chapter 55 of title 5 U.S.C. applies to the administration of pay for educators, except that section 1131(m) of Pub. L. 95-561 provides that 5 U.S.C. 5533 does not apply with respect to the receipt of pay by educators during summer recess under certain circumstances.


(2) *Pay for contract educators.* When an educator is appointed, payment under the contract is to begin as of the effective date of the contract. If an educator resigns or is discharged before the expiration of the term of the contract, pay ceases as of the date of resignation or discharge.


(3) *Prorating of pay.* Within 30 days prior to the beginning of the academic school term, each educator must elect whether to have the annual contractual rate or basic pay prorated over the contractual academic school term, or to have the basic pay prorated over a 12-month period.


(i) Each educator may change such election once during the academic school term, provided notice is given two weeks prior to the end of the fifth month after the beginning of the academic school term.


(ii) An educator who elects a 12-month basis of prorated pay may further elect to be paid in one lump sum at the end of the academic school term for the then remaining amount of rate of basic pay otherwise due, provided notice is given four weeks prior to the end of the academic school term.


(iii) No educator shall suffer a loss of pay or benefits because of elections made under this section.


(4) *Stipends for extracurricular activities.* An employee, if assigned to sponsor an approved extracurricular activity, may elect annually at the beginning of the contract to be paid a stipend in lieu of overtime premium pay or compensatory time when the employee performs additional activities to provide services to students or otherwise support the school's academic and social programs.


(i) The Director is authorized to establish a schedule of stipends for each Bureau Area, taking into consideration types of activities to be compensated and payments provided by public school districts in or near the Area.


(ii) The stipend shall be a supplement to the employee's base pay and is not a part of salary for retirement computation purposes.


(iii) The employee shall be paid the stipend in equal payments over the period of the extracurricular activity.



---

[N] [53 FR 37678, Sept. 27, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 46374, Nov. 3, 1989]




