# § 175.125   Pressure-sensitive adhesives.

Pressure-sensitive adhesives may be safely used as the food-contact surface of labels and/or tapes applied to food, in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) Pressure-sensitive adhesives prepared from one or a mixture of two or more of the substances listed in this paragraph may be used as the food-contact surface of labels and/or tapes applied to poultry, dry food, and processed, frozen, dried, or partially dehydrated fruits or vegetables.


(1) Substances generally recognized as safe in food.


(2) Substances used in accordance with a prior sanction or approval.


(3) Color additives listed for use in or on food in parts 73 and 74 of this chapter.


(4) Substances identified in § 172.615 of this chapter other than substances used in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(5) Polyethylene, oxidized; complying with the identity prescribed in § 177.1620(a) of this chapter.


(6) 4-[[4, 6-Bis(octylthio)-*s*-triazin-2-yl]amino]-2,6-di-*tert*-butylphenol (CAS Reg. No. 991-84-4) as an antioxidant/stabilizer at a level not to exceed 1.5 percent by weight of the finished pressure-sensitive adhesive.


(7) 2,2′-(2,5-Thiophenediyl)-bis(5-*tert*-butylbenzoxazole) (CAS Reg. No. 7128-64-5) as an optical brightener at a level not to exceed 0.05 percent by weight of the finished pressure-sensitive adhesive.


(8) 2-Hydroxy-1-[4-(2-hydroxyethoxy) phenyl]-2-methyl-1-propanone (CAS Reg. No. 106797-53-9) as a photoinitiator at a level not to exceed 5 percent by weight of the pressure-sensitive adhesive.


(9) Butanedioic acid, sulfo-1,4-di-(C_9_-C_11_ alkyl) ester, ammonium salt (also known as butanedioic acid sulfo-1, 4-diisodecyl ester, ammonium salt [CAS Reg. No. 144093-88-9]) as a surface active agent at a level not to exceed 3.0 percent by weight of the finished pressure-sensitive adhesive.


(b) Pressure-sensitive adhesives prepared from one or a mixture of two or more of the substances listed in this paragraph may be used as the food-contact surface of labels and/or tapes applied to raw fruit and raw vegetables.


(1) Substances listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)(7), (a)(8), and (a)(9) of this section, and those substances prescribed by paragraph (a)(4) of this section that are not identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) Substances identified in this subparagraph and subject to the limitations provided:


(c) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of § 180.22 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14534, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 15674, Mar. 22, 1977; 48 FR 15617, Apr. 12, 1983; 63 FR 3464, Jan. 23, 1998; 63 FR 51528, Sept. 28, 1998; 64 FR 48291, Sept. 3, 1999]




