# ยง 10005.2   Definitions.

*The Act* refers to the Central Utah Project Completion Act, Titles II, III, IV, V, and VI of Public Law 102-575, October 30, 1992. 


*Applicant* refers to an agency, organization, or individual providing formal recommendations to the Commission regarding projects to be considered for inclusion in the Commission's plan. 


*Commission* means the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission, as established by section 301 of the Act. 


*Interested parties* refers to Federal and State agencies, Indian tribes, non-profit organizations, county and municipal governments, special districts, and members of the general public with an interest in the Commission's plan and plan development activities. 


*Other applicable Federal laws* refers to all Federal acts and agency regulations that have a bearing on how the Commission conducts its business, with specific reference to the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1934, as amended (16 U.S.C. 661 *et seq.*); the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*); and the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*). 


*Plan* and *five-year plan* refer to the Commission's mitigation and conservation plan as required by section 301 of the Act. 


*Planning rule* refers to this part, which is a component of the Commission's administrative rules and which provides guidance for the development, and implementation, of the Commission's plan. 


*Section 8 funds* refers to the section of the Colorado River Storage Project Act that provides for congressionally authorized funds to be used in mitigating the effects of the Colorado River Storage Project on fish, wildlife, and related recreation resources. 




