# ยง 3010.109   Automatic closure of inactive dockets.

(a) *Automatic closure.* The Commission shall automatically close a docket in which there has been no activity of record by any person for 12 consecutive months, except dockets in which further action by the Commission is required by statute or regulation, or dockets for which the Commission finds good cause to remain open.


(b) *Notice of closure.* Each month, the Commission shall post on its website a list of dockets that will be subject to automatic closure during the following calendar month and will include the date on which the docket will automatically close.


(c) *Motions to stay automatic closure.* (1) Persons, including the Postal Service or a Public Representative, may file a motion to stay automatic closure of a docket and request that the docket remain open for a specified term not to exceed 12 months. Motions to stay automatic closure must be filed at least 15 days prior to the automatic closure date.


(2) The Commission may order a docket remain open for a specified term not to exceed 12 months and must file such order at least 15 days prior to the automatic closure date.


(d) *Motions to reopen automatically closed dockets.* (1) If, at any time after a docket has been automatically closed, persons, including the Postal Service or a Public Representative, may file a motion to reopen the docket and must set forth with particularity good cause for reopening the docket.


(2) The Commission may order a closed docket to be reopened, and must set forth the basis for reopening the docket.




