# § 522.52   Alfaxalone.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter contains 10 milligrams (mg) alfaxalone.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use in cats and dogs*—(1) *Amount*—(i) *Cats*—(A) *Induction of general anesthesia.* Administer by intravenous injection over approximately 60 seconds or until clinical signs show the onset of anesthesia, 2.2 to 9.7 mg/kilogram (kg) for cats that did not receive a preanesthetic or 1.0 to 10.8 mg/kg for cats that received a preanesthetic.


(B) *Maintenance of general anesthesia following induction.* Administer an intravenous bolus containing 1.1 to 1.3 mg/kg to provide an additional 7 to 8 minutes of anesthesia in preanesthetized cats; a dose containing 1.4 to 1.5 mg/kg provides an additional 3 to 5 minutes anesthesia in unpreanesthetized cats.


(ii) *Dogs*—(A) *Induction of general anesthesia.* Administer by intravenous injection over approximately 60 seconds or until clinical signs show the onset of anesthesia, 1.5 to 4.5 mg/kg for dogs that did not receive a preanesthetic or 0.2 to 3.5 mg/kg for dogs that received a preanesthetic.


(B) *Maintenance of general anesthesia following induction.* Administer an intravenous bolus containing 1.2 to 1.4 mg/kg to provide an additional 6 to 8 minutes of anesthesia in preanesthetized dogs; a dose of 1.5 to 2.2 mg/kg provides an additional 6 to 8 minutes of anesthesia in unpreanesthetized dogs.


(2) *Indications for use.* For the induction and maintenance of anesthesia and for induction of anesthesia followed by maintenance with an inhalant anesthetic, in dogs and cats.


(3) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. Alfaxalone is a Class IV controlled substance.



---

[N] [77 FR 64717, Oct. 23, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 64116, Oct. 28, 2014; 88 FR 84700, Dec. 6, 2023]




