# § 702.401   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Subordinated Debt.* This subpart sets forth the requirements applicable to all Subordinated Debt issued by a federally insured, natural person credit union, including the NCUA's review and approval of that credit union's application to issue or prepay Subordinated Debt. This subpart shall apply to a federally insured, state-chartered credit union only to the extent that such federally insured, state-chartered credit union is permitted by applicable state law to issue debt instruments of the type described in this subpart. To the extent that such state law is more restrictive than this subpart with respect to the issuance of such debt instruments, that state law shall apply. Except as provided in the next sentence, any secondary capital, as that term is used in the Federal Credit Union Act, issued after January 1, 2022, is Subordinated Debt and subject to the requirements of this subpart. Issuances of secondary capital, as that term is used in the Federal Credit Union Act, to the U.S. Government or any of its subdivisions, under applications approved before January 1, 2022, pursuant to § 701.34 or § 741.204(c) of this chapter, are not subject to the requirements applicable to Subordinated Debt, discussed elsewhere in this subpart, irrespective of the date of issuance.




(b) *Grandfathered Secondary Capital.* Any secondary capital defined as “Grandfathered Secondary Capital” under § 702.402, is governed by § 702.414. Grandfathered Secondary Capital will no longer be treated as Regulatory Capital as of the later of 30 years from the date of issuance or January 1, 2052.







---

[N] [86 FR 72809, Dec. 23, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 18010, Mar. 27, 2023]




