# § 1.468B-6   Escrow accounts, trusts, and other funds used during deferred exchanges of like-kind property under section 1031(a)(3).

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules under section 468B(g) relating to the current taxation of escrow accounts, trusts, and other funds used during deferred exchanges.


(b) *Definitions.* The definitions in this paragraph (b) apply for purposes of this section.


(1) *In general. Deferred exchange, escrow agreement, escrow holder, exchange agreement, qualified escrow account, qualified intermediary, qualified trust, relinquished property, replacement property, taxpayer, trust agreement*, and *trustee* have the same meanings as in § 1.1031(k)-1; deferred exchange also includes any exchange intended to qualify as a deferred exchange, and qualified intermediary also includes any person or entity intended by a taxpayer to be a qualified intermediary within the meaning of § 1.1031(k)-1(g)(4).


(2) *Exchange funds. Exchange funds* means relinquished property, cash, or cash equivalent that secures an obligation of a transferee to transfer replacement property, or proceeds from a transfer of relinquished property, held in a qualified escrow account, qualified trust, or other escrow account, trust, or fund in a deferred exchange.


(3) *Exchange facilitator. Exchange facilitator* means a qualified intermediary, transferee, escrow holder, trustee, or other party that holds exchange funds for a taxpayer in a deferred exchange pursuant to an escrow agreement, trust agreement, or exchange agreement.


(4) *Transactional expenses*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, *transactional expenses* means transactional items within the meaning of § 1.1031(k)-1(g)(7)(ii).


(ii) *Special rule for certain fees for exchange facilitator services.* The fee for the services of an exchange facilitator is not a transactional expense unless the escrow agreement, trust agreement, or exchange agreement, as applicable, provides that—


(A) The amount of the fee payable to the exchange facilitator is fixed on or before the date of the transfer of the relinquished property by the taxpayer (either by stating the fee as a fixed dollar amount in the agreement or determining the fee by a formula, the result of which is known on or before the transfer of the relinquished property by the taxpayer); and


(B) The amount of the fee is payable by the taxpayer regardless of whether the earnings attributable to the exchange funds are sufficient to pay the fee.


(c) *Taxation of exchange funds*—(1) *Exchange funds generally treated as loaned to an exchange facilitator.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, exchange funds are treated as loaned from a taxpayer to an exchange facilitator (exchange facilitator loan). If a transaction is treated as an exchange facilitator loan under this paragraph (c)(1), the exchange facilitator must take into account all items of income, deduction, and credit (including capital gains and losses) attributable to the exchange funds. See § 1.7872-16 to determine if an exchange facilitator loan is a below-market loan for purposes of section 7872 and § 1.7872-5(b)(16) to determine if an exchange facilitator loan is exempt from section 7872.


(2) *Exchange funds not treated as loaned to an exchange facilitator*—(i) *Scope.* This paragraph (c)(2) applies if, in accordance with an escrow agreement, trust agreement, or exchange agreement, as applicable, all the earnings attributable to a taxpayer's exchange funds are paid to the taxpayer.


(ii) *Earnings attributable to the taxpayer's exchange funds*—(A) *Separately identified account.* If an exchange facilitator holds all of the taxpayer's exchange funds in a separately identified account, the earnings credited to that account are deemed to be all the earnings attributable to the taxpayer's exchange funds for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. In general, a separately identified account is an account established under the taxpayer's name and taxpayer identification number with a depository institution. For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a sub-account will be treated as a separately identified account if the master account under which the sub-account is created is established with a depository institution, the depository institution identifies the sub-account by the taxpayer's name and taxpayer identification number, and the depository institution specifically credits earnings to the sub-account.


(B) *Allocation of earnings in commingled accounts.* If an exchange facilitator commingles (for investment or otherwise) the taxpayer's exchange funds with other funds or assets, all the earnings attributable to the taxpayer's exchange funds are paid to the taxpayer if all of the earnings attributable to the commingled funds or assets that are allocable on a pro-rata basis (using a reasonable method that takes into account the time that the exchange funds are in the commingled account, actual rate or rates of return, and the respective account balances) to the taxpayer's exchange funds either are paid to the taxpayer or are treated as paid to the taxpayer under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.


(C) *Transactional expenses.* Any payment from the taxpayer's exchange funds, or from the earnings attributable to the taxpayer's exchange funds, for a transactional expense of the taxpayer (as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section) is treated as first paid to the taxpayer and then paid by the taxpayer to the recipient.


(iii) *Treatment of the taxpayer.* If this paragraph (c)(2) applies, exchange funds are not treated as loaned from a taxpayer to an exchange facilitator. The taxpayer must take into account all items of income, deduction, and credit (including capital gains and losses) attributable to the exchange funds.


(d) *Information reporting requirements.* A payor (as defined in § 1.6041-1) must report the income attributable to exchange funds to the extent required by the information reporting provisions of subpart B, Part III, subchapter A, chapter 61, Subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code, and the regulations under those provisions. See § 1.6041-1(f) for rules relating to the amount to be reported when fees, expenses or commissions owed by a payee to a third party are deducted from a payment.


(e) *Examples.* The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples in which T is a taxpayer that uses a calendar taxable year and the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting. The examples are as follows:


(f) *Effective/applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* This section applies to transfers of relinquished property made by taxpayers on or after October 8, 2008.


(2) *Transition rule.* With respect to transfers of relinquished property made by taxpayers after August 16, 1986, but before October 8, 2008, the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge a reasonable, consistently applied method of taxation for income attributable to exchange funds.



---

[N] [T.D. 9413, 73 FR 39620, July 10, 2008]




