# § 12.401   General requirements for Able Seafarer endorsements.

(a) *General.* An Able Seafarer is any person below officer and above Ordinary Seafarer who holds a Merchant Mariner Credential (MMC) endorsed as Able Seafarer by the Coast Guard.


(b) *Categories.* The following categories of Able Seafarer endorsements are established:


(1) Able Seafarer-Unlimited.


(2) Able Seafarer-Limited.


(3) Able Seafarer-Special.


(4) Able Seafarer-OSV.


(5) Able Seafarer-Sail.


(6) Able Seafarer-Fishing Industry.


(c) *Requirements for certification.* To qualify for an endorsement as Able Seafarer, an applicant must—


(1) Be at least 18 years of age;


(2) Pass the prescribed physical and medical examination requirements specified in 46 CFR, part 10, subpart C;


(3) Provide evidence of having passed a chemical test for dangerous drugs or of qualifying for an exemption from testing as described in § 16.220 of this subchapter;


(4) Meet the sea service or training requirements set forth in this part;


(5) Pass an examination for Able Seafarer;


(6) Qualify for an endorsement as Lifeboat Operator or Lifeboat Operator-Limited; and


(7) Speak and understand the English language as would be required in performing the general duties of Able Seafarer and during an emergency aboard ship.


(d) *Additional requirements.* (1) The holder of an MMC or MMD endorsed for the rating of Able Seafarer may serve in any rating in the deck department without obtaining an additional endorsement, provided—


(i) That the holder possesses the appropriate Able Seafarer endorsement for the service of the vessel; and


(ii) That the holder possesses the appropriate STCW endorsement when serving as an Able Seafarer-Deck or Ratings Forming Part of the Navigational Watch (RFPNW) on a seagoing ship.


(2) Any MMC endorsed as Able Seafarer will also be endorsed as Lifeboat Operator or Lifeboat Operator-Limited, as appropriate.


(3) The Able Seafarer endorsement will clearly describe the type of rating that it represents (see paragraph (a) of this section).



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77975, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93099, Nov. 25, 2024; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102336, Dec. 17, 2024]






