# ยง 1081.205   Non-dispositive motions.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to all motions except motions to dismiss and motions for summary disposition. A non-dispositive motion filed pursuant to another section of this part must comply with any specific requirements of that section and this section to the extent the requirements in this section are not inconsistent.


(b) *In writing.* (1) Unless made during a hearing or conference, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.


(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.


(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the hearing officer. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.


(c) *Oral motions.* The Director or the hearing officer, as appropriate, may order that an oral motion be submitted in writing.


(d) *Responses and replies.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, within 14 days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the hearing officer or the Director, as appropriate, any party may file a written response to a motion. The hearing officer will not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.


(2) Reply briefs, if any, may be filed within seven days after service of the response.


(3) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.


(e) *Length limitations.* No motion subject to this section (together with the brief in support of the motion) or brief in response to the motion may exceed 15 pages in length, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions or rules, and exhibits. No reply brief may exceed six pages in length, exclusive of pages containing the table of contents, table of authorities, and any addendum that consists solely of copies of applicable cases, pertinent legislative provisions or rules, and exhibits. Motions for leave to file motions and briefs in excess of these limitations are disfavored.


(f) *Meet and confer requirements.* Each motion filed under this section must be accompanied by a signed statement representing that counsel for the moving party has conferred or made a good faith effort to confer with opposing counsel in a good faith effort to resolve by agreement the issues raised by the motion and has been unable to reach such an agreement. If some of the matters in controversy have been resolved by agreement, the statement must specify the matters so resolved and the matters remaining unresolved.


(g) *Ruling on non-dispositive motions.* Unless otherwise provided by a relevant section of this part, a hearing officer will rule on non-dispositive motions. Such ruling must be issued within 14 days after the expiration of the time period allowed for the filing of all motion papers authorized by this section. The Director, for good cause, may extend the time allowed for a ruling.


(h) *Proceedings not stayed.* A motion under consideration by the Director or the hearing officer does not stay proceedings before the hearing officer unless the Director or the hearing officer, as appropriate, so orders.


(i) *Dilatory motions.* Frivolous, dilatory, or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.




