# § 488.1010   Application and reapplication procedures for national home infusion therapy accrediting organizations.

(a) *Information submitted with application.* A national home infusion therapy accrediting organization applying to CMS for approval or re-approval of a designated home infusion therapy accreditation program must furnish CMS with information and materials that demonstrate that its home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements meet or exceed the applicable Medicare requirements for accrediting organizations, including the following:


(1) Documentation that demonstrates the organization meets the definition of a national accrediting organization under § 488.1005 as it relates to the accreditation program.


(2) The Medicare provider or supplier type for which the organization is requesting approval or reapproval.


(3) Documentation that demonstrates the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's ability to take into account the capacities of rural home infusion therapy suppliers (as required by section 1834(u)(5)(A)(ii) of the Act).


(4) Information that demonstrates the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's knowledge, expertise, and experience in home infusion therapy.


(5) A detailed crosswalk (in table format) that identifies, for each of the applicable Medicare requirements, the exact language of the organization's comparable accreditation requirements and standards.


(6) A detailed description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's survey processes to confirm that a home infusion therapy supplier's processes are comparable to those of Medicare. This description must include all of the following:


(i) The types and frequency of surveys performed, and a rationale for which accreditation requirements will be evaluated via onsite surveys and which will be evaluated via offsite audits, or other strategies for ensuring accredited home infusion therapy suppliers maintain adherence to the home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements, including an explanation of how the accrediting organization will maintain the schedule it proposes.


(ii) Copies of the home infusion therapy accrediting organizations survey and audit forms, guidelines, and instructions to surveyors.


(iii) Documentation demonstrating that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's onsite survey or offsite audit reports identify, for each finding of non-compliance with accreditation standards, the comparable Medicare home infusion therapy accreditation requirements, as applicable.


(iv) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's accreditation survey review process.


(v) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's procedures and timelines for notifying a surveyed or audited home infusion therapy supplier of non-compliance with the home infusion therapy accreditation program's standards.


(vi) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's procedures and timelines for monitoring the home infusion therapy supplier's correction of identified non-compliance with the accreditation program's standards.


(vii) The ability of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization to conduct timely reviews of accreditation applications.


(viii) A statement acknowledging that, as a condition for CMS approval of a national accrediting organization's accreditation program, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization agrees to provide CMS with information extracted from each home infusion therapy accreditation onsite survey, offsite audit or other evaluation strategies as part of its data submissions required under paragraph (a)(19) of this section, and, upon request from CMS, a copy of the most recent accreditation onsite survey, offsite audit, or other evaluation strategy together with any other information related to the survey as CMS may require (including corrective action plans).


(ix) A statement acknowledging that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization will provide timely notification to CMS when an accreditation survey or complaint investigation identifies an immediate jeopardy as that term is defined at § 488.1005. Using the format specified by CMS, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must notify CMS within 2 business days from the date the accrediting organization identifies the immediate jeopardy.


(7) Procedures to ensure that—


(i) Unannounced onsite surveys, as appropriate, will be conducted periodically, including procedures that protect against unannounced surveys becoming known to the provider or supplier in advance of the visit; or


(ii) Offsite survey audits are performed to evaluate the quality of services provided which may be followed up with periodic onsite visits.


(8) The criteria for determining the size and composition of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's survey, audit and other evaluation strategy teams for individual supplier onsite surveys. The home infusion therapy accrediting organization's criteria should include, but not be limited to the following information:


(i) The expected number of individual home infusion therapy supplier locations to be surveyed using an onsite survey.


(ii) The number of home infusion therapy suppliers to be surveyed using off-site audits.


(iii) A description of other types of home infusion therapy accreditation review activities to be used.


(iv) The reasons for each type of survey (that is, initial accreditation survey, reaccreditation survey, and complaint survey).


(9) The overall adequacy of the number of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's surveyors, auditors, and other staff available to perform survey related activities, including how the organization will increase the size of the survey, audit, and other evaluation staff to match growth in the number of accredited facilities or programs while maintaining re-accreditation intervals for existing accredited facilities or programs.


(10) Detailed information about the individuals who perform onsite surveys, offsite audits or other strategies for ensuring accredited home infusion therapy suppliers maintain adherence to the home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements, including all of the following information:


(i) The number and types of professional and technical staff available for conducting onsite surveys, offsite audits, or other strategies for ensuring accredited home infusion therapy suppliers maintain adherence to the home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements.


(ii) The education, employment, and experience requirements surveyors and auditors must meet.


(iii) The content and length of the orientation program.


(11) The content, frequency and types of in-service training provided to survey and audit personnel.


(12) The evaluation systems used to monitor the performance of individual surveyors, auditors and survey teams.


(13) The home infusion therapy accrediting organization's policies and procedures to avoid conflicts of interest, including the appearance of conflicts of interest, involving individuals who conduct surveys, audits or participate in accreditation decisions.


(14) The policies and procedures used when a home infusion therapy supplier has a dispute regarding survey or audit findings, or an adverse decision.


(15) Procedures for the home infusion therapy supplier to use to notify the home infusion therapy accrediting organization when the accredited home infusion therapy supplier does the either of the following:


(i) Removes or ceases furnishing services for which they are accredited.


(ii) Adds services for which they are not accredited.


(16) The home infusion therapy accrediting organization's procedures for responding to, and investigating complaints against accredited facilities, including policies and procedures regarding referrals, when applicable, to appropriate licensing bodies, ombudsmen offices, and CMS.


(17) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's accreditation status decision-making process. The home infusion therapy accrediting organization must furnish the following:


(i) Its process for addressing deficiencies identified with accreditation program requirements, and the procedures used to monitor the correction of deficiencies identified during an accreditation survey and audit process.


(ii) A description of all types and categories of accreditation decisions associated with the program, including the duration of each of the organization's accreditation decisions.


(iii) Its policies and procedures for the granting, withholding or removal of accreditation status for facilities that fail to meet the accrediting organization's standards or requirements, assignment of less than full accreditation status or other actions taken by the organization in response to non-compliance with its standards and requirements.


(iv) A statement acknowledging that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization agrees to notify CMS (in a manner CMS specifies) of any decision to revoke, terminate, or revise the accreditation status of a home infusion therapy supplier, within 3 business days from the date the organization takes an action.


(18) A list of all currently accredited home infusion therapy suppliers, the type and category of accreditation, currently held by each, and the expiration date for each home infusion therapy supplier's current accreditation.


(19) A schedule of all survey activity (such as onsite surveys, offsite audits and other types if survey strategies) expected to be conducted by the organization during the 6-month period following submission of an initial or renewal application.


(20) A written presentation that demonstrates the organization's ability to furnish CMS with electronic data.


(21) A description of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's data management and analysis system with respect to its surveys and accreditation decisions, including all of the following:


(i) A detailed description of how the home infusion therapy accrediting organization uses its data to assure the compliance of its home infusion therapy accreditation program with the Medicare home infusion therapy accreditation program requirements.


(ii) A written statement acknowledging that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization agrees to submit timely, accurate, and complete data that CMS has determined is both necessary to evaluate the accrediting organization's performance and is not unduly burdensome for the accrediting organization to submit.


(A) The organization must submit necessary data according to the instructions and timeframes CMS specifies.


(B) Data to be submitted includes the following:


(*1*) Accredited home infusion therapy supplier identifying information.


(*2*) Survey findings.


(*3*) Quality measures.


(*4*) Notices of accreditation decisions.


(22) The three most recent annual audited financial statements of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization that demonstrate that the organization's staffing, funding, and other resources are adequate to perform the required surveys, audits, and related activities to maintain the accreditation program.


(23) A written statement acknowledging that, as a condition for approval, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization agrees to the following:


(i) *Voluntary termination.* Provide written notification to CMS and all home infusion therapy suppliers accredited under its CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program at least 180 calendar days in advance of the effective date of a decision by the home infusion therapy accrediting organization to voluntarily terminate its CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program and the implications for the suppliers' payment status once their current term of accreditation expires in accordance with the requirements at § 488.1045(a).


(ii) *Involuntary termination.* Provide written notification to all accredited home infusion therapy suppliers accredited under its CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program no later than 30 calendar days after the notice is published in the _Federal Register_ announcing that CMS is withdrawing its approval of its accreditation program and the implications for the home infusion therapy supplier's payment status in accordance with the requirements at § 488.1045(b) once their current term of accreditation expires.


(A) For both voluntary and involuntary terminations, provide a second written notification to all accredited home infusion therapy suppliers 10 calendar days prior to the organization's accreditation program effective date of termination.


(B) Notify CMS, in writing (electronically or hard copy), within 2 business days of a deficiency identified in any accredited home infusion therapy supplier from any source where the deficiency poses an immediate jeopardy to the home infusion therapy supplier's beneficiaries or a hazard to the general public.


(iii) *Summary accreditation activity data and trends.* Provide, on an annual basis, summary accreditation activity data and trends including the following:


(A) Deficiencies.


(B) Complaints.


(C) Terminations.


(D) Withdrawals.


(E) Denials.


(F) Accreditation decisions.


(G) Other survey-related activities as specified by CMS.


(iv) *Termination of an accreditation organization.* If CMS terminates a home infusion therapy accrediting organization's approved status, the home infusion therapy accrediting organization must work collaboratively with CMS to direct its accredited home infusion therapy suppliers to the remaining CMS-approved accrediting organizations within a reasonable period of time.


(v) *Notification of proposed changes.* Notify CMS at least 60 days in advance of the implementation date of any significant proposed changes in its CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program and that it agrees not to implement the proposed changes without prior written notice of continued program approval from CMS, except as provided for at § 488.1040(b)(2).


(vi) *Response to a written notice from CMS.* A statement acknowledging that, in response to a written notice from CMS to the home infusion therapy accrediting organization of a change in the applicable home infusion therapy accreditation requirements or survey process, the organization will provide CMS with proposed corresponding changes in the accrediting organization's home infusion therapy accreditation requirements for its CMS-approved home infusion therapy accreditation program to ensure that its accreditation standards continue to meet or exceed those of Medicare, or survey process remains comparable with that of Medicare. The home infusion therapy accrediting organization must comply with the following requirements:


(A) The proposed changes must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the date of the written CMS notice to the home infusion therapy accrediting organization or by a date specified in the notice, whichever is later. CMS gives due consideration to a home infusion therapy accrediting organization's request for an extension of the deadline as long as it is submitted prior to the due date.


(B) The proposed changes are not to be implemented without prior written notice of continued program approval from CMS, except as provided for at § 488.1040(b)(2)(ii).


(24) The organization's proposed fees for accreditation, including any plans for reducing the burden and cost of accreditation to small and rural suppliers.


(b) *Additional information needed.* If CMS determines that additional information is necessary to make a determination for approval or denial of the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's initial application or re-application for CMS-approval of an accreditation program, CMS requires that the home infusion therapy accrediting organization s submit any specific documentation requirements and attestations as a condition of approval of accreditation status. CMS notifies the home infusion therapy accrediting organization and afford it an opportunity to provide the additional information.


(c) *Withdrawing an application.* A home infusion therapy accrediting organization may withdraw its initial application for CMS' approval of its home infusion therapy accreditation program at any time before CMS publishes the final notice described in § 488.1025(b).


(d) *Notice of approval or disapproval of application.* CMS sends a notice of its decision to approve or disapprove the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's application within 210 calendar days from the date CMS determines the home infusion therapy accrediting organization's application is complete. The final notice specifies the following:


(1) The basis for the decision.


(2) The effective date.


(3) The term of the approval (not exceed 6 years).




