# ยง 3.73   Establishing right of assignee to take action.

(a) The original applicant is presumed to be the owner of an application for an original patent, and any patent that may issue therefrom, unless there is an assignment. The original applicant is presumed to be the owner of a trademark application or registration, unless there is an assignment.


(b) In order to request or take action in a trademark matter, the assignee must establish its ownership of the trademark property of paragraph (a) of this section to the satisfaction of the Director. The establishment of ownership by the assignee may be combined with the paper that requests or takes the action. Ownership is established by submitting to the Office a signed statement identifying the assignee, accompanied by either:


(1) Documentary evidence of a chain of title from the original owner to the assignee (*e.g.,* copy of an executed assignment). The documents submitted to establish ownership may be required to be recorded pursuant to ยง 3.11 in the assignment records of the Office as a condition to permitting the assignee to take action in a matter pending before the Office; or


(2) A statement specifying where documentary evidence of a chain of title from the original owner to the assignee is recorded in the assignment records of the Office (*e.g.,* reel and frame number).


(c)(1) In order to request or take action in a patent matter, an assignee who is not the original applicant must establish its ownership of the patent property of paragraph (a) of this section to the satisfaction of the Director. The establishment of ownership by the assignee may be combined with the paper that requests or takes the action. Ownership is established by submitting to the Office a signed statement identifying the assignee, accompanied by either:


(i) Documentary evidence of a chain of title from the original owner to the assignee (*e.g.,* copy of an executed assignment). The submission of the documentary evidence must be accompanied by a statement affirming that the documentary evidence of the chain of title from the original owner to the assignee was or concurrently is being submitted for recordation pursuant to ยง 3.11; or


(ii) A statement specifying where documentary evidence of a chain of title from the original owner to the assignee is recorded in the assignment records of the Office (*e.g.,* reel and frame number).


(2) If the submission is by an assignee of less than the entire right, title and interest (*e.g.,* more than one assignee exists) the Office may refuse to accept the submission as an establishment of ownership unless:


(i) Each assignee establishes the extent (by percentage) of its ownership interest, so as to account for the entire right, title and interest in the application or patent by all parties including inventors; or


(ii) Each assignee submits a statement identifying the parties including inventors who together own the entire right, title and interest and stating that all the identified parties own the entire right, title and interest.


(3) If two or more purported assignees file conflicting statements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Director will determine which, if any, purported assignee will be permitted to control prosecution of the application.


(d) The submission establishing ownership under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section must show that the person signing the submission is a person authorized to act on behalf of the assignee by:


(1) Including a statement that the person signing the submission is authorized to act on behalf of the assignee;


(2) Being signed by a person having apparent authority to sign on behalf of the assignee; or


(3) For patent matters only, being signed by a practitioner of record.



---

[N] [77 FR 48825, Aug. 14, 2012]




