# § 1151.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term: 


(a) *The Act* means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Public Law 93-112, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974, (Pub. L. 93-516, 29 U.S.C. 706 *et seq.*) and the Comprehensive Rehabilitation Services Amendments of 1978, (Pub. L. 95-602). 


(b) *Section 504* means section 504 of the Act. 


(c) *Endowment* means the National Endowment for the Arts. 


(d) *Chairman* means the Chairman, National Endowment for the Arts. 


(e) *Recipient* means any state or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a state or its political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient, but excluding the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance. 


(f) *Federal financial assistance* means any grant, loan, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the Endowment provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of: 


(1) Funds; 


(2) Services of federal personnel; or 


(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including: 


(i) Transfers of leases of such property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and, 


(ii) proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of such property if the federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government. 


(g) *Facility* means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property or interest in such property. 


(h) *Program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance: 


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or 


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government; 


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or 


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system; 


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship— 


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or 


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or 


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or 


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (h)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.



---

[N] [44 FR 22734, Apr. 17, 1979, as amended at 68 FR 51384, Aug. 26, 2003]




