# § 575.310   Service agreement requirements.

(a) Before paying a retention incentive, an agency must require an employee, including each employee covered by a group retention incentive authorization and any employee who may receive a higher retention incentive as a result of an approved waiver of the maximum limit on the amount of a retention incentive under § 575.309(e), to sign a written service agreement to complete a specified period of employment with the agency (or successor agency in the event of a transfer of function). An authorized agency official must determine the length of a service period. A written service agreement is not required under the condition described in paragraph (f) of this section.


(b) The service agreement must include the commencement and termination dates of the required service period. The service period must begin on the first day of a pay period and end on the last day of a pay period.


(c) The service agreement must specify the retention incentive percentage rate established under § 575.309(a); whether the incentive will be paid in installments or in a lump-sum payment upon completion of the service period provided in the service agreement; whether any installment payments will be paid at less than the full retention incentive percentage rate established under § 575.309(a), with the accrued but unpaid incentive payment being paid in a lump sum upon completion of the full service period required by the service agreement under § 575.309(c)(2); and the timing of incentive payments.


(d) The service agreement must include the conditions under which the agency must terminate the service agreement before the employee completes the agreed-upon service period (*i.e.*, if an employee is demoted or separated for cause, receives a rating of record of less than “Fully Successful” or equivalent, or otherwise fails to fulfill the terms of the service agreement) under § 575.311. The service agreement must specify the effect of a termination, including the conditions under which the agency will pay an additional retention incentive payment for partially completed service under § 575.311(e) and (f).


(e) The service agreement may include any other terms or conditions that, if violated, will result in a termination of the service agreement under § 575.311(b). For example, the service agreement may specify the employee's work schedule, type of position, and the duties he or she is expected to perform. In addition, the service agreement may address the extent to which periods of time on detail, in a nonpay status, or in paid leave status are creditable towards the completion of the service period.


(f) A written service agreement is not required if the agency—


(1) Pays the retention incentive in biweekly installments; and


(2) Sets each biweekly installment payment at the full retention incentive percentage rate established for the employee under § 575.309(a).



---

[N] [70 FR 25747, May 13, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 74996, Dec. 19, 2005]




