# § 1.884-2   Special rules for termination or incorporation of a U.S. trade or business or liquidation or reorganization of a foreign corporation or its domestic subsidiary.

(a)-(a)(2)(i) [Reserved]. For further information, see § 1.884-2T(a) through (a)(2)(ii).


(a)(2)(ii) *Waiver of period of limitations.* The waiver referred to in § 1.884-2T(a)(2)(i)(D) shall be executed on Form 8848, or substitute form, and shall extend the period for assessment of the branch profits tax for the year of complete termination to a date not earlier than the close of the sixth taxable year following that taxable year. This form shall include such information as is required by the form and accompanying instructions. The waiver must be signed by the person authorized to sign the income tax returns for the foreign corporation (including an agent authorized to do so under a general or specific power of attorney). The waiver must be filed on or before the date (including extensions) prescribed for filing the foreign corporation's income tax return for the year of complete termination. With respect to a complete termination occurring in a taxable year ending prior to June 6, 1996 a foreign corporation may also satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) by applying § 1.884-2T(a)(2)(ii) of the temporary regulations (as contained in the CFR edition revised as of April 1, 1995). A properly executed Form 8848, substitute form, or other form of waiver authorized by this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) shall be deemed to be consented to and signed by a Service Center Director or the Assistant Commissioner (International) for purposes of § 301.6501(c)-1(d) of this chapter.


(a)(3)-(4) [Reserved]. For further information, see § 1.884-2T(a)(3) through (a)(4).


(a)(5) *Special rule if a foreign corporation terminates an interest in a trust.* A foreign corporation whose beneficial interest in a trust terminates (by disposition or otherwise) in any taxable year shall be subject to the branch profits tax on ECEP attributable to amounts (including distributions of accumulated income or gain) treated as ECI to such beneficiary in such taxable year notwithstanding any other provision of § 1.884-2T(a).


(b) through (c)(2)(ii) [Reserved]. For further information, see § 1.884-2T (b) through (c)(2)(ii).


(c)(2)(iii) *Waiver of period of limitations and transferee agreement.* In the case of a transferee that is a domestic corporation, the provisions of § 1.884-2T(c)(2)(i) shall not apply unless, as part of the section 381(a) transaction, the transferee executes a Form 2045 (Transferee Agreement) and a waiver of period of limitations as described in this paragraph (c)(2)(iii), and files both documents with its timely filed (including extensions) income tax return for the taxable year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs. The waiver shall be executed on Form 8848, or substitute form, and shall extend the period for assessment of any additional branch profits tax for the taxable year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs to a date not earlier than the close of the sixth taxable year following the taxable year in which such transaction occurs. This form shall include such information as is required by the form and accompanying instructions. The waiver must be signed by the person authorized to sign Form 2045. With respect to a complete termination occurring in a taxable year ending prior to June 6, 1996 a foreign corporation may also satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) by applying § 1.884-2T(c)(2)(iii) of the temporary regulations (as contained in the CFR edition revised as of April 1, 1995). A properly executed Form 8848, substitute form, or other form of waiver authorized by this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) shall be deemed to be consented to and signed by a Service Center Director or the Assistant Commissioner (International) for purposes of § 301.6501(c)-1(d) of this chapter.


(c)(3) through (c)(6)(i)(A) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.884-2T(c)(3) through (c)(6)(i)(A).


(B) Shareholders of the transferee (or of the transferee's parent in the case of a triangular reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(C) or a reorganization described in sections 368(a)(1)(A) and 368(a)(2)(D) or (E)) who in the aggregate owned more than 25 percent of the value of the stock of the transferor at any time within the 12-month period preceding the close of the year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of their stock or securities in the transferee at any time during a period of three years from the close of the taxable year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs.


(C) In the case of a triangular reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(C) or a reorganization described in sections 368(a)(1)(A) and 368(a)(2)(D) or (E), the transferee's parent sells, exchanges, or otherwise disposes of its stock or securities in the transferee at any time during a period of three years from the close of the taxable year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs.


(D) A corporation related to any such shareholder or the shareholder itself if it is a corporation (subsequent to an event described in paragraph (c)(6)(i)(A) or (B) of this section) or the transferee's parent (subsequent to an event described in paragraph (c)(6)(i)(C) of this section), uses, directly or indirectly, the proceeds or property received in such sale, exchange or disposition, or property attributable thereto, in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States at any time during a period of three years from the date of sale in the case of a disposition of stock in the transferor, or from the close of the taxable year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs in the case of a disposition of the stock or securities in the transferee (or the transferee's parent in the case of a triangular reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(C) or a reorganization described in sections 368(a)(1)(A) and (a)(2)(D) or (E)). Where this paragraph (c)(6)(i) applies, the transferor's branch profits tax liability for the taxable year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs shall be determined under § 1.884-1, taking into account all the adjustments in U.S. net equity that result from the transfer of U.S. assets and liabilities to the transferee pursuant to the section 381(a) transaction, without regard to any provisions in this paragraph (c). If an event described in paragraph (c)(6)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section occurs after the close of the taxable year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs, and if additional branch profits tax is required to be paid by reason of the application of this paragraph (c)(6)(i), then interest must be paid on that amount at the underpayment rates determined under section 6621(a)(2), with respect to the period between the date that was prescribed for filing the transferor's income tax return for the year in which the section 381(a) transaction occurs and the date on which the additional tax for that year is paid. Any such additional tax liability together with interest thereon shall be the liability of the transferee within the meaning of section 6901 pursuant to section 6901 and the regulations thereunder.


(c)(6)(ii)-(f) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.884-2T(c)(6)(ii) through (f).


(g) *Effective dates.* Paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section are effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986. Paragraph (a)(5) of this section is effective for taxable years beginning on or after June 6, 1996. Paragraphs (c)(6)(i)(B), (C), and (D), are applicable for tax years beginning after December 31, 1986, except that such paragraphs are applicable to transactions occurring on or after January 23, 2006, in the case of reorganizations described in sections 368(a)(1)(A) and 368(a)(2)(D) or (E).



---

[N] [T.D. 8657, 61 FR 9341, Mar. 8, 1996, as amended by T.D. 9243, 71 FR 4292, Jan. 26, 2006]




