# ยง 930.155   Federal and State agency coordination.

(a) Identifying activities subject to the consistency requirement. The provisions of this subpart are neither a substitute for nor eliminate the statutory requirement of federal consistency with the enforceable policies of management programs for all activities affecting any coastal use or resource. Federal agencies shall submit consistency determinations to relevant State agencies for activities having coastal effects, regardless of location, and regardless of whether the activity is listed. 


(b) *Notifying affected States.* Federal agencies, applicants or applicant agencies proposing activities listed for interstate consistency review, or determined by the Federal agency, applicant or applicant agency to have an effect on any coastal use or resource, shall notify each affected coastal State of the proposed activity. State agencies may also notify Federal agencies and applicants of listed and unlisted activities subject to State agency review and the requirements of this subpart. 


(c) *Notice of intent to review.* Within 30 days from receipt of the consistency determination or certification and necessary data and information, or within 30 days from receipt of notice of a listed federal assistance activity, each State intending to review an activity occurring in another State must notify the applicant or applicant agency (if any), the Federal agency, the State in which the activity will occur (either the State's management program, or if the State does not have a management program, the Governor's office), and the Director, of its intent to review the activity for consistency. The State's notice to the parties must be received by the 30th day after receipt of the consistency determination or certification. If a State fails, within the 30 days, to notify the applicant or applicant agency (if any), the Federal agency, the State in which the activity will occur, and the Director, of its intent to review the activity, then the State waives its right to review the activity for consistency. The waiver does not apply where the State intending to review the activity does not receive notice of the activity.




