# ยง 98.296   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as appropriate for each soda ash manufacturing facility.


(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required under ยง 98.36 and the following information in this paragraph (a):


(1) Annual consumption of trona or liquid alkaline feedstock for each manufacturing line (tons).


(2) Annual production of soda ash for each manufacturing line (tons).


(3) Annual production capacity of soda ash for each manufacturing line (tons).


(4) Identification number of each manufacturing line.


(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report the information listed in this paragraph (b):


(1) Identification number of each manufacturing line.


(2) Annual process CO_2_ emissions from each soda ash manufacturing line (metric tons).


(3) Annual production of soda ash for each manufacturing line (tons).


(4) Annual production capacity of soda ash for each manufacturing line (tons).


(5)-(7) [Reserved]


(8) Whether CO_2_ emissions for each manufacturing line were calculated using a trona input method as described in Equation CC-1 of this subpart, a soda ash output method as described in Equation CC-2 of this subpart, or a site-specific emission factor method as described in Equations CC-3 through CC-5 of this subpart.


(9) Number of manufacturing lines located used to produce soda ash.


(10) If you produce soda ash using the liquid alkaline feedstock process and use the site-specific emission factor method (ยง 98.293(b)(3)) to estimate emissions then you must report the following relevant information for each manufacturing line or stack:


(i) Stack gas volumetric flow rate during performance test (dscfm).


(ii) Hourly CO_2_ concentration during performance test (percent CO_2_).


(iii) CO_2_ emission factor (metric tons CO_2_/metric tons of process vent flow from mine water stripper/evaporator).


(iv) CO_2_ mass emission rate during performance test (metric tons/hour).


(v) Average process vent flow from mine water stripper/evaporator during performance test (pounds/hour).


(vi) Annual process vent flow rate from mine water stripper/evaporator (thousand pounds/hour).


(11) Number of times missing data procedures were used and for which parameter as specified in this paragraph (b)(11):


(i) Trona or soda ash (number of months).


(ii) Inorganic carbon contents of trona or soda ash (weeks).


(iii) Process vent flow rate from mine water stripper/evaporator (number of months).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66469, Oct. 28, 2010; 79 FR 63798, Oct. 24, 2014]




