# ยง 134.228   Review of initial decisions.

(a) *Request for review.* Within 30 days after the service of an initial decision or a reconsidered initial decision of a Judge, any party, or SBA's Office of General Counsel, may file and serve a request for review by the Administrator. A request for review must set forth the filing party's specific objections to the initial decision, and any alleged support for those objections in the record, or in case law, statute, regulation, or SBA policy. A party must serve its request for review upon all other parties and upon SBA's Office of General Counsel. 


(b) *Response.* Within 20 days after the service of a request for review, any party, or SBA's Office of General Counsel, may file and serve a response. A party must serve its response upon all other parties and upon SBA's Office of General Counsel. 


(c) *Transfer of the record.* Upon receipt of all responses, or 30 days after the filing of a request for review, whichever is earlier, OHA will transfer the record of the case to the Administrator. The Administrator, or his or her designee, will then review the record. 


(d) *Standard of review.* Upon review, the Administrator, or his or her designee, will sustain the initial decision unless it is based on an erroneous finding of fact or an erroneous interpretation or application of case law, statute, regulation, or SBA policy. 


(e) *Order.* The Administrator, or his or her designee, will: 


(1) Affirm, reverse, or modify the initial decision, which determination will become the final decision of the SBA upon issuance; or 


(2) Remand the initial decision to the Judge for appropriate further proceedings. 



---

[N] [61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47249, July 18, 2002]




