# § 2.304   Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Safe Drinking Water Act.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


(1) *Act* means the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f *et seq.*

(2) *Contaminant* means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water.


(3) *Proceeding* means any rulemaking, adjudication, or licensing process conducted by EPA under the Act or under regulations which implement the Act, except for any determination under this part.


(b) *Applicability.* (1) This section applies only to information—


(i) Which was provided to or obtained by EPA pursuant to a requirement of a regulation which was issued by EPA under the Act for the purpose of—


(A) Assisting the Administrator in establishing regulations under the Act;


(B) Determining whether the person providing the information has acted or is acting in compliance with the Act; or


(C) Administering any program of financial assistance under the Act; and


(ii) Which was provided by a person—


(A) Who is a supplier of water, as defined in section 1401(5) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 300f(5);


(B) Who is or may be subject to a primary drinking water regulation under section 1412 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 300g-1;


(C) Who is or may be subject to an applicable underground injection control program, as defined in section 1422(d) of the Act, 42 U.S.C.300h-1(d);


(D) Who is or may be subject to the permit requirements of section 1424(b) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 300h-3(b);


(E) Who is or may be subject to an order issued under section 1441(c) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 300j(c); or


(F) Who is a grantee, as defined in section 1445(e) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 300j-4(e).


(2) This section applies to any information which is described by paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it was provided in response to a request by EPA or its authorized representative (or by a State agency administering any program under the Act) made for any purpose stated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or if its submission could have been required under section 1445 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 300j-4, regardless of whether such section was cited in any request for the information, or whether the information was provided directly to EPA or through some third person.


(c) *Basic rules which apply without change.* Sections 2.201 through 2.207, 2.209, and 2.211 through 2.215 apply without change to information to which this section applies.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Substantive criteria for use in confidentiality determinations.* Section 2.208 applies to information to which this section applies, except that information which deals with the existence, absence, or level of contaminants in drinking water is not eligible for confidential treatment. No information to which this section applies is voluntarily submitted information.


(f) *Nondisclosure for reasons other than business confidentiality or where disclosure is prohibited by other statute.* Section 2.210 applies to information to which this section applies, except that information which deals with the existence, absence, or level of contaminants in drinking water shall be available to the public notwithstanding any other provision of this part.


(g) *Disclosure of information relevant to a proceeding.* (1) Under section 1445(d) of the Act, any information to which this section applies may be released by EPA because of the relevance of the information to a proceeding, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Release of information to which this section applies because of its relevance to a proceeding shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (g).


(2)-(4) The provisions of § 2.301(g) (2), (3), (4) are incorporated by reference as paragraphs (g) (2), (3), and (4), respectively, of this section.


(h) *Disclosure to authorized representatives.* (1) Under section 1445(d) of the Act, EPA possesses authority to disclose to any authorized representative of the United States any information to which this section applies, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Such authority may be exercised only in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) or (h)(3) of this section.


(2)-(3) The provisions of § 2.301(h) (2) and (3) are incorporated by reference as paragraphs (h) (2) and (3), respectively, of this section.



---

[N] [41 FR 36902, Sept. 1, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 40003, Sept. 8, 1978]




