# § 210.5   Adjustment to permanent resident status.

(a) *Eligibility and date of adjustment to permanent resident status.* The status of an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for temporary residence under section 210(a)(1) of the Act, if the alien has otherwise maintained such status as required by the Act, shall be adjusted to that of an alien lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence as of the following dates: 


(1) *Group 1.* Aliens determined to be eligible for Group 1 classification, whose adjustment to temporary residence occurred prior to November 30, 1988, shall be adjusted to lawful permanent residence as of December 1, 1989. Those aliens whose adjustment to temporary residence occurred after November 30, 1988 shall be adjusted to lawful permanent residence one year from the date of the adjustment to temporary residence. 


(2) *Group 2.* Aliens determined to be eligible for Group 2 classification whose adjustment to temporary residence occurred prior to November 30, 1988, shall be adjusted to lawful permanent residence as of December 1, 1990. Those aliens whose adjustment to temporary residence occurred after November 30, 1988 shall be adjusted to lawful permanent residence two years from the date of the adjustment to temporary residence. 


(b) *ADIT processing*—(1) *General.* To obtain proof of permanent resident status an alien described in paragraph (a) of this section must appear at a legalization or Service office designated for this purpose for preparation of Form I-551, Permanent Resident Card. Such appearance may be prior to the date of adjustment, but only upon invitation by the Service. Form I-551 shall be issued subsequent to the date of adjustment.


(2) Upon appearance at a Service office for preparation of Form I-551, an alien must present proof of identity, suitable ADIT photographs, and a fingerprint and signature must be obtained from the alien on Form I-89.



---

[N] [53 FR 10064, Mar. 29, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 50339, Dec. 6, 1989; 63 FR 70315, Dec. 21, 1998]




