# § 500.28   Variety packages.

(a) A variety package is a package intended for retail sale, containing two or more individual packages or units of similar but not identical commodities. Commodities which are generically the same but which differ in weight or mass, measure, volume, appearance or quality are considered similar but not identical. The declaration of net quantity for a variety package will be expressed as follows:


(1) The number of units for each identical commodity followed by the weight or mass, volume, or measure of that commodity: and


(2) The total quantity by weight or mass, volume, measure, and count, as appropriate, of the variety package. The statement of total quantity shall appear as the last item in the declaration of net quantity and shall not be of greater prominence than other terms used.


(i) “2 sponges 4
1/2 ins. × 4 ins. × 
3/4 in. (11.4 cm × 10.1 cm × 1.9 cm); 1 sponge 4
1/2 ins. × 8 ins. × 
3/4 in. (11.4 cm × 20.3 cm × 1.9 cm); 4 sponges 2
1/2 ins. × 4 ins. × 
1/2 in. (6.3 cm × 10.1 cm × 1.2 cm)


(ii) “2 soap bars Net Wt. 3.2 ozs. (90 g) each; 1 soap bar Net Wt. 5.0 ozs. (141 g).


(iii) Liquid Shoe Polish: “1 Brown 3 fl. ozs. (88 mL); 1 Black 3 fl. ozs. (88 mL); 1 White 5 fl. ozs. (147 mL).


(iv) Picnic Ware: “34 spoons; 33 forks; 33 knives.


(b) When the individual units in a variety package are either packaged or labeled and are intended for retail sale as individual units, each unit shall be labeled in compliance with the applicable regulations under this part 500.




