# § 4041.51   Disclosure of information by plan administrator in distress termination.

(a) *Request for Information*—(1) *In general.* If a notice of intent to terminate under § 4041.43 is issued with respect to a plan, an affected party may make a request to the plan administrator for information submitted to PBGC under sections 4041(a)(2) and 4041(c)(2) of ERISA and §§ 4041.43 and 4041.45.


(2) *Requirements.* A request under paragraph (a) of this section must:


(i) Be in writing to the plan administrator;


(ii) State the name of the plan and that the request is for information submitted to PBGC with respect to the application for a distress termination of the plan;


(iii) State the name of the person making the request for information and such person's relationship to the plan (e.g., plan participant), and that such relationship meets the definition of affected party under § 4001.2 of this chapter; and


(iv) Be signed by the person making the request.


(b) *Response by Plan Administrator*—(1) *Information.* The information that a plan administrator must provide in response to a request under paragraph (a) of this section includes PBGC Form 600, and any information submitted to PBGC pursuant to section 4041(c)(2) of ERISA and § 4041.45.


(2) *Timing of response.* A plan administrator that receives a request under paragraph (a) of this section must provide the information requested not later than the 15th business day (as defined in § 4000.22 of this chapter) after receipt of the request.


(3) *Deferral of due date.* If, at the time the plan administrator receives a request under paragraph (a) of this section, the plan administrator has not filed a PBGC Form 600, the plan administrator must provide the information requested under paragraph (a) not later than the 15th business day (as defined in § 4000.22 of this chapter) after a PBGC Form 600 is filed with PBGC.


(4) *Supplemental responses.* If, at any time after the later of the receipt of a request under paragraph (a) of this section, or the filing of PBGC Form 600, the plan administrator submits additional information to PBGC with respect to the plan termination under section 4041(c)(2) of ERISA and § 4041.45, the plan administrator must, not later than the 15th business day (as defined in § 4000.22 of this chapter) after each additional submission, provide the additional information to any affected party that has made a request under paragraph (a) of this section.


(5) *Confidential information.* (i) In responding to a request under paragraph (a) of this section, the plan administrator shall not provide information that may, directly or indirectly, identify an individual participant or beneficiary of the plan.


(ii) A plan administrator that has received a request under paragraph (a) of this section may seek a court order under which confidential information described in section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code—


(A) Will be disclosed only to authorized representatives (within the meaning of section 4041(c)(2)(D)(iv) of ERISA) that agree to ensure the confidentiality of such information, and,


(B) Will not be disclosed to other affected parties.


(6) *Reasonable fees.* Under section 4041(c)(2)(D)(iii)(II) of ERISA, a plan administrator may charge a reasonable fee for any information provided under this section in other than electronic form.



---

[N] [73 FR 68337, Nov. 18, 2008]




