# § 2641.207   One-year restriction on any former private sector assignee under the Information Technology Exchange Program representing, aiding, counseling or assisting in representing in connection with any contract with former agency.

(a) *Basic prohibition of 18 U.S.C. 207(l).* For one year after the termination of his assignment from a private sector organization to an agency under the Information Technology Exchange Program, 5 U.S.C. chapter 37, no former assignee shall knowingly represent, or aid, counsel or assist in representing any other person in connection with any contract with that agency.


(b) *Exceptions and waivers.* The prohibition of 18 U.S.C. 207(l) does not apply to a former employee who is:


(1) Acting on behalf of the United States. *See* § 2641.301(a).


(2) Acting as an elected State or local government official. *See* § 2641.301(b).


(3) Testifying under oath. *See* § 2641.301(f).


(4) Acting on behalf of an international organization pursuant to a waiver. *See* § 2641.301(h).


(5) Acting as an employee of a Government-owned, contractor-operated entity pursuant to a waiver. *See* § 2641.301(i).


(c) *Commencement and length of restriction.*18 U.S.C. 207(l) is a one-year restriction. The one-year period is measured from the date when the individual's assignment under the Information Technology Exchange Program terminates.


(d) *Represent, aid, counsel, or assist in representing.* [Reserved]


(e) *In connection with any contract with the former agency.* [Reserved]




