# ยง 200.194   Placement of nonprofit organization on Nonprofit Organization Roster.

(a) *Nonprofit Organization Roster.* HUD maintains a roster of nonprofit organizations that are qualified to participate in certain specified FHA activities. In order to be recognized as a nonprofit organization for purposes of single family regulations in this chapter, an organization must: 


(1) Be included in the Roster; and 


(2) Comply with any requirements stated in a specific applicable provision of the single family regulations in this chapter. 


(b) *Application.* To be included in the Roster, a nonprofit organization must apply to HUD using an application (or materials) in a form prescribed by HUD (which may require an affordable housing program narrative for the activities the nonprofit organization proposes to carry out). The nonprofit organization must specify in its application the FHA activities it proposes to carry out. 


(c) *HUD response to application.* HUD's review of the application will result in one of the following: 


(1) Approval of the nonprofit organization to participate in all, or some, of the FHA activities specified in its application and the addition of the nonprofit organization to the Roster. 


(2) Rejection due to deficiencies in the application. HUD will provide the nonprofit organization with a period to correct these deficiencies. 


(3) Rejection due to the nonprofit organization's failure to submit a program that complies with applicable single family regulations in this chapter, Mortgagee Letters, or other standards or instructions issued by HUD. 


(d) *Reapplication after two years.* The placement of a nonprofit organization on the Roster expires after two years. The nonprofit organization must reapply for placement on the Roster, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, before expiration of the two-year period. 



---

[N] [67 FR 39239, June 6, 2002]




