# § 943.148   What procurement standards apply to PHAs selecting partners for a joint venture?

(a) The requirements of part 85 of this title are applicable to this part, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, in connection with the PHA's public housing program. 


(b) A PHA may use competitive proposal procedures for qualifications-based procurement (request for qualifications or “RFQ”), or may solicit a proposal from only one source (“sole source”) to select a joint venture partner to perform an administrative or management function of its public housing program or to provide or arrange to provide supportive or social services covered under this part, under the following circumstances: 


(1) The proposed joint venture partner has under its control and will make available to the partnership substantial, unique and tangible resources or other benefits that would not otherwise be available to the PHA on the open market (*e.g.,* planning expertise, program experience, or financial or other resources). In this case, the PHA must maintain documentation to substantiate both the cost reasonableness of its selection of the proposed partner and the unique qualifications of the partner: or 


(2) A resident group or a PHA subsidiary is willing and able to act as the PHA's partner in performing administrative and management functions or to provide supportive or social services. This entity must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 (if the entity is a nonprofit or a State or local government) with respect to its selection of the members of the team and the members must be paid on a cost-reimbursement basis only. The PHA must maintain documentation that indicates both the cost reasonableness of its selection of a resident group or PHA subsidiary and the ability of that group or subsidiary to act as the PHA's partner under this provision. 



---

[N] [65 FR 71207, Nov. 29, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]




