# § 1.1092(c)-1   Qualified covered calls.

(a) *In general.* Section 1092(c) defines a straddle as offsetting positions with respect to personal property. Under section 1092(d)(3)(B)(i)(I), stock is personal property if the stock is part of a straddle that involves an option on that stock or substantially identical stock or securities. Under section 1092(c)(4), however, writing a qualified covered call option and owning the optioned stock is not treated as a straddle under section 1092 if certain conditions, described in section 1092(c)(4)(B), are satisfied. Section 1092(c)(4)(H) authorizes the Secretary to modify these conditions to carry out the purposes of section 1092(c)(4) in light of changes in the marketplace. 


(b) *Term limitation*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an option is not a qualified covered call unless it is granted not more than 12 months before the day on which the option expires or satisfies term limitation and qualified benchmark requirements established by the Commissioner in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (*see* § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter).


(2) *Special benchmark rule for an option granted not more than 33 months before the day on which the option expires*—(i) *In general.* The 12-month limitation described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is extended to 33 months provided the lowest qualified benchmark is determined using the adjusted applicable stock price, as defined in § 1.1092(c)-4(e). 


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules set out in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section: 


(c) *Effective date.* This section applies to qualified covered call options entered into on or after July 29, 2002.



---

[N] [67 FR 20899, Apr. 29, 2002]




