# § 227.209   Railroad's program of instruction on EEBAs.

(a) *General.* (1) A railroad shall adopt and comply with its written program of instruction on EEBAs for all of its employees in its general EEBA program under § 227.211 (subject employees). The program of instruction shall be maintained at the railroad's system headquarters and shall be amended, as necessary, to reflect any significant changes.


(2) This program may be integrated with the railroad's program of instruction on operating rules under § 217.11 of this chapter or its program of instruction for hazmat employees under § 172.704 of this title. If the program is not integrated with either of these programs, it must be written in a separate document that is available for inspection by FRA.


(b) *Subject matter.* The railroad's program of instruction shall require that the subject employees demonstrate knowledge of at least the following:


(1) Why the EEBA is necessary and how improper fit, usage, or maintenance can compromise the protective effect of the EEBA.


(2) The capabilities and limitations of the EEBA, particularly the limited time for use.


(3) How to use the EEBA effectively in emergency situations, including situations in which the EEBA malfunctions.


(4) How to inspect, put on, remove, and use the EEBA, and how to check the seals of the EEBA.


(5) Procedures for maintenance and storage of the EEBA that must be followed.


(6) The requirements of this subpart related to the responsibilities of employees and the rights of employees to have access to records.


(7) The hazardous materials classified as PIH materials.


(c) *Dates of initial instruction and intervals for periodic instruction.* (1) The instruction for current subject employees shall be provided on an initial basis no later than 30 days prior to the date of compliance identified in § 227.217. Initial instruction of new subject employees shall occur either 30 days prior to the date of compliance identified in § 227.217 or before assignment to jobs where the deployment of EEBAs on a locomotive is required, whichever is later.


(2) Initial instruction shall be supplemented with periodic instruction at least once every three years.


(d) *Records of instruction.* A railroad shall maintain a record of employees provided instruction in compliance with this section and retain these records for three years.






