# ยง 2.34   Bases for filing a trademark or service mark application.

(a) An application for a trademark or service mark must include one or more of the following five filing bases:


(1) *Use in commerce under section 1(a) of the Act.* The requirements for an application under section 1(a) of the Act are:


(i) The applicant's verified statement that the mark is in use in commerce. If the verified statement is not filed with the initial application, the verified statement must also allege that the mark was in use in commerce as of the application filing date;


(ii) The date of the applicant's first use of the mark anywhere on or in connection with the goods or services;


(iii) The date of the applicant's first use of the mark in commerce;


(iv) One specimen showing how the applicant uses the mark in commerce; and


(v) If the application specifies more than one item of goods or services in a class, the dates of use in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section are required for only one item of goods or services specified in that class.


(2) *Intent-to-use under section 1(b) of the Act.* In an application under section 1(b) of the Act, the applicant must verify that the applicant has a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce. If the verified statement is not filed with the initial application, the verified statement must also allege that the applicant had a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce as of the application filing date.


(3) *Registration of a mark in a foreign applicant's country of origin under section 44(e) of the Act.* The requirements for an application under section 44(e) of the Act are:


(i) The applicant's verified statement that the applicant has a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce. If the verified statement is not filed with the initial application, the Office will require submission of the verified statement, which must also allege that the applicant had a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce as of the application filing date.


(ii) A true copy, a photocopy, a certification, or a certified copy of a registration in the applicant's country of origin showing that the mark has been registered in that country, and that the registration is in full force and effect. The certification or copy of the foreign registration must show the name of the owner, the mark, and the goods or services for which the mark is registered. If the foreign registration is not in the English language, the applicant must submit a translation.


(iii) If the record indicates that the foreign registration will expire before the U.S. registration will issue, the applicant must submit a true copy, a photocopy, a certification, or a certified copy of a proof of renewal from the applicant's country of origin to establish that the foreign registration has been renewed and will be in full force and effect at the time the U.S. registration will issue. If the proof of renewal is not in the English language, the applicant must submit a translation.


(4) *Claim of priority, based upon an earlier-filed foreign application, under section 44(d) of the Act.* The requirements for an application under section 44(d) of the Act are:


(i) A claim of priority, filed within six months of the filing date of the foreign application. Before publication or registration on the Supplemental Register, the applicant must either:


(A) Specify the filing date, serial number and country of the first regularly filed foreign application; or


(B) State that the application is based upon a subsequent regularly filed application in the same foreign country, and that any prior-filed application has been withdrawn, abandoned, or otherwise disposed of, without having been laid open to public inspection and without having any rights outstanding, and has not served as a basis for claiming a right of priority.


(ii) The applicant's verified statement that the applicant has a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce. If the verified statement is not filed with the initial application, the Office will require submission of the verified statement, which must also allege that the applicant had a bona fide intention to use the mark in commerce as of the application filing date.


(iii) Before the application can be approved for publication, or for registration on the Supplemental Register, the applicant must establish a basis under section 1 or 44 of the Act.


(5) *Extension of protection of an international registration under section 66(a) of the Act.* In an application under section 66(a) of the Act, the international application/subsequent designation must contain a signed declaration that meets the requirements of ยง 2.33(a), (e).


(b) *More than one basis.* In an application under section 1 or 44 of the Act, an applicant may claim more than one basis, provided the applicant satisfies all requirements for the bases claimed. In such case, the applicant must specify each basis and the goods or services to which that basis applies. An applicant must specify the goods or services covered by more than one basis. Section 1(a) and 1(b) of the Act may not both be claimed for identical goods or services in the same application. A basis under section 66(a) of the Act may not be combined with another basis.



---

[N] [64 FR 48919, Sept. 8, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 79522, Dec. 30, 2002; 68 FR 55763, Sept. 26, 2003; 73 FR 67768, Nov. 17, 2008; 77 FR 30207, May 22, 2012; 80 FR 33179, June 11, 2015]




