# § 197.5   Responsibilities.

(a) The Director of Administration (DA), Office of the Deputy Chief Management Officer (ODCMO), or designee is the approval authority for access to DoD information in OSD Component files and in files at the National Archives, Presidential libraries, and other similar institutions in accordance with DoD Directive 5110.4 and DoD Manual 5230.30.


(b) *OSD Records Administrator.* Under the authority, direction, and control of the DA, ODCMO, the OSD Records Administrator:


(1) Exercises approval authority for research access to OSD and WHS Serviced Components records, information, and the Historical Research Program.


(2) Maintains records necessary to process and monitor each case.


(3) Obtains all required authorizations.


(4) Obtains, when warranted, the legal opinion of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense regarding the requested access.


(5) Coordinates, with the originator, on the public release review on documents selected by the researchers for use in unclassified projects in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.09 and DoD Instruction 5230.29, “Security and Policy Review of DoD Information for Public Release” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/523029p.pdf*).


(6) Coordinates requests with the OSD Historian.


(7) Provides prospective researchers the procedures necessary for requesting access to OSD Component files.


(c) The WHS-serviced Components heads, when requested:


(1) Determine whether access is for a lawful and authorized government purpose or in the interest of national security.


(2) Determine whether the specific records requested are within the scope of the proposed historical research.


(3) Determine the location of the requested records.


(4) Provide a point of contact to the OSD Records Administrator.




