# § 5001.402   Term length, loan schedule, and repayment.

(a) *Term length.* The lender, with Agency concurrence, will establish and justify the guaranteed loan term based on the use of guaranteed loan funds, the useful economic life of the assets being financed and those used as collateral, and the borrower's repayment ability. The maximum term allowable for final guaranteed loan maturity is limited to the justified useful life of the project or assets used as collateral but may not exceed 40 years or limitations in the applicable State statute, whichever is less.


(b) *Guaranteed loan schedule and repayment.* The lender must structure repayment in consideration of the borrower's cash flow and in accordance with the provisions of this section and the loan agreement. Scheduled guaranteed loan payments shall be made no less frequently than annually. In addition:


(1) Both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan must be amortized over the same term.


(2) Guaranteed loans must require a periodic payment schedule that will retire the debt over the term of the loan without a balloon payment. Balloon maturities are not allowed, unless required as a loan servicing action. Payments must be amortized to maximize successful loan repayment and may vary by type of business or cash flow.




(3) If the promissory note provides for an interest-only period, interest must be paid at least annually starting on a date that is no more than one year from the date of the promissory note. Scheduling of the first payment of principal and interest will be subject to consideration of whether the facility is operational and generates adequate income. However, the scheduling of the first full principal and interest payment must commence not more than 3 years from the date of the promissory note and be paid at least annually thereafter.




(4) There must be no “due-on-demand” clauses without cause. Regardless of any “due-on-demand” with cause provision in a lender's promissory note, the Agency must concur in any acceleration of the guaranteed loan unless the basis for acceleration is monetary default.



---

[N] [86 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79725, Sept. 30, 2024]










