# § 455.2   Definitions.

As used in this part unless the context indicates otherwise—


*Abuse* means provider practices that are inconsistent with sound fiscal, business, or medical practices, and result in an unnecessary cost to the Medicaid program, or in reimbursement for services that are not medically necessary or that fail to meet professionally recognized standards for health care. It also includes beneficiary practices that result in unnecessary cost to the Medicaid program.


*Conviction* or *Convicted* means that a judgment of conviction has been entered by a Federal, State, or local court, regardless of whether an appeal from that judgment is pending.


*Credible allegation of fraud.* A credible allegation of fraud may be an allegation, which has been verified by the State, from any source, including but not limited to the following:


(1) Fraud hotline tips verified by further evidence.


(2) Claims data mining.


(3) Patterns identified through provider audits, civil false claims cases, and law enforcement investigations. Allegations are considered to be credible when they have indicia of reliability and the State Medicaid agency has reviewed all allegations, facts, and evidence carefully and acts judiciously on a case-by-case basis.


*Exclusion* means that items or services furnished by a specific provider who has defrauded or abused the Medicaid program will not be reimbursed under Medicaid.


*Fraud* means an intentional deception or misrepresentation made by a person with the knowledge that the deception could result in some unauthorized benefit to himself or some other person. It includes any act that constitutes fraud under applicable Federal or State law.


*Fraud hotline tip.* A fraud hotline tip is a complaint or other communications that are submitted through a fraud reporting phone number or a website intended for the same purpose, such as the Federal Government's HHS OIG Hotline or a health plan's fraud hotline.


*Furnished* refers to items and services provided directly by, or under the direct supervision of, or ordered by, a practitioner or other individual (either as an employee or in his or her own capacity), a provider, or other supplier of services. (For purposes of denial of reimbursement within this part, it does not refer to services ordered by one party but billed for and provided by or under the supervision of another.)


*Practitioner* means a physician or other individual licensed under State law to practice his or her profession.


*Suspension* means that items or services furnished by a specified provider who has been convicted of a program-related offense in a Federal, State, or local court will not be reimbursed under Medicaid.



---

[N] [48 FR 3755, Jan. 27, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 37375, Sept. 13, 1985; 51 FR 34788, Sept. 30, 1986; 76 FR 5965, Feb. 2, 2011; 86 FR 6131, Jan. 19, 2021]




