# § 3280.213   Factory constructed or site-built attached carports.

(a) When a manufactured home is designed for factory construction with an attached carport or is designed for construction of an attached site-built carport, the manufacturer must design the manufactured home to accommodate all appropriate live and dead loads from the attached carport structure that will be transferred through the manufactured home structure to the home's support and anchoring systems.


(b) The design, including the home's installation instructions, must specify the following home and carport characteristics including maximum width, maximum sidewall height, live and dead loads, and other design limitations or restrictions.


(1) Alternatively, the manufacturer may provide, by design and home installation instructions, the maximum live and dead loads, and the applied loading locations, that the home is designed to resist from the carport, and other design limitations or restrictions.


(2) [Reserved].


(c) Homes may be designed with a factory-installed host beam (*i.e.,* ledger board) or specific roof truss rail for the attachment of the carport to the exterior wall of the home. The host beam (*i.e.,* ledger board) must be designed to transmit the appropriate live and dead loads at the interface between the carport and the manufactured home. In cases where the carport is designed to be supported by the roof truss overhang, the roof trusses must be designed to support the additional live and dead loads from the carport.


(1) Any portion of the host beam (*i.e.,* ledger board) and all fasteners exposed to the weather shall be protected in accordance with § 3280.307.


(2) [Reserved].


(d) To ensure that the attachment of the carport does not interfere with roof or attic ventilation, the manufacturer must provide specific instructions to ensure continued compliance with the manufactured home roof or attic ventilation requirements in accordance with § 3280.504(d).


(e) Installation instructions shall be provided by the home manufacturer that identify acceptable attachment locations, indicate design limitations for the attachment of the carport including acceptable live and dead loads for which the home has been designed to accommodate, and provide support and anchorage designs as necessary to transfer all imposed loads to the ground in accordance with §§ 3285.301 and 3285.401 of this chapter.


(1) The manufacturer must ensure that any anchoring system designs incorporating anchorage to resist combined shear wall and carport uplift loads are evaluated for adequacy to resist the combined loads, taking into consideration the limitations of the ground anchor test and certification.


(2) [Reserved].


(f) A site-built, self-supported carport is considered an add-on, as provided by § 3282.8(j)(1), that does not affect the ability of the manufactured home to comply with the standards. The design and construction of the carport is subject to state and or local authorities having jurisdiction.





---

[N] [86 FR 2519, Jan. 12, 2021]






