# ยง 107.900   Management fees for services provided to a Small Business by Licensee or its Associate.

This ยง 107.900 applies to management services that you or your Associate provide to a Small Business during the term of a Financing or prior to Financing. It does not apply to management services that you or your Associate provide to a Small Business that you do not finance. Fees permitted under this section are not included in the Cost of Money (see ยง 107.855). 


(a) *Permitted management fees.* You or your Associate may provide management services to a Small Business financed by you if: 


(1) You or your Associate have entered into a written contract with the Small Business; 


(2) The fees charged are for services actually performed; 


(3) Services are provided on an hourly fee, project fee, or other reasonable basis; and 


(4) You can demonstrate to SBA, upon request, that the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate charged for comparable services by other organizations in the geographic area of the Small Business. 


(b) *Fees for service as a board member.* You or your Associate may receive fees in the form of cash, warrants, or other payments, for services provided as members of the board of directors of a Small Businesses Financed by you. The fees must not exceed those paid to other outside board members. In the absence of such board members, fees must be reasonable when compared with amounts paid to outside directors of similar companies. 


(c) *SBA approval required.* You must obtain SBA's prior written approval of any management contract that does not satisfy paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. 


(d) *Recordkeeping requirements.* You must keep a record of hours spent and amounts charged to the Small Business, including expenses charged. 


(e) *Transaction fees.* (1) You may charge reasonable transaction fees for work you or your Associate perform to prepare a client for a public offering, private offering, or sale of all or part of the business, and for assisting with the transaction. Compensation may be in the form of cash, notes, stock, and/or options. 


(2) Your Associate may charge market rate investment banking fees to a Small Business on that portion of a Financing that you do not provide. 




