# § 52.1678   Control strategy and regulations: Particulate matter.

(a)-(c) [Reserved]


(d) Section 227.3(a)(2) of 6 NYCRR, as submitted on August 10, 1979, is disapproved because it is inconsistent with 40 CFR Subpart G, Control strategy: Sulfur oxides and particulate matter.


(e) Determination of Attainment. EPA has determined, as of December 15, 2010, that the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably control available measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(f) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of December 31, 2012, that the New York-N. New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably control available measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(g) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of December 2 2013, that the New York County fine particle (PM_10_) nonattainment area has attained the PM_10_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, reasonable further progress plans, and contingency measures for as long as the area continues to attain the PM_10_ NAAQS.


(h) Approval—The maintenance plan submitted on June 27, 2013, and supplemented on September 18, 2013 and February 27, 2014, for the 1997 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard and the 2006 PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standard for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has been approved.


(1) The maintenance plan establishes 2009 motor vehicle emission budget for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budget is allocated as follows: 5,516.75 tons per year for PM_2.5_ and 106,020.09 tons per year for NO_X_.


(2) The maintenance plan establishes 2017 motor vehicle emission budget for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budget is allocated as follows: 3,897.71 tons per year for PM_2.5_ and 68,362.66 tons per year for NO_X_.


(3) The maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emission budget for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The budget is allocated as follows: 3,291.09 tons per year for PM_2.5_ and 51,260.81 tons per year for NO_X_.


(i) Approval—The 2007 attainment year emissions inventory for the New York portion of the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-CT, PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. This inventory satisfies the comprehensive emission inventory requirements of section 172(c)(3).


(j) Approval—The 2007 base year inventory for PM_10_ to establish a PM_10_ emissions inventory for New York County.



---

[N] [46 FR 55693, Nov. 12, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 40676, Nov. 7, 1986; 75 FR 69591, Nov. 15, 2010; 77 FR 76871, Dec. 31, 2012; 78 FR 72033, Dec. 2, 2013; 79 FR 21860, Apr. 18, 2014]




