# § 75.560   General indirect cost rates and cost allocation plans; exceptions.

(a) The differences between direct and indirect costs and the principles for determining the general indirect cost rate that a grantee may use for grants under most programs are specified in the cost principles for—


(1) All grantees, other than hospitals and commercial (for-profit) organizations, at 2 CFR part 200, subpart E;


(2) Hospitals, at 45 CFR part 75, appendix XI; and


(3) Commercial (for-profit) organizations, at 48 CFR part 31.


(b) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, a grantee must have obtained a current indirect cost rate agreement or approved cost allocation plan from its cognizant agency, to charge indirect costs to a grant. To obtain a negotiated indirect cost rate agreement or approved cost allocation plan, a grantee must submit an indirect cost rate proposal or cost allocation plan to its cognizant agency within 90 days after the date on which the Department issues the Grant Award Notification (GAN).


(c) A grantee that meets the requirements in 2 CFR 200.414(f) may elect to charge the *de minimis* rate of modified total direct costs (MTDC) specified in that provision, which may be used indefinitely. The *de minimis* rate may not be used on programs that have statutory or regulatory restrictions on the indirect cost rate. No documentation is required to justify the *de minimis* rate.


(1) If the grantee has established a threshold for equipment that is lower than the amount specified in the Uniform Guidance, the grantee must use that threshold to exclude equipment from the MTDC base.


(2) For purposes of the MTDC base and application of the *de minimis* rate, MTDC includes up to the amount specified in the definition of MTDC in the Uniform Guidance of each subaward, each year.


(d) If a grantee is required to, but does not, have a federally recognized indirect cost rate agreement or approved cost allocation plan, the Secretary may permit the grantee to charge its grant for indirect costs at a temporary rate of 10 percent of budgeted direct salaries and wages.


(e)(1) If a grantee fails to submit an indirect cost rate proposal or cost allocation plan to its cognizant agency within the required 90 days, the grantee may not charge indirect costs to its grant from the end of the 90-day period until it obtains a federally recognized indirect cost rate agreement applicable to the grant.


(2) If the Secretary determines that exceptional circumstances warrant continuation of a temporary indirect cost rate, the Secretary may authorize the grantee to continue charging indirect costs to its grant at the temporary rate specified in paragraph (d) of this section even though the grantee has not submitted its indirect cost rate proposal within the 90-day period.


(3) Once a grantee obtains a federally recognized indirect cost rate that is applicable to the affected grant, the grantee may use that indirect cost rate to claim indirect cost reimbursement for expenditures made on or after the date on which the grantee submitted its indirect cost proposal to its cognizant agency or the start of the project period, whichever is later. However, this authority is subject to the following limitations:


(i) The total amount of funds recovered by the grantee under the federally recognized indirect cost rate is reduced by the amount of indirect costs previously recovered under the temporary indirect cost rate specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(ii) The grantee must obtain prior approval from the Secretary to shift direct costs to indirect costs in order to recover indirect costs at a higher negotiated indirect cost rate.


(iii) The grantee may not request additional funds to recover indirect costs that it cannot recover by shifting direct costs to indirect costs.


(f) The Secretary accepts a current indirect cost rate and cost allocation plan approved by a grantee's cognizant agency but may establish a restricted indirect cost rate or cost allocation plan compliant with 34 CFR 76.564 through 76.569 to satisfy the statutory requirements of certain programs administered by the Department.



---

[N] [89 FR 70329, Aug. 29, 2024]










