# ยง 1150.42   Procedures and relevant dates for small line acquisitions.

(a) This exemption applies to the acquisition of rail lines with projected annual revenues which, together with the acquiring carrier's projected annual revenue, do not exceed the annual revenue of a Class III railroad. To qualify for this exemption, the Class III rail carrier applicant must file a verified notice providing details about the transaction, and a brief caption summary, conforming to the format in ยง 1150.44, for publication in the _Federal Register._

(b) The exemption will be effective 30 days after the notice is filed. The Board, through the Director of the Office of Proceedings, will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ within 16 days of the filing. A change in operators must follow the provisions at ยง 1150.44, and notice must be given to shippers. 


(c) If the notice contains false or misleading information, the exemption is void *ab initio.* A petition to revoke under 49 U.S.C. 10502(d) does not automatically stay the exemption. Stay petitions must be filed at least 7 days before the exemption becomes effective.


(d) Applicant must preserve intact all sites and structures more than 50 years old until compliance with the requirements of section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 470f, is achieved. 


(e) If the projected annual revenue of the rail lines to be acquired or operated, together with the acquiring carrier's projected annual revenue, exceeds $5 million, the applicant must, at least 60 days before the exemption becomes effective, post a notice of applicant's intent to undertake the proposed transaction at the workplace of the employees on the affected line(s) and serve a copy of the notice on the national offices of the labor unions with employees on the affected line(s), setting forth the types and numbers of jobs expected to be available, the terms of employment and principles of employee selection, and the lines that are to be transferred, and certify to the Board that it has done so.



---

[N] [61 FR 32355, June 24, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 47584, Sept. 10, 1997; 71 FR 62213, Oct. 24, 2006; 81 FR 8855, Feb. 23, 2016]




