# ยง 60.5560a   What records must I maintain?

(a) You must maintain records of the information you used to demonstrate compliance with this subpart as specified in ยง 60.7(b) and (f).


(b)(1) For affected EGUs subject to the Acid Rain Program, you must follow the applicable recordkeeping requirements and maintain records as required under subpart F of part 75 of this chapter.


(2) For affected EGUs that are not subject to the Acid Rain Program, you must also follow the recordkeeping requirements and maintain records as required under subpart F of part 75 of this chapter, to the extent that those records provide applicable data for the compliance determinations required under this subpart. Regardless of the prior sentence, at a minimum, the following records must be kept, as applicable to the types of continuous monitoring systems used to demonstrate compliance under this subpart:


(i) Monitoring plan records under 40 CFR 75.53(g) and (h);


(ii) Operating parameter records under 40 CFR 75.57(b)(1) through (4);


(iii) The records under 40 CFR 75.57(c)(2), for stack gas volumetric flow rate;


(iv) The records under 40 CFR 75.57(c)(3) for continuous moisture monitoring systems;


(v) The records under 40 CFR 75.57(e)(1), except for paragraph (e)(1)(x), for CO_2_ concentration monitoring systems or O2 monitors used to calculate CO_2_ concentration;


(vi) The records under 40 CFR 75.58(c)(1), specifically paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), and (viii) through (xiv), for oil flow meters;


(vii) The records under 40 CFR 75.58(c)(4), specifically paragraphs (c)(4)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), and (vii) through (xi), for gas flow meters;


(viii) The quality-assurance records under 40 CFR 75.59(a), specifically paragraphs (a)(1) through (12) and (15), for CEMS;


(ix) The quality-assurance records under 40 CFR 75.59(a), specifically paragraphs (b)(1) through (4), for fuel flow meters; and


(x) Records of data acquisition and handling system (DAHS) verification under 40 CFR 75.59(e).


(c) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to determine the hourly and total CO_2_ mass emissions (tons) for:


(1) Each operating month (for all affected EGUs); and


(2) Each compliance period, including, each 12-operating-month compliance period.


(d) Consistent with ยง 60.5520a, you must keep records of the applicable data recorded and calculations performed that you used to determine your affected EGU's gross or net energy output for each operating month.


(e) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to determine the percentage of valid CO_2_ mass emission rates in each compliance period.


(f) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to assess compliance with each applicable CO_2_ mass emissions standard in table 1 or 2 to this subpart.


(g) You must keep records of the calculations you performed to determine any site-specific carbon-based F-factors you used in the emissions calculations (if applicable).


(h) For stationary combustion turbines, you must keep records of electric sales to determine the applicable subcategory.


(i) You must keep the records listed in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section to demonstrate that your affected facility operated during a system emergency.


(1) Documentation that the system emergency to which the affected EGU was responding was in effect from the entity issuing the alert and documentation of the exact duration of the system emergency;


(2) Documentation from the entity issuing the alert that the system emergency included the affected source/region where the affected facility was located; and


(3) Documentation that the affected facility was instructed to increase output beyond the planned day-ahead or other near-term expected output and/or was asked to remain in operation outside its scheduled dispatch during emergency conditions from a Reliability Coordinator, Balancing Authority, or Independent System Operator/Regional Transmission Organization.






