# § 192.617   Investigation of failures and incidents.

(a) *Post-failure and incident procedures.* Each operator must establish and follow procedures for investigating and analyzing failures and incidents as defined in § 191.3, including sending the failed pipe, component, or equipment for laboratory testing or examination, where appropriate, for the purpose of determining the causes and contributing factor(s) of the failure or incident and minimizing the possibility of a recurrence.


(b) *Post-failure and incident lessons learned.* Each operator of a transmission or distribution pipeline must develop, implement, and incorporate lessons learned from a post-failure or incident review into its written procedures, including personnel training and qualification programs; and design, construction, testing, maintenance, operations, and emergency procedure manuals and specifications.


(c) *Analysis of rupture and valve shutoffs.* If an incident on an onshore gas transmission pipeline involves the closure of a rupture-mitigation valve (RMV), as defined at § 192.3, or the closure of alternative equivalent technology, the operator of the pipeline must also conduct a post-incident analysis of all of the factors that may have impacted the release volume and the consequences of the incident and identify and implement operations and maintenance measures to prevent or minimize the consequences of a future incident. The requirements of this paragraph (c) are not applicable to gas distribution or gas gathering pipelines. The analysis must include all relevant factors impacting the release volume and consequences, including, but not limited to, the following:








(1) Detection, identification, operational response, system shut-off, and emergency response communications, based on the type and volume of the incident;


(2) Appropriateness and effectiveness of procedures and pipeline systems, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), communications, valve shut-off, and operator personnel;


(3) Actual response time from identifying a rupture following a notification of potential rupture, as defined at § 192.3, to initiation of mitigative actions and isolation of the pipeline segment, and the appropriateness and effectiveness of the mitigative actions taken;


(4) Location and timeliness of actuation of RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies; and


(5) All other factors the operator deems appropriate.


(d) *Rupture post-failure and incident summary.* If a failure or incident on an onshore gas transmission pipeline involves the identification of a rupture following a notification of potential rupture, or the closure of an RMV (as those terms are defined at § 192.3), or the closure of an alternative equivalent technology, the operator of the pipeline must complete a summary of the post-failure or incident review required by paragraph (c) of this section within 90 days of the incident, and while the investigation is pending, conduct quarterly status reviews until the investigation is complete and a final post-incident summary is prepared. The final post-failure or incident summary, and all other reviews and analyses produced under the requirements of this section, must be reviewed, dated, and signed by the operator's appropriate senior executive officer. The final post-failure or incident summary, all investigation and analysis documents used to prepare it, and records of lessons learned must be kept for the useful life of the pipeline. The requirements of this paragraph (d) are not applicable to gas distribution or gas gathering pipelines.













---

[N] [Amdt. 192-130, 87 FR 20983, Apr. 8, 2022, as amended by Amdt. 192-136, 89 FR 53880, June 28, 2024]








