# ยง 626.8   Deferrals of contractually scheduled deliveries.

(a) *General.* (1) DOE prefers to take deliveries of petroleum products for the SPR at times scheduled under applicable contracts. However, in the event the market is distorted by disruption to supply or other factors, DOE may defer scheduled deliveries or consider deferral requests from awardees.


(2) An awardee seeking to defer scheduled deliveries of petroleum products to the SPR may submit a deferral request to DOE.


(b) *Deferral criteria.* DOE shall only grant a deferral request for negotiation under paragraph (c) of this section if it determines that DOE can receive a premium for the deferral and, based on DOE's deferral analysis, that at least one of the following conditions exists:


(1) DOE can reduce the cost of its petroleum products acquisition per barrel and increase the volume of petroleum products being delivered to the SPR by means of the premium barrels required by the deferral process;


(2) DOE anticipates private inventories are approaching a point where unscheduled outages may occur;


(3) There is evidence that refineries are reducing their run rates for lack of feedstock; or


(4) There is an unanticipated disruption to petroleum product supply.


(c) *Negotiating terms.* (1) If DOE decides to negotiate a deferral of deliveries, DOE shall estimate the market value of the deferral and establish a strategy for negotiating with suppliers the minimum percentage of the market value to be taken by the Government. During these negotiations, if the deferral request was initiated by DOE, DOE may consider any reasonable, customary, and applicable costs already incurred by the supplier in the performance of a valid contract for delivery. In no event shall such consideration account for any consequential damages or lost profits suffered by the supplier as a result of such deferral.


(2) DOE shall only agree to amend the contract if the negotiation results in an agreement to give the Government a fair and reasonable share of the market value.






