# ยง 524.11   Process for classification and program reviews.

(a) *When:*

(1) Newly committed inmates will be classified within 28 calendar days of arrival at the institution designated for service of sentence.


(2) Inmates will receive a program review at least once every 180 calendar days. When an inmate is within twelve months of the projected release date, staff will conduct a program review at least once every 90 calendar days.


(b) *Inmate appearance before classification team:*

(1) Inmates will be notified at least 48 hours before that inmate's scheduled appearance before the classification team (whether for the initial classification or later program reviews).


(2) Inmates may submit a written waiver of the 48-hour notice requirement.


(3) The inmate is expected to attend the initial classification and all later program reviews. If the inmate refuses to appear at a scheduled meeting, staff must document on the Program Review Report the inmate's refusal and, if known, the reasons for refusal, and give a copy of this report to the inmate.


(c) *Program Review Report:* Staff must complete a Program Review Report at the inmate's initial classification. This report ordinarily includes information on the inmate's apparent needs and offers a correctional program designed to meet those needs. The Unit Manager and the inmate must sign the Program Review Report, and a copy must be given to the inmate.


(d) *Work Programs:* Each sentenced inmate who is physically and mentally able is assigned to a work program at initial classification. The inmate must participate in this work assignment and any other program required by Bureau policy, court order, or statute. The inmate may choose not to participate in other voluntary programs.




