# ยง 24.315   Materials received and used record.

(a) *General.* A proprietor who produces wine shall maintain a record showing the receipt and use or other disposition of basic winemaking materials received on wine premises. The record will show the date of receipt, the quantity received, the name and address from whom received, and the date of use or other disposition of the materials. For any material stored off wine premises, invoices or other commercial papers covering the purchase will also be kept available for inspection. Where grapes (or other fruit) received on wine premises are used in producing juice to be stored for future use or for removal, the record will show the quantity used and juice produced.


(b) *Concentrated fruit juice.* When concentrated fruit juice or must is produced or received, the record will show the degrees Brix of the juice before and after concentration, the volume of juice before and after reconstitution, the volume of reconstitution water used for each dilution of the concentrate, and, if volatile fruit flavor was added, the kind and volume. Where fruit or juice is used to produce concentrated juice, the record will also show the quantity of fruit or volume of juice used. If the concentrated fruit juice is removed for use by another proprietor, a copy of the certificate required by ยง 24.180 will be retained. The record of concentrated fruit juice will contain the information necessary to determine compliance with the limitations prescribed in ยง 24.180. Incomplete or inaccurate records of concentrated fruit juice may result in the wine produced from the concentrated fruit juice to be designated substandard.


(c) *Volatile fruit-flavor concentrate.* If volatile fruit-flavor concentrate is received, the record will show the volume received, the fold, the percent of alcohol by volume, any loss in transit, and the use or other disposition of the volatile fruit-flavor concentrate. 


