# ยง 62.22   Scoring criteria for supportive services grant applicants.

VA will use the following criteria to score applicants who are applying for a supportive services grant:


(a) VA will award up to 35 points based on the background, qualifications, experience, and past performance, of the applicant, and any subcontractors identified by the applicant in the supportive services grant application, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Background and organizational history.* (i) Applicant's, and any identified subcontractors', background and organizational history are relevant to the program.


(ii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, maintain organizational structures with clear lines of reporting and defined responsibilities.


(iii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have a history of complying with agreements and not defaulting on financial obligations.


(2) *Staff qualifications.* (i) Applicant's staff, and any identified subcontractors' staff, have experience working with very low-income families.


(ii) Applicant's staff, and any identified subcontractors' staff, have experience administering programs similar to the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program.


(3) *Organizational qualifications and past performance.* (i) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience providing supportive services to very low-income families.


(ii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience coordinating services for very low-income families among multiple organizations, Federal, State, local and tribal governmental entities.


(iii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience administering a program similar in type and scale to the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program to very low-income families.


(4) *Experience working with veterans.* (i) Applicant's staff, and any identified subcontractors' staff, have experience working with veterans.


(ii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience providing supportive services to veterans.


(iii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience coordinating services for veterans among multiple organizations, Federal, State, local and tribal governmental entities.


(b) VA will award up to 25 points based on the applicant's program concept and supportive services plan, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Need for program.* (i) Applicant has shown a need amongst very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing in the area or community where the program will be based.


(ii) Applicant understands the unique needs for supportive services of very low-income veteran families.


(2) *Outreach and screening plan.* (i) Applicant has a feasible outreach and referral plan to identify and assist very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing that may be eligible for supportive services and are most in need of supportive services. The plan ensures that the applicant's program will assist very low-income families who also meet the requirements of ยง 62.20(a)(2).


(ii) Applicant has a plan to process and receive participant referrals.


(iii) Applicant has a plan to assess and accommodate the needs of incoming participants.


(3) *Program concept.* (i) Applicant's program concept, size, scope, and staffing plan are feasible.


(ii) Applicant's program is designed to meet the needs of very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing.


(4) *Program implementation timeline.* (i) Applicant's program will be implemented in a timely manner and supportive services will be delivered to participants as quickly as possible and within a specified timeline.


(ii) Applicant has a hiring plan in place to meet the applicant's program timeline or has existing staff to meet such timeline.


(5) *Collaboration and communication with VA.* Applicant has a plan to coordinate outreach and services with local VA facilities.


(6) *Ability to meet VA's requirements, goals and objectives for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program.* Applicant is committed to ensuring that its program meets VA's requirements, goals and objectives for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program as identified in this part and the Notice of Fund Availability.


(7) *Capacity to undertake program.* Applicant has sufficient capacity, including staff resources, to undertake the program.


(c) VA will award up to 15 points based on the applicant's quality assurance and evaluation plan, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Program evaluation.* (i) Applicant has created clear, realistic, and measurable goals that reflect the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program's aim of reducing and preventing homelessness among very low-income veteran families against which the applicant's program performance can be evaluated.


(ii) Applicant plans to continually assess the program.


(2) *Monitoring.* (i) Applicant has adequate controls in place to regularly monitor the program, including any subcontractors, for compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.


(ii) Applicant has adequate financial and operational controls in place to ensure the proper use of supportive services grant funds.


(iii) Applicant has a plan for ensuring that the applicant's staff and any subcontractors are appropriately trained and stays informed of industry trends and the requirements of this part.


(3) *Remediation.* Applicant has a plan to establish a system to remediate non-compliant aspects of the program if and when they are identified.


(4) *Management and reporting.* Applicant's program management team has the capability and a system in place to provide to VA timely and accurate reports at the frequency set by VA.


(d) VA will award up to 15 points based on the applicant's financial capability and plan, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Organizational finances.* Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, are financially stable.


(2) *Financial feasibility of program.* (i) Applicant has a realistic plan for obtaining all funding required to operate the program for the time period of the supportive services grant.


(ii) Applicant's program is cost-effective and can be effectively implemented on-budget.


(e) VA will award up to 10 points based on the applicant's area or community linkages and relations, as demonstrated by the following:


(1) *Area or community linkages.* Applicant has a plan for developing or has existing linkages with Federal (including VA), State, local, and tribal government agencies, and private entities for the purposes of providing additional services to participants.


(2) *Past working relationships.* Applicant (or applicant's staff), and any identified subcontractors (or subcontractors' staff), have fostered successful working relationships and linkages with public and private organizations providing services to veterans or very low-income families in need of services similar to the supportive services.


(3) *Local presence and knowledge.* (i) Applicant has a presence in the area or community to be served by the applicant.


(ii) Applicant understands the dynamics of the area or community to be served by the applicant.


(4) *Integration of linkages and program concept.* Applicant's linkages to the area or community to be served by the applicant enhance the effectiveness of the applicant's program.



---

[N] [75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9611, Feb. 24, 2015]




