# § 5.15   Conduct of studies.

(a) *Implementation.* The potential applicant must gather information and conduct studies as provided for in the approved study plan and schedule.


(b) *Progress reports.* The potential applicant must prepare and provide to the participants the progress reports provided for in § 5.11(b)(3). Upon request of any participant, the potential applicant will provide documentation of study results.


(c) *Initial study report.* (1) Pursuant to the Commission-approved study plan and schedule provided for in § 5.13 or no later than one year after Commission approval of the study plan, whichever comes first, the potential applicant must prepare and file with the Commission an initial study report describing its overall progress in implementing the study plan and schedule and the data collected, including an explanation of any variance from the study plan and schedule. The report must also include any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the potential applicant.


(2) Within 15 days following the filing of the initial study report, the potential applicant shall hold a meeting with the participants and Commission staff to discuss the study results and the potential applicant's and or other participant's proposals, if any, to modify the study plan in light of the progress of the study plan and data collected.


(3) Within 15 days following the meeting provided for in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the potential applicant shall file a meeting summary, including any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the potential applicant.


(4) Any participant or the Commission staff may file a disagreement concerning the applicant's meeting summary within 30 days, setting forth the basis for the disagreement. This filing must also include any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the Commission staff or other participant.


(5) Responses to any filings made pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section must be filed within 30 days.


(6) No later than 30 days following the due date for responses provided for in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the Director will resolve the disagreement and amend the approved study plan as appropriate.


(7) If no participant or the Commission staff files a disagreement concerning the potential applicant's meeting summary and request to amend the approved study plan within 30 days, any proposed amendment shall be deemed to be approved.


(d) *Criteria for modification of approved study.* Any proposal to modify an ongoing study pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)-(4) of this section must be accompanied by a showing of good cause why the proposal should be approved, and must include, as appropriate to the facts of the case, a demonstration that:


(1) Approved studies were not conducted as provided for in the approved study plan; or


(2) The study was conducted under anomalous environmental conditions or that environmental conditions have changed in a material way.


(e) *Criteria for new study.* Any proposal for new information gathering or studies pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)-(4) of this section must be accompanied by a showing of good cause why the proposal should be approved, and must include, as appropriate to the facts of the case, a statement explaining:


(1) Any material changes in the law or regulations applicable to the information request;


(2) Why the goals and objectives of any approved study could not be met with the approved study methodology;


(3) Why the request was not made earlier;


(4) Significant changes in the project proposal or that significant new information material to the study objectives has become available; and


(5) Why the new study request satisfies the study criteria in § 5.9(b).


(f) *Updated study report.* Pursuant to the Commission-approved study plan and schedule provided for in § 5.13, or no later than two years after Commission approval of the study plan and schedule, whichever comes first, the potential applicant shall prepare and file with the Commission an updated study report describing its overall progress in implementing the study plan and schedule and the data collected, including an explanation of any variance from the study plan and schedule. The report must also include any modifications to ongoing studies or new studies proposed by the potential applicant. The review, comment, and disagreement resolution provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)-(7) of this section shall apply to the updated study report. Any proposal to modify an ongoing study must be accompanied by a showing of good cause why the proposal should be approved as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Any proposal for new information gathering or studies is subject to paragraph (e) of this section except that the proponent must demonstrate extraordinary circumstances warranting approval. The applicant must promptly proceed to complete any remaining undisputed information-gathering or studies under its proposed amendments to the study plan, if any, and must proceed to complete any information-gathering or studies that are the subject of a disagreement upon the Director's resolution of the disagreement.



---

[N] [Order 2002, 68 FR 51121, Aug. 25, 2003; 68 FR 61742, Oct. 30, 2003]




