# § 417.407   Requirements for a Competitive Medical Plan (CMP).

(a) *General rule.* To qualify as a CMP, an entity must be organized under the laws of a State and must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. 


(b) *Required services*—(1) *Basic rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the entity furnishes to its enrollees at least the following services: 


(i) Physicians' services performed by physicians. 


(ii) Laboratory, x-ray, emergency, and preventive services. 


(iii) Out-of-area coverage. 


(iv) Inpatient hospital services. 


(2) Exception for Medicaid prepayment risk contracts. An entity that had, before 1970, a Medicaid prepayment risk contract that did not include provision of inpatient hospital services is not required to provide those services. 


(c) *Compensation for services.* The entity receives compensation (except for deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments) for the health care services it provides to enrollees on a periodic, prepaid capitation basis regardless of the frequency, extent, or kind of services provided to any enrollee. 


(d) *Source of physicians' services.* The entity provides physicians' services primarily through—


(1) Physicians who are employees or partners of the entity; or 


(2) Physicians or groups of physicians (organized on a group or individual practice basis) under contract with the entity to provide physicians' services. 


(e) *Assumption of financial risk.* The rules set forth in § 417.120(b) for HMOs apply also to CMPs except that reference to “basic services” must be read as reference to the required services listed in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(f) *Protection of enrollees.* The entity provides adequately against the risk of insolvency by meeting the requirements of §§ 417.120(a) and 417.122 for protection of enrollees against loss of benefits and liability for payment of any fees that are the legal responsibility of the entity.



---

[N] [60 FR 45675, Sept. 1, 1995]




