# ยง 769.108   Security requirements for HFIL loans and the ultimate recipients.

(a) *HFIL loans.* Security for all loans to intermediaries must be such that the repayment of the loan is reasonably assured, taking into consideration the intermediary's financial condition, Intermediary Relending Agreement, and management ability. The intermediary is responsible to make loans to ultimate recipients in such a manner that will fully protect the interest of the intermediary and the Government. The Agency will require adequate security, as determined by the Agency, to fully secure the loan, including but not limited to the following:


(1) Assignments of assessments, taxes, levies, or other sources of revenue as authorized by law;


(2) Investments and deposits of the intermediary; and


(3) Capital assets or other property of the intermediary and its members.


(b) *Liens.* In addition to normal security documents, a first lien interest in the intermediary's revolving fund account will be accomplished by a control agreement satisfactory to the Agency. The control agreement does not require the Agency's signature for withdrawals. The depository bank must waive its offset and recoupment rights against the depository account to the Agency and subordinate any liens it may have against the HFIL depository bank account.


(c) *Ultimate recipient.* Security for a loan from an intermediary lender's HFIL revolving fund to an ultimate recipient will be adequate to fully secure the loan as specified in the relending agreement.


(1) The Agency will only require concurrence in the intermediary lender's security requirement for a specific loan when security for the loan from the intermediary lender to the ultimate recipient will also serve as security for an Agency loan.


(2) The ultimate recipient will take appropriate action to obtain and provide security for the loan.




