# ยง 130.3   Definitions and interpretations.

(a) The definitions and interpretations of terms contained in section 201 of the act shall be applicable also to such terms when used in regulations promulgated under the act.


(b) If a regulation prescribing a definition and standard of identity for a food has been promulgated under section 401 of the act and the name therein specified for the food is used in any other regulation under section 401 or any other provision of the act, such name means the food which conforms to such definition and standard, except as otherwise specifically provided in such other regulation.


(c) No provision of any regulation prescribing a definition and standard of identity or standard of quality or fill of container under section 401 of the act shall be construed as in any way affecting the concurrent applicability of the general provisions of the act and the regulations thereunder relating to adulteration and misbranding. For example, all regulations under section 401 contemplate that the food and all articles used as components or ingredients thereof shall not be poisonous or deleterious and shall be clean, sound, and fit for food. A provision in such regulations for the use of coloring or flavoring does not authorize such use under circumstances or in a manner whereby damage or inferiority is concealed or whereby the food is made to appear better or of greater value than it is.


(d) *Safe and suitable* means that the ingredient:


(1) Performs an appropriate function in the food in which it is used.


(2) Is used at a level no higher than necessary to achieve its intended purpose in that food.


(3) Is not a food additive or color additive as defined in section 201 (s) or (t) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act as used in that food, or is a food additive or color additive as so defined and is used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 or 721 of the act.


(e) Section 403(i) of the act requires the listing of all ingredients in standardized foods. All ingredients must be listed in accordance with the requirements of part 101 of this chapter, except that where a definition and standard of identity has specific labeling provisions for optional ingredients, optional ingredients may be declared in accordance with those provisions.



---

[N] [42 FR 14357, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 2876, Jan. 6, 1993]




