# ยง 49.10957   EPA-approved Tribal rules and plans.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section contains the EPA-approved Tribal rules and measures in the open burning tribal implementation plan (TIP) for the Swinomish Indians. The open burning TIP consists of a program, procedures, and regulations that cover prohibited materials, burn bans, open burning permit requirements and fees, and enforcement.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in paragraph (c) of this section was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The material is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval and notice of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(2) The EPA Region 10 certifies that the rules/regulations provided by the EPA in the Tribal implementation plan (TIP) compilation at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated Tribal rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the TIP as of August 4, 2014.


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference may be inspected at the EPA Region 10 Office at 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle WA, 98101; the EPA, Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, EPA Headquarters Library, Infoterra Room (Room Number 3334), EPA West Building, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC; or the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(c) *EPA-approved regulations.*

(d) [Reserved]


(e) *EPA-approved nonregulatory provisions and quasi-regulatory measures.*


---

[N] [79 FR 69765, Dec. 24, 2014]




