# ยง 170.12   CMMC Instructor.

(a) *CMMC Provisional Instructor (PI) roles and responsibilities.* A CMMC Provisional Instructor (PI) teaches CCA and CCP candidates during the transitional period that ends 18 months after December 16, 2024. A PI is trained, tested, and designated to perform CMMC instructional duties by the CAICO to teach CCP and CCA candidates. PIs are designated by the CAICO after successful completion of the PI training and testing requirements set forth by the CAICO. A PI with a valid CCP certification may instruct CCP candidates, while a PI with a valid CCA certification may instruct CCP and CCA candidates. PIs are required to meet requirements in (c) of this section.


(b) *CMMC Certified Instructor (CCI) roles and responsibilities.* A CMMC Certified Instructor (CCI) teaches CCP, CCA, and CCI candidates and performs CMMC instructional duties. Candidate CCIs are certified by the CAICO after successful completion of the CCI training and testing requirements. A CCI is required to obtain and maintain assessor and instructor certifications from the CAICO in accordance with the requirements set forth in ยง 170.10 and in paragraph (c) of this section. A CCI with a valid CCP certification may instruct CCP candidates, while a CCI with a valid CCA certification may instruct CCP, CCA, and CCI candidates. Certifications are valid for 3 years from the date of issuance. CCIs are required to meet requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Requirements.* CMMC Instructors shall:


(1) Obtain and maintain instructor designation or certification, as appropriate, from the CAICO in accordance with the requirements set forth in ยง 170.10.


(2) Obtain and maintain CCP or CCA certification to deliver CCP training.


(3) Obtain and maintain a CCA certification to deliver CCA training.


(4) Comply with the Accreditation Body policies for Conflict of Interest, Code of Professional Conduct, and Ethics set forth in ยง 170.8(b)(17).


(5) Provide all documentation and records in English.


(6) Provide the Accreditation Body and the CAICO annually with accurate information detailing their qualifications, training experience, professional affiliations, and certifications, and, upon reasonable request, submit documentation verifying this information.


(7) Not provide CMMC consulting services while serving as a CMMC instructor; however, subject to the Code of Professional Conduct and Conflict of Interest policies, can serve on an assessment team.


(8) Not participate in the development of exam objectives and/or exam content or act as an exam proctor while at the same time serving as a CCI.


(9) Keep confidential all information obtained or created during the performance of CMMC training activities, including trainee records, except as required by law.


(10) Not disclose any CMMC-related data or metrics that is PII, FCI, or CUI to anyone without prior coordination with and approval from DoD.


(11) Notify the Accreditation Body or the CAICO if required by law or authorized by contractual commitments to release confidential information.


(12) Not share with anyone any CMMC training-related information not previously publicly disclosed.






