# ยง 1148.3   How can I make a FOIA request?

(a) *General information.* To make a request for records, a requester should write directly to the Arts Endowment at National Endowment for the Arts, Office of General Counsel, 400 7th St. SW, Second Floor, Washington, DC 20506. Requests may also be sent by facsimile to the General Counsel's office at (202) 682-5572, or by email to *foia@arts.gov.*

(b) *Identity requirements.* Depending on the type of document you ask for, the Arts Endowment may require verification of your identity or the identity of a third party.


(1) A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself must comply with the Arts Endowment's verification requirements as set forth in ยง 1159.9 of this chapter.


(2) Where a request for records pertains to another individual, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that individual or a declaration made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by that individual authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or by submitting proof that the individual is deceased (*e.g.,* a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). As an exercise of administrative discretion, the Arts Endowment may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.


(c) *Description of records sought.* Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable Arts Endowment personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may help the Arts Endowment identify the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the Arts Endowment's designated FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records. Contact information for the Arts Endowment's designated FOIA contact and FOIA Public Liaison is available on the Arts Endowment's FOIA website (*https://www.arts.gov/foia-contacts*), or can be obtained by calling (202) 682-54184. If after receiving a request, the Arts Endowment determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Arts Endowment will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the Arts Endowment's designated FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Arts Endowment's response to the request may be delayed.


(d) *Format specifications.* Requests may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records you seek. The Arts Endowment will accommodate your request if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.


(e) *Contact information requirements.* Requesters must provide contact information, such as their phone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist the Arts Endowment in communicating with them and providing released records.




