# § 201.1   Communication with the Copyright Office.

(a) *General purpose addresses.* Members of the public must use the correct address in order to facilitate timely receipt by the U.S. Copyright Office division or section to which an inquiry should be directed. The address set forth in paragraph (b) may be used for general inquiries made to a particular division or section of the U.S. Copyright Office. Addresses for special, limited purposes are provided below in paragraph (c) of this section. Please note that the Library of Congress no longer accepts direct deliveries from commercial couriers and messengers.
1 For additional address information, including information on courier delivery, mail delays, or disruptions, please visit the “Contact us” section on the Office's website (*http://www.copyright.gov*). General questions may also be directed to the U.S. Copyright Office website submission form at: *http://www.copyright.gov/help/general-form.html.*

(b) *General purpose address.* (1) Mail and other communications that do not come under the areas listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be addressed to the Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office, 101 Independence Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20559-6000, or as otherwise indicated in instructions on the Copyright Office's website or forms provided by the Office.


(2) *Codes to facilitate the routing of mail.* To assure that postal mail is routed correctly within the U.S. Copyright Office, applicants should indicate, by the appropriate code, the general subject matter of the correspondence. Such correspondence should be addressed to the Office in the following manner: Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office—(Insert appropriate code listed below), 101 Independence Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20559-6000.


(c) *Limited purpose addresses.* The following addresses may be used only in the special, limited circumstances given for a particular U.S. Copyright Office service:


(1) *Time Sensitive Notices and Requests.* Other than notices served on the Register of Copyrights submitted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 411(a), 411(b)(2), and 508, all time sensitive correspondence to the Office of the General Counsel and the Office of Policy and International Affairs, and requests for expedited service from the Records Research and Certification Section of the Office of Public Information and Education to meet the needs of pending or prospective litigation, customs matters, or contract or publishing deadlines should be addressed to: U.S. Copyright Office, P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20024-0400. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests and FOIA appeals must also be mailed to: P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20024-0400, but clearly labeled “Freedom of Information Act Request” or “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” as appropriate. Notices and requests served on the Register of Copyrights submitted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 411(a) or 411(b)(2) should be submitted via email in accordance with 37 CFR 205.13 (for section 411(a) notices) and § 205.14 (for section 411(b)(2) notices). Notices served on the Register of Copyrights submitted pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 508 should be submitted via email in accordance with 37 CFR 205.15.


(2) *Notices of Termination.* Notices of Termination of transfers and licenses under sections 203 and 304 of the Copyright Act should be addressed to: U.S. Copyright Office, Notices of Termination, and submitted either electronically in the form and manner prescribed in instructions on the Office's website or by mail to P.O. Box 71537, Washington, DC 20024-1537.


(3) *Reconsiderations of Refusals to Register and Requests for Cancellation.* First and second requests for reconsideration of refusal to register a copyright, mask work, or vessel design claim, and requests to cancel registered works should be addressed to: U.S. Copyright Office, MCA Division, and submitted either electronically in the form and manner prescribed in instructions on the Office's website or by mail to P.O. Box 71380, Washington, DC 20024-1380.


(4) *Searches and Copies of Records or Deposits.* Requests for searches of registrations and recordations in the completed catalogs, indexes, and/or other records of the U.S. Copyright Office as well as requests for copies of records or deposits for use in litigation or other authorized purposes should be addressed to: U.S. Copyright Office, Records Research and Certification Section, and submitted either electronically in the form and manner prescribed in instructions on the Office's website or by mail to P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20559-0400.


(5) *Inquiries to Licensing Section.* Filings or inquiries to the Licensing Section may be submitted either electronically in the form and manner prescribed in instructions on the Office's website or by mail. If sending by mail, notices related to statutory licenses under 17 U.S.C. 112, 114, and 115 should be addressed to: U.S. Copyright Office, P.O. Box 70977, Washington, DC 20024-0400. Statements of account related to statutory licenses under 17 U.S.C. 119 and chapter 10 should be addressed to: U.S. Copyright Office, SOA, P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20024-0400. Filings or inquiries related to section 111 licenses should be sent to Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office, Attn: 111 Licenses, 101 Independence Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20559.


(6) *Mandatory deposit copies.* Mandatory deposit copies of published works submitted for the Library of Congress under 17 U.S.C. 407 and § 202.19 of this chapter (including serial publications that are not being registered) should be addressed to: Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office, Attn: 407 Deposits, 101 Independence Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20559-6600, except that mandatory deposit copies submitted as complimentary subscriptions for serial publications that are being registered should be addressed to: Library of Congress, Group Serials Registration, Washington, DC 20540-4161.


(7) *Requests to remove PII from registration records.* Requests to remove personally identifiable information from registration records pursuant to §§ 201.2(e) and (f) should be addressed to: U.S. Copyright Office, Associate Register of Copyrights and Director of the Office of Public Information and Education. Requests may be submitted either electronically in the form and manner prescribed in instructions on the Office's website or by mail to P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20024-0400, and clearly labeled “Request to Remove Requested PII,” “Request for Reconsideration Following Denial of Request to Remove Requested PII,” or “Request to Remove Extraneous PII,” as appropriate.


(d) *Requests for an ex parte meeting.* The rules governing *ex parte* communications in informal rulemakings, including methods to request *ex parte* meetings, are found in 37 CFR 205.24.





---

[N] [78 FR 42873, July 18, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 9007, Feb. 2, 2017; 82 FR 9355, Feb. 6, 2017; 82 FR 21697, May 10, 2017; 83 FR 4145, Jan. 30, 2018; 83 FR 61549, Nov. 30, 2018; 84 FR 60918, Nov. 12, 2019; 85 FR 19667, Apr. 8, 2020; 85 FR 10604, Feb. 25, 2020; 85 FR 31982, May 28, 2020; 86 FR 32641, June 22, 2021; 88 FR 54493, Aug. 11, 2023]




