# § 63.11438   What are the standards for new and existing sources?

(a) For each kiln that fires glazed ceramic ware, you must maintain the peak temperature below 1540 °C (2800 °F) and comply with one of the management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:


(1) Use natural gas, or equivalent clean-burning fuel, as the kiln fuel; or


(2) Use an electric-powered kiln.


(b) You must maintain annual wet glaze usage records for your facility.


(c) For each atomized glaze spray booth located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses more than 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) of wet glaze(s), you must comply with the equipment standard requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or the management practice in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(1) Control the emissions from the atomized glaze spray booth with an air pollution control device (APCD), as defined in § 63.11444.


(i) Operate and maintain the APCD in accordance with the equipment manufacturer's specifications; and


(ii) Monitor the APCD according to the applicable requirements in § 63.11440.


(2) Alternatively, use wet glazes containing less than 0.1 (weight) percent clay ceramics metal HAP.


(d) For each atomized glaze spray booth located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) or less of wet glaze(s), you must comply with one of the management practices or equipment standards in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Employ waste minimization practices, as defined in § 63.11444; or


(2) Alternatively, comply with the equipment standard requirements described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or the management practice described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(e) Surface applications (e.g., wet glazes) containing less than 0.1 (weight) percent clay ceramics metal HAP do not have to be considered in determination of the 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) threshold for wet glaze usage. 




