# § 485.58   Condition of participation: Comprehensive rehabilitation program.

The facility must provide a coordinated rehabilitation program that includes, at a minimum, physicians' services, physical therapy services, and social or psychological services. These services must be furnished by personnel that meet the qualifications set forth in §§ 485.70 and 484.115 of this chapter and must be consistent with the plan of treatment and the results of comprehensive patient assessments.


(a) *Standard: Physician services.* (1) A facility physician must be present in the facility for a sufficient time to—


(i) Provide, in accordance with accepted principles of medical practice, medical direction, medical care services, consultation, and medical supervision of nonphysician staff;


(ii) Establish the plan of treatment in cases where a plan has not been established by the referring physician;


(iii) Assist in establishing and implementing the facility's patient care policies; and 


(iv) Participate in plan of treatment reviews, patient case review conferences, comprehensive patient assessment and reassessments, and utilization review.


(2) The facility must provide for emergency physician services during the facility operating hours.


(b) *Standard: Plan of treatment.* For each patient, a physician must establish a plan of treatment before the facility initiates treatment. The plan of treatment must meet the following requirements:


(1) It must delineate anticipated goals and specify the type, amount, frequency and duration of services to be provided.


(2) It must be promptly evaluated after changes in the patient's condition and revised when necessary.


(3) It must, if appropriate, be developed in consultation with the facility physician and the appropriate facility professional personnel.


(4) It must be reviewed at least every 60 days by a facility physician who, when appropriate, consults with the professional personnel providing services. The results of this review must be communicated to the patient's referring physician for concurrence before treatment is continued or discontinued.


(5) It must be revised if the comprehensive reassessment of the patient's status or the results of the patient case review conference indicate the need for revision.


(c) *Standard: Coordination of services.* The facility must designate, in writing, a qualified professional to ensure that professional personnel coordinate their related activities and exchange information about each patient under their care. Mechanisms to assist in the coordination of services must include—


(1) Providing to all personnel associated with the facility, a schedule indicating the frequency and type of services provided at the facility;


(2) A procedure for communicating to all patient care personnel pertinent information concerning significant changes in the patient's status;


(3) Periodic clinical record entries, noting at least the patient's status in relationship to goal attainment; and


(4) Scheduling patient case review conferences for purposes of determining appropriateness of treatment, when indicated by the results of the initial comprehensive patient assessment, reassessment(s), the recommendation of the facility physician (or other physician who established the plan of treatment), or upon the recommendation of one of the professionals providing services. 


(d) *Standard: Provision of services.* (1) All patients must be referred to the facility by a physician who provides the following information to the facility before treatment is initiated:


(i) The patient's significant medical history.


(ii) Current medical findings.


(iii) Diagnosis(es) and contraindications to any treatment modality.


(iv) Rehabilitation goals, if determined.


(2) Services may be provided by facility employees or by others under arrangements made by the facility.


(3) The facility must have on its premises the necessary equipment to implement the plan of treatment and sufficient space to allow adequate care.


(4) The services must be furnished by personnel that meet the qualifications of § 485.70 and the number of qualified personnel must be adequate for the volume and diversity of services offered. Personnel that do not meet the qualifications specified in § 485.70(a) through (m) may be used by the facility in assisting qualified staff.


(5) A qualified professional must initiate and coordinate the appropriate portions of the plan of treatment, monitor the patient's progress, and recommend changes, in the plan, if necessary.


(6) A qualified professional representing each service made available at the facility must be either on the premises of the facility or must be available through direct telecommunication for consultation and assistance during the facility's operating hours. At least one qualified professional must be on the premises during the facility's operating hours.


(7) All services must be provided consistent with accepted professional standards and practice.


(e) *Standard: Scope and site of services*—(1) *Basic requirements.* The facility must provide all the CORF services required in the plan of treatment and, except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, must provide the services on its premises.


(2) *Exceptions.* Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology services may be furnished away from the premises of the CORF including the individual's home when payment is not otherwise made under Title XVIII of the Act. In addition, a single home environment evaluation is covered if there is a need to evaluate the potential impact of the home environment on the rehabilitation goals. The single home environment evaluation requires the presence of the patient and the physical therapist, occupational therapist, or speech-language pathologist, as appropriate.


(f) *Standard: Patient assessment.* Each qualified professional involved in the patient's care, as specified in the plan of treatment, must—


(1) Carry out an initial patient assessment; and


(2) In order to identify whether or not the current plan of treatment is appropriate, perform a patient reassessment after significant changes in the patient's status.


(g) *Standard: Laboratory services.* (1) If the facility provides its own laboratory services, the services must meet the applicable requirements for laboratories specified in part 493 of this chapter.


(2) If the facility chooses to refer specimens for laboratory testing, the referral laboratory must be certified in the appropriate specialties and subspecialties of services in accordance with the requirements of part 493 of this chapter.



---

[N] [48 FR 56293, Dec. 15, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 8852, Mar. 1, 1991; 57 FR 7137, Feb. 28, 1992; 73 FR 69941, Nov. 19, 2008; 82 FR 4591, Jan. 13, 2017; 86 FR 61622, Nov. 5, 2021; 88 FR 36510, June 5, 2023]




