# § 2.1091   Radiofrequency radiation exposure evaluation: mobile devices.

(a) Requirements of this section are a consequence of Commission responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act to evaluate the environmental significance of its actions. See subpart I of part 1 of this chapter, in particular § 1.1307(b).


(b) For purposes of this section, the definitions in § 1.1307(b)(2) of this chapter shall apply. A mobile device is defined as a transmitting device designed to be used in other than fixed locations and to generally be used in such a way that a separation distance of at least 20 centimeters is normally maintained between the RF source's radiating structure(s) and the body of the user or nearby persons. In this context, the term “fixed location” means that the device is physically secured at one location and is not able to be easily moved to another location while transmitting. Transmitting devices designed to be used by consumers or workers that can be easily re-located, such as wireless devices associated with a personal desktop computer, are considered to be mobile devices if they meet the 20-centimeter separation requirement.


(c)(1) Evaluation of compliance with the exposure limits in § 1.1310 of this chapter, and preparation of an EA if the limits are exceeded, is necessary for mobile devices with single RF sources having either more than an available maximum time-averaged power of 1 mW or more than the ERP listed in Table 1 to § 1.1307(b)(3)(i)(C), whichever is greater. For mobile devices not exempt by § 1.1307(b)(3)(i)(C) at distances from 20 centimeters to 40 centimeters and frequencies from 0.3 GHz to 6 GHz, evaluation of compliance with the exposure limits in § 1.1310 of this chapter is necessary if the ERP of the device is greater than ERP_20cm_ in the formula below. If the ERP of a single RF source at distances from 20 centimeters to 40 centimeters and frequencies from 0.3 GHz to 6 GHz is not easily obtained, then the available maximum time-averaged power may be used (*i.e.,* without consideration of ERP) in comparison with the following formula only if the physical dimensions of the radiating structure(s) do not exceed the electrical length of λ/4 or if the antenna gain is less than that of a half-wave dipole (1.64 linear value).


(2) For multiple mobile or portable RF sources within a device operating in the same time averaging period, routine environmental evaluation is required if the formula in § 1.1307(b)(3)(ii)(B) of this chapter is applied to determine the exemption ratio and the result is greater than 1.


(3) Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, any other single mobile or multiple mobile and portable RF source(s) associated with a device is exempt from routine environmental evaluation for RF exposure prior to equipment authorization or use, except as specified in § 1.1307(c) and (d) of this chapter.


(d)(1) Applications for equipment authorization of mobile RF sources subject to routine environmental evaluation must contain a statement confirming compliance with the limits specified in § 1.1310 of this chapter as part of their application. Technical information showing the basis for this statement must be submitted to the Commission upon request. In general, maximum time-averaged power levels must be used for evaluation. All unlicensed personal communications service (PCS) devices and unlicensed NII devices shall be subject to the limits for general population/uncontrolled exposure.


(2)(i) For purposes of analyzing mobile transmitting devices under the occupational/controlled criteria specified in § 1.1310 of this chapter, time averaging provisions of the limits may be used in conjunction with the maximum duty factor to determine maximum time-averaged exposure levels under normal operating conditions.


(ii) Such time averaging provisions based on maximum duty factor may not be used in determining exposure levels for devices intended for use by consumers in general population/uncontrolled environments as defined in § 1.1310 of this chapter. However, “source-based” time averaging based on an inherent property of the RF source is allowed over a time period not to exceed 30 minutes. An example of this is the determination of exposure from a device that uses digital technology such as a time-division multiple-access (TDMA) scheme for transmission of a signal.


(3) If appropriate, awareness of exposure from devices in this section can be accomplished by the use of visual advisories (such as labeling, embossing, or on an equivalent electronic display) and by providing users with information concerning minimum separation distances from radiating structures and proper installation of antennas.


(i) Visual advisories shall be legible and clearly visible to the user from the exterior of the device.


(ii) Visual advisories used on devices that are subject to occupational/controlled exposure limits must indicate that the device is for occupational use only, must refer the user to specific information on RF exposure, such as that provided in a user manual, and must note that the advisory and its information is required for FCC RF exposure compliance. Such instructional material must provide the user with information on how to use the device in order to ensure compliance with the occupational/controlled exposure limits.


(iii) A sample of the visual advisory, illustrating its location on the device, and any instructional material intended to accompany the device when marketed, shall be filed with the Commission along with the application for equipment authorization.


(iv) For occupational devices, details of any special training requirements pertinent to limiting RF exposure should also be submitted. Holders of grants for mobile devices to be used in occupational settings are encouraged, but not required, to coordinate with end-user organizations to ensure appropriate RF safety training.


(4) In some cases, e.g., modular or desktop transmitters, the potential conditions of use of a device may not allow easy classification of that device as either mobile or portable (also see § 2.1093). In such cases, applicants are responsible for determining minimum distances for compliance for the intended use and installation of the device based on evaluation of either specific absorption rate (SAR), field strength or power density, whichever is most appropriate.



---

[N] [61 FR 41017, Aug. 7, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 4655, Jan. 31, 1997; 62 FR 9658, Mar. 3, 1997; 62 FR 47966, Sept. 12, 1997; 68 FR 38638, June 30, 2003; 69 FR 3264, Jan. 23, 2004; 70 FR 24725, May 11, 2005; 78 FR 21559, Apr. 11, 2013; 78 FR 29062, May 17, 2013; 78 FR 33651, June 4, 2013; 80 FR 36221, June 23, 2015; 81 FR 79936, Nov. 14, 2016; 82 FR 43870, Sept. 20, 2017; 84 FR 25689, June 4, 2019; 85 FR 38739, June 26, 2020; 85 FR 18146, Apr. 1, 2020]




