# § 1.989(a)-1   Definition of a qualified business unit.

(a) *Applicability*—(1) *In general.* This section provides rules relating to the definition of the term “qualified business unit” (QBU) within the meaning of section 989.


(2) *Effective date.* These rules shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986. However, any person may apply on a consistent basis § 1.989(a)-1T (c) of the Temporary Income Tax Regulations in lieu of § 1.989(a)-1 (c) to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, and on or before February 5, 1990. For the text of the temporary regulation, see 53 FR 20612 (June 8, 1988).


(b) *Definition of a qualified business unit*—(1) *In general.* A QBU is any separate and clearly identified unit of a trade or business of a taxpayer provided that separate books and records are maintained.


(2) *Application of the QBU definition*—(i) *Persons*—(A) *Corporations.* A corporation is a QBU.


(B) *Individuals.* An individual is not a QBU.


(C) [Reserved]


(D) *Trusts and estates.* A trust or estate is a QBU of a beneficiary.


(ii) *Activities.* Activities of a corporation, partnership, trust, estate, or individual qualify as a QBU if—


(A) The activities constitute a trade or business; and


(B) A separate set of books and records is maintained with respect to the activities.


(3) *Special rule.* Any activity (wherever conducted and regardless of its frequency) that produces income or loss that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States shall be treated as a separate QBU, provided the books and records requirement of paragraph (d)(2) of this section is satisfied.


(4) *Applicability date.* Generally, paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024. However, if pursuant to § 1.987-15(b), a taxpayer chooses to apply §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15 to a taxable year before the first taxable year described in § 1.987-15(a)(1), then paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section applies to that taxable year. *See* § 1.989(a)-1(b)(4), as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2024, for a prior applicability date for paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.




(c) *Trade or business.* The determination as to whether activities constitute a trade or business is ultimately dependent upon an examination of all the facts and circumstances. Generally, a trade or business for purposes of section 989(a) is a specific unified group of activities that constitutes (or could constitute) an independent economic enterprise carried on for profit, the expenses related to which are deductible under section 162 or 212 (other than that part of section 212 dealing with expenses incurred in connection with taxes). To constitute a trade or business, a group of activities must ordinarily include every operation which forms a part of, or a step in, a process by which an enterprise may earn income or profit. Such group of activities must ordinarily include the collection of income and the payment of expenses. It is not necessary that the activities carried out by a QBU constitute a different trade or business from those carried out by other QBUs of the taxpayer. A vertical, functional, or geographic division of the same trade or business may be a trade or business for this purpose provided that the activities otherwise qualify as trade or business under this paragraph (c). However, activities that are merely ancillary to a trade or business will not constitute a trade or business under this paragraph (c). Activities of an individual as an employee are not considered by themselves to constitute a trade or business under this paragraph (c).


(d) *Separate books and records*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a separate set of books and records shall include books of original entry and ledger accounts, both general and subsidiary, or similar records. For example, in the case of a taxpayer using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, the books of original entry include a cash receipts and disbursements journal where each receipt and each disbursement is recorded. Similarly, in the case of a taxpayer using an accrual method of accounting, the books of original entry include a journal to record sales (accounts receivable) and a journal to record expenses incurred (accounts payable). In general, a journal represents a chronological account of all transactions entered into by an entity for an accounting period. A ledger account, on the other hand, chronicles the impact during an accounting period of the specific transactions recorded in the journal for that period upon the various items shown on the entity's balance sheet (*i.e.,* assets, liabilities, and capital accounts) and income statement (*i.e.,* revenues and expenses).


(2) *Special rule.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, books and records include books and records used to determine income or loss that is, or is treated as, effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States.


(3) *Proper reflection on the books of the taxpayer or qualified business unit.* The principles of § 1.987-2(b) apply in determining whether an asset, liability, or item of income, gain, deduction, or loss is reflected on the books of a qualified business unit (and therefore is attributable to such unit).




(4) *Applicability date.* Generally, paragraph (d)(3) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024. However, if pursuant to § 1.987-15(b), a taxpayer applies §§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-15 to a taxable year before the first taxable year described in § 1.987-15(a)(1), then paragraph (d)(3) of this section applies to that taxable year. *See* § 1.989(a)-1(d)(4), as contained in 26 CFR in part 1 in effect on April 1, 2024, for a prior applicability date for paragraph (d)(3) of this section.




(e) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 8279, 55 FR 284, Jan. 4, 1990, as amended by T.D. 9794, 81 FR 88851, Dec. 8, 2016; T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100223, Dec. 11, 2024]




