# ยง 360.100   Definitions.

As used in this part, words in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural and vice versa, as the case may require. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator.


*APHIS.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.


*Department.* The U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


*Interstate.* From one State into or through any other State; or within the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


*Move.* To carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to aid, abet, cause, or induce the carrying, entering, importing, mailing, shipping, or transporting; to offer to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to receive to carry, enter, import, mail, ship, or transport; to release into the environment; or to allow any of the activities described in this definition.


*Noxious weed.* Any plant or plant product that can directly or indirectly injure or cause damage to crops (including nursery stock or plant products), livestock, poultry, or other interests of agriculture, irrigation, navigation, the natural resources of the United States, the public health, or the environment.


*Permit.* A written authorization, including by electronic methods, by the Administrator to move plants, plant products, biological control organisms, plant pests, noxious weeds, or articles under conditions prescribed by the Administrator.


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture, or other legal entity.


*Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs.* The Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the Department.


*Responsible person.* The person who has control over and will maintain control over the movement of the noxious weed and assure that all conditions contained in the permit and requirements in this part are complied with. A responsible person must be at least 18 years of age and must be a legal resident of the United States or designate an agent who is at least 18 years of age and a legal resident of the United States.


*State.* Any of the several States of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


*Taxon (taxa).* Any grouping within botanical nomenclature, such as family, genus, species, or cultivar.


*Through the United States.* From and to places outside the United States.


*United States.* All of the States.



---

[N] [41 FR 49988, Nov. 12, 1976, as amended at 75 FR 68953, Nov. 102, 2010]




