# § 2510.20   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to terms used in 45 CFR parts 2510 through 2550: 


*Act.* The term *Act* means the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*). 


*Administrative costs.* The term *administrative costs* means general or centralized expenses of overall administration of an organization that receives assistance under the Act and does not include program costs.


(1) For organizations that have an established indirect cost rate for Federal awards, administrative costs mean those costs that are included in the organization's indirect cost rate. Such costs are generally identified with the organization's overall operation and are further described in 2 CFR part 200.


(2) For organizations that do not have an established indirect cost rate for Federal awards, administrative costs include:


(i) Costs for financial, accounting, auditing, contracting, or general legal services except in unusual cases when they are specifically approved in writing by the Corporation as program costs.


(ii) Costs for internal evaluation, including overall organizational management improvement costs (except for independent evaluations and internal evaluations of a program or project).


(iii) Costs for general liability insurance that protects the organization(s) responsible for operating a program or project, other than insurance costs solely attributable to a program or project.


*Adult Volunteer.* (1) The term *adult volunteer* means an individual, such as an older adult, an individual with disability, a parent, or an employee of a business of public or private nonprofit organization, who—


(i) Works without financial remuneration in an educational institution to assist students of out-of-school youth; and 


(2) Is beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the educational institution is located. 


*AmeriCorps.* The term *AmeriCorps* means the combination of all AmeriCorps programs and participants. 


*AmeriCorps educational award.* The term *AmeriCorps educational award* means a national service educational award described in section 147 of the Act. 


*AmeriCorps participant.* The term *AmeriCorps participant* means any individual who is serving in—


(1) An AmeriCorps program; 


(2) An approved AmeriCorps position; or 


(3) Both. 


*AmeriCorps program.* The term *AmeriCorps program* means— 


(1) Any program that receives approved AmeriCorps positions; 


(2) Any program that receives Corporation funds under section 121 of the Act; or 


(3) Both. 


*Approved AmeriCorps position.* The term *approved AmeriCorps position* means an AmeriCorps position for which the Corporation has approved the provision of an AmeriCorps educational award as one of the benefits to be provided for successful service in the position. 


*Approved Silver Scholar position.* The term *approved Silver Scholar position* means a Silver Scholar position for which the Corporation has approved a Silver Scholar education award.


*Approved Summer of Service position.* The term *approved Summer of Service position* means a Summer of Service position for which the Corporation has approved a Summer of Service education award.


*Carry out.* The term *carry out,* when used in connection with an AmeriCorps program described in section 122 of the Act, means the planning, establishment, operation, expansion, or replication of the program.


*Chief Executive Officer.* The term *Chief Executive Officer,* except when used to refer to the chief executive officer of a State, means the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation appointed under section 193 of the Act. 


*Children.* The term *children* means individuals 17 years of age and younger.


*Community-based agency.* The term *community-based agency* means a private nonprofit organization (including a church or other religious entity) that—


(1) Is representative of a community or a significant segment of a community; and 


(2) Is engaged in meeting educational, public safety, human, or environmental community needs. 


*Community-based entity.* The term community-based entity means a public or private nonprofit organization that—


(1) Has experience with meeting unmet human, educational, environmental, or public safety needs; and


(2) Meets other such criteria as the Chief Executive Officer may establish.


*Corporation.* The term *Corporation* means the Corporation for National and Community Service established under section 191 of the Act. 


*Economically disadvantaged.* The term *economically disadvantaged,* with respect to an individual, has the same meaning as such term as defined in the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(8)). 


*Elementary school.* The term *elementary school* has the same meaning given the term in section 1471(8) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(8)). 


*Empowerment zone.* The term *empowerment zone* means an area designated as an empowerment zone by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture. 


*Grantmaking entity.* (1) For school-based programs, the term *grantmaking entity* means a public or private nonprofit organization experienced in service-learning that—


(i) Submits an application to make grants for school-based service-learning programs in two or more States; and 


(ii) Was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted the application. 


(2) For community-based programs, the term *grantmaking entity* means a qualified organization that—


(i) Submits an application to make grants to qualified organizations to implement, operate, expand, or replicate community-based service programs that provide for educational, public safety, human, or environmental service by school-age youth in two or more States; and 


(ii) Was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted the application. 


*Higher Education partnerships.* The term *higher education partnership* means one or more public or private nonprofit organizations, or public agencies, including States, and one or more institutions of higher education that have entered into a written agreement specifying the responsibilities of each partner. 


*Indian.* The term *Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe, or is a “Native”, as defined in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b)). 


*Indian lands.* The term *Indian lands* means any real property owned by an Indian tribe, any real property held in trust by the United States for an Indian or Indian tribe, and any real property held by an Indian or Indian tribe that is subject to restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States. 


*Indian tribe.* The term *Indian tribe* means—


(1) An Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States under Federal law to Indians because of their status as Indians, including—


(i) Any Native village, as defined in section 3(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(c)), whether organized traditionally or pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the “Indian Reorganization Act”, 25 U.S.C. 461 *et seq.*); and 


(ii) Any Regional Corporation or Village Corporation, as defined in subsection (g) or (j), respectively, of section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602 (g) or (j)); and 


(2) Any tribal organization controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by an entity described in paragraph (1) of this definition. 


*Individual with a disability.* Except as provided in section 175(a) of the Act, the term *individual with a disability* has the meaning given the term in section 7(8)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 706(8)(B)), which includes individuals with cognitive and other mental impairments, as well as individuals with physical impairments, who meet the criteria in that definition. 


*Infrastructure-building activities.* The term *infrastructure-building activities* refers to activities that increase the capacity of organizations, programs and individuals to provide high quality service to communities. 


*Institution of higher education.* The term *institution of higher education* has the same meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001). 


*Local educational agency (LEA).* The term *local educational agency* has the same meaning given the term in section 1471(12) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(12)). 


*Local partnership.* The term *local partnership* means a partnership, as defined in § 2510.20 of this chapter, that meets the eligibility requirements to apply for subgrants under § 2516.110 or § 2517.110 of this chapter. 


*National nonprofit.* The term *national nonprofit* means any nonprofit organization whose mission, membership, activities, or constituencies are national in scope. 


*National service laws.* The term *national service laws* means the Act and the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 *et seq.*). 


*Objective.* The term *objective* means a desired accomplishment of a program. 


*Out-of-school youth.* The term *out-of-school youth* means an individual who— 


(1) Has not attained the age of 27; 


(2) Has not completed college or its equivalent; and 


(3) Is not enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of higher education. 


*Participant.* (1) The term *participant* means an individual enrolled in a program that receives assistance under the Act. 


(2) A participant may not be considered to be an employee of the program in which the participant is enrolled.


(3) A participant may also be referred to by the term *member.*

*Partnership.* The term *partnership* means two or more entities that have entered into a written agreement specifying the partnership's goals and activities as well as the responsibilities, goals, and activities of each partner. 


*Partnership program.* The term *partnership program* means a program through which an adult volunteer, a public or private nonprofit organization, an institution of higher education, or a business assists a local educational agency. 


*Program.* The term program, unless the context otherwise requires, and except when used as part of the term academic program, means a program described in the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*), in section 112(a) (other than a program referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of that section), 118A, or 118(b)(1), or subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 122, or in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 152(b), section 198B, 198C, 198H, or 198K, or an activity that could be funded under section 179A, 198, 198O, 198P, or 199N.


*Program costs.* The term *program costs* means expenses directly related to a program or project, including their operations and objectives. Program costs include, but are not limited to:


(1) Costs attributable to participants, including: living allowances, insurance payments, and expenses for training and travel.


(2) Costs (including salary, benefits, training, travel) attributable to staff who recruit, train, place, support, coordinate, or supervise participants, or who develop materials used in such activities.


(3) Costs for independent evaluations and internal evaluations to the extent that the evaluations cover only the funded program or project.


(4) Costs, excluding those already covered in an organization's indirect cost rate, attributable to staff that work in a direct program or project support, operational, or oversight capacity, including, but not limited to: support staff whose functions directly support program or project activities; staff who coordinate and facilitate single or multi-site program and project activities; and staff who review, disseminate and implement Corporation guidance and policies directly relating to a program or project.


(5) Space, facility, and communications costs for program or project operations and other costs that primarily support program or project operations, excluding those costs that are already covered by an organization's indirect cost rate.


(6) Other allowable costs, excluding those costs that are already covered by an organization's indirect cost rate, specifically approved by the Corporation as directly attributable to a program or project.


*Program sponsor.* The term *program sponsor* means an entity responsible for recruiting, selecting, and training participants, providing them benefits and support services, engaging them in regular group activities, and placing them in projects. 


*Project.* The term *project* means an activity, or a set of activities, carried out through a program that receives assistance under the Act, that results in a specific identifiable service or improvement that otherwise would not be done with existing funds, and that does not duplicate the routine services or functions of the employer to whom participants are assigned. 


*Project sponsor.* The term *project sponsor* means an organization, or other entity, that has been selected to provide a placement for a participant. 


*Qualified individual with a disability.* The term *qualified individual with a disability* has the meaning given the term in section 101(8) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111(8)). 


*Qualified organization.* The term *qualified organization* means a public or private nonprofit organization, other than a grantmaking entity, that—


(1) Has experience in working with school-age youth; and 


(2) Was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted an application for a service-learning program. 


*Recognized equivalent of a high-school diploma.* The term *recognized equivalent of a high-school diploma* means:


(1) A General Education Development Certificate (GED);


(2) A State certificate received by a student after the student has passed a State-authorized examination that the State recognizes as the equivalent of a high-school diploma;


(3) An academic transcript of a student who has successfully completed at least a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree; or


(4) For a person who is seeking enrollment in an educational program that leads to at least an associate degree or its equivalent and who has not completed high-school but who excelled academically in high-school, documentation that the student excelled academically in high-school and has met the formalized, written policies of the institution for admitting such students.


*Recurring access.* The term *recurring access* means the ability on more than one occasion to approach, observe, or communicate with, an individual, through physical proximity or other means, including but not limited to, electronic or telephonic communication.


*School-age youth.* The term *school-age youth* means— 


(1) Individuals between the ages of 5 and 17, inclusive; and 


(2) Children with disabilities, as defined in section 602(a)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)), who receive services under part B of that Act. 


*Secondary school.* The term *secondary school* has the same meaning given the term in section 1471(21) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(21)). 


*Service-learning.* The term *service-learning* means a method under which students or participants learn and develop through active participation in thoughtfully organized service that— 


(1) Is conducted in and meets the needs of a community; 


(2) Is coordinated with an elementary school, secondary school, institution of higher education, or community service program, and with the community; 


(3) Helps foster civic responsibility; 


(4) Is integrated into and enhances the academic curriculum of the students or the educational components of the community service program in which the participants are enrolled; and 


(5) Includes structured time for the students and participants to reflect on the service experience. 


*Service-learning coordinator.* The term *service-learning coordinator* means an individual trained in service-learning who identifies community partners for LEAs; assists in designing and implementing local partnerships service-learning programs; provides technical assistance and information to, and facilitates the training of, teachers; and provides other services for an LEA. 


*State.* The term *State* means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The term also includes Palau, until the Compact of Free Association is ratified. 


*State Commission.* The term *State Commission* means a State Commission on National and Community Service maintained by a State pursuant to section 178 of the Act. Except when used in section 178, the term includes an alternative administrative entity for a State approved by the Corporation under that section to act in lieu of a State Commission. 


*State educational agency (SEA).* The term *State educational agency* has the same meaning given that term in section 1471(23) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(23)). 


*Student.* The term *student* means an individual who is enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of higher education on a full-time or part-time basis. 


*Subdivision of a State.* The term *subdivision of a State* means an governmental unit within a State other than a unit with Statewide responsibilities. 


*Subtitle C program.* The term *subtitle C program* means an AmeriCorps program authorized and funded under subtitle C of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended. (NCSA) (42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*) It does not include demonstration programs, or other AmeriCorps programs, funded under subtitle H of the NCSA. 


*Target community.* The term *target community* means the geographic community in which an AmeriCorps grant applicant intends to provide service to address an identified unmet human, educational, environmental, or public safety (including disaster-preparedness and response) need. 


*U.S. Territory.* The term *U.S. Territory* means the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau, until the Compact of Free Association with Palau is ratified.



---

[N] [59 FR 13783, Mar. 23, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 18137, Apr. 14, 1998; 67 FR 45359, July 9, 2002; 70 FR 39596, July 8, 2005; 72 FR 48581, Aug. 24, 2007; 73 FR 53759, Sept. 17, 2008; 74 FR 46502, Sept. 10, 2009; 75 FR 51409, Aug. 20, 2010; 77 FR 60931, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 76077, Dec. 19, 2014]




