# § 91.307   Parachutes and parachuting.

(a) No pilot of a civil aircraft may allow a parachute that is available for emergency use to be carried in that aircraft unless it is an approved type and has been packed by a certificated and appropriately rated parachute rigger—


(1) Within the preceding 180 days, if its canopy, shrouds, and harness are composed exclusively of nylon, rayon, or other similar synthetic fiber or materials that are substantially resistant to damage from mold, mildew, or other fungi and other rotting agents propagated in a moist environment; or


(2) Within the preceding 60 days, if any part of the parachute is composed of silk, pongee, or other natural fiber or materials not specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) Except in an emergency, no pilot in command may allow, and no person may conduct, a parachute operation from an aircraft within the United States except in accordance with part 105 of this chapter.


(c) Unless each occupant of the aircraft is wearing an approved parachute, no pilot of a civil aircraft carrying any person (other than a crewmember) may execute any intentional maneuver that exceeds— 


(1) A bank of 60 degrees relative to the horizon; or 


(2) A nose-up or nose-down attitude of 30 degrees relative to the horizon. 


(d) Paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to— 


(1) Flight tests for pilot certification or rating; or 


(2) Spins and other flight maneuvers required by the regulations for any certificate or rating when given by— 


(i) A certificated flight instructor; or 


(ii) An airline transport pilot instructing in accordance with § 61.67 of this chapter. 


(e) For the purposes of this section, *approved parachute* means— 


(1) A parachute manufactured under a type certificate or a technical standard order (C-23 series); or


(2) A personnel-carrying military parachute identified by an NAF, AAF, or AN drawing number, an AAF order number, or any other military designation or specification number. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-255, 62 FR 68137, Dec. 30, 1997; Amdt. 91-268, 66 FR 23553, May 9, 2001; Amdt. 91-305, 73 FR 69530, Nov. 19, 2008]




