# ยง 62.28   International visitors.

(a) *Purpose.* The international visitor category is for the exclusive use of the Department of State. Programs under this section are for foreign nationals who are recognized or potential leaders and are selected by the Department of State to participate in observation tours, discussions, consultation, professional meetings, conferences, workshops, and travel. These programs are designed to enable the international visitors to better understand American culture and society and contribute to enhanced American knowledge of foreign cultures. The category is for people-to-people programs which seek to develop and strengthen professional and personal ties between key foreign nationals and Americans and American institutions.


(b) *Selection.* The Department of State and third parties assisting the Department of State shall adequately screen and select prospective international visitors to determine compliance with ยง 62.10(a) and the visitor eligibility requirements set forth below.


(c) *Visitor eligibility.* An individual participating in an exchange visitor program as an international visitor shall be:


(1) Selected by the Department of State;


(2) Engaged in consultation, observation, research, training, or demonstration of special skills; and


(3) A recognized or potential leader in a field of specialized knowledge or skill.


(d) *Program disclosure.* At the beginning of the program, the sponsor shall provide the international visitor with:


(1) Information on the length and location(s) of his or her exchange visitor program; and


(2) A summary of the significant components of the program.


(e) *Issuance of Form DS-2019.* The Form DS-2019 shall be issued only after the international visitor has been selected by the Department of State.


(f) *Location of the exchange.* The international visitor shall participate in an exchange visitor program at locations approved by the Department of State.


(g) *Duration of participation.* The international visitor shall be authorized to participate in the Exchange Visitor Program for the length of time necessary to complete the program, which shall not exceed one year.




