# § 2516.600   How are funds for school-based service-learning programs distributed?

(a) Of the amounts appropriated to carry out this part for any fiscal year, the Corporation will reserve not less than two percent and not more than three percent for grants to Indian Tribes and U.S. Territories to be allotted in accordance with their respective needs.


(b) The Corporation will use the remainder of the funds appropriated as follows:


(1) Allotments to States.


(i) From 50 percent of the remainder, the Corporation will allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to 50 percent of the remainder as the number of school-age youth in the State bears to the total number of school-age youth of all States.


(ii) From 50 percent of the remainder, the Corporation will allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to 50 percent of the remainder as the allocation to the State for the previous fiscal year under Chapter 1 of Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 *et seq.*) bears to the allocations to all States.


(iii) Notwithstanding other provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, for any fiscal year for which amounts appropriated for Part I of Subtitle B of Title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12521 *et seq.*) exceed $50,000,000, the minimum allotment to each State under this paragraph (b)(1) will be $75,000.


(2) For the purpose of paragraph (b) of this section, “State” means one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


(c) If a State or Indian Tribe does not submit an application that meets the requirements for approval under this part, the Corporation (after making any grants to community-based entities for activities in nonparticipating States) may use its allotment for States and Indian Tribes with approved applications, as the Corporation determines appropriate.



---

[N] [74 FR 46504, Sept. 10, 2009]




