# § 110.54   Reporting requirements.

(a)(1) Reports of exports of nuclear facilities and equipment, nuclear grade graphite for nuclear end use, and deuterium for nuclear end use  shipped during the previous quarter must be submitted by licensees making exports under the general license or specific license of this part by January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each year on DOC/NRC Forms AP-M or AP-13, and associated forms. The reports must contain information on all nuclear facilities, equipment, and non-nuclear materials (nuclear grade graphite for nuclear end use and deuterium for nuclear end use) listed in Annex II of the Additional Protocol.


(2) These required reports must be sent via facsimile to (202) 482-1731, emailed to *aprp@bis.doc.gov,* or hand-delivered or submitted by courier to the Bureau of Industry and Security, in hard copy, to the following address: Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Attn: AP Reports, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Room 4515, Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-1001.


(b) Persons making exports under the general license established by § 110.23(a) or under a specific license shall submit by February 1 of each year one copy of a report of all americium and neptunium shipments during the previous calendar year. This report shall be submitted to the Deputy Director, Office of International Programs at the address provided in § 110.4 or by electronic submission at *110.23reports@nrc.gov*. The report must include:


(1) A description of the material, including quantity in TBq and gram;


(2) Approximate shipment dates; and


(3) A list of recipient countries, end users, and intended use keyed to the items shipped.


(c) Persons making exports under the general license established by § 110.26(a) shall submit by February 1 of each year one copy of a report of all components shipped during the previous calendar year. This report shall be submitted to the Deputy Director, Office of International Programs at the address provided in § 110.4 or by electronic submission at *110.26reports@nrc.gov*. This report must include:


(1) A description of the components keyed to the categories listed in appendix A to this part.


(2) Approximate shipment dates.


(3) A list of recipient countries and end users keyed to the items shipped.



---

[N] [75 FR 44092, July 28, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 27114, May 9, 2012; 86 FR 55479, Oct. 6, 2021; 88 FR 80950, Nov. 21, 2023]




