# ยง 1.73   Interpretations.

(a) *Nature and purpose.* (1) The Commission issues and causes to be published in the _Federal Register_ interpretations of the provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act on its own initiative or pursuant to the application of any person when it appears to the Commission that guidance as to the legal requirements of the Act would be in the public interest and would serve to bring about more widespread and equitable observance of the Act.


(2) The interpretations are not substantive rules and do not have the force or effect of statutory provisions. They are guidelines intended as clarification of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and, like industry guides, are advisory in nature. They represent the Commission's view as to what a particular provision of the Fair Credit Reporting Act means for the guidance of the public in conducting its affairs in conformity with that Act, and they provide the basis for voluntary and simultaneous abandonment of unlawful practices by members of industry. Failure to comply with such interpretations may result in corrective action by the Commission under applicable statutory provisions.


(b) *Procedure.* (1) Requests for Commission interpretations should be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Federal Trade Commission stating the nature of the interpretation requested and the reasons and justification therefor. If the request is granted, as soon as practicable thereafter, the Commission will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ setting forth the text of the proposed interpretation. Comments, views, or objections, together with the grounds therefor, concerning the proposed interpretation may be submitted to the Secretary of the Commission within 30 days of public notice thereof. The proposed interpretation will automatically become final after the expiration of 60 days from the date of public notice thereof, unless upon consideration of written comments submitted as hereinabove provided, the Commission determines to rescind, revoke, modify, or withdraw the proposed interpretation, in which event notification of such determination will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(2) The issuance of such interpretations is within the discretion of the Commission and the Commission at any time may conduct such investigations and hold such conferences or hearings as it may deem appropriate. Any interpretation issued pursuant to this chapter is without prejudice to the right of the Commission to reconsider the interpretation, and where the public interest requires, to rescind, revoke, modify, or withdraw the interpretation, in which event notification of such action will be published in the _Federal Register._

(c) *Applicability of interpretations.* Interpretations issued pursuant to this subpart may cover all applications of a particular statutory provision, or they may be limited in application to a particular industry, as appropriate.



---

[N] [36 FR 9293, May 22, 1971, as amended at 88 FR 42874, July 5, 2023]




