# § 32.27   Delaware.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Bombay Hook National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) for waterfowl hunting.


(ii) You must complete and return a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542), available at the refuge administration office or on the refuge's website, within 15 days of the close of the season.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of grey squirrel, cottontail rabbit, ring-necked pheasant, bobwhite quail, raccoon, opossum, coyote, and red fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section applies.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of turkey and deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System).


(ii) Hunting on the headquarters deer hunt area will be by lottery. You must obtain and possess a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) from the refuge office or website and have the permit in your possession while hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of lead fishing tackle on the refuge.


(b) *Prime Hook National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow the hunting of waterfowl, coot, mourning dove, snipe, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must obtain and possess a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) from the refuge office or website and have the permit in your possession while hunting.


(ii) You must complete and return a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542), available at the refuge administration office or on the refuge's website, within 15 days of the close of the season.


(iii) We allow State certified hunters with disabilities hunting privileges in the Disabled Waterfowl Draw Area subject to the following condition: We do not allow assistants to enter a designated disabled hunting area unless they are accompanied by a certified disabled hunter.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of rabbit, quail, pheasant, and red fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (iv) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(ii) Hunting on the headquarters deer hunt area will be by lottery.


(iii) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and crabbing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) On Turkle and Fleetwood ponds, we allow boats only with electric trolling motors.


(ii) You must attend all crabbing and fishing gear at all times.


(iii) You must remove all personal property at the end of each day's fishing activity (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).



---

[N] [85 FR 54106, Aug. 31, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 48857, Aug. 31, 2021]






