# § 1.863-10   Source of income from a qualified fails charge.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the source of income from a qualified fails charge shall be determined by reference to the residence of the taxpayer as determined under section 988(a)(3)(B)(i).


(b) *Qualified business unit exception.* The source of income from a qualified fails charge shall be determined by reference to the residence of a qualified business unit (as defined in section 989) of a taxpayer if—


(1) The taxpayer's residence, determined under section 988(a)(3)(B)(i), is the United States;


(2) The qualified business unit's residence, determined under section 988(a)(3)(B)(ii), is outside the United States;


(3) The qualified business unit is engaged in the conduct of a trade or business in the country where it is a resident; and


(4) The transaction to which the qualified fails charge relates is attributable to the qualified business unit. A transaction will be treated as attributable to a qualified business unit if it satisfies the principles of § 1.864-4(c)(5)(iii) (substituting “qualified business unit” for “U.S. office”).


(c) *Effectively connected income exception.* Qualified fails charge income that arises from a transaction any income from which is (or would be if the transaction produced income) effectively connected with a United States trade or business pursuant to § 1.864-4(c) is treated as from sources within the United States, and the income from the qualified fails charge is treated as effectively connected to the conduct of a United States trade or business.


(d) *Qualified fails charge.* For purposes of this section, a qualified fails charge is a payment that—


(1) Compensates a party to a transaction that provides for delivery of a designated security (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) in exchange for the payment of cash (delivery-versus-payment settlement) for another party's failure to deliver the specified designated security on the settlement date specified in the relevant agreement; and


(2) Is made pursuant to—


(i) A trading practice or similar guidance approved or adopted by either an agency of the United States government or the Treasury Market Practices Group, or


(ii) Any trading practice, program, policy or procedure approved by the Commissioner in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.


(e) *Designated security.* For purposes of this section, a *designated security* means any—


(i) Debt instrument (as defined in § 1.1275-1(d)) issued by the United States Treasury Department, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or any Federal Home Loan Bank; or


(ii) Pass-through mortgage-backed security guaranteed by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or the Government National Mortgage Association.


(g) *Effective/applicability date.* This section is effective on February 21, 2012. This section applies to a qualified fails charge paid or accrued on or after December 8, 2010.



---

[N] [T.D. 9579, 77 FR 9847, Feb. 21, 2012]




