# § 412.531   Special payment provisions when an interruption of a stay occurs in a long-term care hospital.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *A 3-day or less interruption of stay defined.* “A 3-day or less interruption of stay” means a stay at a long-term care hospital during which a Medicare inpatient is discharged from the long-term care hospital to an acute care hospital, IRF, SNF, or the patient's home and readmitted to the same long-term care hospital within 3 days of the discharge from the long-term care hospital. The 3-day or less period begins with the date of discharge from the long-term care hospital and ends not later than midnight of the third day.


(2) *A greater than 3-day interruption of stay defined.* “A greater than 3-day or less interruption of stay” means A stay in a long-term care hospital during which a Medicare inpatient is discharged from the long-term care hospital to an acute care hospital, an IRF, or a SNF for a period of greater than 3 days but within the applicable fixed-day period specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iii) of this section before being readmitted to the same long-term care hospital.


(i) For a discharge to an acute care hospital, the applicable fixed day period is between 4 and 9 consecutive days. The counting of the days begins on the date of discharge from the long-term care hospital and ends on the 9th date after the discharge.


(ii) For a discharge to an IRF, the applicable fixed day period is between 4 and 27 consecutive days. The counting of the days begins on the day of discharge from the long-term care hospital and ends on the 27th day after discharge.


(iii) For a discharge to a SNF, the applicable fixed day period is between 4 and 45 consecutive days. The counting of the days begins on the day of discharge from the long-term care hospital and ends on the 45th day after the discharge.


(b) *Methods of determining payments.* (1) For purposes of determining a Federal prospective payment— 


(i) *Determining the length of stay.* In determining the length of stay of a patient at a long-term care hospital for payment purposes under this paragraph (b)— 


(A) Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(B) and (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section, the number of days that a beneficiary spends away from the long-term care hospital during a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not included in determining the length of stay of the patient at the long-term care hospital when there is no outpatient or inpatient medical treatment or care provided at an acute care hospital or an IRF, or SNF services during the interruption that is considered a covered service delivered to the beneficiary.


(B) The number of days that a beneficiary spends away from a long-term care hospital during a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are counted in determining the length of stay of the patient at the long-term care hospital if the beneficiary receives inpatient or outpatient medical care or treatment provided by an acute care hospital or IRF, or SNF services during the interruption. In the case where these services are provided during some, but not all days of a 3-day or less interruption, Medicare will include all days of the interruption in the long-term care hospitals day-count.


(C) Surgical DRG exception to the 3-day or less interruption of stay policy.


(*1*) The number of days that a beneficiary spends away from a long-term care hospital during a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section during which the beneficiary receives a procedure grouped to a surgical DRG under the hospital inpatient prospective payment system in an acute care hospital during the 2005 and 2006 LTCH prospective payment system rate years are not included in determining the length of stay of the patient at the long-term care hospital.


(*2*) For discharges occurring on or after July 1 2006, the number of days that a beneficiary spends away from a long-term care hospital during a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section during which the beneficiary receives a procedure grouped to a surgical DRG under the hospital inpatient prospective payment system in an acute care hospital are included in determining the length of stay of the patient at the long-term care hospital.


(D) The number of days that a beneficiary spends away from a LTCH during a greater than 3-day interruption of stay, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, is not included in determining the length of stay at the LTCH.


(ii) *Determining how payment is made.* (A) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A)(*1*) and (b)(1)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section, for a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the entire stay is paid as a single discharge from the long-term care hospital. CMS makes only one LTC-DRG payment for all portions of a long-term care stay.


(*1*) For a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in which a long-term care hospital discharges a patient to an acute care hospital and the patient's treatment during the interruption is grouped into a surgical DRG under the acute care inpatient hospital prospective payment system, for the LTCH 2005 and 2006 rate years, CMS also makes a separate payment to the acute care hospital for the surgical DRG discharge in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section.


(*2*) For discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2006, for a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in which a long-term care hospital discharges a patient to an acute care hospital and the patient's treatment during the interruption is grouped into a surgical DRG under the acute care hospital inpatient prospective payment system, the services must be provided under arrangements in accordance with § 412.509(c). CMS does not make a separate payment to the acute care hospital for the surgical treatment. The LTC-DRG payment made to the long-term care hospital is considered payment in full as specified in § 412.521(b).


(*3*) For a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(1) of this section during which the patient receives inpatient or outpatient treatment or services at an acute care hospital or IRF, or SNF services, that are not otherwise excluded under § 412.509(a), the services must be provided under arrangements in accordance with § 412.509(c). CMS does not make a separate payment to the acute care hospital, IRF, or SNF for these services. The LTC-DRG payment made to the long-term care hospital is considered payment in full as specified in § 412.521(b).


(B) For a greater than 3-day interruption of stay under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, CMS will make only one LTC-DRG payment for all portions of a long-term care stay. CMS also separately pays the acute care hospital, the IRF, or the SNF in accordance with their respective payment systems, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(iii) *Basis for the prospective payment.* Payment to the long-term care hospital is based on the patient's LTC-DRG that is determined in accordance with § 412.513(b).


(2) If the total number of days of a patient's length of stay in a long-term care hospital prior to and following a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section or a greater than 3-day interruption of stay under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section is up to and including five-sixths of the geometric average length of stay of the LTC-DRG, CMS will make a Federal prospective payment for a short-stay outlier in accordance with § 412.529(c).


(3) If the total number of days of a patient's length of stay in a long-term care hospital prior to and following a 3-day or less interruption of stay under paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section or a greater than 3-day interruption of stay under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section exceeds five-sixths of the geometric average length of stay for the LTC-DRG, CMS will make one full Federal LTC-DRG prospective payment for the case. An additional payment will be made if the patient's stay qualifies as a high-cost outlier, as set forth in § 412.525(a).


(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, if a patient who has been discharged from a long-term care hospital to another facility and is readmitted to the long-term care hospital for additional treatment or services in the long-term care hospital following the stay at the other facility, the subsequent admission to the long-term care hospital is considered a new stay, even if the case is determined to fall into the same LTC-DRG, and the long-term care hospital will receive two separate Federal prospective payments if one of the following conditions are met: 


(i) The patient has a length of stay in the acute care hospital that exceeds 9 days from the day of discharge from the long-term care hospital; 


(ii) The patient has a length of stay in the IRF that exceeds 27 days from the day of discharge from the long-term care hospital; or 


(iii) The patient has a length of stay in the SNF that exceeds 45 days from the day of discharge from the long-term care hospital. 


(c) *Payments to an acute care hospital, an IRF, or a SNF during an interruption of a stay.* (1) Payment to the acute care hospital for the acute care hospital stay following discharge from the long-term care hospital will be paid in accordance with the acute care hospital inpatient prospective payment systems specified in § 412.1(a)(1). 


(2) Payment to an IRF for the IRF stay following a discharge from the long-term care hospital will be paid in accordance with the IRF prospective payment system specified in § 412.624 of subpart P of this part. 


(3) Payment to a SNF for the SNF stay following a discharge from the long-term care hospital will be paid in accordance with the SNF prospective payment system specified in subpart J of part 413 of this subchapter. 



---

[N] [67 FR 56049, Aug. 30, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 25721, May 7, 2004; 70 FR 24222, May 6, 2005; 71 FR 27900, May 12, 2006]




