# ยง 1918.97   First aid and lifesaving facilities. (See appendix V of this part).

(a) *Injury reporting.* The employer shall require each employee to report every work-related injury, regardless of severity, to the employer. 


(b) *First aid.* A first aid kit shall be available at or near each vessel being worked. At least one person holding a valid first aid certificate, such as is issued by the Red Cross or other equivalent organization, shall be available to render first aid when work is in progress. 


(c) *First aid kits.* First aid kits shall be weatherproof and shall contain individual sealed packages for each item that must be kept sterile. The contents of each kit shall be determined by a person certified in first aid and cognizant of the hazards found in marine cargo handling operations. The contents shall be checked at intervals that allow prompt replacement of expended items. 


(d) *Stretchers.* (1) For each vessel being worked, at least one Stokes basket stretcher, or its equivalent, shall be available to be permanently equipped with bridles for attachment to the hoisting gear. 


(2) Stretchers shall be kept close to vessels and shall be positioned to avoid damage to the stretcher. 


(3) A blanket or other suitable covering shall be available. 


(4) Stretchers shall have at least four sets of effective patient restraints in operable condition. 


(5) Lifting bridles shall be of adequate strength, capable of lifting 1,000 pounds (454 kg) with a safety factor of five (lifting capability of 5,000 pounds), and shall be maintained in operable condition. Lifting bridles shall be provided for making vertical patient lifts at container berths. Stretchers for vertical lifts shall have foot plates. 


(6) Stretchers shall be maintained in operable condition. Struts and braces shall be inspected for damage. Wire mesh shall be secured and have no burrs. Damaged stretchers shall not be used until repaired. 


(7) Stretchers in permanent locations shall be mounted to prevent damage and be protected from the elements if located out-of-doors. If concealed from view, enclosures shall be marked to indicate the location of the lifesaving equipment. 


(e) *Life-rings.* (1) The employer shall ensure that there is in the vicinity of each vessel being worked at least one U.S. Coast Guard approved 30-inch (76.2 cm) life-ring with no less than 90 feet (27.43 m) of line attached, and at least one portable or permanent ladder that will reach from the top of the apron to the surface of the water. 


(2) In addition, when working a barge, scow, raft, lighter, log boom, or carfloat alongside a ship, a U.S. Coast Guard approved 30-inch (76.2 cm) life-ring, with no less than 90 feet (27.43 m) of line shall be provided either on the floating unit itself or aboard the ship in the immediate vicinity of each floating unit being worked. 


(f) *Communication.* Telephone or equivalent means of communication shall be readily available at the worksite. 



---

[N] [62 FR 40202, July 25, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 40946, June 30, 2000; ]




