# § 284.11   Environmental compliance.

(a) Any activity involving the construction of, or the abandonment with removal of, facilities that is authorized pursuant to § 284.3(c) and subpart B or C of this part is subject to the terms and conditions of § 157.206(b) of this chapter. 


(b) *Advance notification*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, at least 30 days prior to commencing construction a company must file notification with the Commission of any activity described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Exception.* The advance notification described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not required if the cost of the project does not exceed the cost limit specified in Column 1 of Table I of § 157.208(d) of this chapter.


(c) *Contents of advance notification.* The advance notification described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include the following information:


(1) A brief description of the facilities to be constructed or abandoned with removal of facilities (including pipeline size and length, compression horsepower, design capacity, and cost of construction); 


(2) Evidence of having complied with each provision of § 157.206(b) of this chapter;


(3) Current U.S. Geological Survey 7.5-minute series topographical maps showing the location of the facilities; and 


(4) A description of the procedures to be used for erosion control, revegetation and maintenance, and stream and wetland crossings.


(d) *Reporting requirements.* On or before May 1 of each year, a company must file (on electronic media pursuant to § 385.2011 of this chapter, accompanied by 7 paper copies) an annual report that lists for the previous calendar year each activity that is described in paragraph (a) of this section, and which was completed during the previous calendar year and exempt from the advance notification requirement pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. For each such activity, the company must include all of the information described in paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [Order 544, 57 FR 46495, Oct. 9, 1992, as amended by Order 581, 60 FR 53072, Oct. 11, 1995; Order 603-A, 64 FR 54537, Oct. 7, 1999]




