# § 58.738   Pasteurized process cheese spread and related products.

Shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Definitions and Standards of Identity for Pasteurized Process Cheese Spreads, Food and Drug Administration. The pH of pasteurized process cheese spreads shall not be below 4.0.


(a) *Flavor.* Has a pleasing and desirable cheese taste and odor characteristic of the variety or varieties of cheese ingredients used. If additional optional ingredients are used they shall be incorporated in accordance with good commercial practices and the flavor imparted shall be pleasing and desirable. May have a slight cooked, acid, or emulsifier flavor; is free from any undesirable tastes and odors. 


(b) *Body and texture.* Shall have a smooth body free from uncooked cheese particles and when packaged shall form into a homogeneous plastic mass, and be free from pin holes or openings except those caused by trapped steam. Product made for slicing shall slice freely when cut into approximately 
1/8 inch slices with only a slight amount of sticking. Product made for spreading shall be spreadable at approximately 70 °F. 


(c) *Color.* May be colored or uncolored but shall be uniform throughout. If colored it shall be bright and not be dull or faded. To promote uniformity and a common reference to describe color the color designations as depicted by the National Cheese Institute standard color guide for cheese may be used. 


(d) *Finish and appearance.* Wrappers, if used, may be slightly wrinkled but shall envelop the cheese, adhere closely to the surface, and be completely sealed and not broken or soiled. Other containers made of suitable materials shall be completely filled, sealed and not broken or soiled. 




