# ยง 222.43   How the one-half support determination is made.

(a) *Amount of contributions.* The employee provides one-half support to a person if the employee makes regular contributions to that person's support, and the amount of the contributions is equal to or in excess of one-half of the person's ordinary and necessary living expenses. Ordinary and necessary living expenses are the costs for food, clothing, housing, routine medical care, and similar necessities. A contribution may be in cash, goods, or services (see ยง 222.42 of this part). For example, an employee pays rent and utilities amounting to $6,000 per year on an apartment in which his mother resides. In addition, the employee's mother receives $3,600 per year in social security benefits which she uses to pay for her food, clothing and medical care. The mother's total necessary living expenses are $9,600 ($6,000 + $3,600). Since the employee contributes $6,000 toward these expenses, he is contributing in excess of one-half of his mother's support.


(b) *Reasonable period of time.* The employee is not providing at least one-half of a person's support unless the employee has made contributions for a reasonable period of time. Ordinarily, the Board will consider a reasonable period of time to be the 12-month period immediately preceding the time when the one-half support requirement must be satisfied. However, if the employee provided one-half or more of the person's support for at least 3 months of the 12-month period, and was forced to stop or reduce contributions because of circumstances beyond his or her control, such as illness or unemployment, and no one else took over responsibility for providing at least one-half of the person's support on a permanent basis, three months shall be considered a reasonable period of time.




