# § 191.26   Recordkeeping for manufacturing drawback.

(a) *Direct identification manufacturing*—(1) *Records required.* Each manufacturer or producer under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) shall keep records to allow the verifying Customs official to trace all articles manufactured or produced for exportation or destruction with drawback, from importation, through production, to exportation or destruction. To this end, these records shall specifically establish:


(i) The date or inclusive dates of manufacture or production;


(ii) The quantity and identity of the imported duty-paid merchandise or drawback products used in or appearing in (see § 191.23) the articles manufactured or produced;


(iii) The quantity, if any, of the nondrawback merchandise used, when these records are necessary to determine the quantity of imported duty-paid merchandise or drawback product used in the manufacture or production of the exported or destroyed articles or appearing in them;


(iv) The quantity and description of the articles manufactured or produced;


(v) The quantity of waste incurred, if applicable; and


(vi) That the finished articles on which drawback is claimed were exported or destroyed within 5 years after the importation of the duty-paid merchandise, without having been used in the United States prior to such exportation or destruction. (If the completed articles were commingled after manufacture, their identity may be maintained in the manner prescribed in § 191.14 of this part.)


(2) *Accounting.* The merchandise and articles to be exported or destroyed shall be accounted for in a manner which will enable the manufacturer, producer, or claimant:


(i) To determine, and the Customs official to verify, the applicable import entry, certificate of delivery, and/or certificate of manufacture and delivery associated with the claim; and


(ii) To identify with respect to that import entry, certificate of delivery, and/or certificate of manufacture and delivery, the imported duty-paid merchandise or drawback products used in manufacture or production.


(b) *Substitution manufacturing.* The records of the manufacturer or producer of articles manufactured or produced in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) shall establish the facts in paragraph (a)(1)(i), (iv) through (vi) of this section, and:


(1) The quantity, identity, and specifications of the merchandise designated (imported duty-paid, or drawback product);


(2) The quantity, identity, and specifications of merchandise of the same kind and quality as the designated merchandise before its use to manufacture or produce (or appearing in) the exported or destroyed articles;


(3) That, within 3 years after receiving the designated merchandise at its plant, the manufacturer or producer used it in manufacturing or production and that during the same 3-year period it manufactured or produced the exported or destroyed articles; and


(4) If the designated merchandise is a chemical element that was contained in imported material that was subject to an *ad valorem* rate of duty, and a substitution drawback claim is made based on that chemical element: 


(i) The duty paid on the imported material must be apportioned among its constituent components. The claim on the chemical element that is the designated merchandise must be limited to the duty apportioned to that element on a unit-for-unit attribution using the unit of measure set forth in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) that is applicable to the imported material. If the material is a compound with other constituents, including impurities, and the purity of the compound in the imported material is shown by satisfactory analysis, that purity, converted to a decimal equivalent of the percentage, is multiplied against the entered amount of the material to establish the amount of pure compound. The amount of the element in the pure compound is to be determined by use of the atomic weights of the constituent elements and converting to the decimal equivalent of their respective percentages and multiplying that decimal equivalent against the above-determined amount of pure compound. 


(ii) The amount claimed as drawback based on the chemical element must be deducted from the duty paid on the imported material that may be claimed on any other drawback claim. 


(c) *Valuable waste records.* When waste has a value and the manufacturer, producer, or claimant, has not limited the claims based on the quantity of imported or substituted merchandise appearing in the articles exported or destroyed, the manufacturer or producer shall keep records to show the market value of the merchandise used to manufacture or produce the exported or destroyed article, as well as the quantity and market value of the waste incurred (see § 191.2(u) of this part). In such records, the quantity of merchandise identified or designated for drawback, under 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) or 1313(b), respectively, shall be based on the quantity of merchandise actually used to manufacture or produce the exported or destroyed articles. The waste replacement reduction will be determined by reducing from the quantity of merchandise actually used the amount of merchandise which the value of the waste would replace.


(d) *Purchase of manufactured articles for exportation.* Where the claimant purchases articles from the manufacturer and exports them, the claimant shall file the related certificate of manufacture and delivery as part of the claim (see § 191.51(a)(1) of this part).


(e) *Multiple claimants*—(1) *General.* Multiple claimants may file for drawback with respect to the same export (for example, if an automobile is exported, where different parts of the automobile have been produced by different manufacturers under drawback conditions and the exporter waives the right to claim drawback and assigns such right to the manufacturers under § 191.82 of this part).


(2) *Procedures*—(i) *Submission of letter.* Each drawback claimant shall file a separate letter, as part of the claim, describing the component article on the export bill of lading to which each claim will relate. Each letter shall show the name of the claimant and bear a statement that the claim shall be limited to its respective component article. The exporter shall endorse the letters, as required, to show the respective interests of the claimants.


(ii) *Blanket waivers and assignments of drawback rights.* Exporters may waive and assign their drawback rights for all, or any portion, of their exportations with respect to a particular commodity for a given period to a drawback claimant.


(iii) *Use of export summary procedure.* If the parties elect to use the export summary procedure (§ 191.73 of this part) each drawback claimant shall complete a chronological summary of exports for the respective component product to which each claim will relate. Each claimant shall identify in the chronological summary the name of the other claimant(s) and the component product for which each will independently claim drawback, if known at the time the drawback claim is filed. The exporter shall endorse the summaries, as required, to show the respective interests of the claimants. Each claimant shall have on file and make available to Customs upon request, the endorsement from the exporter assigning the right to claim drawback.


(f) *Retention of records.* Pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1508(c)(3), all records required to be kept by the manufacturer, producer, or claimant with respect to drawback claims, and records kept by others to complement the records of the manufacturer, producer, or claimant with respect to drawback claims shall be retained for 3 years after the date of payment of the related claims (under 19 U.S.C. 1508, the same records may be subject to a different retention period for different purposes).



---

[N] [T.D. 98-16, 63 FR 11006, Mar. 5, 1998, as amended by T.D. 02-38, 67 FR 48370, July 24, 2002; CBP Dec. 03-23, 68 FR 50703, Aug. 22, 2003]




