# § 73.6030   Low Power Protection Act.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of the Low Power Protection Act, a low power television station's Designated Market Area (DMA) shall be defined as the DMA where its transmission facilities (*i.e.,* the structure on which its antenna is mounted) are located. DMAs are determined by Nielsen Media Research. A low power television station shall be defined in accordance with § 74.701(k).


(b) *Eligibility requirements.* In order to be eligible for Class A status under the Low Power Television Protection Act, low power television licensees must:


(1) Have been operating in a DMA with not more than 95,000 television households as of January 5, 2023;


(2) Have been broadcasting a minimum of 18 hours per day between October 7, 2022 and January 5, 2023;


(3) Have been broadcasting a minimum of at least three hours per week of locally produced programming between October 7, 2022 and January 5, 2023;


(4) Have been operating in compliance with the Commission's requirements applicable to low power television stations between October 7, 2022 and January 5, 2023;


(5) Be in compliance with the Commission's operating rules for full-power television stations from and after the date of its application for a Class A license; and


(6) Demonstrate that the Class A station for which the license is sought will not cause any interference described in 47 U.S.C. 336(f)(7).




(c) *Application requirements.* Applications for conversion to Class A status must be submitted using FCC Form 2100, Schedule F within one year beginning on the date on which the Commission issues notice that the rules implementing the Low Power Protection Act takes effect. The licensee will be required to submit, as part of its application, a statement concerning the station's operating schedule during the 90 days preceding January 5, 2023 and a list of locally produced programs aired during that time period. The applicant may also submit other documentation, or may be requested by Commission staff to submit other documentation, to support its certification that the licensee meets the eligibility requirements for a Class A license under the Low Power Protection Act.


(d) *Licensing requirements.* A Class A television broadcast license will only be issued under the Low Power Protection Act to a low power television licensee that files an application for a Class A Television license (FCC Form 2100, Schedule F), which is granted by the Commission.


(e) *Service requirements.* Stations that convert to Class A status pursuant to the Low Power Protection Act are required to meet the service requirements specified in § 73.6001(b) through (d) of this chapter for the term of their Class A license. In addition, such stations must remain in compliance with the programming and operational standards set forth in the Low Power Protection Act for the term of their Class A license. In addition, such stations must continue to operate in DMAs with not more than 95,000 television households in order to maintain their Class A status unless the population in the station's DMA later exceeds 95,000 television households through population growth, a change in the boundaries of a qualifying DMA such that the population of the DMA exceeds 95,000 television households, or the merger of a qualifying DMA into another DMA such that the combined DMA exceeds 95,000 television households. LPPA Class A stations will not be permitted to initiate a move to a different DMA with more than 95,000 television households at the time of the move and still retain their Class A status.


(f) *Other regulations.* From and after the date of applying for Class A status under the Low Power Protection Act, stations must comply with the requirements applicable to Class A stations specified in subpart J of this part (§§ 73.6000 through 73.6029) and must continue to comply with such requirements for the term of their Class A license.



---

[N] [89 FR 1477, Jan. 10, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 47088, May 31, 2024]




