# § 3474.15   Contracting with faith-based organizations and nondiscrimination.

(a) This section establishes responsibilities that grantees and subgrantees have in selecting contractors to provide direct Federal services under a program of the Department. Grantees and subgrantees must ensure compliance by their subgrantees with the provisions of this section and any implementing regulations or guidance.


(b)(1) A faith-based organization is eligible to contract with grantees and subgrantees, including States, on the same basis as any other private organization.


(2)(i) In selecting providers of goods and services, grantees and subgrantees, including States—


(A) May not discriminate for or against a private organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization; and


(B) Must ensure that the award of contracts is free from political interference, or even the appearance of such interference, and is done on the basis of merit, not on the basis of religion or religious belief, or lack thereof.


(ii) Notices or announcements of award opportunities and notices of award or contracts must include language substantially similar to that in appendices A and B, respectively, to 34 CFR part 75.


(3) No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by a grantee or subgrantee in administering Federal financial services from the Department may require faith-based organizations to provide assurances or notices if they are not required of non-faith-based organizations. Any restrictions on the use of grant funds must apply equally to faith-based and non-faith-based organizations. All organizations that participate in Department programs or services, including organizations with religious character, motives, or affiliation, must carry out eligible activities in accordance with all program requirements, including those prohibiting the use of direct Federal financial assistance to engage in explicitly religious activities, subject to any accommodations that are granted to organizations on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Federal civil rights laws.


(4) No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by a grantee or subgrantee may disqualify faith-based organizations from participating in Department-funded programs or services on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to disqualify a similarly situated secular organization.


(5) Nothing in this section may be construed to preclude the Department from making an accommodation with respect to one or more program requirements on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Federal civil rights laws.


(6) Neither a State nor the Department may disqualify an organization from participating in any Department program for which it is otherwise eligible on the basis of the organization's indication that it may request an accommodation with respect to one or more program requirements, unless the organization has made clear that the accommodation is necessary to its participation and the Department has determined that it would deny the accommodation.








(c)(1) The provisions of 34 CFR 75.532 and 76.532 that apply to a faith-based organization that is a grantee or subgrantee also apply to a faith-based organization that contracts with a grantee or subgrantee, including a State.


(2) The requirements referenced under paragraph (c)(1) of this section do not apply to a faith-based organization that provides goods or services to a beneficiary under a program supported only by indirect Federal financial assistance, as defined in 34 CFR 75.52(c)(3) and 76.52(c)(3).


(d)(1) A private organization that provides direct Federal services under a program of the Department and engages in explicitly religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization, must offer those activities separately in time or location from any programs or services funded by the Department through a contract with a grantee or subgrantee, including a State. Attendance or participation in any such explicitly religious activities by beneficiaries of the programs and services supported by the contract must be voluntary.


(2) The limitations on explicitly religious activities under paragraph (d)(1) of this section do not apply to a faith-based organization that provides services to a beneficiary under a program supported only by indirect Federal financial assistance, as defined in 34 CFR 75.52(c)(3) and 76.52(c)(3).


(e)(1) A faith-based organization that contracts with a grantee or subgrantee, including a State, will retain its independence, autonomy, right of expression, religious character, and authority over its governance. A faith-based organization that receives Federal financial assistance from the Department does not lose the protections of law.


(2) A faith-based organization that contracts with a grantee or subgrantee, including a State, may, among other things—


(i) Retain religious terms in its name;


(ii) Continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, development, practice, and expression of its religious beliefs;


(iii) Use its facilities to provide services without concealing, removing, or altering religious art, icons, scriptures, or other symbols from these facilities;


(iv) Select its board members on the basis of their acceptance of or adherence to the religious tenets of the organization; and


(v) Include religious references in its mission statement and other chartering or governing documents.


(f) A private organization that contracts with a grantee or subgrantee, including a State, may not discriminate against a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary in the provision of program goods or services, or in outreach activities related to such goods or services, on the basis of religion or religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice. However, an organization that participates in a program funded by indirect Federal financial assistance need not modify its program activities to accommodate a beneficiary who chooses to expend the indirect aid on the organization's program.




(g) A religious organization's exemption from the Federal prohibition on employment discrimination on the basis of religion, in section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-1(a), is not forfeited when the organization contracts with a grantee or subgrantee. 

(h) No grantee or subgrantee receiving funds under any Department program or service shall construe these provisions in such a way as to advantage or disadvantage faith-based organizations affiliated with historic or well-established religions or sects in comparison with other religions or sects.



---

[N] [85 FR 82125, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15701, Mar. 4, 2024]




