# ยง 63.11158   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Anode copper* means copper that is cast into anodes and refined in an electrolytic process to produce high purity copper.


*Capture system* means the collection of components used to capture gases and fumes released from one or more emissions points and then convey the captured gas stream to a control device. A capture system may include, but is not limited to, the following components as applicable to a given capture system design: duct intake devices, hoods, enclosures, ductwork, dampers, manifolds, plenums, and fans.


*Melting furnace* means any furnace, reactor, or other type of vessel that heats solid materials and produces a molten mass of material.


*Secondary copper smelter* means a facility that processes copper scrap in a blast furnace and converter or that uses another pyrometallurgical purification process to produce anode copper from copper scrap, including low-grade copper scrap. A facility where recycled copper scrap or copper alloy scrap is melted to produce ingots or for direct use in a manufacturing process is not a secondary copper smelter.


*Smelting furnace* means any furnace, reactor, or other type of vessel in which copper scrap and fluxes are melted to form a molten mass of material containing copper and slag.


*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof. 




