# § 1.142-4   Use of proceeds to provide a facility.

(a) *In general.* [Reserved]


(b) *Reimbursement allocations.* If an expenditure for a facility is paid before the issue date of the bonds to provide that facility, the facility is described in section 142(a) only if the expenditure meets the requirements of § 1.150-2 (relating to reimbursement allocations). For purposes of this paragraph (b), if the proceeds of an issue are used to pay principal of or interest on an obligation other than a State or local bond (for example, temporary construction financing of the conduit borrower), that issue is not a refunding issue, and, thus, § 1.150-2(g) does not apply. 


(c) *Limitation on use of facilities by substantial users*—(1) *In general.* If the original use of a facility begins before the issue date of the bonds to provide the facility, the facility is not described in section 142(a) if any person that was a substantial user of the facility at any time during the 5-year period before the issue date or any related person to that user receives (directly or indirectly) 5 percent or more of the proceeds of the issue for the user's interest in the facility and is a substantial user of the facility at any time during the 5-year period after the issue date, unless— 


(i) An official intent for the facility is adopted under § 1.150-2 within 60 days after the date on which acquisition, construction, or reconstruction of that facility commenced; and 


(ii) For an acquisition, no person that is a substantial user or related person after the acquisition date was also a substantial user more than 60 days before the date on which the official intent was adopted. 


(2) *Definitions.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, *substantial user* has the meaning used in section 147(a)(1), *related person* has the meaning used in section 144(a)(3), and a user that is a governmental unit within the meaning of § 1.103-1 is disregarded. 


(d) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* This section applies to bonds sold on or after July 8, 1997. See § 1.103-8(a)(5) for rules applicable to bonds sold before that date. 


(2) *Elective retroactive application.* An issuer may apply this section to any bond sold before July 8, 1997. 



---

[N] [T.D. 8718, 62 FR 25506, May 9, 1997]




