# § 52.1520   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section sets forth the applicable State Implementation Plan for New Hampshire under section 110 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7410 and 40 CFR part 51 to meet national ambient air quality standards or other requirements under the Clean Air Act.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with an EPA approval date prior to August 18, 2009, was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material is incorporated as submitted by the state to EPA, and notice of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register._ Entries for paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with EPA approval dates after August 18, 2009, will be incorporated by reference in the next update to the SIP compilation.


(2) EPA Region 1 certifies that the rules/regulations provided by EPA in the SIP compilation at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated State rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the State Implementation Plan as of August 18, 2009.


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, New England Regional Office, 5 Post Office Square—Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912; Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, EPA West Building, 1301 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460; and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). If you wish to obtain materials from the EPA Regional Office, please call (617) 918-1668; for materials from a docket in the EPA Headquarters Library, please call the Office of Air and Radiation (OAR) Docket at (202) 566-1742. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) *EPA approved regulations.*

(d) *EPA-approved State Source specific requirements.*

(e) *Nonregulatory.*


---

[N] [74 FR 50120, Sept. 30, 2009]


