# ยง 226.19   Use of surface of land.

(a) Lessee or his/her authorized representative shall have the right to use so much of the surface of the land within the Osage Mineral Estate as may be reasonable for operations and marketing. This includes but is not limited to the right to lay and maintain pipelines, electric lines, pull rods, other appliances necessary for operations and marketing, and the right-of-way for ingress and egress to any point of operations. If Lessee and surface owner are unable to agree as to the routing of pipelines, electric lines, etc., said routing shall be set by the Superintendent. The right to use water for lease operations is established by ยง 226.24. Lessee shall conduct his/her operations in a workmanlike manner, commit no waste and allow none to be committed upon the land, nor permit any unavoidable nuisance to be maintained on the premises under his/her control.


(b) Before commencing a drilling operation, Lessee shall pay or tender to the surface owner commencement money in the amount of $25 per seismic shot hole and commencement money in the amount of $300 for each well, after which Lessee shall be entitled to immediate possession of the drilling site. Commencement money will not be required for the redrilling of a well which was originally drilled under the currently lease. A drilling site shall be held to the minimum area essential for operations and shall not exceed one and one-half acres in area unless authorized by the Superintendent. Commencement money shall be a credit toward the settlement of the total damages. Acceptance of commencement money by the surface owner does not affect his/her right to compensation for damages as described in ยง 226.20, occasioned by the drilling and completion of the well for which it was paid. Since actual damage to the surface from operations cannot necessarily be ascertained prior to the completion of a well as a serviceable well or dry hole, a damage settlement covering the drilling operation need not be made until after completion of drilling operations.


(c) Where the surface is restricted land, commencement money shall be paid to the Superintendent for the landowner. All other surface owners shall be paid or tendered such commencement money direct. Where such surface owners are not residents of Osage County nor have a representative located therein, such payment shall be made or tendered to the last known address of the surface owner at least 5 days before commencing drilling operation on any well: *Provided,* That should lessee be unable to reach the owner of the surface of the land for the purpose of tendering the commencement money or if the owner of the surface of the land shall refuse to accept the same, lessee shall deposit such amount with the Superintendent by check payable to the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The superintendent shall thereupon advise the owner of the surface of the land by mail at his last known address that the commencement money is being held for payment to him upon his written request.


(d) Lessee shall also pay fees for tank sites not exceeding 50 feet square at the rate of $100 per tank site or other vessel: *Provided,* That no payment shall be due for a tank temporarily set on a well location site for drilling, completing, or testing. The sum to be paid for a tank occupying more than 50 feet square shall be agreed upon between the surface owner and lessee or, on failure to agree, the same shall be determined by arbitration as provided by ยง 226.21.




