# ยง 701.1   Definitions.

(a) *The Act* means the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act, 15 U.S.C. 2301, *et seq.*

(b) *Consumer product* means any tangible personal property which is distributed in commerce and which is normally used for personal, family, or household purposes (including any such property intended to be attached to or installed in any real property without regard to whether it is so attached or installed. Products which are purchased solely for commercial or industrial use are excluded solely for purposes of this part.


(c) *Written warranty* means:


(1) Any written affirmation of fact or written promise made in connection with the sale of a consumer product by a supplier to a buyer which relates to the nature of the material or workmanship and affirms or promises that such material or workmanship is defect free or will meet a specified level of performance over a specified period of time, or


(2) Any undertaking in writing in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product to refund, repair, replace, or take other remedial action with respect to such product in the event that such product fails to meet the specifications set forth in the undertaking, which written affirmation, promise or undertaking becomes part of the basis of the bargain between a supplier and a buyer for purposes other than resale of such product.


(d) *Implied warranty* means an implied warranty arising under State law (as modified by sections 104(a) and 108 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2304(a) and 2308), in connection with the sale by a supplier of a consumer product.


(e) *Remedy* means whichever of the following actions the warrantor elects:


(1) Repair,


(2) Replacement, or


(3) Refund; except that the warrantor may not elect refund unless:


(i) The warrantor is unable to provide replacement and repair is not commercially practicable or cannot be timely made, or


(ii) The consumer is willing to accept such refund.


(f) *Supplier* means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product directly or indirectly available to consumers.


(g) *Manufacturer* means any person engaged in the business of making a consumer product.


(h) *Warrantor* means any supplier, manufacturer, or other person who gives or offers to give a written warranty.


(i) *Consumer* means a buyer (other than for purposes of resale or use in the ordinary course of the buyer's business) of any consumer product, any person to whom such product is transferred during the duration of an implied or written warranty applicable to the product, and any other such person who is entitled by the terms of such warranty or under applicable State law to enforce against the warrantor the obligations of the warranty.


(j) *On the face of the warranty* means:


(1) Where the warranty is a single sheet with printing on both sides of the sheet or where the warranty is comprised of more than one sheet, the page on which the warranty text begins;


(2) Where the warranty is included as part of a larger document, such as a use and care manual, the page in such document on which the warranty text begins;


(3) Where the warranty is on an Internet Web site or displayed electronically, in close proximity to the location where the warranty text begins.



---

[N] [40 FR 60188, Dec. 31, 1975, as amended at 80 FR 42722, July 20, 2015; 81 FR 63669, Sept. 15, 2016]




