# § 222.18   Settlement.

(a) *General.* The Board shall facilitate voluntary settlement between the parties of any claims or counterclaims. The appropriateness of a settlement conference, at a minimum, shall be raised by the Board at the pre-discovery and post-discovery conferences set forth in § 222.11(b).


(b) *Requesting a settlement conference*—(1) *Timing.* At any point in an *active proceeding,* some or all of the parties may jointly request a conference with an Officer to facilitate settlement discussions.


(2) *Form and content of request.* The request can be made orally at any Board conference or it can be made in writing. If made in writing, the request shall consist of a brief statement requesting a settlement conference and indicating which parties join in the request. Parties may also include a request to stay the proceedings while settlement discussions are ongoing. Granting a request for a stay shall be at the Board's discretion. Requests for a settlement conference and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter.


(c) *Scheduling settlement conference.* If the request for a settlement conference, and any request for a stay, is jointly made among the parties, or if no party files a response within seven days of the date of service of the request, the Board shall schedule a settlement conference with all parties subject to the request. If one or more parties files a response, upon consideration of the objections and whether any claims or counterclaims may be resolved with only the consenting parties in attendance, the Board may schedule a conference with some or all parties.


(d) *Settlement proceedings.* Three days prior to a settlement conference, each party participating in the conference shall submit a position statement to the presiding Officer by email and, when there is agreement among the parties, send such statement to the other participating parties outside of eCCB. The position statement shall not exceed five pages, and shall attach no more than 20 pages of exhibits, absent leave of the presiding Officer, although leave shall not be necessary should the page limit be exceeded due to an exhibit being a necessary agreement or contract. Settlement statements shall meet the requirements set forth in § 220.5(b) of this subchapter, but shall not be filed on eCCB. The statement must set forth:


(1) A brief overview of the facts and contentions;


(2) The relief sought, including the amount of damages, if any;


(3) Whether or to what extent the alleged wrongful conduct is currently taking place; and


(4) Any prior attempts at resolution, including any offers or counteroffers made to the other party.


(e) *Recusal of presiding Officer.* The Officer presiding over the settlement conference shall not participate in rendering a determination in the proceeding, unless the other Officers cannot reach a consensus as to the determination. The presiding Officer may review the record and attend any hearing that is held but shall not actively participate in the hearing or any substantive discussion among the Officers concerning the proceeding or the determination, except that such discussions may be allowed once it is known that the other Officers cannot reach a consensus as to the determination.


(f) *Stay of proceeding.* To provide the parties with an opportunity to pursue settlement and negotiate any resulting settlement agreement, the Board in its discretion may stay the proceeding for a period of 30 days concurrently with an order scheduling a settlement conference, at the time of or following the settlement conference, or at the request of the parties. The parties may request an extension of the stay in good faith to facilitate ongoing settlement discussions. Requests to stay or extend a stay of the proceeding and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter. If a settlement has not been reached at the time the stay, or any extension thereof, has expired, the Board shall issue an amended scheduling order to govern the remainder of the proceeding.


(g) *Settlement agreement.* If some or all parties reach a settlement, such parties may submit to the Board a joint request to dismiss some or all of the claims and counterclaims. The parties may include a request that the Board adopt some or all of the terms of the settlement in its *final determination.* Joint requests for dismissal shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter.


(h) *Effect of settlement agreement.* Upon receipt of a joint request to dismiss claims due to settlement, the Board shall dismiss the claims or counterclaims contemplated by the agreement with prejudice, unless the parties have included in their request that the claims or counterclaims shall be dismissed without prejudice. If the parties have requested that the Board adopt some or all of the terms of the settlement in its *final determination,* the Board may issue a *final determination* incorporating such terms unless the Board finds them clearly unconscionable.



---

[N] [87 FR 30077, May 17, 2022]




