# § 43.2   Definitions.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this part:


*Appropriate minimum block size* means the minimum notional or principal amount for a category of swaps that qualifies a swap within such category as a block trade or large notional off-facility swap.


*As soon as technologically practicable* means as soon as possible, taking into consideration the prevalence, implementation, and use of technology by comparable market participants.


*Asset class* means a broad category of commodities including, without limitation, any “excluded commodity” as defined in section 1a(19) of the Act, with common characteristics underlying a swap. The asset classes include interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity, other commodity, and such other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.


*Block trade* means a publicly reportable swap transaction that:


(1) Involves a swap that is listed on a swap execution facility or designated contract market;


(2) Is executed on a swap execution facility's trading system or platform that is not an order book as defined in § 37.3(a)(3) of this chapter, or occurs away from the swap execution facility's or designated contract market's trading system or platform and is executed pursuant to the swap execution facility's or designated contract market's rules and procedures;


(3) Has a notional or principal amount at or above the appropriate minimum block size applicable to such swap; and


(4) Is reported subject to the rules and procedures of the swap execution facility or designated contract market and the rules described in this part, including the appropriate time delay requirements set forth in § 43.5.


*Business day* means the twenty-four hour day, on all days except Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, in the location of the reporting party or registered entity reporting data for the swap.


*Business hours* means the consecutive hours of one or more consecutive business days.


*Cap size* means, for each swap category, the maximum notional or principal amount of a publicly reportable swap transaction that is publicly disseminated.


*Economically related* means a direct or indirect reference to the same commodity at the same delivery location or locations, or with the same or a substantially similar cash market price series.


*Embedded option* means any right, but not an obligation, provided to one party of a swap by the other party to the swap that provides the party holding the option with the ability to change any one or more of the economic terms of the swap.


*Execution* means an agreement by the parties, by any method, to the terms of a swap that legally binds the parties to such swap terms under applicable law.


*Execution date* means the date of execution of a particular swap.


*Futures-related swap* means a swap (as defined in section 1a(47) of the Act and as further defined by the Commission in implementing regulations) that is economically related to a futures contract.


*Large notional off-facility swap* means an off-facility swap that has a notional or principal amount at or above the appropriate minimum block size applicable to such publicly reportable swap transaction and is not a block trade as defined in § 43.2.


*Major currencies* means the currencies, and the cross-rates between the currencies, of Australia, Canada, Denmark, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, South Korea, Sweden, and Switzerland.


*Mirror swap* means a swap:


(1) To which—


(i) A prime broker is a counterparty; or


(ii) Both counterparties are prime brokers;


(2) That is executed contemporaneously with a corresponding trigger swap;


(3) That has identical terms and pricing as the contemporaneously executed trigger swap, except:


(i) That a mirror swap, but not the corresponding trigger swap, may include any associated prime brokerage service fees agreed to by the parties; and


(ii) As provided in paragraph (5) of this “mirror swap” definition;


(4) With respect to which the sole price forming event is the occurrence of the contemporaneously executed trigger swap; and


(5) The execution of which is contingent on, or is triggered by, the execution of the contemporaneously executed trigger swap. The contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts under a mirror swap may differ from those amounts of the corresponding trigger swap if:


(i) Under all such mirror swaps to which the prime broker that is a counterparty to the trigger swap is also a counterparty, the aggregate contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts shall be equal to the aggregate of the contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts under the corresponding trigger swap; and


(ii) The market risk and contractually agreed payments and delivery amounts of all such mirror swaps to which a prime broker that is not a counterparty to the corresponding trigger swap is a party will offset each other, resulting in such prime broker having a flat market risk position at the execution of such mirror swaps.


*Non-major currencies* means all other currencies that are not super-major currencies or major currencies.


*Novation* means the process by which a party to a swap legally transfers all or part of its rights, liabilities, duties, and obligations under the swap to a new legal party other than the counterparty to the swap under applicable law.


*Off-facility swap* means any swap transaction that is not executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.


*Other commodity* means any commodity that is not categorized in the interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity, or other asset classes as may be determined by the Commission.


*Physical commodity swap* means a swap in the other commodity asset class that is based on a tangible commodity.


*Post-priced swap* means an off-facility swap for which the price is not determined as of the time of execution.


*Pricing event* means the completion of the negotiation of the material economic terms and pricing of a trigger swap.


*Prime broker* means, with respect to a mirror swap and its related trigger swap, a swap dealer acting in the capacity of a prime broker with respect to such swaps.


*Prime broker swap* means any swap to which a swap dealer acting in the capacity as prime broker is a party.


*Prime brokerage agency arrangement* means an arrangement pursuant to which a prime broker authorizes one of its clients, acting as agent for such prime broker, to cause the execution of a prime broker swap.


*Prime brokerage agent* means a client of a prime broker who causes the execution of one or more prime broker swap(s) acting pursuant to a prime brokerage agency arrangement.


*Public dissemination and publicly disseminate* means to make freely available and readily accessible to the public swap transaction and pricing data in a non-discriminatory manner, through the internet or other electronic data feed that is widely published. Such public dissemination shall be made in a consistent, usable, and machine-readable electronic format that allows the data to be downloaded, saved, and analyzed.


*Publicly reportable swap transaction* means:


(1) Unless otherwise provided in this part—


(i) Any executed swap that is an arm's-length transaction between two parties that results in a corresponding change in the market risk position between the two parties; or


(ii) Any termination, assignment, novation, exchange, transfer, amendment, conveyance, or extinguishing of rights or obligations of a swap that changes the pricing of the swap.


(2) Examples of executed swaps that do not fall within the definition of publicly reportable swap may include:


(i) Internal swaps between one-hundred percent owned subsidiaries of the same parent entity;


(ii) Portfolio compression exercises; and


(iii) Swaps entered into by a derivatives clearing organization as part of managing the default of a clearing member.


(3) These examples represent swaps that are not at arm's length and thus are not publicly reportable swap transactions, notwithstanding that they do result in a corresponding change in the market risk position between two parties.


*Reference price* means a floating price series (including derivatives contract prices and cash market prices or price indices) used by the parties to a swap or swaption to determine payments made, exchanged, or accrued under the terms of a swap contract.


*Reporting counterparty* means the party to a swap with the duty to report a publicly reportable swap transaction in accordance with this part and section 2(a)(13)(F) of the Act.


*Super-major currencies* means the currencies of the European Monetary Union, Japan, the United Kingdom, and United States.


*Swap execution facility* means a trading system or platform that is a swap execution facility as defined in CEA section 1a(50) and in § 1.3 of this chapter and that is registered with the Commission pursuant to CEA section 5h and part 37 of this chapter.


*Swap transaction and pricing data* means all data elements for a swap in appendix A of this part that are required to be reported or publicly disseminated pursuant to this part.


*Swaps with composite reference prices* means swaps based on reference prices that are composed of more than one reference price from more than one swap category.


*Trigger swap* means a swap:


(1) That is executed pursuant to one or more prime brokerage agency arrangements;


(2) To which one counterparty or both counterparties are prime brokers;


(3) That serves as the contingency for, or triggers, the execution of one or more corresponding mirror swaps; and


(4) That is a publicly reportable swap transaction that is required to be reported to a swap data repository pursuant to this part and part 45 of this chapter. A prime broker swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market shall be treated as the trigger swap for purposes of this part.


*Trimmed data set* means a data set that has had extraordinarily large notional transactions removed by transforming the data into a logarithm with a base of 10, computing the mean, and excluding transactions that are beyond two standard deviations above the mean for the other commodity asset class and three standard deviations above the mean for all other asset classes.


(b) *Other defined terms.* Terms not defined in this part have the meanings assigned to the terms in § 1.3 of this chapter.



---

[N] [85 FR 75476, Nov. 25, 2020]




