# § 423.882   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Actually paid* means that the costs must be actually incurred by the qualified retiree prescription drug plan and must be net of any direct or indirect remuneration (including discounts, charge backs or rebates, cash discounts, free goods contingent on a purchase agreement, up-front payments, coupons, goods in kind, free or reduced-price services, grants, or other price concessions or similar benefits offered to some or all purchasers) from any source that would serve to decrease the costs incurred under the qualified retiree prescription drug plan.


*Administrative costs* means costs incurred by a qualified retiree prescription drug plan that are not drug costs incurred to purchase or reimburse the purchase of Part D drugs.


*Allowable retiree costs* means the subset of gross covered retiree plan-related prescription drug costs actually paid by the sponsor of the qualified retiree prescription drug plan or by (or on behalf of) a qualifying covered retiree under the plan.


*Benefit option* means a particular benefit design, category of benefits, or cost-sharing arrangement offered within a group health plan.


*Employment-based retiree health coverage* means coverage of health care costs under a group health plan based on an individual's status as a retired participant in the plan, or as the spouse or dependent of a retired participant. The term includes coverage provided by voluntary insurance coverage, or coverage as a result of a statutory or contractual obligation.


*Gross covered retiree plan-related prescription drug costs*, or *gross retiree costs*, means those Part D drug costs incurred under a qualified retiree prescription drug plan, excluding administrative costs, but including dispensing fees, during the coverage year. They equal the sum of the following:


(1) The share of prices paid by the qualified retiree prescription drug plan that is received as reimbursement by the pharmacy or by an intermediary contracting organization, and reimbursement paid to indemnify a qualifying covered retiree when the reimbursement is associated with a qualifying covered retiree obtaining Part D drugs under the qualified retiree prescription drug plan.


(2) All amounts paid under the qualified retiree prescription drug plan by or on behalf of a qualifying covered retiree (such as the deductible, coinsurance, or cost sharing) in order to obtain Part D drugs that are covered under the qualified retiree prescription drug plan.


*Group health* plans include plans as defined in section 607(1) of ERISA, 29 U.S.C. § 1167(1). They also include the following plans:


(1) A Federal or State governmental plan, which is a plan providing medical care that is established or maintained for its employees by the Government of the United States, by the government of any State or political subdivision of a State (including a county or local government), or by any agency or instrumentality or any of the foregoing, including a health benefits plan offered under chapter 89 of Title 5, United States Code (the Federal Employee Health Benefit Plan (FEHBP)).


(2) A collectively bargained plan, which is a plan providing medical care that is established or maintained under or by one or more collective bargaining agreements.


(3) A church plan, which is a plan providing medical care that is established and maintained for its employees or their beneficiaries by a church or by a convention or association of churches that is exempt from tax under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501).


(4) An account-based medical plan such as a Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) as defined in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2002-45, 2002-28 I.R.B. 93, a health Flexible Spending Arrangement (FSA) as defined in Internal Revenue Code (Code) section 106(c)(2), a health savings account (HSA) as defined in Code section 223, or an Archer MSA as defined in Code section 220, to the extent they are subject to ERISA as employee welfare benefit plans providing medical care (or would be subject to ERISA but for the exclusion in ERISA section 4(b), 29 U.S.C.§ . § 1003(b), for governmental plans or church plans).


*Part D drug* is defined in § 423.100 of this part.


*Part D eligible individual* is defined in § 423.4 of this part.


*Qualified retiree prescription drug plan* means employment-based retiree health coverage that meets the requirements set forth in § 423.884 of this chapter for a Part D eligible individual who is a retired participant or the spouse or dependent of a retired participant under the coverage.


*Qualifying covered retiree* means a Part D eligible individual who is: a participant or the spouse or dependent of a participant; covered under employment-based retiree health coverage that qualifies as a qualified retiree prescription drug plan; and not enrolled in a Part D plan. For this purpose, the determination of whether an individual is covered under employment-based retiree health coverage is made by the sponsor in accordance with the rules of its plan. For purposes of this subpart, however, an individual is presumed not to be covered under employment-based retiree health coverage if, under the Medicare Secondary Payer rules in § 411.104 of this chapter and related CMS guidance, the person is considered to be receiving coverage by reason of current employment status. The presumption applies whether or not the Medicare Secondary Payer rules actually apply to the sponsor. For this purpose, a sponsor also may treat a person receiving coverage under its qualified retiree prescription drug plan as the dependent of a qualifying covered retiree in accordance with the rules of its plan, regardless of whether that person constitutes the qualifying covered retiree's dependent for Federal or State tax purposes.


*Retiree drug subsidy amount, or subsidy payment*, means the subsidy amount paid to sponsors of qualified retiree prescription drug coverage under § 423.886(a).


*Standard prescription drug coverage* is defined in § 423.100 of this part.


*Sponsor* is a plan sponsor as defined in section 3(16)(B) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), 29 U.S.C. 1002(16)(B), except that, in the case of a plan maintained jointly by one employer and an employee organization and for which the employer is the primary source of financing, the term means the employer.


*Sponsor agreement* means an agreement by the sponsor to comply with the provisions of this subpart.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 1549, Jan. 12, 2009; 77 FR 1883, Jan. 12, 2012]




