# § 16.12   The expedited process.

(a) *Applicability.* Where the amount in dispute is $25,000 or less, the Board will use these expedited procedures, unless the Board Chair determines otherwise under paragraph (b) of this section. If the Board and the parties agree, the Board may use these procedures in cases of more than $25,000.


(b) *Exceptions.* If there are unique or unusually complex issues involved, or other exceptional circumstances, the Board may use additional procedures.


(c) *Regular expedited procedures.* (1) Within 30 days after receiving the Board's acknowledgment of the appeal (see § 16.7), each party shall submit to the Board and the other party any relevant background documents (organized as required under § 16.8), with a cover letter (generally not to exceed ten pages) containing any arguments the party wishes to make.


(2) Promptly after receiving the parties' submissions, the presiding Board member will arrange a telephone conference call to receive the parties' oral comments in response to each other's submissions. After notice to the parties, the Board will record the call. The Board member will advise the parties whether any opportunities for further briefing, submissions or oral presentations will be established. Cooperative efforts will be encouraged (see § 16.8(d)).


(3) The Board may require the parties to submit proposed findings and conclusions.


(d) *Special expedited procedures where there has already been review.* Some HHS components (for example, the Public Health Service) use a board or other relatively independent reviewing authority to conduct a formal preliminary review process which results in a written decision based on a record including documents or statements presented after reasonable notice and opportunity to present such material. In such cases, the following rules apply to appeals of $25,000 or less instead of those under paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) Generally, the Board's review will be restricted to whether the decision of the preliminary review authority was clearly erroneous. But if the Board determines that the record is inadequate, or that the procedures under which the record was developed in a given instance were unfair, the Board will not be restricted this way.


(2) Within 30 days after receiving the Board's acknowledgment of appeal (see § 16.7), the parties shall submit the following:


(i) The appellant shall submit to the Board and the respondent a statement why the decision was clearly erroneous. Unless allowed by the Board after consultation with the respondent, the appellant shall not submit further documents.


(ii) The respondent shall submit to the Board the record in the case. If the respondent has reason to believe that all materials in the record already are in the possession of the appellant, the respondent need only send the appellant a list of the materials submitted to the Board.


(iii) The respondent may, if it wishes, submit a statement why the decision was not clearly erroneous.


(3) The Board, in its discretion, may allow or require the parties to present further arguments or information.




