# § 1223.101   Definitions.

(a) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employees of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.


(b) *Eligible importer* means any person who, during the representative period, was subject to the Order and required to pay assessments on pecans imported into the United States.


(c) *Eligible producer* means any person who, during the representative period, was subject to the Order and required to pay assessments on pecans produced in the United States.


(d) *Order* means subpart A of this part, the Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order.


(e) *Pecans* means and includes any and all varieties or subvarieties, inshell and shelled, of *Carya illinoinensis* grown or imported into the United States.


(f) *Person* means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this paragraph (f), the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:


(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a pecan farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and


(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.


(g) *Referendum agent* or *agent* means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.


(h) *Representative period* means the period designated by the Secretary.


(i) *United States* means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.




