# ยง 57.06-2   Production test plate interval of testing.

(a) At least one set of production test plates must be welded for each Class I or Class I-L pressure vessel except as follows:


(1) When the extent of welding on a single vessel exceeds 50 lineal feet of either or both longitudinal and circumferential joints, at least one set of test plates must be welded for each 50 feet of joint.


(2) When the extent of welding on vessels welded in succession exceeds 50 lineal feet of either or both longitudinal and circumferential joints, at least one set of test plates must be welded for each 50 feet of aggregate joint of the same material where the plate thicknesses fall within a range of one-fourth inch. For each 50-foot increment of weld, test plates must be prepared at the time of fabrication of the first vessel involving that increment.


(b) Production test plates for Class II-L pressure vessels must be prepared as for Classes I and I-L vessels except that the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are applicable to each 150 lineal feet of welded joint in lieu of each 50 lineal feet.


(c) In the case of Class II pressure vessels, no more than one set of production test plates need be prepared for each 300 lineal feet of either or both longitudinal and circumferential joints. In the case of single vessel fabrication, a set of test plates is required for each 300 lineal feet of weld or fraction thereof. In the case of multiple vessel fabrication where each increment of 300 lineal feet of weld involves more than one pressure vessel, the set of test plates must be prepared at the time of fabrication of the first vessel involving that increment.






