# § 17.1   General.

(a) *What this part covers.* This part contains the regulations governing the financing of the sale and exportation of agricultural commodities by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), through private trade channels to the maximum extent practicable, under the authority of title I of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, as amended (hereinafter called “the Act”).


(b) *Agricultural commodities agreements.* (1) Under the Act, the Government of the United States enters into Agricultural Commodities Agreements with governments of foreign countries or with private entities. These agreements cover financing of the sale and exportation of agricultural commodities, including certain ocean transportation costs.


(2) Agricultural Commodities Agreements may provide that a participant will repay CCC for the financing extended by CCC either in dollars or in local currencies.


(3) A private entity must maintain a *bona fide* business office in the United States and have a person, principal, or agent on whom service of judicial process may be had in the United States unless the General Sales Manager determines that there are adequate assurances of repayment to CCC for the financing extended by CCC.


(c) *Purchase authorizations.* This part covers, among other things, the issuance by the General Sales Manager of purchase authorizations which authorize the participant to:


(1) Purchase agricultural commodities; and


(2) Procure ocean transportation therefor.


(d) *Financing.* For amounts to be financed by CCC, CCC will pay the supplier of commodity or of ocean transportation in accordance with § 17.9(a)(3). The cost of ocean freight or ocean freight differential will be financed by CCC only when specifically provided for in the purchase authorization.


(e) *Where information is available.* General information about operations under this part is available from the Director, Pub. L. 480 Operations Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA, Washington, DC 20250-1033. Information about financing operations under this part, including forms prescribed for use thereunder, is available from the Controller, Commodity Credit Corporation, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-0581.



---

[N] [62 FR 52932, Oct. 10, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 59692, Nov. 5, 1998]




