# § 721.11211   Substituted heteromonocycle, polymer with diisocyanato alkane and alkanediol, substituted heteromonocycle homopolymer ester with substituted alkylacrylate; blocked (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted heteromonocycle, polymer with diisocyanato alkane and alkanediol, substituted heteromonocycle homopolymer ester with substituted alkylacrylate- blocked (PMN P-17-361) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (4), and (5), (a)(6)(v) and (vi) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 0.1%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonable likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposures, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health with assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 or an APF of at least 1,000 if spray applied.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1%), (f), (g)(1)(i), (vii), and (ix) ((sensitization), (systemic effects)), (g)(2)(i) through (v), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance containing greater than 0.25% residual isocyanate or an average molecular weight less than 2,280 daltons. It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as a dual-cure adhesion coating or barrier.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 1109, Jan. 9, 2020]




