# § 1025.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1025. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:


(a) *Annuity contract* means any agreement between the insurer and the contract owner whereby the insurer promises to pay out a fixed or variable income stream for a period of time.


(b) *Covered product* means:


(1) A permanent life insurance policy, other than a group life insurance policy;


(2) An annuity contract, other than a group annuity contract; or


(3) Any other insurance product with features of cash value or investment.


(c) *Group annuity contract* means a master contract providing annuities to a group of persons under a single contract.


(d) *Group life insurance policy* means any life insurance policy under which a number of persons and their dependents, if appropriate, are insured under a single policy.


(e) *Insurance agent* means a sales and/or service representative of an insurance company. The term “insurance agent” encompasses any person that sells, markets, distributes, or services an insurance company's covered products, including, but not limited to, a person who represents only one insurance company, a person who represents more than one insurance company, and a bank or broker-dealer in securities that sells any covered product of an insurance company.


(f) *Insurance broker* means a person who, by acting as the customer's representative, arranges and/or services covered products on behalf of the customer.


(g) *Insurance company or insurer.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the term “insurance company” or “insurer” means any person engaged within the United States as a business in the issuing or underwriting of any covered product.


(2) The term “insurance company” or “insurer” does not include an insurance agent or insurance broker.


(h) *Permanent life insurance policy* means an agreement that contains a cash value or investment element and that obligates the insurer to indemnify or to confer a benefit upon the insured or beneficiary to the agreement contingent upon the death of the insured.




