# § 1485.14   Application review and formation of agreements.

(a) *General.* (1) CCC will, subject to the availability of funds, approve those applications that it considers to present the best opportunity for developing, maintaining, or expanding export markets for U.S. agricultural commodities. CCC will review all proposals for eligibility and completeness. CCC will evaluate and score each proposal against the factors described in the NOFO. The purpose of this review is to identify meritorious proposals, recommend an appropriate funding level for each proposal, and submit the proposals and funding recommendations to appropriate officials for decision. CCC may, when appropriate to the subject matter of the proposal, request the assistance of other U.S. Government experts in evaluating the merits of a proposal.


(2) When considering eligible nonprofit U.S. trade organizations, CCC may weigh which organizations have the broadest producer representation and affiliated industry participation of the commodity being promoted. CCC may require that an applicant participate in the MAP through another MAP Participant or applicant. All reviewers will be required to sign a conflict of interest form, and when conflicts of interests are identified the reviewer will be recused from the objective review process.


(b) *Application review criteria.* CCC follows results-oriented management principles and considers the following criteria when assessing the likelihood of success of the applications it receives, determining which applications to recommend for approval, and developing preliminary recommended funding levels:


(1) Strategic planning (25%);


(2) Program implementation (25%); and


(3) Program results and evaluation (50%).


(c) *Allocation factors.* CCC determines final funding levels after allocating available funds to approved applications on the basis of criteria that will be fully described in each program year's MAP announcement. Generally, extensions will not be allowable.


(d) *Approval decision*—(1) *Approval decision.* CCC will approve those applications that it determines best satisfy the criteria and factors specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.


(2) *Notification of decision.* CCC will notify each applicant in writing of the final disposition of its application. CCC will send an agreement, an approval letter, and a signature card to each approved applicant. The agreement and the approval letter will outline which activities and budgets are approved and will specify any special terms and conditions applicable to a MAP Participant's program, including any requirements with respect to contribution, cost share and program evaluations. An applicant that decides to accept the terms and conditions contained in the agreement and the approval letter must so indicate by having its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or designee sign the agreement and the approval letter and submit these to CCC. Final agreement shall occur when the agreement and the approval letter are signed by both parties. The agreement, approval letter, and this subpart shall establish the terms and conditions of a MAP agreement between CCC and the approved applicant.


(e) *Signature cards.* The MAP Participant shall designate at least two individuals in its organization to sign agreements and amendments, approval letters, reimbursement claims, and advance requests. The MAP Participant shall submit the signature card signed by those designated individuals and by the MAP Participant's CEO to CCC prior to the start of the program year. The Participant shall immediately notify CCC of any changes in signatories (*e.g.,* removal or addition of individuals, name changes, etc.), and shall submit a revised signature card accordingly.


(f) *UES ID and passwords.* CCC will provide each MAP Participant with IDs and passwords for the UES system, as necessary. MAP Participants shall protect these IDs and passwords in accordance with USDA's information technology policies. MAP Participants shall immediately notify CCC whenever a person who possesses the ID and password information no longer needs such information or a person who is not authorized gains such information.


(g) *Annual size certification.* A MAP Participant through which small-sized U.S. for-profit entities and/or U.S. agricultural cooperatives are participating in the MAP program shall obtain annual certifications from all such entities that they are small-sized U.S. entities or U.S. agricultural cooperatives as defined in these regulations. The Participant shall retain these certifications in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of this subpart.


(h) *Changes to activities and funding*—(1) *Adding a new activity.* (i) A MAP Participant may not conduct a new activity without first obtaining an approved activity budget for such change. To request approval of such activity budget, the MAP Participant shall submit a notification to CCC.


(ii) A notification for a new activity shall provide an activity justification and identify any related adjustments to the approved strategic plan, including changes in the market, constraint, or opportunity that the activity proposes to address. The notification shall contain the activity description, the proposed budget, and a justification for the transfer of funds.


(iii) After receipt of the notification, CCC will inform the MAP Participant via the UES system whether the requested budget is approved.


(2) *Modifying existing activities and their funding levels.* (i) A MAP Participant desiring to increase the funding level for existing, approved activities addressing a single constraint or opportunity by more than $25,000 or 25 percent of the approved funding level, whichever is greater, must first submit a notification explaining the adjustment to CCC before making such change.


(ii) A MAP Participant may make significant adjustments below that threshold to the funding levels for existing, approved activities without prior notification to CCC, but only if it submits a notification explaining the adjustments to CCC no later than 30 calendar days after the change. Minor adjustments to existing, approved activities and/or funding levels do not require notification.


(iii) Notifications shall describe the activity and any changes to the activity, the existing funding level, or the proposed funding level and shall include a justification for the transfer of funds, if applicable.




