# § 1018.2   Definitions.

(a) *Advisory Committee Act* or *Act* means the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Pub. L. 92-463, 5 U.S.C. App. I (1974)).


(b) *OMB Circular No. A-63* means Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-63 (Rev.), entitled “Advisory Committee Management” (39 FR 12369, April 5, 1974), as amended.


(c) *Advisory Committee* means any committee, board, commission, council, conference, panel, task force or other similar group, or any subcommittee or other subgroup, thereof, which is established or used by the Commission in the interest of obtaining advice or recommendations and which is not composed wholly of full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government.


(d) *Statutory advisory committee* means an advisory committee established or directed to be established by Congress.


(e) *Non-statutory advisory committee* means an advisory committee established by the Commission, including a committee which was authorized, but not established by Congress.


(f) *Ad hoc advisory committee* means a non-continuing, non-statutory advisory committee established by the Commission for the stated purpose of providing advice or recommendations regarding a particular problem which must be resolved immediately or within a limited period of time.


(g) *Non-Commission established advisory committee* means an advisory committee established by a Federal, State, or local instrumentality other than the Commission, or by a private organization or group and utilized by the Commission for advisory services.


(h) *GSA Secretariat* means the Committee Management Secretariat of the General Services Administration.


(i) *Chairman* means the Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.



---

[N] [41 FR 45882, Oct. 18, 1976, as amended at 46 FR 63248, Dec. 31, 1981]




