# ยง 2884.11   What information must I submit in my application?

(a) File your application on Form SF-299 or as part of an Application for Permit to Drill or Reenter (BLM Form 3160-3) or Sundry Notice and Report on Wells (BLM Form 3160-5), available from any BLM office. The application must include the applicant's original signature or meet the BLM standards for electronic commerce. Your complete application must include:






(1) The exact diameters of the pipes and locations of the pipelines;


(2) Proposed construction and reclamation techniques; and


(3) The estimated life of the facility.


(b) File with BLM copies of any applications you file with other Federal agencies, such as the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (*see* 18 CFR chapter I), for licenses, certificates, or other authorities involving the right-of-way.


(c) BLM may ask you to submit additional information beyond that required in the form to assist us in processing your application. This information may include:


(1) A list of any Federal and state approvals required for the proposal;


(2) A description of alternative route(s) and mode(s) you considered when developing the proposal;


(3) Copies of, or reference to, all similar applications or grants you have submitted, currently hold, or have held in the past;


(4) A statement of the need and economic feasibility of the proposed project;


(5) The estimated schedule for constructing, operating, maintaining, and terminating the project (a POD). Your POD must be consistent with the development schedule and other requirements as noted on the POD template for oil and gas pipelines at *http://www.blm.gov;*

(6) A map of the project, showing its proposed location and showing existing facilities adjacent to the proposal. The required map may include Geographic Information Systems (GIS) file geodatabases (FGDB), or equivalent format such as shapefiles or .kmz files, as requested by the BLM;


(7) A statement certifying that you are of legal age and authorized to do business in the state(s) where the right-of-way would be located, and that you have submitted correct information to the best of your knowledge;


(8) A statement of the environmental, social, and economic effects of the proposal;


(9) A statement of your financial and technical capability to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate the project;


(10) Proof that you are a United States citizen; and


(11) Any other information BLM considers necessary to process your application.


(d) Before BLM reviews your application for a grant, grant amendment, or grant renewal, you must submit the following information and material to ensure that the facilities will be constructed, operated, and maintained as common carriers under 30 U.S.C. 185(r):


(1) Conditions for, and agreements among, owners or operators to add pumping facilities and looping, or otherwise to increase the pipeline or terminal's throughput capacity in response to actual or anticipated increases in demand;


(2) Conditions for adding or abandoning intake, offtake, or storage points or facilities; and


(3) Minimum shipment or purchase tenders.


(e) If conditions or information affecting your application change, promptly notify BLM and submit to BLM in writing the necessary changes to your application. BLM may deny your application if you fail to do so.



---

[N] [70 FR 21078, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92226, Dec. 19, 2016; 89 FR 25973, Apr. 12, 2024]




