# ยง 401.500   Required notices to third parties and meeting with third parties.

(a) *General.* The PAE must solicit, and document the consideration of, tenant and local community comments. As a minimum, the notices described in paragraphs (b), (c) and (f) of this section, in form and substance acceptable to HUD, must be provided. The PAE may require the owner to give the notices if permitted by HUD. 


(b) *Notice of intent to restructure and consultation meeting.* (1) This notice must include at a minimum: 


(i) The project, including its name and FHA Project Number; 


(ii) The responsible PAE and contact person, including the address and telephone number; 


(iii) The owner's notice of intent to restructure through the Mark-to-Market Program; and 


(iv) The date of expiration of the project-based assistance. 


(2) This notice must state how comments may be provided to the PAE regarding any of the following: the physical condition of the property, whether the rental assistance should be tenant-based or project-based, any proposed sale or transfer of the property, and other matters regarding the property and its management. The notice must establish the date, time, and place for a public meeting to be held no sooner than 20 days and no later than 40 days following the date of this notice. The public may provide written comments up to the date of the meeting. 


(c) *Access to Restructuring Plan.* (1) The PAE must make the Restructuring Plan available to the parties identified in ยง 401.501 at least 20 days before the PAE submits the Restructuring Plan to HUD (subject to any Federal, State, or local laws restricting access to any information in the Plan or related documents). 


(2) As soon as the PAE determines that the Restructuring Plan is substantively complete and ready for submission to HUD, notice of the following must be provided: 


(i) The location of the Plan for inspection and copying; and 


(ii) The date, time, and place of a public meeting to be held at least 10 days before the PAE submits the Plan to HUD. 


(3) When the PAE gives notice under this section, it must make the Plan available during normal business hours at the management office of the project, or if there is no such office, at another location specified by the PAE that is convenient to the tenants. 


(d) *Meeting to discuss the Restructuring Plan.* After the PAE has given notice under this section and at least 10 days before the PAE submits the Plan to HUD, the PAE must conduct a public meeting to obtain comments on the substantively completed Plan. The PAE must accept written comments through the date of the meeting. 


(e) *Disposition of comments.* The PAE must document and provide to HUD with the Restructuring Plan a summary of the disposition of all public comments. 


(f) *Notice of completion of Restructuring Plan.* (1) Within 10 days after the owner executes the Restructuring Commitment, notice must be provided that describes the completed Restructuring Plan and Restructuring Commitment. The PAE must make the completed Restructuring Plan and Restructuring Commitment available during normal business hours to the public at a place described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, subject to Federal, State, or local laws restricting access to any information in any of these documents. 


(2) Within 10 days after a determination that the Restructuring Plan will not move forward for any reason, HUD or the PAE shall provide notice to affected tenants that describes the reasons for the failure of the Plan to move forward and the availability of tenant-based assistance under ยง 401.602(c).



---

[N] [65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66040, Nov. 26, 2007]




