# § 387.313   Forms and procedures.

(a) *Forms for endorsements, certificates of insurance and others*—(1) *In form prescribed.* Endorsements for policies of insurance and surety bonds, certificates of insurance, applications to qualify as a self-insurer, or for approval of other securities or agreements, and notices of cancellation must be in the form prescribed and approved by the FMCSA.


(2) *Aggregation of Insurance.*** When insurance is provided by more than one insurer in order to aggregate security limits for carriers operating only freight vehicles under 10,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating, as defined in § 387.303(b)(1), a separate *Form BMC 90,* with the specific amounts of underlying and limits of coverage shown thereon or appended thereto, and *Form BMC 91X* certificate is required of each insurer.


(3) *Use of Certificates and Endorsements in BMC Series. Form BMC 91* certificates of insurance will be filed with the FMCSA for the full security limits under § 387.303 (b)(1) or (b)(2).


(4) *Use of Endorsements in MCS Series.* When Security limits certified under § 387.303 (b)(1) or (b)(2) involves coverage also required by the Department of Transportation a *Form MCS endorsement* prescribed by the Department of Transportation such as, and including, the *Form MCS 90* endorsement is required.


(5) *Surety bonds.* When surety bonds are used rather than certificates of insurance, *Form BMC 82* is required for the security limits under § 387.303(b)(1) not subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation, and *Form MCS 82,* or any form of similar import prescribed by the Department of Transportation, is used for the security limits subject also to minimum coverage requirements of the Department of Transportation.


(6) *Surety bonds and certificates in effect continuously.* Surety bonds and certificates of insurance shall specify that coverage thereunder will remain in effect continuously until terminated as herein provided, except: 


(i) When filed expressly to fill prior gaps or lapses in coverage or to cover grants of emergency temporary authority of unusually short duration and the filing clearly so indicates, or 


(ii) In special or unusual circumstances, when special permission is obtained for filing certificates of insurance or surety bonds on terms meeting other particular needs of the situation.


(b) *Filing and copies.* Certificates of insurance, surety bonds, and notices of cancellation must be filed with the FMCSA at *http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov.*

(c) *Name of insured.* Certificates of insurance and surety bonds shall be issued in the full and correct name of the individual, partnership, corporation or other person to whom the certificate, permit, or license is, or is to be, issued. In the case of a partnership, all partners shall be named.


(d) *Cancellation notice.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, surety bonds, certificates of insurance, and other securities or agreements shall not be cancelled or withdrawn until 30 days after written notice has been submitted to *http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov* on the prescribed form (Form BMC-35, Notice of Cancellation Motor Carrier Policies of Insurance under 49 U.S.C. 13906, and BMC-36, Notice of Cancellation Motor Carrier and Broker Surety Bonds, as appropriate) by the insurance company, surety or sureties, motor carrier, broker or other party thereto, as the case may be, which period of thirty (30) days shall commence to run from the date such notice on the prescribed form is filed with FMCSA at *http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov.*

(e) *Termination by replacement.* Certificates of insurance or surety bonds which have been accepted by the FMCSA under these rules may be replaced by other certificates of insurance, surety bonds or other security, and the liability of the retiring insurer or surety under such certificates of insurance or surety bonds shall be considered as having terminated as of the effective date of the replacement certificate of insurance, surety bond or other security, provided the said replacement certificate, bond or other security is acceptable to the FMCSA under the rules and regulations in this part.



---

[N] [47 FR 55944, Dec. 14, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 43334, Sept. 23, 1983; 48 FR 51781, Nov. 14, 1983; 50 FR 40030, Oct. 1, 1985; 51 FR 34623, Sept. 30, 1986; 62 FR 49941, Sept. 24, 1997; 75 FR 35328, June 22, 2010; 80 FR 63709, Oct. 21, 2015; 83 FR 22877, May 17, 2018; 84 FR 51434, Sept. 30, 2019]


