# § 706.23   Fees charged.

(a) *Fees.* In responding to FOIA requests, DFC will charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under § 706.24 of this subpart. Because the fee amounts provided below already account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, DFC should not add any additional costs to charges calculated under this section.


(1) *Search.* (i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. Search fees will be charged to all other requests, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (b) of this section. Fees for time spent searching is properly charged even if no responsive records are located or if all responsive records are determined to be entirely exempt from disclosure.


(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees will be as follows: Professional—$13.75; and administrative—$7.50.


(iii) Requesters will be charged the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new program to locate the requested records. Before incurring such costs, DFC will notify the requester and the requester must agree to pay.


(iv) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored at a Federal Records Center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), additional costs shall be charged in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.


(2) *Duplication.* Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (b) of this section. DFC will honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where it is readily reproducible in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, DFC will provide one copy per request at a cost of $0.10 per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other electronic media, DFC will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester must also pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, DFC will charge the direct costs.


(3) *Review.* Review fees will be charged to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record, *i.e.,* the review conducted by DFC to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if the appellate authority determines that a particular exemption no longer applies, any costs associated with the re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(b) *Restrictions on charging fees.* (1) No search fees will be charged for educational use requests, noncommercial scientific use requests, or news media requests as defined in Section 706.22.


(2) Fees charged when DFC exceeds time limits.


(i) When DFC fails to comply with the time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in (b)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section.


(ii) If DFC has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply and DFC provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional ten days.


(iii) If DFC has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, DFC may charge all applicable fees incurred in processing the request if the following steps are taken:


(A) DFC has provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA; and


(B) DFC has discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).


(iv) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.


(3) No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.


(4) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, DFC will provide without charge:


(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and


(ii) The first two hours of search.


(5) If, after deducting free entitlements, the total fee calculated under this section is $25.00 or less, no fee will be charged.


(c) *Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.* (1) When DFC determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, DFC will notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of fees for search, review, and duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, DFC will advise the requester accordingly. If the request is for noncommercial use, the notice will specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlements of 100 pages of duplication at no charge, and if the requester is charged search fees, two hours of search time at no charge, and will advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.


(2) If DFC notifies the requester that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester must provide the commitment or designation in writing, and must, when applicable, designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. DFC is not required to accept payments in installments.


(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but DFC estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the processing of the request will be tolled when DFC notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. DFC will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, DFC's time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.


(4) DFC's FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison is available to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.


(d) *Charges for other services.* Although not required to provide special services, if DFC chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service will be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.


(e) *Charging interest.* DFC may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the thirty-first day following the billing date. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received by DFC. DFC will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.


(f) *Aggregating requests.* If DFC reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, DFC may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. DFC may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, DFC will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters will not be aggregated.


(g) *Advance payments.* (1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section DFC will not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (*i.e.,* payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.


(2) When DFC determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. DFC may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.


(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any agency within thirty calendar days of the billing date, DFC may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request. DFC may also require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before DFC begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where DFC has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented his or her identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.


(4) In cases in which DFC requires advance payment, DFC's response time will be tolled and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within thirty calendar days after the date of DFC's fee letter, DFC may administratively close the request.


(h) *Other statutes specifically providing for fees.* The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires an agency to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily-based fee schedule program, DFC will inform the requester of the contact information for that program.




