# § 500.2   General definitions.

*Expenses* means incursions of costs by FirstNet in the course of executing its statutory powers, duties, and responsibilities under 47 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.,* including but not limited to:


(1) Salaries and Benefits;


(2) Travel;


(3) Services: Federal Sources;


(4) Services: Non-Federal Sources;


(5) Facilities Rental;


(6) Supplies, Materials, and Printing;


(7) Equipment; and


(8) Other Expenses incurred for future contract award, necessary reserve funds, including for all other permitted purposes under the Act, or other authorized expenses as identified in FirstNet's standard financial documentation.


*Fee* means:


(1) FirstNet's receipt of money from:


(i) Network User Fees, including User Fees Associated with State Use of Elements of the Core Network;


(ii) Lease Fees Related To Network Capacity; or


(iii) Lease Fees Related To Network Equipment And Infrastructure, as those terms are defined under 47 U.S.C. 1428(a) and 47 U.S.C. 1442(f).


(2) Income received by FirstNet other than from fees authorized under 47 U.S.C. 1428(a) is not directly subject to NTIA review. However, NTIA will consider such non-fee-based income as part of its determination of whether such income, when combined in aggregate with the fees authorized under 47 U.S.C. 1428(a), will be sufficient to recoup FirstNet's total expenses, but not exceed the amount necessary to carry out its statutory powers, duties, and responsibilities under 47 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.* for the fiscal year involved.


*FirstNet* means the First Responder Network Authority.


*Fiscal Year* means the 12-month accounting period for the federal government, which begins on October 1 of a given year and ends on September 30 of the subsequent year.


*Necessary reserve funds* means any amount of money identified by FirstNet in its standard financial documentation to meet expected and unexpected future expenses that may arise in the course of FirstNet executing its statutory powers, duties, and responsibilities under 47 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.,* including but not limited to capital reserve funds, operating reserve funds, maintenance reserve funds, and improvement reserve funds.


*Non-fee-based income received by FirstNet* means FirstNet's receipt of money from any source, transaction, entity, or any other means allowed under 47 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.,* other than those receipts described above in the definition of “*fee.”*

*NTIA* means the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.


*NTIA's fee review and approval process* means the process by which NTIA executes its duties under 47 U.S.C. 1428(c).


*Standard financial documentation* means documents developed by FirstNet in its ordinary course of business that detail FirstNet's current and projected financial condition, which may include but is not limited to:


(1) FirstNet's budget documents produced in the normal course of its business;


(2) FirstNet's financial statements produced in the normal course of its business;


(3) FirstNet's annual financial audit documents, which detail FirstNet's revenue categories and statutory authority for such categories;


(4) FirstNet's annual budget reports submitted as part of the President's Budget; and


(5) FirstNet's annual report to Congress.




