# § 679.54   Release of observer data to the public.

(a) *Summary of weekly data.* The following information collected by observers for each catcher/processor and catcher vessel during any weekly reporting period may be made available to the public:


(1) Vessel name and Federal permit number.


(2) Number of Chinook salmon and “other salmon” observed.


(3) The ratio of total round weight of incidentally caught halibut or Pacific herring to the total round weight of groundfish in sampled catch.


(4) The ratio of number of king crab or *C. bairdi* Tanner crab to the total round weight of groundfish in sampled hauls.


(5) The number of observed trawl hauls or fixed gear sets.


(6) The number of trawl hauls that were basket sampled.


(7) The total weight of basket samples taken from sampled trawl hauls.


(b) *Haul-specific data.* (1) The information listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (xiii) of this section and collected by observers from observed hauls on board vessels using trawl gear to participate in a directed fishery for groundfish other than rockfish, Greenland turbot, or Atka mackerel may be made available to the public:


(i) Date.


(ii) Time of day gear is deployed.


(iii) Latitude and longitude at beginning of haul.


(iv) Bottom depth.


(v) Fishing depth of trawl.


(vi) The ratio of the number of Chinook salmon to the total round weight of groundfish.


(vii) The ratio of the number of other salmon to the total round weight of groundfish.


(viii) The ratio of total round weight of incidentally caught halibut to the total round weight of groundfish.


(ix) The ratio of total round weight of herring to the total round weight of groundfish.


(x) The ratio of the number of king crab to the total round weight of groundfish.


(xi) The ratio of the number of *C. bairdi* Tanner crab to the total round weight of groundfish.


(xii) Sea surface temperature (where available).


(xiii) Sea temperature at fishing depth of trawl (where available).


(2) The identity of the vessels from which the data in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are collected will not be released.


(c) *Competitive harm.* In exceptional circumstances, the owners and operators of vessels may provide to the Regional Administrator written justification at the time observer data are submitted, or within a reasonable time thereafter, that disclosure of the information listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm. The determination whether to disclose the information will be made pursuant to 15 CFR 4.7.



---

[N] [77 FR 70101, Nov. 21, 2012]




