# § 5001.517   Liquidation.

In the event of one or more incidents of default or third-party actions that the borrower cannot or will not cure or eliminate within a reasonable period of time, the lender, with Agency consent, must provide for liquidation in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section. The lender is responsible for initiating actions immediately and as necessary to assure a prompt, orderly liquidation that will provide maximum recovery. The Agency reserves the right to unilaterally conclude that liquidation is necessary and require the lender to assign the collateral to the Agency and the Agency will then liquidate the loan per paragraph (o) of this section.


(a) *Decision to liquidate.* A decision to liquidate a loan or proceed otherwise must be made when the lender determines that the default cannot be cured or when the Agency and the lender determine that it is in the best interest of the Agency and the lender to liquidate. The decision to liquidate or proceed otherwise with the borrower must be made as soon as possible when one or more of the following exist:


(1) The loan is 90 calendar days behind on any scheduled payment and the lender and the borrower have not been able to cure the delinquency;


(2) Delaying liquidation will jeopardize full or maximum recovery on the loan; or


(3) The borrower or lender is uncooperative in resolving the problem or the Agency or lender has reason to believe the borrower is not acting in good faith, and immediate liquidation would minimize loss to the Agency.


(b) *Repurchase of loan.* When the decision to liquidate a loan is made, if any portion of the loan has been sold or assigned under § 5001.408 of this part and has not already been repurchased, the lender must make provisions for repurchase in accordance with § 5001.511.


(c) *Lender's liquidation plan.* Within 30 calendar days after the lender decides to liquidate a loan, the lender must submit a written, proposed plan of liquidation to the Agency for approval. The liquidation plan must be detailed and include at least the following information:




(1) Such proof as the Agency requires to establish the lender's ownership of the guaranteed loan promissory note and related security instruments. Such proof may include copies of executed notes; and copies of mortgages or deeds of trust recorded in the appropriate jurisdiction;


(2) A copy of the payment ledger, if available, or other documentation that reflects the current outstanding loan balance, accrued interest to date, and the method of computing the accrued interest. If the interest rate was a variable rate, the lender must include documentation of changes in the agreed upon base rate and when the changes in the loan rate became effective.




(3) A full and complete list of all collateral and a listing of all liens held and status of such liens, plus any personal and corporate guarantees;


(4) The recommended liquidation methods for making the maximum collection possible on the indebtedness and the justification for such methods, including recommended action for acquiring and disposing of all collateral and collecting from guarantors;


(5) Necessary steps for preservation of the collateral including any anticipated protective advances;


(6) The market value and the potential liquidation value, or estimates thereof, of all the collateral securing the loan.


(i) These values or estimates of the collateral must be obtained by the lender through an independent appraisal. If the outstanding balance of principal and interest is less than $250,000, the lender may, instead of an appraisal, obtain these values or estimates by using their primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. A copy of the appraisal or valuation will be provided to the Agency with the liquidation plan or as soon as it is available.






(ii) The procedure used to obtain these values or estimates of the collateral must include an evaluation of the impact of any release of hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards.


(iii) Any independent appraiser's fee, including the cost of the environmental site assessment if necessary, will be shared equally by the Agency and the lender;


(7) Proposed protective bid amounts on collateral to be sold at auction and a description to show how the amounts were determined.


(i) A protective bid can be made by the lender, with prior Agency written approval, at a foreclosure sale to protect the lender's and the Agency's interest.


(ii) The protective bid must not exceed the amount of the loan balance plus applicable foreclosure expenses and must be based on the liquidation value and estimated net recovery considering prior liens and outstanding taxes, expenses of foreclosure, and estimated expenses for holding and reselling the property. Foreclosure expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses for resale, interest accrual, length of time necessary for resale, maintenance, guard service, weatherization, and prior liens;


(8) Copies of the borrower's latest available financial statements;


(9) Copies of each guarantor's latest available financial statements;


(10) An itemized list of estimated liquidation expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense. These may include attorney, auctioneer, and other professional fees for services the lender will need to contract to maximize recovery on the loan. Cost could also include legal representation to protect Agency/lender joint interest in bankruptcy or receivership;


(11) Estimated protective advance amounts with justification. Protective advances include, but are not limited to, advances made for taxes, annual assessments, ground rent, hazard and flood insurance premiums affecting the collateral, and other expenses necessary to protect the collateral. Protective advances may include advances necessary to maintain services or address unique situations with proper justification. If the lender has advanced funds without agency approval during the life of the loan, such expenditures or loans will not be guaranteed;








(12) If a voluntary conveyance is considered, the proposed amount to be credited to the guaranteed debt;


(13) Legal opinions, if needed by the lender's legal counsel; and


(14) A schedule to periodically report to the Agency on the progress of liquidation, not to exceed every 60 days.


(d) *Partial liquidation plan.* If actions are necessary to immediately preserve and protect the collateral, the lender may submit a partial liquidation plan and, when approved by the Agency, submit a complete liquidation plan prepared by the lender in accordance with *paragraph (c)* of this section.








(e) *Approval of liquidation plan.* The lender cannot implement its liquidation plan before obtaining written approval from the Agency. The Agency will approve or disapprove the plan within 30 calendar days of its receipt. In order to ensure prompt action, the lender may submit its liquidation plan with an estimate of collateral value, and the Agency may approve the liquidation plan subject to the results of the final liquidation appraisal.


(1) If the Agency approves the lender's liquidation plan, the lender must:


(i) Proceed expeditiously with liquidation. The lender must actively market the collateral for a reasonable period of time. If after this period of time the lender is unable to sell the collateral, then consideration should be given to submission of a final loss claim based on the fair market value of the collateral prior to its ultimate disposition;






(ii) Take all legal action necessary to liquidate the loan in accordance with the approved liquidation plan; and


(iii) Update or modify the liquidation plan when conditions warrant, including a change in value based on a liquidation appraisal.


(iv) If changed circumstances after submission of the liquidation plan require a revision of liquidation costs, the lender must obtain the Agency's written approval prior to proceeding with the proposed changes if the revised liquidation costs exceed 10 percent of the amount proposed in the liquidation plan approved by the Agency.


(2) If the Agency does not approve the lender's liquidation plan, the Agency will meet with the lender to resolve the concern(s). Until the concerns are resolved, the lender must take such actions that a reasonable lender would take without a guarantee and keep the Agency informed, in writing, of those actions. Once the revised liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, the lender must proceed in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(f) *Acceleration.* The lender must proceed to accelerate the loan as expeditiously as possible when acceleration is necessary, including giving any notices and taking any other required legal actions. The guaranteed loan will be considered in liquidation once it has been accelerated and a demand for payment has been made upon the borrower.


(1) If the sole basis for acceleration is a non-monetary default, the lender must obtain concurrence from the Agency prior to accelerating the loan. In the case of monetary default, the lender may accelerate the loan without prior approval by the Agency, although Agency concurrence must still be given no later than the time the Agency approves the liquidation plan.


(2) The lender must provide the Agency a copy of the acceleration notice, or other acceleration document sent to the borrower.




(g) *Estimated loss claim and payment.* If the lender is conducting the liquidation and owns any or all the guaranteed portion of the loan, the lender must file an estimated loss claim once a decision has been made to liquidate if the liquidation will exceed 90 calendar days. The Agency will process the estimated loss claim and will make final loss payments in accordance with § 5001.521.


(h) *Liquidation expenses.* (1) The guarantee will not cover liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds under any circumstances.


(2) When a liquidation is performed by the lender, the Agency must approve, in advance and in writing, the lender's estimated liquidation expenses of collateral.


(3) Liquidation expenses must be reasonable and customary and must provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the lender and the Agency. The lender and Agency will share liquidation expenses equally. To accomplish this, the lender must deduct 50 percent of the liquidation expenses from the collateral sale proceeds.


(i) *Accounting and reports.* The lender must account for funds during the period of liquidation and must provide the Agency with reports on the progress of liquidation including disposition of collateral and resulting costs. If in the course of implementing the approved liquidation plan the lender determines additional procedures are necessary for the successful completion of the liquidation or otherwise makes any other changes to or deviations from the approved liquidation plan, the lender must identify in the report such procedures, changes, and deviations.


(j) *Transmitting payments and proceeds to the Agency.* When the Agency is the holder of a portion of the guaranteed loan, the lender must transmit to the Agency within 14 calendar days the Agency's pro rata share of any payments received from the borrower, liquidation, or other proceeds using an Agency approved form.


(k) *Disposition of collateral.* (1) Disposition of collateral acquired by the lender must be approved, in writing, by the Agency when—


(i) The lender's cost to acquire the collateral of a borrower exceeds the potential recovery value of the security and the lender proposes abandoning the collateral in lieu of liquidation; or


(ii) The acquired collateral is to be sold to the borrower, affiliates or members of the borrower or to borrower's stockholders or officers, or the lender or lender's stockholders or officers.


(2) A recommendation by the lender for abandonment of collateral is considered a servicing action under 7 CFR 1970.8(e) and a separate NEPA review is not required.


(l) *Disposition of personal or corporate guarantees.* The lender must take action to maximize recovery from all personal and corporate guarantees, including seeking deficiency judgments when there is a reasonable chance of future collection.


(m) *Compromise settlement.* Compromise settlements must be approved by the lender and the Agency. The lender must provide complete current financial information on all parties obligated for the loan. At a minimum, the compromise settlement must be equivalent to the value and timeliness of that which would be received from attempting to collect on the guarantee. Any guarantor cannot be released from liability until the full amount of the compromise settlement has been received. In determining whether to approve a compromise settlement, the Agency will consider, among other things, whether the compromise is more financially advantageous than collecting on the guarantee.


(n) *Liquidation provisions selection.* (1) If a lender has made a loan guaranteed under one of the programs identified in § 5001.1 of this part, the lender has the option to liquidate the loan under the provisions of this part or under the entire provisions of applicable regulation at the time the loan was guaranteed by the Agency.


(2) The lender must notify the Agency in writing within 10 calendar days after its decision to liquidate as to which regulatory provisions it chooses to use. If the lender does not notify the Agency in writing within these 10 calendar days, it must use the liquidation provisions in this part.


(o) *Agency liquidation.* The Agency will liquidate a guaranteed loan at its option only when it is a holder and there is reason to believe the lender is not likely to undertake liquidation efforts that will result in maximum recovery. When it conducts a liquidation, the Agency will apply proceeds derived from the sale of the collateral first to reasonable liquidation expenses and second to the guaranteed portion of the loan.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024]










