# § 52.34   Action on petitions submitted under section 126 relating to emissions of nitrogen oxides.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the Administrator's duly authorized representative.


(2) *Large Electric Generating Units (large EGUs)* means:


(i) For units that commenced operation before January 1, 1997, a unit serving during 1995 or 1996 a generator that had a nameplate capacity greater than 25 Mwe and produced electricity for sale under a firm contract to the electric grid.


(ii) For units that commenced operation on or after January 1, 1997 and before January 1, 1999, a unit serving at any time during 1997 or 1998 a generator that had a nameplate capacity greater than 25 Mwe and produced electricity for sale under a firm contract to the electric grid.


(iii) For units that commence operation on or after January 1, 1999, a unit serving at any time a generator that has a nameplate capacity greater than 25 Mwe and produces electricity for sale.


(3) *Large Non-Electric Generating Units (large non-EGUs)* means:


(i) For units that commenced operation before January 1, 1997, a unit that has a maximum design heat input greater than 250 mmBtu/hr and that did not serve during 1995 or 1996 a generator producing electricity for sale under a firm contract to the electric grid.


(ii) For units that commenced operation on or after January 1, 1997 and before January 1, 1999, a unit that has a maximum design heat input greater than 250 mmBtu/hr and that did not serve at any time during 1997 or 1998 a generator producing electricity for sale under a firm contract to the electric grid.


(iii) For units that commence operation on or after January 1, 1999, a unit with a maximum design heat input greater than 250 mmBtu/hr that:


(A) At no time serves a generator producing electricity for sale; or


(B) At any time serves a generator producing electricity for sale, if any such generator has a nameplate capacity of 25 Mwe or less and has the potential to use 50 percent or less of the potential electrical output capacity of the unit.


(4) *New sources* means new and modified sources.


(5) *NO*_X_ means oxides of nitrogen.


(6) *OTAG* means the Ozone Transport Assessment Group (active 1995-1997), a national work group that addressed the problem of ground-level ozone and the long-range transport of air pollution across the Eastern United States. The OTAG was a partnership between EPA, the Environmental Council of the States, and various industry and environmental groups.


(7) *Ozone season* means the period of time beginning May 1 of a year and ending on September 30 of the same year, inclusive.


(8) *Potential electrical output capacity* means, with regard to a unit, 33 percent of the maximum design heat input of the unit.


(9) *Unit* means a fossil-fuel fired stationary boiler, combustion turbine, or combined cycle system.


(b) *Purpose and applicability.* Paragraphs (c), (e)(1) and (e)(2), (g), and (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section set forth the Administrator's findings with respect to the 1-hour national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for ozone that certain new and existing sources of emissions of nitrogen oxides (“NO_X_”) in certain States emit or would emit NO_X_ in violation of the prohibition in section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) of the Clean Air Act (CAA) on emissions in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in certain States that submitted petitions in 1997-1998 addressing such NO_X_ emissions under section 126 of the CAA. Paragraphs (d), (e)(3) and (e)(4), (f), and (h)(3) and (h)(4) of this section set forth the Administrator's affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour NAAQS for ozone that certain new and existing sources of emissions of NO_X_ in certain States emit or would emit NO_X_ in violation of the prohibition in section 110(a)(2)(D)(i) of the CAA on emissions in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in, or interfere with maintenance by, certain States that submitted petitions in 1997-1998 addressing such NO_X_ emissions under section 126 of the CAA. (As used in this section, the term new source includes modified sources, as well.) Paragraph (i) of this section explains the circumstances under which the findings for sources in a specific State would be withdrawn. Paragraph (j) of this section sets forth the control requirements that apply to the sources of NO_X_ emissions affected by the findings. Paragraph (k) of this section indefinitely stays the effectiveness of the affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard. 


(1) The States that submitted such petitions are Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont (each of which, hereinafter in this section, may be referred to also as a “petitioning State”).


(2) The new and existing sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petitions that emit or would emit NO_X_ emissions in amounts that make such significant contributions are large electric generating units (EGUs) and large non-EGUs.


(c) *Section 126(b) findings relating to impacts on ozone levels in Connecticut*—(1) *Section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in Connecticut.* The Administrator finds that any existing or new major source or group of stationary sources emits or would emit NO_X_ in violation of the Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(d)(i) prohibition with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in the State of Connecticut if it is or will be: 


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 in appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of Connecticut.


(2) *States or portions of States that contain sources for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in Connecticut.* The States, or portions of States, that contain sources of NO_X_ emissions for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings under paragraph (c)(1) of this section are: 


(i) Delaware.


(ii) District of Columbia.


(iii) Portion of Indiana located in OTAG Subregions 2 and 6, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-2, of this part.


(iv) Portion of Kentucky located in OTAG Subregion 6, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-2, of this part.


(v) Maryland.


(vi) Portion of Michigan located south of 44 degrees latitude in OTAG Subregion 2, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-2, of this part.


(vii) Portion of North Carolina located in OTAG Subregion 7, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-2, of this part.


(viii) New Jersey.


(ix) Portion of New York extending west and south of Connecticut, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-2, of this part.


(x) Ohio.


(xi) Pennsylvania.


(xii) Virginia.


(xiii) West Virginia.


(d) *Affirmative technical determinations relating to impacts on ozone levels in Maine*—(1) *Affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in Maine.* The Administrator of EPA finds that any existing or new major source or group of stationary sources emits or would emit NO_X_ in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in the State of Maine, with respect to the 8-hour NAAQS for ozone if it is or will be:


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 of appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of Maine.


(2) *States or portions of States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in Maine.* The States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination are:


(i) Connecticut.


(ii) Delaware.


(iii) District of Columbia.


(iv) Maryland.


(v) Massachusetts.


(vi) New Jersey.


(vii) New York.


(viii) Pennsylvania.


(ix) Rhode Island.


(x) Virginia. 


(e) *Section 126(b) findings and affirmative technical determinations relating to impacts on ozone levels in Massachusetts*—(1) *Section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in Massachusetts.* The Administrator finds that any existing major source or group of stationary sources emits NO_X_ in violation of the Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(d)(i) prohibition with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in the State of Massachusetts if it is: 


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 in appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of Massachusetts.


(2) *States that contain sources for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in Massachusetts.* The portions of States that contain sources of NO_X_ emissions for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings under paragraph (e)(1) of this section are: 


(i) All counties in West Virginia located within a 3-county-wide band of the Ohio River, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-4, of this part.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) *Affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in Massachusetts.* The Administrator of EPA finds that any existing major source or group of stationary sources emits NO_X_ in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in, or interfere with maintenance by, the State of Massachusetts, with respect to the 8-hour NAAQS for ozone if it is:


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (e)(4) of this section; and


(iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 in appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of Massachusetts.


(4) *States or portions of States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in Massachusetts.* The portions of States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination are:


(i) All counties in Ohio located within a 3-county-wide band of the Ohio River, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-4, of this part.


(ii) All counties in West Virginia located within a 3-county-wide band of the Ohio River, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-4, of this part.


(f) *Affirmative technical determinations relating to impacts on ozone levels in New Hampshire*—(1) *Affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in New Hampshire.* The Administrator of EPA finds that any existing or new major source or group of stationary sources emits or would emit NO_X_ in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in, or interfere with maintenance by, the State of New Hampshire, with respect to the 8-hour NAAQS for ozone if it is or will be:


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 of appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of New Hampshire.


(2) *States or portions of States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in New Hampshire.* The States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination are:


(i) Connecticut.


(ii) Delaware.


(iii) District of Columbia.


(iv) Maryland.


(v) Massachusetts.


(vi) New Jersey.


(vii) New York.


(viii) Pennsylvania.


(ix) Rhode Island.


(g) *Section 126(b) findings relating to impacts on ozone levels in the State of New York*—(1) *Section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in the State of New York.* The Administrator finds that any existing or new major source or group of stationary sources emits or would emit NO_X_ in violation of the Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(d)(i) prohibition with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in the State of New York if it is or will be: 


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (g)(2) of this section; and


(iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 in appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of New York.


(2) *States or portions of States that contain sources for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in New York.* The States, or portions of States, that contain sources of NO_X_ emissions for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings under paragraph (g)(1) of this section are: 


(i) Delaware.


(ii) District of Columbia.


(iii) Portion of Indiana located in OTAG Subregions 2 and 6, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-6, of this part.


(iv) Portion of Kentucky located in OTAG Subregion 6, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-6, of this part.


(v) Maryland.


(vi) Portion of Michigan located south of 44 degrees latitude in OTAG Subregion 2, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-6, of this part.


(vii) Portion of North Carolina located in OTAG Subregions 6 and 7, as shown in appendix F, Figure F-6, of this part.


(viii) New Jersey.


(ix) Ohio.


(x) Pennsylvania.


(xi) Virginia.


(xii) West Virginia.


(h) *Section 126(b) findings and affirmative technical determinations relating to impacts on ozone levels in the State of Pennsylvania*—(1) *Section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in the State of Pennsylvania.* The Administrator finds that any existing or new major source or group of stationary sources emits or would emit NO_X_ in violation of the Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(d)(i) prohibition with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in the State of Pennsylvania if it is or will be: 


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (h)(2) of this section; and (iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 in appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of Pennsylvania.


(2) *States that contain sources for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings with respect to the 1-hour ozone standard in Pennsylvania.* The States that contain sources of NO_X_ emissions for which the Administrator is making section 126(b) findings under paragraph (h)(1) of this section are: 


(i) North Carolina.


(ii) Ohio.


(iii) Virginia.


(iv) West Virginia.


(3) *Affirmative technical determinations with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in Pennsylvania.* The Administrator of EPA finds that any existing or new major source or group of stationary sources emits or would emit NO_X_ in amounts that contribute significantly to nonattainment in, or interfere with maintenance by, the State of Pennsylvania, with respect to the 8-hour NAAQS for ozone:


(i) In a category of large EGUs or large non-EGUs;


(ii) Located in one of the States (or portions thereof) listed in paragraph (h)(4) of this section; and


(iii) Within one of the “Named Source Categories” listed in the portion of Table F-1 in appendix F of this part describing the sources of NO_X_ emissions covered by the petition of the State of Pennsylvania.


(4) *States or portions of States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard in Pennsylvania.* The States that contain sources for which EPA is making an affirmative technical determination are:


(i) Alabama.


(ii) Illinois.


(iii) Indiana.


(iv) Kentucky.


(v) Michigan.


(vi) Missouri.


(vii) North Carolina.


(viii) Ohio.


(ix) Tennessee.


(x) Virginia.


(xi) West Virginia.


(i) *Withdrawal of section 126 findings.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, a finding under paragraphs (c), (e)(1) and (e)(2), (g), and (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section as to a particular major source or group of stationary sources in a particular State will be deemed to be withdrawn, and the corresponding part of the relevant petition(s) denied, if the Administrator issues a final action putting in place implementation plan provisions that comply with the requirements of §§ 51.121 and 51.122 of this chapter for such State. 


(j) *Section 126 control remedy.* The Federal NO_X_ Budget Trading Program in part 97 of this chapter applies to the owner or operator of any new or existing large EGU or large non-EGU as to which the Administrator makes a finding under section 126(b) of the Clean Air Act pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (e)(1) and (e)(2), (g), and (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section. 


(k) *Stay of findings with respect to the 8-hour ozone standard.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, the effectiveness of paragraphs (d), (e)(3) and (e)(4), (f), (h)(3) and (h)(4) of this section is stayed. 


(l) *Temporary stay of rules.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, the effectiveness of this section is stayed from July 26, 1999 until February 17, 2000.



---

[N] [64 FR 28318, May 25, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 33961, June 24, 1999; 65 FR 2042, Jan. 13, 2000; 65 FR 2726, Jan. 18, 2000; 69 FR 31505, June 3, 2004]




