# ยง 10.11   Manufacturer civil monetary penalties.

(a) *General.* Any manufacturer with a pharmaceutical pricing agreement that knowingly and intentionally charges a covered entity more than the ceiling price, as defined in ยง 10.10, for a covered outpatient drug, may be subject to a civil monetary penalty not to exceed $5,000 for each instance of overcharging, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. This penalty will be imposed pursuant to the applicable procedures at 42 CFR part 1003. Any civil monetary penalty assessed will be in addition to repayment for an instance of overcharging as required by section 340B(d)(1)(B)(ii) of the PHSA.


(b) *Instance of overcharging.* An instance of overcharging is any order for a covered outpatient drug, by NDC, which results in a covered entity paying more than the ceiling price, as defined in ยง 10.10, for that covered outpatient drug.


(1) Each order for an NDC will constitute a single instance, regardless of the number of units of each NDC ordered. This includes any order placed directly with a manufacturer or through a wholesaler, authorized distributor, or agent.


(2) Manufacturers have an obligation to ensure that the 340B discount is provided through distribution arrangements made by the manufacturer.


(3) An instance of overcharging is considered at the NDC level and may not be offset by other discounts provided on any other NDC or discounts provided on the same NDC on other transactions, orders, or purchases.


(4) An instance of overcharging may occur at the time of initial purchase or when subsequent ceiling price recalculations due to pricing data submitted to CMS or new drug price estimations as defined in ยง 10.10(c) result in a covered entity paying more than the ceiling price due to failure or refusal to refund or credit a covered entity.








