# ยง 155.170   Additional required benefits.

(a) *Additional required benefits.* (1) A State may require a QHP to offer benefits in addition to the essential health benefits.


(2) A benefit required by State action taking place on or before December 31, 2011, a benefit required by State action for purposes of compliance with Federal requirements, or a benefit covered in the State's EHB-benchmark plan is considered an EHB. A benefit required by State action taking place on or after January 1, 2012, other than for purposes of compliance with Federal requirements, that is not a benefit covered in the State's EHB-benchmark plan is considered in addition to the essential health benefits.




(3) The State will identify which State-required benefits are in addition to the EHB.


(b) *Payments.* The State must make payments to defray the cost of additional required benefits specified in paragraph (a) of this section to one of the following:


(1) To an enrollee, as defined in ยง 155.20 of this subchapter; or


(2) Directly to the QHP issuer on behalf of the individual described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Cost of additional required benefits.* (1) Each QHP issuer in the State shall quantify cost attributable to each additional required benefit specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) A QHP issuer's calculation shall be:


(i) Based on an analysis performed in accordance with generally accepted actuarial principles and methodologies;


(ii) Conducted by a member of the American Academy of Actuaries; and


(iii) Reported to the State.



---

[N] [78 FR 12865, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 12337, Mar. 8, 2016; 89 FR 26419, Apr. 15, 2024]




