# § 24.241   Decolorizing juice or wine.

(a) *Conditions and limitations.* If the proprietor wishes to use activated carbon or other decolorizing material to remove color from juice or wine, the following conditions and limitations will be met:


(1) The wine will retain a vinous character after being treated with activated carbon or other decolorizing material;


(2) The quantity of activated carbon used to treat the wine, including the juice from which the wine was produced, may not exceed twenty-five pounds per 1,000 gallons (3.0 grams per liter) (see paragraph (b) of this section); and


(3) The wine treated with decolorizing material will have a color of not less than 0.6 Lovibond in a one-half inch cell or not more than 95 percent transmittance per AOAC Method 11.003-11.004 (see paragraph (c) of this section). However, the proprietor may produce a wine having a color of less than 0.6 Lovibond or more than 95 percent transmittance per AOAC Method 11.003-11.004 by using normal methods and without the use of decolorizing material.


(b) *Transfer in bond.* When a consignor proprietor transfers wine treated with activated carbon or other decolorizing material to a consignee proprietor, the consignor proprietor shall record on the shipping record:


(1) The amount of wine which has been treated under the provisions of this section; and


(2) The quantity of decolorizing material used in treating the wine, including the juice from which the wine was produced, before its transfer. The consignee proprietor may further treat the wine with decolorizing material as long as the consignee proprietor has a copy of the shipping record and complies with the requirements of this section.


(c) Incorporation by reference. The “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists” (AOAC Method 11.003-11.004; 13th Edition 1980) is incorporated by reference in this part. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register, and is available for inspection or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.* The publication is available from the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, 11 North 19th Street, Suite 210, Arlington, Virginia 22209.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87941, Nov. 6, 2024]




