# ยง 372.30   Application.

(a) *Application.* Any person desiring to operate as an overseas military personnel charter operator may apply to the Department for an appropriate operating authorization. Contact the Office of International Aviation, Special Authorities Division, for filing instructions. The application shall be certified by a responsible official of such person and shall contain the following information: 


(1) Date;


(2) Name of applicant, trade names, and name in which authorization is to be issued;


(3) Address of principal office and mailing address;


(4) Form of organization (*i.e.*, corporation, partnership, etc.), State under whose laws company is authorized to operate and date company was formed;


(5) A list containing the names of each officer, director, partner, owner, or member of applicant, and holder of more than 5 percent of outstanding stock if a corporation, or owner of more than a 5-percent interest if other than a corporation; an indication as to whether or not 75 percent or more of the voting interest is owned or controlled by citizens of the United States or one of its possessions; if more than 5 percent of applicant's stock is held by a corporation, an indication must be made as to whether or not 75 percent or more of the voting interest in such corporation is owned or controlled by citizens of the United States or one of its possessions;


(6) A description of current business activities and of former business experience in, or related to, the transportation field;


(7) Description of operating authority granted applicant by agencies of the U.S. Government (such as customs broker, surface or air freight forwarder, motor carrier, ocean freight forwarder, etc.), and, if applicable, reasons for revocation or other termination;


(8) List of names of the officers, owners, etc., of applicants who have at any time applied for any type of authority or registration from the Civil Aeronautics Board or the Department of Transportation and, if applicable, reasons for revocation or other termination;


(9) List of officers, owners, etc., of applicants who have at any time been employed by or associated with any air carrier authorized to operate by the Civil Aeronautics Board or the Department of Transportation indicating dates of employment and capacity in which employed;


(10) Any additional information in support of application;


(11) Balance sheet as of a date not more than 3 months prior to application and profit and loss statement for the full year ending as of date of balance sheet;


(12) Brief account of any arrangement by which applicant will have available financial sources and facilities of other companies or individuals;


(13) The charter operator's surety bond and, where applicable, a copy of the depository, escrow or trust agreement with a bank as provided in ยง 372.24. 
2

(b) *Additional information.* The applicant shall also submit such other additional information pertinent to its proposed activities as may be requested by the Department with respect to any individual application. 



---

[N] [SPR-54, 37 FR 11163, June 3, 1972, as amended by Doc. No. 47939, 57 FR 40105, Sept. 2, 1992; 60 FR 43529, Aug. 22, 1995; Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15938, Apr. 16, 2019]




