# ยง 130.450   Matching funds.

(a) The recipient organization must provide total Matching Funds equal to the total amount of SBA funding. Cash match must be equal to or greater than 50 percent of the SBA funds used by the SBDC. The remaining match required to equal the one-to-one match requirement may be provided through any allowable combination of additional cash, in-kind contributions or indirect costs.


(b) All sources of Matching Funds must be identified as specifically as possible in the budget proposal. Cash sources shall be identified by name and account. Any additional SBA requirements, specifications, or deliverables must be clearly identified in the budget narrative. If a political entity is providing such cash and the funds have not been appropriated prior to issuance of the cooperative agreement, the recipient organization must certify that sufficient funds will be available from the political entity prior to the use of Federal dollars.


(c) Under the authority of 48 U.S.C. 1469a(d), the AA/SBDC may, at his/her discretion, waive any requirement of matching funds for an insular territory otherwise required by law to be provided. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, any department or agency shall waive any requirements for local matching funds under $200,000, including in-kind contributions, required by law to be provided by American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


(d) All applicants must submit a certification of cash match and program income. This certification must be executed by an authorized official of the recipient organization and must identify any SBDC service center organization(s) providing cash match under a subcontract or other agreement.


(e) In addition to the Federal and program income funds, all matching funds must be under the direct management of either the SBDC Lead Center Director or an SBDC Service Center Director, when budgeted under an SBDC service center organization. If in-kind contributions are utilized by the SBDC, the State Director or an SBDC Service Center Director is then considered to be in control of those contributions.


(f) The Grants Management Specialist will determine whether matching funds and cash match set forth in the budget proposal are sufficient to issue the cooperative agreement.


(g) Recipient organizations are not required but encouraged to identify overmatched amounts as part of the cooperative agreement. Overmatching expenditures are those which are derived from eligible matching sources; are reasonable, allowable, and allocable to the SBDC program; are over and above the minimum match required to the Federal expenditures; and are included on the required SBDC financial reporting to SBA for the project period.


(1) Recipient organizations are encouraged to identify overmatched amounts as part of the cooperative agreement. The recipient organization must fully identify the amount and sources of claimed overmatched amounts. If overmatched amounts are reported, they are subject to the provisions of the cooperative agreement and SBA biennial programmatic and financial examinations.


(2) An overmatched amount can be applied as matching funds for any funding increase (*i.e.,* supplemental funds) received by the SBDC during the budget period, as long as the total cash match contributed by the SBDC is 50 percent or more of the total SBA funds tendered during the budget period and provided that the total match is still 100 percent.


(3) Allowable overmatched amounts which have not been used in the manner described in this section may, with the approval of the AA/SBDC, be used as a credit to offset any confirmed audit disallowances applicable only to the budget period in which the overmatched amount exists and the two previous budget periods. Such offsetting funds may be applied to Federal or matching accounts.


(h) The following sources cannot be used as matching funds for the SBDC network:


(1) Uncompensated student labor;


(2) SCORE, SBA, Women's Business Centers, or other SBA resource partners;


(3) Program income or fees collected from individuals or small businesses receiving assistance;


(4) Federal funds other than Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds;


(5) In-kind contributions, or indirect costs not solely dedicated to the SBDC Program, or under its control;


(6) Any resource allocated and claimed as a matching cost to another federally funded program; or


(7) Funds or other resources provided for an agreed upon scope of work inconsistent with the authorized activities of the SBDC Program.



---

[N] [60 FR 31056, June 13, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023; 89 FR 17717, Mar. 12, 2024]






