# § 334.285   York River and the Naval Weapons Station Yorktown-Cheatham Annex, Yorktown, Virginia; danger zone.

(a) *The area.* The waters within an area beginning at mean high water on the shore at the facility located at latitude 37°17′33.10″ N, longitude 76°36′19.06″ W; then northeast to a point in the York River at latitude 37°18′36.65″ N, longitude 76°34′39.01″ W; thence south, southeast to latitude 37°17′59.37″ N, longitude 76°34′13.65″ W; then southwest to a point on the shore located at latitude 37°17′26.75″ N, longitude 76°36′14.89″ W.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Vessels and persons may transit this area at any time. No vessel or persons shall anchor, fish or conduct any waterborne activities within the danger zone established in accordance with this regulation any time live firing exercises are being conducted.


(2) Anytime live firing is being conducted, the person or persons in charge shall display a red flag from a conspicuous location along the shore to signify the range is active and post lookouts to ensure the safety of all vessels passing through the area. At night, red lights will be displayed in lieu of flags.


(3) No firing activities shall be conducted when the visibility is less than the maximum range of the weapons being used at the facility or while a vessel is within the danger zone.


(4) Recreational and commercial activities may be conducted in this area anytime the range is inactive.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Weapons Station, Yorktown, or such agencies as he or she may designate.



---

[N] [79 FR 35050, June 19, 2014]




