# ยง 2652.3   Selection limitations.

(a) To the extent necessary to obtain its entitlement, each regional corporation must select all available lands withdrawn pursuant to sections 11(a)(1)(B) and (C) of the Act, before selecting lands withdrawn pursuant to section 11(a)(3) of the Act, except that regional corporations selecting lands withdrawn pursuant to sections 11(a)(1) (B) and (C) may select only even-numbered townships in even-numbered ranges and only odd-numbered townships in odd-numbered ranges. 


(b) Village corporation selections within section 11(a)(1) and section 11(a)(3) areas shall be given priority over regional corporation selections for the same lands. 


(c) Whenever a regional selection is made in any township, the regional corporation shall select all available lands in that township: *Provided,* That such selection would not exceed the entitlement of that regional corporation. 


(d) Subsurface selections made by a regional corporation pursuant to section 12(a) of the Act shall be contiguous and the total area selected shall be reasonably compact, except as separated by subsurface interests that are not the property of the United States including subsurface interests under bodies of water, and the selection shall be in whole sections where they are available, or shall include all available subsurface interests in less than whole sections and, wherever feasible, shall be in units of not less than 1,280 acres. The total area selected shall not be considered to be reasonably compact if (1) it excludes other subsurface interests available for selection within its exterior boundaries; or (2) an isolated tract of subsurface interests owned by the United States of less than 1,280 acres remains after selection. 


(e) Regional corporations are not required to select lands within unpatented mining claims or millsites, as provided in ยง 2651.4(e) of this chapter. 


(f) Regional corporations may file applications in excess of their total entitlement. To insure that a regional corporation acquires its selections in the order of its priorities, it should identify its choices numerically in the order it wishes them granted. 




