# § 721.536   Halogenated phenyl alkane.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as halogenated phenyl alkane (PMN P-89-867) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply once the substance has been incorporated into a resin. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements in this section, manufacturers, importers, and processors may use the New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been approved by EPA for this substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for this substance. As an alternative to the respiratory requirements in this section manufacturers, importers, and processors may use the New Chemical Exposure Limits provisions, including sampling and analytical methods which have previously been approved by EPA for this substance, found in the 5(e) consent order for this substance.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). 


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 51681, Oct. 4, 1993]




