# § 219.800   Annual reports.

(a) Each railroad that has a total of 400,000 or more employee hours (including hours worked by all employees of the railroad, regardless of occupation, not only while in the United States, but also while outside the United States), must submit to FRA by March 15 of each year a report covering the previous calendar year (January 1-December 31), summarizing the results of its alcohol misuse and drug abuse prevention program. As used in this paragraph, the term “employees of the railroad” includes individuals who perform service for the railroad, including not only individuals who receive direct monetary compensation from the railroad for performing a service for the railroad, but also such individuals as employees of a contractor to the railroad who perform a service for the railroad.


(b) As a railroad, you must use the Management Information System (MIS) form and instructions as required by 49 CFR part 40 (at § 40.25 and appendix H to part 40). You may also use the electronic version of the MIS form provided by the DOT. The Administrator may designate means (*e.g.,* electronic program transmitted via the Internet), other than hard-copy, for MIS form submission to FRA. For information on where to submit MIS forms and for the electronic version of the form, see: *http://www.fra.dot.gov/eLib/details/L02639.*

(c) Each railroad shall ensure the accuracy and timeliness of each report submitted. 


(d) As a railroad, if you have a regulated employee who performs multi-DOT agency functions (*e.g.,* an employee drives a commercial motor vehicle and performs switchman duties for you), count the employee only on the MIS report for the DOT agency under which he or she is random tested. Normally, this will be the DOT agency under which the employee performs more than 50% of his or her duties. Railroads may have to explain the testing data for these employees in the event of a DOT agency inspection or audit. 


(e) A service agent (*e.g.,* a consortium/third party administrator) may prepare the MIS report on behalf of a railroad. However, a railroad official (*e.g.,* a designated employee representative) must certify the accuracy and completeness of the MIS report, no matter who prepares it.


(f) A railroad required to submit an MIS report under this section must submit separate reports for covered employees, MOW employees, and MECH employees.


(g)(1) This subpart does not apply to any contractor that performs regulated service exclusively for railroads with fewer than 400,000 total employee annual work hours, including hours worked by all employees of the railroad, regardless of occupation, not only while in the United States, but also while outside the United States.


(2) When a contractor performs regulated service for at least one railroad with 400,000 or more total annual employee work hours, including hours worked by all employees of the railroad, regardless of occupation, not only while in the United States, but also while outside the United States, this subpart applies as follows:


(i) A railroad with 400,000 or more total employee annual work hours must comply with this subpart regarding any contractor employees it integrates into its own alcohol and drug program under this part; and


(ii) If a contractor establishes an independent alcohol and drug testing program that meets the requirements of this part and is acceptable to the railroad, the contractor must comply with this subpart if it has 200 or more regulated employees.



---

[N] [68 FR 75464, Dec. 31, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 19288, Apr. 12, 2004; 81 FR 37942, June 10, 2016; 87 FR 5736, Feb. 2, 2022]




