# § 99.10   What rights exist for a parent or eligible student to inspect and review education records?

(a) Except as limited under § 99.12, a parent or eligible student must be given the opportunity to inspect and review the student's education records. This provision applies to—


(1) Any educational agency or institution; and 


(2) Any State educational agency (SEA) and its components.


(i) For the purposes of subpart B of this part, an SEA and its components constitute an educational agency or institution.


(ii) An SEA and its components are subject to subpart B of this part if the SEA maintains education records on students who are or have been in attendance at any school of an educational agency or institution subject to the Act and this part.


(b) The educational agency or institution, or SEA or its component, shall comply with a request for access to records within a reasonable period of time, but not more than 45 days after it has received the request.


(c) The educational agency or institution, or SEA or its component shall respond to reasonable requests for explanations and interpretations of the records.


(d) If circumstances effectively prevent the parent or eligible student from exercising the right to inspect and review the student's education records, the educational agency or institution, or SEA or its component, shall—


(1) Provide the parent or eligible student with a copy of the records requested; or


(2) Make other arrangements for the parent or eligible student to inspect and review the requested records.


(e) The educational agency or institution, or SEA or its component shall not destroy any education records if there is an outstanding request to inspect and review the records under this section.


(f) While an education agency or institution is not required to give an eligible student access to treatment records under paragraph (b)(4) of the definition of *Education records* in § 99.3, the student may have those records reviewed by a physician or other appropriate professional of the student's choice.



---

[N] [53 FR 11943, Apr. 11, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 59296, Nov. 21, 1996]




