# ยง 721.11272   Vegetable oil, polymer with alkanedioic acid, alkali lignin, diethylene glycol- and polyol-depolymd. poly(ethylene terephthalate) waste plastics and arylcarboxylic acid anhydride (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as vegetable oil, polymer with alkanedioic acid, alkali lignin, diethylene glycol- and polyol-depolymd. poly(ethylene terephthalate) waste plastics and arylcarboxylic acid anhydride (PMN P-17-367) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance with greater than the confidential percentages of low molecular weight components specified in the Order or less than the confidential average molecular weight specified in the Order.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of ยง 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46139, Aug. 18, 2021]




