# § 721.11492   2-Butanone, 3-methyl-, peroxide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-butanone, 3-methyl-, peroxide (PMN P-17-294, CAS No. 182893-11-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3) through (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the applicable airborne form of the substance is particulate (including solids or liquid droplets).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as an organic peroxide polymerization initiator.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 30194, June 7, 2021]




