# ยง 55.3   Assignment of responsibilities.

(a) *General.* The implementation of Executive Orders 11988 and 11990 under this part shall be conducted by HUD for Department-administered programs subject to environmental review under 24 CFR part 50 and by authorized responsible entities that are responsible for environmental review under 24 CFR part 58.


(b)(1) *The Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development (CPD)* shall oversee:


(i) The Department's implementation of Executive Orders 11988 and 11990 and this part in all HUD programs; and


(ii) The implementation activities of HUD program managers and, for HUD financial assistance subject to 24 CFR part 58, of grant recipients and responsible entities.


(2) In performing these responsibilities, the Assistant Secretary for CPD shall make pertinent policy determinations in cooperation with appropriate program offices and provide necessary assistance, training, publications, and procedural guidance.


(c) *Other HUD Assistant Secretaries, the General Counsel, and the President of the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA)* shall: 


(1) Ensure compliance with this part for all actions under their jurisdiction that are proposed to be conducted, supported, or permitted in a floodplain or wetland, including taking full responsibility for all decisions made under their jurisdiction that are made pursuant to ยง 55.20 for environmental reviews completed pursuant to 24 CFR part 50;




(2) Ensure that actions approved by HUD or responsible entities are monitored and that any prescribed mitigation is implemented;


(3) Ensure that the offices under their jurisdiction have the resources to implement the requirements of this part; and


(4) Incorporate in departmental regulations, handbooks, and project and site standards those criteria, standards, and procedures related to compliance with this part.


(d) *Responsible entity Certifying Officer.* Certifying Officers of responsible entities administering or reviewing activities subject to 24 CFR part 58 shall comply with this part in carrying out HUD-assisted programs. Certifying Officers shall monitor approved actions and ensure that any prescribed mitigation is implemented.


(e) *Grantees and applicants.* Grantees and Applicants that are not acting as responsible entities shall:


(1) Supply HUD (or the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58) with all available, relevant information necessary for HUD (or the responsible entity) to perform the compliance required by this part, including environmental review record documentation described in 24 CFR 58.38, as applicable;


(2) Implement mitigating measures required by HUD (or the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58) under this part or select alternate eligible property; and


(3) Monitor approved actions and ensure that any prescribed mitigation is implemented.


(f) *Third party providers.* Consultants and other parties to the environmental review process may prepare maps, studies (*e.g.,* hydraulic and hydrologic studies), and reports to support compliance with this part, including identification of floodplains and wetlands and development of alternatives or minimization measures. The following responsibilities, however, may not be delegated to the third-party provider:


(1) Receipt of public or agency comments;


(2) Selection or rejection of alternatives analyzed in Step 3 of the 8-step decision making process in ยง 55.20;


(3) Selection or rejection of minimization measures analyzed in Step 5 of the 8-step decision making process in ยง 55.20;


(4) Determination whether avoidance of floodplain or wetland impacts, according to the purpose of Executive Orders 11988 and 11990, is or is not practicable.





---

[N] [59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at78 FR 68730, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30905, Apr. 23, 2024]




