# § 414.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, unless the context indicates otherwise— 


*AA* stands for anesthesiologist assistant. 


*AHPB* stands for adjusted historical payment basis. 


*CF* stands for conversion factor. 


*CRNA* stands for certified registered nurse anesthetist. 


*CY* stands for calendar year. 


*FY* stands for fiscal year. 


*GAF* stands for geographic adjustment factor. 


*GPCI* stands for geographic practice cost index. 


*HCPCS* stands for CMS Common Procedure Coding System. 


*Health Professional Shortage Area* (HPSA) means an area designated under section 332(a)(1)(A) of the Public Health Service Act as identified by the Secretary prior to the beginning of such year.


*Major surgical procedure* means a surgical procedure for which a 10-day or 90-day global period is used for payment under the physician fee schedule and section 1848(b) of the Act.


*Physician services* means the following services to the extent that they are covered by Medicare: 


(1) Professional services of doctors of medicine and osteopathy (including osteopathic practitioners), doctors of optometry, doctors of podiatry, doctors of dental surgery and dental medicine, and chiropractors. 


(2) Supplies and services covered “incident to” physician services (excluding drugs as specified in § 414.36). 


(3) Outpatient physical and occupational therapy services if furnished by a person or an entity that is not a Medicare provider of services as defined in § 400.202 of this chapter. 


(4) Diagnostic x-ray tests and other diagnostic tests (excluding diagnostic laboratory tests paid under the fee schedule established under section 1833(h) of the Act). 


(5) X-ray, radium, and radioactive isotope therapy, including materials and services of technicians. 


(6) Antigens, as described in section 1861(s)(2)(G) of the Act. 


(7) Bone mass measurement.


*RVU* stands for relative value unit.


(8) Screening mammography services.



---

[N] [56 FR 59624, Nov. 25, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 42492, Sept. 15, 1992; 58 FR 63686, Dec. 2, 1993; 59 FR 63463, Dec. 8, 1994; 60 FR 63177, Dec. 8, 1995; 63 FR 34328, June 24, 1998; 66 FR 55322, Nov. 1, 2001; 75 FR 73616, Nov. 29, 2010]




