# § 89.7   Representatives to State Councils, the DoDEA Committee and MIC3.

(a) *Military Representatives designated by position as Liaisons to State Councils.* In accordance with section 3-201 of DoD 5500.07-R, incumbents of positions designated as liaisons to State Councils will:


(1) Be a military member or a civilian employee of DoD who has a direct interface with the State education system as part of official duties or has supervisory responsibility for those who do.


(2) Only represent DoD interests (not the interests of the State Council), and consequently may not:


(i) Engage in management or control of the State Council (therefore, may not vote or make decisions on daily administration of council);


(ii) Endorse or allow the appearance of DoD endorsement of the State Council or its events, products, services, or enterprises;


(iii) Represent the State Council to third parties; or


(iv) Represent the State Council to the U.S. Government, as prohibited by federal criminal statutes.


(3) Make clear to the State Council that:


(i) The opinions expressed by the representative do not bind DoD or any DoD Component to any action.


(ii) If included on State Council Web sites, all references to the representative by name or title must indicate that they are the “Military Representative” as opposed to a council member.


(4) Notify the chain of command of issues requiring policy decisions or actions requested of the military community within the State.


(5) When called upon to act as the spokesperson for one or more than one installation:


(i) Get feedback from the designated points of contact at each military installation within his or her responsibility.


(ii) Coordinate proposed input to the State Council with the appropriate points of contact for each military installation within his or her responsibility.


(iii) Act as a conduit for information between the State Council and each military installation within his or her responsibility.


(iv) Provide feedback through the chain of command to the points of contact for each military installation within his or her responsibility and, as appropriate, to the OASA(M&RA), the OASN(M&RA), or the OASAF(M&RA).


(b) *Nomination Process for Positions Designated as Liaisons to State Councils.* (1) In accordance with DoD 5500.07-R, liaison positions are nominated by the Military Departments and designated by the DASD(MC&FP), not by State officials. Depending on the number of liaison positions required by State policy, designating liaison positions to a State Council will be accomplished according to the processes outlined in Table 1:


(2) When there is more than one military representative to a State Council (*e.g.,* one per installation or one per Military Department represented in the State), the incumbent of the position nominated by the responsible Military Department (Table 2) will serve as the lead military representative when DoD must speak with a single voice.


(3) In circumstances where the State requests an individual by name, the DASD(MC&FP) will forward the request to the individual's Military Department for consideration of designating the position which the individual encumbers. If that Military Department is different from the one designated in Table 2, the DASD(MC&FP) will first obtain the concurrence of the responsible Military Department.


(4) In accordance with the Compact, State officials appoint or designate the Military Family Education Liaison for the State. Service members and DoD civilians cannot be appointed or designated to fill this position for the State.


(c) *Military Representative to the DoDEA Committee.* Membership of the DoDEA Committee will include a representative from one of the Military Services to represent all four Services. OASA(M&RA), OASN(M&RA), or OASAF(M&RA) will nominate a representative on a rotational basis who will be designated for a 2-year term by the DASD(MC&FP).


(d) *Ex-Officio Member Serving as a Liaison to MIC3.* In accordance with section 3-201 of DoD 5500.07-R, the DoD ex-officio member to the Commission, must:


(1) Be a military member or a civilian employee of DoD who can remain in the position for at least 2 years and who has a direct interface with DoDEA and the U.S. public education system as part of official duties or has supervisory responsibility for those who do.


(2) Attend as a liaison meetings of MIC3, its Executive Committee, and other standing committees where requested by the Commission.


(3) Only represent DoD interests (not the interests of MIC3), and consequently may not:


(i) Engage in management or control of MIC3 (therefore, may not vote or make decisions on daily administration of MIC3);


(ii) Endorse or allow the appearance of DoD endorsement of MIC3, or its events, products, services, or enterprises;


(iii) Represent the Commission to third parties; or


(iv) Represent MIC3 to the U.S. Government, as prohibited by criminal statutes.


(4) Make clear to MIC3 that:


(i) The opinions expressed by the incumbent do not bind DoD or any DoD Component to any action.


(ii) If included on MIC3 Web sites, all references to the incumbent by name or title must indicate that they are the “DoD Ex-Officio Member” as opposed to a MIC3 member.


(5) Notify the chain of command of issues requiring policy decisions or actions requested of DoD.




