# § 34.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following definitions apply:


*Administrative debt* means a debt that does not arise from an individual's obligation to repay a loan or an overpayment of a grant received under a student financial assistance program authorized under Title IV of the Higher Education Act. 


*Business day* means a day Monday through Friday, unless that day is a Federal holiday. 


*Certificate of service* means a certificate signed by an authorized official of the U.S. Department of Education (the Department) that indicates the nature of the document to which it pertains, the date we mail the document, and to whom we are sending the document. 


*Day* means calendar day. For purposes of computation, the last day of a period will be included unless that day is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday; in that case, the last day of the period is the next business day after the end of the period. 


*Debt* or *claim* means any amount of money, funds, or property that an appropriate official of the Department has determined an individual owes to the United States under a program we administer. 


*Debtor* means an individual who owes a delinquent nontax debt to the United States under a program we administer. 


*Disposable pay.* This term—


(a)(1) Means that part of a debtor's compensation for personal services, whether or not denominated as wages, from an employer that remains after the deduction of health insurance premiums and any amounts required by law to be withheld. 


(2) For purposes of this part, “amounts required by law to be withheld” include amounts for deductions such as social security taxes and withholding taxes, but do not include any amount withheld under a court order; and 


(b) Includes, but is not limited to, salary, bonuses, commissions, or vacation pay. 


*Employer.* This term—


(a) Means a person or entity that employs the services of another and that pays the latter's wages or salary; 


(b) Includes, but is not limited to, State and local governments; and 


(c) Does not include an agency of the Federal Government. 


*Financial hardship* means an inability to meet basic living expenses for goods and services necessary for the survival of the debtor and his or her spouse and dependents. 


*Garnishment* means the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and paying those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order. 


*We* means the United States Department of Education. 


*Withholding order.* (a) This term means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by this Department, another Federal agency, a State or private non-profit guaranty agency, or a judicial or administrative body. 


(b) For purposes of this part, the terms “wage garnishment order” and “garnishment order” have the same meaning as “withholding order.” 


*You* means the debtor. 


