# ยง 423.2126   Case remanded by the Council.

(a) *When the Council may remand a case to the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.* (1) The Council may remand a case in which additional evidence is needed or additional action by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator is required. The Council will designate in its remand order whether the ALJ or attorney adjudicator will issue a decision or a recommended decision on remand.


(2) *Action by ALJ or attorney adjudicator on remand.* The ALJ or attorney adjudicator will take any action that is ordered by the Council and may take any additional action that is not inconsistent with the Council's remand order.


(3) *Notice when case is returned with a recommended decision.* When the ALJ or attorney adjudicator sends a case to the Council with a recommended decision, a notice is mailed to the enrollee at his or her last known address. The notice tells the enrollee that the case was sent to the Council, explains the rules for filing briefs or other written statements with the Council, and includes a copy of the recommended decision.


(4) *Filing briefs with the Council when ALJ or attorney adjudicator issues recommended decision.* (i) An enrollee may file with the Council briefs or other written statements about the facts and law relevant to the case within 20 calendar days of the date on the recommended decision or with the request for review for expedited appeals. An enrollee may ask the Council for additional time to file a brief or written statement. The Council will extend this period, as appropriate, if the enrollee shows that he or she has good cause for requesting the extension.


(ii) All other rules for filing briefs with and obtaining evidence from the Council follow the procedures explained in this subpart.


(5) *Procedures before the Council.* (i) The Council, after receiving a recommended decision, will conduct proceedings and issue its decision or dismissal according to the procedures explained in this subpart.


(ii) If the Council determines that more evidence is required, it may again remand the case to an ALJ or attorney adjudicator for further inquiry into the issues, rehearing if applicable, receipt of evidence, and another decision or recommended decision. However, if the Council decides that it can get the additional evidence more quickly, it will take appropriate action.


(b) *When the Council must remand a case to the Part D IRE.* The Council will remand a case to the appropriate Part D IRE if the Council determines that the enrollee wishes evidence on his or her change in condition after the coverage determination or at-risk determination to be considered in the appeal.



---

[N] [74 FR 65363, Dec. 9, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 5138, Jan. 17, 2017; 83 FR 16754, Apr. 16, 2018]




