# ยง 1944.662   Eligibility of HPG assistance on rental properties or co-ops.

(a) *Ownership.* The owner(s) of rental properties or co-ops must own the dwelling at the time of receiving assistance from the HPG grantee. The dwelling must be located in a rural area and be in need of housing preservation assistance. Evidence of ownership may be a photostatic copy of the instrument evidencing ownership. Owners of rental properties and co-ops are required to submit evidence of ownership for retention in the grantee's files. Any of the following will satisfy or fulfill this requirement of ownership:


(1) Full marketable title.


(2) An undivided or divided interest in the property to be repaired or rehabilitated.


(3) A leasehold interest in the property to be repaired or rehabilitated. Ownership interest in the property is based on a leasehold interest. The lease must be in writing and a copy must be included in the grantee's file. The unexpired portion of the lease must not be less than 5 years and must permit the recipient to make modifications to the structure without increasing the recipient's lease cost.


(4) Land assignments may be accepted as evidence of ownership only for American Indians living on a reservation, when historically the permits have been used by the tribe and have had the comparable effect of a life estate.


(b) *Tenant eligibility.* The following requirements must be met in order for a unit within a rental property or co-op to be assisted with HPG funds:


(1) The tenant must have income that meets the very low- or low-income definition.


(2) The tenant must be the intended occupant of the unit, but is not required to have resided previously in the dwelling.


(3) Any owner(s) who receives assistance from an HPG grantee or a member of the immediate family of the owner(s), who also resides in the unit within the dwelling to be repaired or rehabilitated is eligible to have their unit repaired or rehabilitated, if they are income eligible and meet all other requirements.


(c) *Identity of interest.* When an identity of interest, as defined in ยง 1924.4(i) of subpart A of part 1924 of this chapter, exists between a nonprofit entity and the owner(s) of a dwelling, the property is not eligible for assistance.




