# § 1290.8   Procedures.

(a) *The U.S. Magistrate Court Provides DLA* with: 


(1) The means to process and dispose of certain categories of minor offenses by mail. Under this system, U.S. Magistrate and District Courts will, by local court rule, preset fines for the bulk of petty violations (Federal or Assimilated) and permit persons charged with such violations, who do not contest the charge nor wish to have a court hearing, to pay their fines by using mail-in, preaddressed, postage paid envelopes furnished to them with the violation notice. 


(2) Efficient, minimal commitment of judicial and clerical time by using uniform procedures which centralize the collection of fines, the scheduling of mandatory hearings or hearings where violators request them, and the keeping of violator records. 


(3) A simple but sure method of accounting for fines collected and tickets issued. 


(4) Impartial enforcement of minor offense laws. 


(b) *Court Appearances*—(1) *Mandatory Appearances.* (i) As required by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, each District Court will determine, by local court rule, those offenses requiring mandatory appearance of violators. PLFA Counsels will coordinate with local magistrates or district courts and secure a court approved list of offenses requiring mandatory appearance of violators before the local U.S. Magistrate. 


(ii) Mandatory appearance offense categories normally include: 


(A) Indictable offenses. 


(B) Offenses resulting in accidents. 


(C) Operation of motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating alcohol or a narcotic or habit producing or other mind altering drug, or permitting another person who is under the influence of intoxicating alcohol, or a narcotic or habit producing or mind altering drug to operate a motor vehicle owned by the defendant or in his/her custody or control. 


(D) Reckless driving or speeding. 


(2) Voluntary Appearances—(i) *Requested by violators at the time DD Form 1805 is issued.* (A) Personnel issuing DD Form 1805 will refer violator for hearings before U.S. Magistrates in each instance where a hearing is requested by the violator. 


(B) Command security officers will provide security force personnel with necessary information to facilitate scheduling violators to appear before U.S. Magistrates. Box B of the DD Form 1805 will be marked by the issuing official for each violator requesting a hearing. Additionally procedures set forth in appendix A will be accomplished by the official issuing violation notice. 


(ii) *Requested by violators by mail.* (A) Voluntary appearance procedures are also available for violators who are not present at the time a DD Form 1805 is issued (i.e., parking violations) or who subsequently decide to voluntarily appear before a U.S. Magistrate rather than pay the fine indicated in the DD Form 1805. 


(B) Violators who use the mail-in procedure to voluntarily appear before a U.S. Magistrate must follow the instructions in Box B of the DD Form 1805 (violator copy). The violator will be notified by the clerk of the District Court of the time and place to appear for the scheduled hearing. 




