# § 309.115   What procedures governing the distribution of child support must a Tribe or Tribal organization include in a Tribal IV-D plan?

A Tribe or Tribal organization must specify in its Tribal IV-D plan procedures for the distribution of child support collections in each Tribal IV-D case, in accordance with this section.


(a) *General Rule:* The Tribal IV-D agency must, in a timely manner:


(1) Apply collections first to satisfy current support obligations, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section; and


(2) Pay all support collections to the family unless the family is currently receiving or formerly received assistance from the Tribal TANF program and there is an assignment of support rights to the Tribe's TANF agency, or the Tribal IV-D agency has received a request for assistance in collecting support on behalf of the family from a State or Tribal IV-D agency. 


(b) *Current Receipt of Tribal TANF:* If the family is currently receiving assistance from the Tribal TANF program and has assigned support rights to the Tribe and:


(1) There is no request for assistance in collecting support on behalf of the family from a State or Tribal IV-D agency under § 309.120 of this part, the Tribal IV-D agency may retain collections on behalf of the family, not to exceed the total amount of Tribal TANF paid to the family. Any remaining collections must be paid to the family.


(2) There is a request for assistance in collecting support on behalf of the family from a State or Tribal IV-D agency under § 309.120, the Tribal IV-D agency may retain collections, not to exceed the total amount of Tribal TANF paid to the family. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the Tribal IV-D agency must send any remaining collections, as appropriate, to the requesting State IV-D agency for distribution under section 457 of the Act and 45 CFR 302.51 or 302.52, or to the requesting Tribal IV-D agency for distribution in accordance with this section.


(c) *Former Receipt of Tribal TANF:* If the family formerly received assistance from the Tribal TANF program and there is an assignment of support rights to the Tribe and:


(1) There is no request for assistance in collecting support from a State or Tribal IV-D agency under § 309.120 of this part, the Tribal IV-D agency must pay current support and any arrearages owed to the family to the family and may then retain any excess collections, not to exceed the total amount of Tribal TANF paid to the family. Any remaining collections must be paid to the family.


(2) There is a request for assistance in collecting support from a State or Tribal IV-D agency under § 309.120 of this part, the Tribal IV-D agency must send all support collected, as appropriate, to the requesting State IV-D agency for distribution under section 457 of the Act or 45 CFR 302.51 or 302.52, or to the requesting Tribal IV-D agency for distribution under this section, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.


(d) *Requests for Assistance from State or Tribal IV-D Agency:* If there is no assignment of support rights to the Tribe as a condition of receipt of Tribal TANF and the Tribal IV-D agency has received a request for assistance in collecting support on behalf of the family from a State or another Tribal IV-D agency under § 309.120 of this part, the Tribal IV-D agency must send all support collected to either the State IV-D agency for distribution in accordance with section 457 of the Act and 45 CFR 302.51 and 302.52, or to the Tribal IV-D agency for distribution under this section, as appropriate, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.


(e) *Federal Income Tax Refund Offset Collections:* Any collections received based on Federal income tax refund offset under section 464 of the Act and distributed by the Tribal IV-D agency must be applied to satisfy child support arrearages.


(f) *Option to Contact Requesting Agency for Appropriate Distribution:* Rather than send collections to a State or another Tribal IV-D agency for distribution as required under § 309.115 (b)(2), (c)(2) and (d), a Tribal IV-D agency may contact the requesting State IV-D agency to determine appropriate distribution under section 457 of the Act, or the other Tribal IV-D agency to determine appropriate distribution under this section, and distribute collections as directed by the other agency.





---

[N] [69 FR 16672, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 93569, Dec. 20, 2016]






