# ยง 1091.202   Notice of Reasonable Cause.

(a) *Generally.* The initiating official is authorized to issue a Notice of Reasonable Cause to a person stating that the Bureau may have reasonable cause to determine that the respondent is a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services.


(b) *Basis of Notice.* A Notice of Reasonable Cause shall be based on:


(1) Complaints collected through the system under 12 U.S.C. 5493(b)(3); and/or


(2) Information from other sources.


(c) *Contents of Notice.* A Notice of Reasonable Cause is subject to the word limit in ยง 1091.403 and shall contain the following:


(1) A description of the basis for the assertion that the Bureau may have reasonable cause to determine that a respondent is a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services, including a summary of the documents, records, or other items relied on by the initiating official to issue a Notice. Such summary will be consistent with the protection of sensitive information, including compliance with Federal privacy law and whistleblower protections;


(2) A statement that this proceeding is governed by 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1)(C) and 12 CFR part 1091;


(3) A statement that failure to respond within 30 days, in the manner specified by ยง 1091.203, will constitute a waiver of the right to respond and may result in a default determination by the Director;


(4) Instructions for filing documents with the Director;


(5) Instructions for serving documents on the initiating official; and


(6) In an appendix, a proposed consent agreement under ยง 1091.201.


(d) *Service of Notice.* A Notice of Reasonable Cause shall be served on a respondent by any means that are reasonably calculated to give notice. This includes, but is not limited to, the methods available under 12 CFR 1081.113(d)(1). The initiating official shall promptly file a copy of the Notice and a record of service with the Director.


(e) *Withdrawal of Notice.* The initiating official may withdraw the Notice at any time. Such a withdrawal shall not prevent the initiation of another proceeding under this part.






