# ยง 270.502   Commission review of final determinations.

(a) *Review by Commission.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section, a determination submitted to the Commission by a jurisdictional agency will become final 45 days after the date on which the Commission received notice of the determination, unless within the 45 day period, the Commission: 


(1) Makes a preliminary finding that: 


(i) The determination is not supported by substantial evidence in the record on which the determination was made; or 


(ii) The determination is not consistent with information which is contained in the public records of the Commission and which was not part of the record on which the jurisdictional agency made the determination, and 


(2) Issues written notice of such preliminary finding, including the reasons therefor. Copies of the written notice will be sent to the jurisdictional agency that made the determination, to the persons identified in the notice under ยง 270.204 of such determination, and to any persons who have filed a protest. 


(b) *Incomplete notice.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the 45-day period for Commission review of a determination will not begin if: 


(1) The notice forwarded to the Commission pursuant to ยง 270.204 does not contain all the material specified therein; and 


(2) The Commission notifies the jurisdictional agency, within 45 days after the date on which the Commission receives notice of the determination, that the notice is incomplete. 


(c) *Withdrawal of notice.* (1) The jurisdictional agency may withdraw a notice of determination by giving notice as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section at any time prior to the issuance of a final order with respect to such determination under paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, or at any time prior to the date such determination becomes final under paragraph (a) or (g)(4) of this section. Such notice must include the jurisdictional agency's reasons for the withdrawal. 


(2) Withdrawal of a notice of determination will take effect at such time as the jurisdictional agency has notified the Commission, and the parties to the proceeding before the agency, of such withdrawal. 


(3) Withdrawal of a notice of determination shall nullify such notice of determination. 


(d) *Withdrawal of application.* (1) An applicant may withdraw an application for a determination which is before the Commission by giving notice as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section at any time prior to the issuance of a final order with respect to such determination under paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, or at any time prior to the date such determination becomes final under paragraph (a) or (g)(4) of this section. 


(2) Withdrawal of an application will take effect at such time as the applicant has notified the Commission and the jurisdictional agency. 


(3) Withdrawal of an application will nullify such application and the notice of determination on such application. 


(e) *Public notice.* The Commission will publish notice of the preliminary finding in the _Federal Register_ and will post the notice on the Commission's website, *https://www.ferc.gov.* The notice will set forth the reasons for the preliminary finding. 


(f) *Procedures following notice of preliminary finding.* Any state or federal agency or any person may submit, within 30 days after issuance of the preliminary finding, written comments, and request an informal conference with the Commission staff. Any jurisdictional agency, any state agency and any person receiving notice under paragraph (a)(2) of this section may request an informal conference with the Commission staff. All timely requests for conferences will be granted. Notice of, and permission to attend, such conferences will be given to persons identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and to state or federal agencies or persons who submitted comments under this paragraph. 


(g) *Final orders.* (1) In any case in which a protest was filed with the Commission and a preliminary finding was issued, the Commission will issue a final order within 120 days after issuance of the preliminary finding. 


(2) In any case in which no protest was filed with the Commission and a preliminary finding was issued, the Commission may issue a final order within 120 days after issuance of the preliminary finding. 


(3) A final order issued under paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section will either affirm, reverse, or remand the determination of the jurisdictional agency. Such order will state the specific basis for the Commission's action. Notice of the issuance of such order will be given to the jurisdictional agency, to participants in the proceeding before the jurisdictional agency, and to participants in the proceeding before the Commission under paragraph (d) of this section and under ยง 270.503. 


(4) In the event that the Commission fails to issue a final order within 120 days after issuance of the preliminary finding, the determination of the jurisdictional agency shall become final. 



---

[N] [Order 616, 65 FR 45865, July 26, 2000, as amended by Order 899, 88 FR 74031, Oct. 30, 2023]




