# § 1493.240   Information required for foreign financial institution participation.

(a) *Qualification requirements.* Foreign financial institutions must apply and be approved by CCC to be eligible to participate in the FGP. To qualify for participation in the FGP, a foreign financial institution must submit the following information to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site:


(1) Legal name and address of the applicant;


(2) Year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards established by the applicant's regulators, in English, for the applicant's three most recent fiscal years. If the applicant is not subject to a banking or other financial regulatory authority, year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in English, for the applicant's three most recent fiscal years;


(3) Breakdown of applicant's ownership as follows:


(i) Ten largest individual shareholders and ownership percentages;


(ii) Percentage of government ownership, if any; and


(iii) Identity of the legal entity or person with ultimate control or decision making authority, if other than the majority shareholder.


(4) Organizational structure (independent, or a subsidiary, affiliate, or branch of another legal entity);


(5) Name of foreign government agency that regulates the applicant; and


(6) A statement that: “All certifications set forth in 7 CFR 1493.250 are hereby made in this application” which, when included in the application, will constitute a certification that the applicant is in compliance with all of the requirements set forth in § 1493.250. The applicant will be required to provide further explanation or documentation if not in compliance with these requirements or if the application does not include this statement.


(b) *Qualification notification.* CCC will notify applicants that have submitted information required by this section whether they have qualified to participate in the program or whether further information is required by CCC. Any applicant failing to qualify will be given an opportunity to provide additional information for consideration by the Director.


(c) *Participation limit.* If, after review of the information submitted and other publicly available information, CCC determines that the foreign financial institution is eligible for participation in the FGP, CCC will establish a dollar participation limit for the institution. This limit will be the maximum amount of exposure CCC agrees to undertake with respect to this foreign financial institution at any point in time. CCC may change or cancel this dollar participation limit at any time based on any information submitted or any publicly available information.


(d) *Previous qualification and submission of annual financial statements.* Each qualified foreign financial institution shall submit annually to CCC the certifications in § 1493.250 and its audited fiscal year-end financial statements in accordance with the accounting standards established by the applicant's regulators, in English, so that CCC may determine the continued ability of the foreign financial institution to adequately service CCC guaranteed debt. If the foreign financial institution is not subject to a banking or other financial regulatory authority, it must submit year-end, audited financial statements in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in English, for the applicant's most recent fiscal year. Failure to submit this information annually may cause CCC to decrease or cancel the foreign financial institution's dollar participation limit. Any foreign financial institution participating in neither the FGP nor the GSM-102 Program for two consecutive U.S. Government fiscal years may have its dollar participation limit cancelled. If this participation limit is cancelled, the foreign financial institution must resubmit the information and certifications requested in paragraph (a) of this section to CCC when reapplying for participation. Additionally, if at any time the information required by paragraph (a) of this section changes, the foreign financial institution must promptly contact CCC to update this information and certify that the remainder of the information previously provided under paragraph (a) of this section has not changed.


(e) *Ineligibility for program participation.* A foreign financial institution:


(1) May be deemed ineligible to participate in the FGP if such applicant cannot provide all of the information and certifications required in § 1493.240(a); and


(2) Will be deemed ineligible to participate in the FGP if, based upon information submitted by the applicant or other publicly available sources, CCC determines that the applicant cannot adequately service the debt associated with the payment guarantees issued by CCC.




