# § 50.54   Conditions of licenses.

The following paragraphs of this section, with the exception of paragraphs (r) and (gg), and the applicable requirements of 10 CFR 50.55a, are conditions in every nuclear power reactor operating license issued under this part. The following paragraphs with the exception of paragraph (r), (s), and (u) of this section are conditions in every combined license issued under part 52 of this chapter, provided, however, that paragraphs (i) introductory text, (i)(1), (j), (k), (l), (m), (n), (w), (x), (y), (z), and (hh) of this section are only applicable after the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter.


(a)(1) Each nuclear power plant or fuel reprocessing plant licensee subject to the quality assurance criteria in appendix B of this part shall implement, under § 50.34(b)(6)(ii) or § 52.79 of this chapter, the quality assurance program described or referenced in the safety analysis report, including changes to that report. However, a holder of a combined license under part 52 of this chapter shall implement the quality assurance program described or referenced in the safety analysis report applicable to operation 30 days prior to the scheduled date for the initial loading of fuel.


(2) Each licensee described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall, by June 10, 1983, submit to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D of part 20 of this chapter the current description of the quality assurance program it is implementing for inclusion in the Safety Analysis Report, unless there are no changes to the description previously accepted by NRC. This submittal must identify changes made to the quality assurance program description since the description was submitted to NRC. (Should a licensee need additional time beyond June 10, 1983 to submit its current quality assurance program description to NRC, it shall notify the appropriate NRC Regional Office in writing, explain why additional time is needed, and provide a schedule for NRC approval showing when its current quality assurance program description will be submitted.)


(3) Each licensee described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may make a change to a previously accepted quality assurance program description included or referenced in the Safety Analysis Report without prior NRC approval, provided the change does not reduce the commitments in the program description as accepted by the NRC. Changes to the quality assurance program description that do not reduce the commitments must be submitted to the NRC in accordance with the requirements of § 50.71(e). In addition to quality assurance program changes involving administrative improvements and clarifications, spelling corrections, punctuation, or editorial items, the following changes are not considered to be reductions in commitment:


(i) The use of a QA standard approved by the NRC which is more recent than the QA standard in the licensee's current QA program at the time of the change;


(ii) The use of a quality assurance alternative or exception approved by an NRC safety evaluation, provided that the bases of the NRC approval are applicable to the licensee's facility;


(iii) The use of generic organizational position titles that clearly denote the position function, supplemented as necessary by descriptive text, rather than specific titles;


(iv) The use of generic organizational charts to indicate functional relationships, authorities, and responsibilities, or, alternately, the use of descriptive text;


(v) The elimination of quality assurance program information that duplicates language in quality assurance regulatory guides and quality assurance standards to which the licensee is committed; and


(vi) Organizational revisions that ensure that persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions continue to have the requisite authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule when opposed to safety considerations.


(4) Changes to the quality assurance program description that do reduce the commitments must be submitted to the NRC and receive NRC approval prior to implementation, as follows:


(i) Changes made to the quality assurance program description as presented in the Safety Analysis Report or in a topical report must be submitted as specified in § 50.4.


(ii) The submittal of a change to the Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description must include all pages affected by that change and must be accompanied by a forwarding letter identifying the change, the reason for the change, and the basis for concluding that the revised program incorporating the change continues to satisfy the criteria of appendix B of this part and the Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description commitments previously accepted by the NRC (the letter need not provide the basis for changes that correct spelling, punctuation, or editorial items).


(iii) A copy of the forwarding letter identifying the change must be maintained as a facility record for three years.


(iv) Changes to the quality assurance program description included or referenced in the Safety Analysis Report shall be regarded as accepted by the Commission upon receipt of a letter to this effect from the appropriate reviewing office of the Commission or 60 days after submittal to the Commission, whichever occurs first.


(b) No right to the special nuclear material shall be conferred by the license except as may be defined by the license.


(c) Neither the license, nor any right thereunder, nor any right to utilize or produce special nuclear material shall be transferred, assigned, or disposed of in any manner, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, through transfer of control of the license to any person, unless the Commission shall, after securing full information, find that the transfer is in accordance with the provisions of the act and give its consent in writing.


(d) The license shall be subject to suspension and to the rights of recapture of the material or control of the facility reserved to the Commission under section 108 of the act in a state of war or national emergency declared by Congress.


(e) The license shall be subject to revocation, suspension, modification, or amendment for cause as provided in the act and regulations, in accordance with the procedures provided by the act and regulations.


(f) The licensee shall at any time before expiration of the license, upon request of the Commission, submit, as specified in § 50.4, written statements, signed under oath or affirmation, to enable the Commission to determine whether or not the license should be modified, suspended, or revoked. Except for information sought to verify licensee compliance with the current licensing basis for that facility, the NRC must prepare the reason or reasons for each information request prior to issuance to ensure that the burden to be imposed on respondents is justified in view of the potential safety significance of the issue to be addressed in the requested information. Each such justification provided for an evaluation performed by the NRC staff must be approved by the Executive Director for Operations or his or her designee prior to issuance of the request.


(g) The issuance or existence of the license shall not be deemed to waive, or relieve the licensee from compliance with, the antitrust laws, as specified in subsection 105a of the Act. In the event that the licensee should be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have violated any provision of such antitrust laws in the conduct of the licensed activity, the Commission may suspend or revoke the license or take such other action with respect to it as shall be deemed necessary.


(h) The license shall be subject to the provisions of the Act now or hereafter in effect and to all rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission. The terms and conditions of the license shall be subject to amendment, revision, or modification, by reason of amendments of the Act or by reason of rules, regulations, and orders issued in accordance with the terms of the act.


(i) Except as provided in § 55.13 of this chapter, the licensee may not permit the manipulation of the controls of any facility by anyone who is not a licensed operator or senior operator as provided in part 55 of this chapter.


(i-1) Within 3 months after either the issuance of an operating license or the date that the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter for a combined license, as applicable, the licensee shall have in effect an operator requalification program. The operator requalification program must, as a minimum, meet the requirements of § 55.59(c) of this chapter. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 50.59, the licensee may not, except as specifically authorized by the Commission decrease the scope of an approved operator requalification program.


(j) Apparatus and mechanisms other than controls, the operation of which may affect the reactivity or power level of a reactor shall be manipulated only with the knowledge and consent of an operator or senior operator licensed pursuant to part 55 of this chapter present at the controls.


(k) An operator or senior operator licensed pursuant to part 55 of this chapter shall be present at the controls at all times during the operation of the facility.


(l) The licensee shall designate individuals to be responsible for directing the licensed activities of licensed operators. These individuals shall be licensed as senior operators pursuant to part 55 of this chapter.


(m)(1) A senior operator licensed pursuant to part 55 of this chapter shall be present at the facility or readily available on call at all times during its operation, and shall be present at the facility during initial start-up and approach to power, recovery from an unplanned or unscheduled shut-down or significant reduction in power, and refueling, or as otherwise prescribed in the facility license.


(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, by January 1, 1984, licensees of nuclear power units shall meet the following requirements:


(i) Each licensee shall meet the minimum licensed operator staffing requirements in the following table:


(ii) Each licensee shall have at its site a person holding a senior operator license for all fueled units at the site who is assigned responsibility for overall plant operation at all times there is fuel in any unit. If a single senior operator does not hold a senior operator license on all fueled units at the site, then the licensee must have at the site two or more senior operators, who in combination are licensed as senior operators on all fueled units.


(iii) When a nuclear power unit is in an operational mode other than cold shutdown or refueling, as defined by the unit's technical specifications, each licensee shall have a person holding a senior operator license for the nuclear power unit in the control room at all times. In addition to this senior operator, for each fueled nuclear power unit, a licensed operator or senior operator shall be present at the controls at all times.


(iv) Each licensee shall have present, during alteration of the core of a nuclear power unit (including fuel loading or transfer), a person holding a senior operator license or a senior operator license limited to fuel handling to directly supervise the activity and, during this time, the licensee shall not assign other duties to this person.


(3) Licensees who cannot meet the January 1, 1984 deadline must submit by October 1, 1983 a request for an extension to the Director of the Office of Nuclear Regulation and demonstrate good cause for the request.


(n) The licensee shall not, except as authorized pursuant to a construction permit, make any alteration in the facility constituting a change from the technical specifications previously incorporated in a license or construction permit pursuant to § 50.36 of this part.


(o) Primary reactor containments for water cooled power reactors, other than facilities for which the certifications required under §§ 50.82(a)(1) or 52.110(a)(1) of this chapter have been submitted, shall be subject to the requirements set forth in appendix J to this part.


(p)(1) The licensee shall prepare and maintain safeguards contingency plan procedures in accordance with appendix C of part 73 of this chapter for affecting the actions and decisions contained in the Responsibility Matrix of the safeguards contingency plan. The licensee may not make a change which would decrease the effectiveness of a physical security plan, or guard training and qualification plan, or cyber security plan prepared under § 50.34(c) or § 52.79(a), or part 73 of this chapter, or of the first four categories of information (Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, Responsibility Matrix) contained in a licensee safeguards contingency plan prepared under § 50.34(d) or § 52.79(a), or part 73 of this chapter, as applicable, without prior approval of the Commission. A licensee desiring to make such a change shall submit an application for amendment to the licensee's license under § 50.90.


(2) The licensee may make changes to the plans referenced in paragraph (p)(1) of this section, without prior Commission approval if the changes do not decrease the safeguards effectiveness of the plan. The licensee shall maintain records of changes to the plans made without prior Commission approval for a period of 3 years from the date of the change, and shall submit, as specified in § 50.4 or § 52.3 of this chapter, a report containing a description of each change within 2 months after the change is made. Prior to the safeguards contingency plan being put into effect, the licensee shall have:


(i) All safeguards capabilities specified in the safeguards contingency plan available and functional;


(ii) Detailed procedures developed according to appendix C to part 73 of this chapter available at the licensee's site; and


(iii) All appropriate personnel trained to respond to safeguards incidents as outlined in the plan and specified in the detailed procedures.


(3) The licensee shall provide for the development, revision, implementation, and maintenance of its safeguards contingency plan. The licensee shall ensure that all program elements are reviewed by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program either:


(i) At intervals not to exceed 12 months; or


(ii) As necessary, based on an assessment by the licensee against performance indicators, and as soon as reasonably practicable after a change occurs in personnel, procedures, equipment, or facilities that potentially could adversely affect security, but no longer than 12 months after the change. In any case, all elements of the safeguards contingency plan must be reviewed at least once every 24 months.


(4) The review must include a review and audit of safeguards contingency procedures and practices, an audit of the security system testing and maintenance program, and a test of the safeguards systems along with commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities. The results of the review and audit, along with recommendations for improvements, must be documented, reported to the licensee's corporate and plant management, and kept available at the plant for inspection for a period of 3 years.










(q) *Emergency plans*—(1) Definitions for the purpose of this section:


(i) *Change* means an action that results in modification or addition to, or removal from, the licensee's emergency plan. All such changes are subject to the provisions of this section except where the applicable regulations establish specific criteria for accomplishing a particular change.


(ii) *Emergency plan* means the document(s), prepared and maintained by the licensee, that identify and describe the licensee's methods for maintaining emergency preparedness and responding to emergencies. An emergency plan includes the plan as originally approved by the NRC and all subsequent changes made by the licensee with, and without, prior NRC review and approval under paragraph (q) of this section.


(iii) *Emergency planning function* means a capability or resource necessary to prepare for and respond to a radiological emergency.




(iv) *Reduction in effectiveness* means a change in an emergency plan that results in reducing the licensee's capability to perform an emergency planning function in the event of a radiological emergency.


(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (q)(2)(ii) of this section, a holder of a license under this part, or a combined license under part 52 of this chapter after the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter, shall follow and maintain the effectiveness of an emergency plan that meets the requirements in appendix E to this part and, for nuclear power reactor licensees, the planning standards of § 50.47(b).


(ii) A holder of a license under this part for a non-power production or utilization facility, a holder of a license under this part for a small modular reactor or a non-light water reactor, or a holder of a combined license under part 52 of this chapter after the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter for a small modular reactor or a non-light-water reactor, shall follow and maintain the effectiveness of either an emergency plan that meets the requirements in § 50.160 or an emergency plan that meets the requirements in appendix E to this part and, for nuclear power reactor licensees, the planning standards of § 50.47(b).


(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (q)(3)(ii) of this section, the licensee may make changes to its emergency plan without NRC approval only if the licensee performs and retains an analysis demonstrating that the changes do not reduce the effectiveness of the plan and the plan, as changed, continues to meet the requirements in appendix E to this part and, for nuclear power reactor licensees, the planning standards of § 50.47(b).


(ii) A non-power production or utilization facility, small modular reactor, or non-light-water reactor licensee may make changes to its emergency plan without NRC approval only if the licensee performs and retains an analysis demonstrating that the changes do not reduce the effectiveness of the plan and the plan, as changed, continues to meet either the requirements in § 50.160 or the requirements in appendix E to this part and, for nuclear power reactor licensees, the planning standards of § 50.47(b).


(4) The changes to a licensee's emergency plan that reduce the effectiveness of the plan as defined in paragraph (q)(1)(iv) of this section may not be implemented without prior approval by the NRC. A licensee desiring to make such a change shall submit an application for an amendment to its license. In addition to the filing requirements of §§ 50.90 and 50.91, the request must include all emergency plan pages affected by that change and must be accompanied by a forwarding letter identifying the change, the reason for the change, and the basis for concluding that the licensee's emergency plan, as revised, will continue to meet either the requirements in § 50.160 or the requirements in appendix E to this part and, for nuclear power reactor licensees, the planning standards of § 50.47(b).




(5) The licensee shall retain a record of each change to the emergency plan made without prior NRC approval for a period of three years from the date of the change and shall submit, as specified in § 50.4, a report of each such change, including a summary of its analysis, within 30 days after the change is put in effect.


(6) The nuclear power reactor licensee shall retain the emergency plan and each change for which prior NRC approval was obtained pursuant to paragraph (q)(4) of this section as a record until the Commission terminates the license for the nuclear power reactor.


(7) Each holder of an operating license under this part or a combined license under part 52 of this chapter for a small modular reactor or non-light-water reactor or each holder of an operating license under this part issued after December 18, 2023 for a non-power production or utilization facility that wishes to transition to § 50.160 shall submit to the Commission, as specified in § 50.90, a license amendment request for implementing an emergency preparedness program with the associated plan modification necessary to meet the requirements of § 50.160(b). This submittal must include an explanation of the schedule and analyses supporting the implementation of the emergency preparedness program.




(r) [Reserved]


(s)(1) [Reserved]


(2)(i) [Reserved]


(ii) If the NRC finds that the state of emergency preparedness does not provide reasonable assurance that adequate protective measures can and will be taken in the event of a radiological emergency (*including findings based on requirements of appendix E, section IV.D.3*) and if the deficiencies (*including deficiencies based on requirements of appendix E, section IV.D.3*) are not corrected within four months of that finding, the Commission will determine whether the facility shall be shut down or cease operation until such deficiencies are remedied or whether other enforcement action is appropriate. In determining whether a shutdown or other enforcement action is appropriate, the Commission shall take into account, among other factors, whether the licensee can demonstrate to the Commission's satisfaction that the deficiencies in the plan are not significant for the plant in question, or that adequate interim compensating actions have been or will be taken promptly, or that there are other compelling reasons for continued operation.


(3) If the planning standards for radiological emergency preparedness apply to offsite emergency response plans, or if the planning activities in § 50.160(b)(1)(iv)(B) apply, then the NRC will base its finding on a review of the FEMA findings and determinations as to whether State and local emergency plans are adequate and capable of being implemented, and on the NRC assessment as to whether the licensee's emergency plans are adequate and capable of being implemented. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as limiting the authority of the Commission to take action under any other regulation or authority of the Commission or at any time other than that specified in this paragraph.




(t)(1) The licensee shall provide for the development, revision, implementation, and maintenance of its emergency preparedness program. The licensee shall ensure that all program elements are reviewed by persons who have no direct responsibility for the implementation of the emergency preparedness program either:


(i) At intervals not to exceed 12 months or,


(ii) As necessary, based on an assessment by the licensee against performance indicators, and as soon as reasonably practicable after a change occurs in personnel, procedures, equipment, or facilities that potentially could adversely affect emergency preparedness, but no longer than 12 months after the change. In any case, all elements of the emergency preparedness program must be reviewed at least once every 24 months.


(2) The review must include an evaluation for adequacy of interfaces with State and local governments and of licensee drills, exercises, capabilities, and procedures. The results of the review, along with recommendations for improvements, must be documented, reported to the licensee's corporate and plant management, and retained for a period of 5 years. The part of the review involving the evaluation for adequacy of interface with State and local governments must be available to the appropriate State and local governments.


(u) [Reserved]


(v) Each licensee subject to the requirements of Part 73 of this chapter shall ensure that Safeguards Information is protected against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements in § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable.


(w) Each power reactor licensee under this part for a production or utilization facility of the type described in § 50.21(b) or § 50.22 shall take reasonable steps to obtain insurance available at reasonable costs and on reasonable terms from private sources or to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the NRC that it possesses an equivalent amount of protection covering the licensee's obligation, in the event of an accident at the licensee's reactor, to stabilize and decontaminate the reactor and the reactor station site at which the reactor experiencing the accident is located, provided that:


(1) The insurance required by paragraph (w) of this section must have a minimum coverage limit for each reactor station site of either $1.06 billion or whatever amount of insurance is generally available from private sources, whichever is less. The required insurance must clearly state that, as and to the extent provided in paragraph (w)(4) of this section, any proceeds must be payable first for stabilization of the reactor and next for decontamination of the reactor and the reactor station site. If a licensee's coverage falls below the required minimum, the licensee shall within 60 days take all reasonable steps to restore its coverage to the required minimum. The required insurance may, at the option of the licensee, be included within policies that also provide coverage for other risks, including, but not limited to, the risk of direct physical damage.


(2)(i) With respect to policies issued or annually renewed on or after April 2, 1991, the proceeds of such required insurance must be dedicated, as and to the extent provided in this paragraph, to reimbursement or payment on behalf of the insured of reasonable expenses incurred or estimated to be incurred by the licensee in taking action to fulfill the licensee's obligation, in the event of an accident at the licensee's reactor, to ensure that the reactor is in, or is returned to, and maintained in, a safe and stable condition and that radioactive contamination is removed or controlled such that personnel exposures are consistent with the occupational exposure limits in 10 CFR part 20. These actions must be consistent with any other obligation the licensee may have under this chapter and must be subject to paragraph (w)(4) of this section. As used in this section, an “accident” means an event that involves the release of radioactive material from its intended place of confinement within the reactor or on the reactor station site such that there is a present danger of release off site in amounts that would pose a threat to the public health and safety.


(ii) The stabilization and decontamination requirements set forth in paragraph (w)(4) of this section must apply uniformly to all insurance policies required under paragraph (w) of this section.


(3) The licensee shall report to the NRC on April 1 of each year the current levels of this insurance or financial security it maintains and the sources of this insurance or financial security.


(4)(i) In the event of an accident at the licensee's reactor, whenever the estimated costs of stabilizing the licensed reactor and of decontaminating the reactor and the reactor station site exceed $100 million, the proceeds of the insurance required by paragraph (w) of this section must be dedicated to and used, first, to ensure that the licensed reactor is in, or is returned to, and can be maintained in, a safe and stable condition so as to prevent any significant risk to the public health and safety and, second, to decontaminate the reactor and the reactor station site in accordance with the licensee's cleanup plan as approved by order of the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. This priority on insurance proceeds must remain in effect for 60 days or, upon order of the Director, for such longer periods, in increments not to exceed 60 days except as provided for activities under the cleanup plan required in paragraphs (w)(4)(iii) and (w)(4)(iv) of this section, as the Director may find necessary to protect the public health and safety. Actions needed to bring the reactor to and maintain the reactor in a safe and stable condition may include one or more of the following, as appropriate:


(A) Shutdown of the reactor;


(B) Establishment and maintenance of long-term cooling with stable decay heat removal;


(C) Maintenance of sub-criticality;


(D) Control of radioactive releases; and


(E) Securing of structures, systems, or components to minimize radiation exposure to onsite personnel or to the offsite public or to facilitate later decontamination or both.


(ii) The licensee shall inform the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation in writing when the reactor is and can be maintained in a safe and stable condition so as to prevent any significant risk to the public health and safety. Within 30 days after the licensee informs the Director that the reactor is in this condition, or at such earlier time as the licensee may elect or the Director may for good cause direct, the licensee shall prepare and submit a cleanup plan for the Director's approval. The cleanup plan must identify and contain an estimate of the cost of each cleanup operation that will be required to decontaminate the reactor sufficiently to permit the licensee either to resume operation of the reactor or to apply to the Commission under § 50.82 for authority to decommission the reactor and to surrender the license voluntarily. Cleanup operations may include one or more of the following, as appropriate:


(A) Processing any contaminated water generated by the accident and by decontamination operations to remove radioactive materials;


(B) Decontamination of surfaces inside the auxiliary and fuel-handling buildings and the reactor building to levels consistent with the Commission's occupational exposure limits in 10 CFR part 20, and decontamination or disposal of equipment;


(C) Decontamination or removal and disposal of internal parts and damaged fuel from the reactor vessel; and


(D) Cleanup of the reactor coolant system.


(iii) Following review of the licensee's cleanup plan, the Director will order the licensee to complete all operations that the Director finds are necessary to decontaminate the reactor sufficiently to permit the licensee either to resume operation of the reactor or to apply to the Commission under § 50.82 for authority to decommission the reactor and to surrender the license voluntarily. The Director shall approve or disapprove, in whole or in part for stated reasons, the licensee's estimate of cleanup costs for such operations. Such order may not be effective for more than 1 year, at which time it may be renewed. Each subsequent renewal order, if imposed, may be effective for not more than 6 months.


(iv) Of the balance of the proceeds of the required insurance not already expended to place the reactor in a safe and stable condition pursuant to paragraph (w)(2)(i) of this section, an amount sufficient to cover the expenses of completion of those decontamination operations that are the subject of the Director's order shall be dedicated to such use, provided that, upon certification to the Director of the amounts expended previously and from time to time for stabilization and decontamination and upon further certification to the Director as to the sufficiency of the dedicated amount remaining, policies of insurance may provide for payment to the licensee or other loss payees of amounts not so dedicated, and the licensee may proceed to use in parallel (and not in preference thereto) any insurance proceeds not so dedicated for other purposes.


(x) A licensee may take reasonable action that departs from a license condition or a technical specification (contained in a license issued under this part) in an emergency when this action is immediately needed to protect the public health and safety and no action consistent with license conditions and technical specifications that can provide adequate or equivalent protection is immediately apparent.


(y) Licensee action permitted by paragraph (x) of this section shall be approved, as a minimum, by a licensed senior operator, or, at a nuclear power reactor facility for which the certifications required under § 50.82(a)(1) have been submitted, by either a licensed senior operator or a certified fuel handler, prior to taking the action.


(z) Each licensee with a utilization facility licensed pursuant to sections 103 or 104b. of the Act shall immediately notify the NRC Operations Center of the occurrence of any event specified in § 50.72 of this part.


(aa) The license shall be subject to all conditions deemed imposed as a matter of law by sections 401(a)(2) and 401(d) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C.A. 1341 (a)(2) and (d).)


(bb) For nuclear power reactors licensed by the NRC, the licensee shall, within 2 years following permanent cessation of operation of the reactor or 5 years before expiration of the reactor operating license, whichever occurs first, submit written notification to the Commission for its review and preliminary approval of the program by which the licensee intends to manage and provide funding for the management of all irradiated fuel at the reactor following permanent cessation of operation of the reactor until title to the irradiated fuel and possession of the fuel is transferred to the Secretary of Energy for its ultimate disposal in a repository. Licensees of nuclear power reactors that have permanently ceased operation by April 4, 1994 are required to submit such written notification by April 4, 1996. Final Commission review will be undertaken as part of any proceeding for continued licensing under part 50 or part 72 of this chapter. The licensee must demonstrate to NRC that the elected actions will be consistent with NRC requirements for licensed possession of irradiated nuclear fuel and that the actions will be implemented on a timely basis. Where implementation of such actions requires NRC authorizations, the licensee shall verify in the notification that submittals for such actions have been or will be made to NRC and shall identify them. A copy of the notification shall be retained by the licensee as a record until expiration of the reactor operating license. The licensee shall notify the NRC of any significant changes in the proposed waste management program as described in the initial notification.


(cc)(1) Each licensee shall notify the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator, in writing, immediately following the filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition for bankruptcy under any chapter of title 11 (Bankruptcy) of the United States Code by or against:


(i) The licensee;


(ii) An entity (as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 101(14)) controlling the licensee or listing the license or licensee as property of the estate; or


(iii) An affiliate (as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C. 101(2)) of the licensee.


(2) This notification must indicate:


(i) The bankruptcy court in which the petition for bankruptcy was filed; and


(ii) The date of the filing of the petition.


(dd) A licensee may take reasonable action that departs from a license condition or a technical specification (contained in a license issued under this part) in a national security emergency:


(1) When this action is immediately needed to implement national security objectives as designated by the national command authority through the Commission, and


(2) No action consistent with license conditions and technical specifications that can meet national security objectives is immediately apparent.


(ee)(1) Each license issued under this part authorizing the possession of byproduct and special nuclear material produced in the operation of the licensed reactor includes, whether stated in the license or not, the authorization to receive back that same material, in the same or altered form or combined with byproduct or special nuclear material produced in the operation of another reactor of the same licensee located at that site, from a licensee of the Commission or an Agreement State, or from a non-licensed entity authorized to possess the material.


(2) The authorizations in this subsection are subject to the same limitations and requirements applicable to the original possession of the material.


(3) This paragraph does not authorize the receipt of any material recovered from the reprocessing of irradiated fuel.


(ff) For licensees of nuclear power plants that have implemented the earthquake engineering criteria in appendix S to this part, plant shutdown is required as provided in paragraph IV(a)(3) of appendix S to this part. Prior to resuming operations, the licensee shall demonstrate to the Commission that no functional damage has occurred to those features necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public and the licensing basis is maintained.




(gg)(1) Notwithstanding § 52.103 of this chapter, if, following the conduct of the exercise required by either paragraph IV.f.2.a of appendix E to this part or § 50.160(c)(2), as applicable, FEMA identifies one or more deficiencies in the state of offsite emergency preparedness, the holder of a combined license under part 52 of this chapter may operate at up to 5 percent of rated thermal power only if the Commission finds that the state of onsite emergency preparedness provides reasonable assurance that adequate protective measures can and will be taken in the event of a radiological emergency. The NRC will base this finding on its assessment of the applicant's onsite emergency plans against the pertinent standards in either § 50.47 and appendix E to this part, or § 50.160, as applicable. Review of the applicant's emergency plans will include the following standards with offsite aspects:










(i) Arrangements for requesting and effectively using offsite assistance onsite have been made, arrangements to accommodate State and local staff at the licensee's Emergency Operations Facility have been made, and other organizations capable of augmenting the planned onsite response have been identified.


(ii) Procedures have been established for licensee communications with State and local response organizations, including initial notification of the declaration of emergency and periodic provision of plant and response status reports.


(iii) Provisions exist for prompt communications among principal response organizations to offsite emergency personnel who would be responding onsite.


(iv) Adequate emergency facilities and equipment to support the emergency response onsite are provided and maintained.


(v) Adequate methods, systems, and equipment for assessing and monitoring actual or potential offsite consequences of a radiological emergency condition are in use onsite.


(vi) Arrangements are made for medical services for contaminated and injured onsite individuals.


(vii) Radiological emergency response training has been made available to those offsite who may be called to assist in an emergency onsite.


(2) The condition in this paragraph, regarding operation at up to 5 percent power, ceases to apply 30 days after FEMA informs the NRC that the offsite deficiencies have been corrected, unless the NRC notifies the combined license holder before the expiration of the 30-day period that the Commission finds under paragraphs (s)(2) and (3) of this section that the state of emergency preparedness does not provide reasonable assurance that adequate protective measures can and will be taken in the event of a radiological emergency.








(hh) (1) Each licensee shall develop, implement and maintain procedures that describe how the licensee will address the following areas if the licensee is notified of a potential aircraft threat:


(i) Verification of the authenticity of threat notifications;


(ii) Maintenance of continuous communication with threat notification sources;


(iii) Contacting all onsite personnel and applicable offsite response organizations;


(iv) Onsite actions necessary to enhance the capability of the facility to mitigate the consequences of an aircraft impact;


(v) Measures to reduce visual discrimination of the site relative to its surroundings or individual buildings within the protected area;


(vi) Dispersal of equipment and personnel, as well as rapid entry into site protected areas for essential onsite personnel and offsite responders who are necessary to mitigate the event; and


(vii) Recall of site personnel.




















(2) Paragraph (hh)(1) of this section does not apply to a licensee that has submitted the certifications required under § 50.82(a)(1) or § 52.110(a) of this chapter.








(ii) [Reserved]


(jj) Structures, systems, and components subject to the codes and standards in 10 CFR 50.55a must be designed, fabricated, erected, constructed, tested, and inspected to quality standards commensurate with the importance of the safety function to be performed.



---

[N] [21 FR 355, Jan. 19, 1956]


