# § 655.421   Job contractor filing requirements.

(a) A job contractor may submit a *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* on behalf of itself and that employer-client. By doing so, the Department deems the job contractor a joint employer.


(b) A job contractor must have separate contracts with each different employer-client. A single contract or agreement may support only one *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* for each employer-client job opportunity in the Commonwealth.


(c) Either the job contractor or its employer-client may submit an *Application for Prevailing Wage Determination* describing the job opportunity to the NPWC. However, each of the joint employers is separately responsible for ensuring that the wage offer(s) listed in the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and related recruitment at least equals the prevailing wage obtained from the NPWC, or the Federal or Commonwealth minimum wage, whichever is highest, and that all other wage obligations are met.


(d)(1) A job contractor that is filing as a joint employer with its employer-client must submit to the NPC a completed *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* that clearly identifies the joint employers (the job contractor and its employer-client) and the employment relationship (including the places of employment), in accordance with instructions provided by the OFLC Administrator. The *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* must bear the original signature of the job contractor and the employer-client or use a verifiable electronic signature method, consistent with the requirements set forth at § 655.420(d), and be accompanied by the contract or agreement establishing the employers' relationships related to the workers sought.


(2) By signing the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,* each employer independently attests to the conditions of employment required of an employer participating in the CW-1 program and assumes full responsibility for the accuracy of the representations made in the application and for all of the responsibilities of an employer in the CW-1 program.


(e)(1) Either the job contractor or its employer-client may place the required advertisements and conduct recruitment as described in §§ 655.442 through 655.445. Also, either one of the joint employers may assume responsibility for interviewing applicants. However, both of the joint employers must sign the recruitment report that is submitted to the NPC meeting the requirement set forth in § 655.446.


(2) All recruitment conducted by the joint employers must satisfy the job offer assurance and advertising content requirements identified in § 655.441. Additionally, in order to fully inform applicants of the job opportunity and avoid potential confusion inherent in a job opportunity involving two employers, joint employer recruitment must clearly identify both employers (the job contractor and its employer-client) by name and must clearly identify the place(s) of employment where workers will perform labor or services.


(3)(i) Provided that all of the employer-clients' job opportunities are in the same occupation located in the Commonwealth and have the same requirements and terms and conditions of employment, including dates of employment, a job contractor may combine more than one of its joint employer employer-clients' job opportunities in a single advertisement. Each advertisement must fully inform potential workers of the job opportunity available with each employer-client and otherwise satisfy the job offer assurances and advertising content requirements identified in § 655.441. Such a shared advertisement must clearly identify the job contractor by name, the joint employment relationship, and the number of workers sought for each job opportunity, identified by employer-client names and locations (e.g., five openings with Employer-Client A (place of employment location), three openings with Employer-Client B (place of employment location)).


(ii) In addition, the advertisement must contain the following statement: “Applicants may apply for any or all of the jobs listed. When applying, please identify the job(s) (by company and work location) you are applying to for the entire period of employment specified.” If an applicant fails to identify one or more specific work location(s), that applicant is presumed to have applied to all work locations listed in the advertisement.


(f) If a TLC for the joint employers is granted, the Final Determination certifying the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* will be sent to both the job contractor and employer-client.




