# ยง 1145.5   Procedures.

(a) If a shipper or a receiver believes that a rail carrier providing it service failed to meet a performance standard described in ยง 1145.2, it may file a petition for prescription of a reciprocal switching agreement.


(b) The petition must include the information and documents described in this paragraph (b).


(1) Confirmation that the petitioner attempted good faith negotiations as required by ยง 1145.4, identify the performance standard the railroad failed to meet over the requisite period of time, identify the requested duration of the prescription of a reciprocal switching agreement, and provide evidence supporting its claim and requested prescription.


(2) Identification of at least one possible rail carrier to provide alternative service.


(3) Identification of any relevant switching publications of the incumbent rail carrier and the potential alternate carrier(s).


(4) A motion for a protective order that would govern the disclosure of data that the rail carrier provided to the petitioner under this part.


(c) The petition must have been served on the incumbent rail carrier, the alternate rail carrier(s), and the Federal Railroad Administration.


(d) A reply to a petition is due within 20 days of a completed petition. The burden of proof of establishing infeasibility and/or undue impairment is on the rail carrier (either the incumbent or the alternate) that is objecting to the petition.


(e) A rebuttal may be filed within 20 days after a reply to a petition.


(f) The Board will endeavor to issue a decision on a petition within 90 days from the date of the completed petition.






