# ยง 1045.125   What is the process for reviewing and derivatively classifying matter that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI?

(a) *Protecting and marking matter that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI prior to review.* Prior to the review of matter to determine if it contains RD, FRD, or TFNI, the matter must be protected at the overall potential highest level and category and marked as a working paper in accordance with ยง 1045.140.


(b) *Matter that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI that is intended for public release.* Any person who generates or possesses matter that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI that is intended for public release must ensure that it is reviewed by the Director, Office of Classification, or a DOE official granted the authority by delegation, regulation, or DOE directive, prior to release. FRD may also be reviewed by the appropriate DoD official as specified in DoD Instruction 5210.02 or subsequent instructions.


(c) *Matter that potentially contains RD or FRD information that is not intended for public release.* Matter that potentially contains RD or FRD that is not intended for public release must be reviewed by an RD Derivative Classifier.


(d) *Matter that potentially contains TFNI that is not intended for public release.* Matter that potentially contains TFNI that is not intended for public release must be reviewed by a person who has been trained in accordance with ยง 1045.120(e).


(e) *Matter that incorporates information from the open literature that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI.* Because the open literature may contain information that is still classified as RD, FRD, or TFNI, matter that incorporates information from the open literature that is potentially RD, FRD, or TFNI must be reviewed as required under this section.


(f) *Matter being reviewed under E.O. 13526 or successor orders.* If, when reviewing matter under the automatic or systematic review provisions of E.O. 13526 or successor orders, the person finds matter potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI that it is not correctly marked:


(1) An RD Classifier may review the matter to determine if it contains RD or FRD. If the matter is determined to contain RD or FRD, the matter must be appropriately marked and is exempt from automatic declassification.


(2) A person trained to classify TFNI may review the matter to determine if it contains TFNI. If the matter is determined to contain TFNI, the matter must be appropriately marked and is exempt from automatic declassification.


(3) If an authorized person is unable to make a determination for RD, FRD, or TFNI, the matter must be referred to DOE. Matter containing FRD may also be referred to DoD. The matter may not be automatically declassified until DOE or DoD makes a determination as to its classification status.




