# § 28.210   First aid equipment and training.

(a) Each vessel must have on board a complete first aid manual and medicine chest of a size suitable for the number of individuals on board in a readily accessible location.


(b) *First aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) course certification.* Certification in first aid and CPR must be as described in this paragraph.


(1) First aid—a certificate indicating completion of a first aid course from:


(i) The American National Red Cross “Standard First Aid and Emergency Care” or “Multi-media Standard First Aid” course; or


(ii) A course approved by the Coast Guard under § 11.201(i) of this chapter.


(2) CPR—A certificate indicating completion of course from:


(i) The American National Red Cross;


(ii) The American Heart Association; or 


(iii) A course approved by the Coast guard under § 10.205(h)(2)(iii) of this chapter.


(c) Each vessel that operates with more than 2 individuals on board must have at least 1 individual certified in first aid and at least 1 individual certified in CPR. An individual certified in both first aid and CPR will satisfy both of these requirements. 


(d) Each vessel that operates with more than 16 individuals on board must have at least 2 individuals certified in first aid and at least 2 individuals certified in CPR. An individual certified in both first aid and CPR may be counted for both requirements. 


(e) Each vessel that operates with more than 49 individuals on board must have at least 4 individuals certified in first aid and at least 4 individuals certified in CPR. An individual certified in both first aid and CPR may be counted for both requirements. 



---

[N] [CGD 88-079, 56 FR 40393, Aug. 14, 1991, as amended by CGD 95-012, 60 FR 48048, Sept. 18, 1995; USCG-2018-0874, 84 FR 30883, June 28, 2019]




