# ยง 113.308   Encephalomyelitis Vaccine, Venezuelan.

Encephalomyelitis Vaccine, Venezuelan, shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids. Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing seeds for vaccine production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed.


(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 except (b), and the requirements prescribed in this section.


(b) Each lot of Master Seed shall be tested for immunogenicity. The selected virus dose from the lot of Master Seed shall be established as follows: 


(1) Tests conducted by the Department have established that horses having Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis antibody titers of 1:20 by the hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) method or 1:40 by the serum neutralization (SN) method were immune to challenge with virulent virus. The immunogenicity test is based on the demonstration of a serological response of at least that magnitude following vaccination of serologically negative horses. 


(2) At least 22 horses (20 vaccinates and 2 controls), susceptible to Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis, shall be used as test animals. Blood samples shall be taken from each horse and the serums individually tested for neutralizing antibody. Horses shall be considered susceptible if there is no neutralization at a 1:2 final serum dilution in a constant virus-varying serum neutralization test using 60 to 300 TCID_50_ of Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis virus. 


(3) A geometric mean titer of the vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed shall be established using a method acceptable to Veterinary Services before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 horses used as vaccinates shall be injected with a predetermined quantity of vaccine virus by the method to be recommended on the label. To confirm the dosage administered, five replicate virus titrations shall be conducted on a sample of the vaccine virus dilution used. 


(4) Twenty-one to twenty-eight days postvaccination, blood samples shall be drawn from all test animals. For a valid test, the controls shall remain seronegative at 1:2 final serum dilution. In a valid test, if at least 19 of 20 vaccinates do not have antibody titers of at least 1:20 in a hemagglutination-inhibition test or at least 1:40 in a serum neutralization test, the Master Seed is unsatisfactory. 


(5) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new lot of Master Seed shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. 


(c) *Test requirements for release.* Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.300 and special requirements in this paragraph. Any serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released. 


(1) *Safety test.* The mouse safety test prescribed in ยง 113.33(b) shall be conducted. 


(2) *Virus titer requirements.* Final container samples of completed product shall be tested for virus titer using the method in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. To be eligible for release, each serial and subserial shall have a virus titer sufficiently greater than the titer of the vaccine used in the immunogenicity test prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section to assure that, when tested at any time within the expiration period, each serial and subserial shall have a virus titer of 10 
0.7 greater than that used in the immunogenicity test, but not less than 10 
2.5 TCID_50_ per dose.



---

[N] [50 FR 23797, June 6, 1985. Redesignated at 55 FR 35562, Aug. 31, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66784, 66786, Dec. 26, 1991; 72 FR 72564, Dec. 21, 2007] 




