# ยง 532.271   Special wage schedules for National Park Service positions in overlap areas.

(a)(1) The Department of the Interior shall establish special schedules for wage employees of the National Park Service whose duty station is located in one of the following NPS jurisdictions:


(i) Blue Ridge Parkway;


(ii) Natchez Trace Parkway; and


(iii) Great Smoky Mountains National Park.


(2) Each of these NPS jurisdictions is located in (*i.e.,* overlaps) more than one FWS wage area.


(b) The special overlap wage schedules in each of the NPS jurisdictions shall be based on a determination concerning which regular nonsupervisory wage schedule in the overlapped FWS wage areas provides the most favorable payline for the employees.


(c) The most favorable payline shall be determined by computing a simple average of the 15 nonsupervisory second step rates on each one of the regular schedules authorized for each wage area overlapped. The highest average obtained by this method will identify the regular schedule that produces the most favorable payline.


(d) Each special schedule shall be effective on the same date as the regular schedule on which it is based.


(e) If there is a change in the identification of the most favorable payline, the special scheule for the current year shall be issued on its normal effective date. The next special scheule shall be issued on the effective date of the next regular schedule that produced the most favorable payline for the NPS jurisdiction in the previous year.



---

[N] [55 FR 46145, Nov. 1, 1990]




