# § 60.700a   Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to the provisions of this subpart if you operate an affected facility designated in paragraph (b) of this section that is part of a process unit that produces any of the chemicals listed in § 60.707a as a product, co-product, by-product, or intermediate, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) The affected facility is any of the following for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced after April 25, 2023:


(1) Each reactor process not discharging its vent stream into a recovery system.


(2) Each combination of a reactor process and the recovery system into which its vent stream is discharged.


(3) Each combination of two or more reactor processes and the common recovery system into which their vent streams are discharged.


(c) Exemptions from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are as follows:


(1) Any reactor process that is designed and operated as a batch operation is not an affected facility.


(2) Each affected facility in a process unit with a total design capacity for all chemicals produced within that unit of less than 1 gigagram per year (1,100 tons per year) is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.705a(h), (k)(6), and (p).


(3) Each affected facility operated with a vent stream flow rate less than 0.011 scm/min is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 60.704a(e) and 60.705a(i), (k)(7), and (q).


(4) If the vent stream from an affected facility is routed to a distillation unit subject to subpart NNNa of this part and has no other releases to the air except for a pressure relief valve, the facility is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for § 60.705a(r).


(5) Any reactor process operating as part of a process unit which produces beverage alcohols, or which uses, contains, and produces no VOC is not an affected facility.


(6) Any reactor process that is subject to the provisions of subpart DDD is not an affected facility.


(7) Each affected facility operated with a concentration of total organic compounds (TOC) (less methane and ethane) in the vent stream less than 300 ppmv as measured by Method 18 or a concentration of TOC in the vent stream less than 150 ppmv as measured by Method 25A is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in § 60.704a(f) and § 60.705a(j), (k)(8), and (s).


(8) A vent stream going to a fuel gas system as defined in § 63.701a.






