# ยง 271.11   Records available to the public upon request.

(a) *Procedures for requesting records.* (1) Requesters are encouraged to submit requests electronically using the online request form located at *www.federalreserve.gov/secure/forms/FOMCForm.aspx.* Alternatively, requests may be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Committee, Federal Open Market Committee, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20551; or sent by facsimile to the Secretary of the Committee, (202) 452-2921. Clearly mark the request FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST.


(2) A request may not be combined with any other request or FOIA appeal.


(b) *Contents of request.* A request must include:


(1) The requester's name, address, daytime telephone number, and an email address if available.


(2) A description of the records that enables the Committee to identify and produce the records with reasonable effort and without unduly burdening or significantly interfering with any of the Committee's operations. Whenever possible, the request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record.


(3) A statement agreeing to pay the applicable fees. If the information requested is not intended for a commercial use (as defined in ยง 271.16(d)(1)) and the requester seeks a reduction or waiver of fees because he or she is either a representative of the news media, an educational institution, or a noncommercial scientific institution, the requester should include the information called for in ยง 271.16(g)(2).


(c) *Perfected and defective requests.* (1) The Committee will consider the request to be perfected on the date the secretary of the Committee receives a request that contains all of the information required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(2) The Committee need not accept or process a request that does not reasonably describe the records requested or that does not otherwise comply with the requirements of this section.


(3) The Committee may return a defective request, specifying the deficiency. The requester may submit a corrected request, which will be treated as a new request.






