# § 6.21   Notice of intent to issue a directive.

(a) *Notice of intent to issue a directive*—(1) *In general.* The OCC shall provide an undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized national bank or Federal savings association prior written notice of the OCC's intention to issue a directive requiring such national bank, Federal savings association, or company to take actions or to follow proscriptions described in section 38 that are within the OCC's discretion to require or impose under section 38 of the FDI Act, including section 38(e)(5), (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(5). The national bank or Federal savings association shall have such time to respond to a proposed directive as provided under § 6.22.


(2) *Immediate issuance of final directive.* If the OCC finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of section 38 of the FDI Act, the OCC may, without providing the notice prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, issue a directive requiring a national bank or Federal savings association immediately to take actions or to follow proscriptions described in section 38 that are within the OCC's discretion to require or impose under section 38 of the FDI Act, including section 38(e)(5), (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(5). A national bank or Federal savings association that is subject to such an immediately effective directive may submit a written appeal of the directive to the OCC. Such an appeal must be received by the OCC within 14 calendar days of the issuance of the directive, unless the OCC permits a longer period. The OCC shall consider any such appeal, if filed in a timely matter, within 60 days of receiving the appeal. During such period of review, the directive shall remain in effect unless the OCC, in its sole discretion, stays the effectiveness of the directive.


(b) *Contents of notice.* A notice of intention to issue a directive shall include:


(1) A statement of the national bank's or Federal savings association's capital measures and capital levels;


(2) A description of the restrictions, prohibitions or affirmative actions that the OCC proposes to impose or require;


(3) The proposed date when such restrictions or prohibitions would be effective or the proposed date for completion of such affirmative actions; and


(4) The date by which the national bank or Federal savings association subject to the directive may file with the OCC a written response to the notice.




