# § 291.5   Definitions.

Terms used in this part are defined as follows:


*Competitive sale of individual property* means a sale of an individual property to an individual bidder through a sealed bid process (or other bid process specifically authorized by the Secretary) in competition with other bidders in which properties have been publicly advertised to all prospective purchasers for bids.


*Direct sale* means a sale to a selected purchaser to the exclusion of all others without resorting to advertising for bids. Such a sale is available only to approved applicants.


*Eligible properties* means HUD-acquired properties designated by HUD for property disposition or other housing programs.


*HUD* means the Department of Housing and Urban Development or its contractor, as appropriate.


*Insured mortgage* means a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*).


*Investor purchaser* means a purchaser who does not intend to use the property as his or her principal residence.


*Owner-occupant purchaser* means a purchaser who intends to use the property as his or her principal residence; a State, governmental entity, tribe, or agency thereof; or a private nonprofit organization as defined in this section. Governmental entities include those with general governmental powers (e.g., a city or county), as well as those with limited or special powers (e.g., public housing agencies).


*Private nonprofit organization* means a secular or religious organization, no part of the net earnings of which may inure to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual. The organization must:


(1) Have a voluntary board;


(2)(i) Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; or


(ii) Designate an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;


(3) Practice nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance in accordance with the authorities described in § 291.435(a); and


(4) Have nonprofit status as demonstrated by approval under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)), or demonstrate that an application for such status is currently pending approval.


*Secretary* is defined in 24 CFR 5.100.


*State* means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.


*Tribe* has the meaning provided for the term “Indian tribe” in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302).



---

[N] [64 FR 6479, Feb. 9, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 53002, Aug. 11, 2016]






