# § 816.64   Use of explosives: Blasting schedule.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) The operator shall conduct blasting operations at times approved by the regulatory authority and announced in the blasting schedule. The regulatory authority may limit the area covered, timing, and sequence of blasting as listed in the schedule, if such limitations are necessary and reasonable in order to protect the public health and safety or welfare.


(2) All blasting shall be conducted between sunrise and sunset, unless nighttime blasting is approved by the regulatory authority based upon a showing by the operator that the public will be protected from adverse noise and other impacts. The regulatory authority may specify more restrictive time periods for blasting.


(3) Unscheduled blasts may be conducted only where public or operator health and safety so require and for emergency blasting actions. When an operator conducts an unscheduled blast, the operator, using audible signals, shall notify residents within 
1/2 mile of the blasting site and document the reason for the unscheduled blast in accordance with § 816.68(p).


(b) *Blasting schedule publication and distribution.* (1) The operator shall publish the blasting schedule in a newspaper of general circulation in the locality of the blasting site at least 10 days, but not more than 30 days, before beginning a blasting program.


(2) The operator shall distribute copies of the schedule to local governments and public utilities and to each local residence within 
1/2 mile of the proposed blasting site described in the schedule.


(3) The operator shall republish and redistribute the schedule at least every 12 months and revise and republish the schedule at least 10 days, but not more than 30 days, before blasting whenever the area covered by the schedule changes or actual time periods for blasting significantly differ from the prior announcement.


(c) *Blasting schedule contents.* The blasting schedule shall contain, at a minimum—


(1) Name, address, and telephone number of operator;


(2) Identification of the specific areas in which blasting will take place;


(3) Dates and time periods when explosives are to be detonated;


(4) Methods to be used to control access to the blasting area; and


(5) Type and patterns of audible warning and all-clear signals to be used before and after blasting.



---

[N] [48 FR 9807, Mar. 8, 1983, as amended at 81 FR 93392, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 54979, Nov. 17, 2017]




