# § 1602.4   Responses to requests for access to records.

(a) *Acknowledgments of requests.* On receipt of your request, the CSB ordinarily will send an acknowledgment letter, which shall confirm your agreement to pay fees under § 1602.2(c) and may provide an assigned request number for further reference. 


(b) *Grants of requests for access.* Once the CSB makes a determination to grant your request for access in whole or in part, it will notify you in writing. The CSB will inform you in the notice of any fee charged under § 1602.9 and will disclose records to you promptly on payment of any applicable fee. If your request is made in person, the CSB may disclose records to you directly, in a manner not unreasonably disruptive of its operations, on payment of any applicable fee and with a written record made of the grant of the request. If you are accompanied by another person when you make a request in person, you shall be required to authorize in writing any discussion of the records in the presence of the other person. 


(c) *Adverse determinations of requests for access.* If the CSB makes an adverse determination denying your request for access in any respect, it will notify you of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, consist of: a determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part; a determination that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located; a determination that what has been requested is not a record subject to the Privacy Act; a determination on any disputed fee matter; and a denial of a request for expedited treatment. The notification letter shall be signed by the General Counsel, or his/her designee, and shall include: 


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial; 


(2) A brief statement of the reason(s) for the denial, including any Privacy Act exemption(s) applied by the CSB in denying the request; and


(3) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 1602.5(a) and a description of the requirements of § 1602.5(a). 




