# ยง 160.1   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subchapter the following words, phrases, names and terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


*Accreditation.* The action of the Administrator initially approving a veterinarian in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this subchapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, D, and G of this chapter, in one State.


*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this subchapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, D, and G of this chapter.


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal, animals.* All animals except humans, including but not limited to cattle, sheep, goats, other ruminants, swine, horses, asses, mules, zebras, birds, and poultry.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.


*APHIS.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.


*Approved digital signature.* Digital signatures approved by the Administrator for electronic transmission, for example, via a computer. To be approved, a digital signature must be able to verify the identity of the accredited veterinarian signing the document and indicate if the integrity of the data in the signed document was compromised.


*Authorization.* The action of the Administrator approving an accredited veterinarian in accordance with the provisions of part 161 of this subchapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, D, and G of this chapter, in a State or States other than the State in which the veterinarian was initially accredited.


*Category I animals.* All animals except: Food and fiber species, horses, birds, farm-raised aquatic animals, all other livestock species, and zoo animals that can transmit exotic animal diseases to livestock.


*Category II animals.* All animals.


*Examine, examination.* Physical study of an individual animal that enables an accredited veterinarian to determine if any abnormality in physical condition or bodily function is suggestive of clinical signs of communicable disease.


*Herd or flock health plan.* A written herd or flock health management plan, which may include an agreement signed by the owner of a herd or flock, the accredited veterinarian, and a State or APHIS representative, in which each participant agrees to undertake actions specified in the agreement to maintain the health of the animals and detect signs of communicable disease.


*Inspect, inspection.* Visual study of the physical appearance, physical condition, and behavior of animals (singly or in groups) that enables an accredited veterinarian to determine whether any abnormality in physical condition or bodily function is evident.


*Issue.* The distribution, including electronic transmission, of an official animal health document that has been signed.


*Official certificate, document, seal, form, record, report, tag, band, or other identification.* Any certificate, document, seal, form, record, report, tag, band, or other identification, prescribed by statute or regulations, or prescribed by a State form approved by the Administrator, for use by an accredited veterinarian performing official functions under this subchapter.


*Qualified accredited veterinarian (QAV).* An accredited veterinarian who has been granted a program certification by the Administrator pursuant to ยง 161.5 of this subchapter based on completion of an APHIS-approved orientation or training program. 


*Regular health maintenance program.* An arrangement between an accredited veterinarian and a livestock producer whereby the veterinarian inspects every animal on the premises of the producer at least once every 30 days. 


*Sign, (Signed).* For an accredited veterinarian to put his or her signature in his or her own hand, or by means of an approved digital signature, on a certificate, form, record, or report. No certificate, form, record, or report is signed if: 


(1) Someone other than the accredited veterinarian has signed it on behalf of or in the name of the accredited veterinarian, regardless of the authority granted them by the accredited veterinarian; or 


(2) If any mechanical device, other than an approved digital signature, has been used to affix the signature. 


*State.* Any State, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and any other territory or possession of the United States.


*State Animal Health Official.* The State animal health official who is responsible for the livestock and poultry disease control and eradication programs of a State.


*Veterinary Official.* The APHIS veterinarian who is assigned by the Administrator to supervise and perform the official work of APHIS in a State or group of States.



---

[N] [57 FR 54912, Nov. 23, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 40797, Aug. 10, 1994; 60 FR 39842, Aug. 4, 1995; 62 FR 25445, May 9, 1997; 73 FR 60488, Oct. 10, 2008; 74 FR 65010, Dec. 9, 2009; 85 FR 10564, Feb. 25, 2020]




