# ยง 3141.10   General.

(a) Combined hydrocarbons or tar sands within a Special Tar Sand Area will be leased only by competitive bonus bidding.


(b) Oil and gas within a Special Tar Sand Area will be leased by competitive bonus bidding as described in 43 CFR part 3120.


(c) The authorized officer may issue either combined hydrocarbon leases, or oil and gas leases for oil and gas within such areas.


(d) The rights to explore for or develop tar sand deposits in a Special Tar Sand Area may be acquired through either a combined hydrocarbon lease or a tar sand lease.


(e) An oil and gas lease in a Special Tar Sand Area does not include the rights to explore for or develop tar sand.


(f) A tar sand lease in a Special Tar Sand Area does not include the rights to explore for or develop oil and gas.


(g) The minimum acceptable bid for a lease issued for tar sand will be as specified in ยง 3103.1 of this chapter.


(h) The acreage of combined hydrocarbon leases or tar sand leases held within a Special Tar Sand Area will not be charged against acreage limitations for the holding of oil and gas leases as provided in 43 CFR 3101.21.


(i)(1) The authorized officer may noncompetitively lease additional lands for ancillary facilities in a Special Tar Sand Area that are shown by an applicant to be needed to support any operations necessary for the recovery of tar sand. Such uses include, but are not limited to, mill siting or waste disposal. An application for a lease or permit to use additional lands must be filed under the provisions of 43 CFR part 2920 with the proper BLM office having jurisdiction of the lands. The application for additional lands may be filed at the time a plan of operations is filed.


(2) A lease for the use of additional lands will not be issued under this part when the use can be authorized under 43 CFR part 2800. Such uses include, but are not limited to, reservoirs, pipelines, electrical generation systems, transmission lines, roads and railroads.


(3) Within units of the National Park System, permits or leases for additional lands for any purpose will be issued only by the National Park Service. Applications for such permits or leases must be filed with the Regional Director of the National Park Service.




