# ยง 1003.9   Office of the Chief Immigration Judge.

(a) *Organization.* Within the Executive Office for Immigration Review, there shall be an Office of the Chief Immigration Judge (OCIJ), consisting of the Chief Immigration Judge, the immigration judges, and such other staff as the Director deems necessary. The Attorney General shall appoint the Chief Immigration Judge. The Director may designate immigration judges to serve as Deputy and Assistant Chief Immigration Judges as may be necessary to assist the Chief Immigration Judge in the management of the OCIJ.


(b) *Powers of the Chief Immigration Judge.* Subject to the supervision of the Director, the Chief Immigration Judge shall be responsible for the supervision, direction, and scheduling of the immigration judges in the conduct of the hearings and duties assigned to them. The Chief Immigration Judge shall have the authority to:


(1) Issue operational instructions and policy, including procedural instructions regarding the implementation of new statutory or regulatory authorities;


(2) Provide for appropriate training of the immigration judges and other OCIJ staff on the conduct of their powers and duties;


(3) Direct the conduct of all employees assigned to OCIJ to ensure the efficient disposition of all pending cases, including the power, in his discretion, to set priorities or time frames for the resolution of cases, to direct that the adjudication of certain cases be deferred, to regulate the assignment of immigration judges to cases, and otherwise to manage the docket of matters to be decided by the immigration judges;


(4) Evaluate the performance of the Immigration Courts and other OCIJ activities by making appropriate reports and inspections, and take corrective action where needed;


(5) Adjudicate cases as an immigration judge, including the authorities described in ยง 1003.10(b); and


(6) Exercise such other authorities as the Director may provide.


(c) *Limit on the Authority of the Chief Immigration Judge.* The Chief Immigration Judge shall have no authority to direct the result of an adjudication assigned to another immigration judge, provided, however, that nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the authority of the Chief Immigration Judge in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Immigration Court.* The term Immigration Court shall refer to the local sites of the OCIJ where proceedings are held before immigration judges and where the records of those proceedings are created and maintained.



---

[N] [72 FR 53677, Sept. 20, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 46792, May 29, 2024]




