# § 60.112c   Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).

(a) *General storage vessel control requirements.* You must equip and operate each storage vessel affected facility meeting the thresholds in § 60.110c(c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2) as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.


(1) For each storage vessel affected facility containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure less than 11.1 psia (76.6 kPa), you may elect to install and operate either an internal floating roof meeting the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, an external floating roof meeting the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, or a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) For each storage vessel affected facility containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure of 11.1 psia (76.6 kPa) or more, you must install and operate a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(3) For each storage vessel affected facility complying with the closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process provisions specified in paragraph (d) of this section regardless of size and for each storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 1,000,000 gal (3,790 m
3) containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 1.5 psia (10.3 kPa), you must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.


(4) You must meet the applicable testing, monitoring, and inspection requirements specified in § 60.113c, recordkeeping requirements specified in § 60.115c, and reporting requirements specified in § 60.116c.


(b) *Requirements for an internal floating roof.* You must equip and operate each internal floating roof as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (16) of this section, as applicable.


(1) The internal floating roof must rest or float on the liquid surface (but not necessarily in complete contact with it) inside a storage vessel that has a fixed roof. The internal floating roof must be floating on the liquid surface at all times, except during initial fill and during those intervals when the storage vessel is completely emptied or subsequently emptied and refilled. When the roof is resting on the roof supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling must be continuous and must be accomplished as rapidly as possible.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(14) of this section, each internal floating roof must be equipped with the following closure devices between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof:


(i) Two seals mounted one above the other so that each forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal, and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal.


(ii) The primary seal must be either a mechanical shoe seal or a liquid-mounted seal. If a mechanical shoe seal is used, it must be installed so that one end of the shoe extends into the stored VOL and the other end extends a minimum vertical distance of 6 inches (15 centimeters) above the stored organic liquid surface.


(iii) The secondary seal must be rim-mounted.


(3) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and the rim vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.


(4) Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be equipped with a gasket and are to be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, when the roof is floating. Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be set to open only when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof supports.


(5) Rim vents must be equipped with a gasket and must be closed at all times with no visible gaps when the roof is floating. Rim vents must be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim seal system exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.


(6) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purpose of sampling must be a gauge hatch/sample well. Except as specified in paragraph (b)(14) of this section, the gauge hatch/sample well must have a gasketed cover, which must be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.


(7) Each access hatch and gauge float well must be equipped with a cover that is gasketed and that is bolted or otherwise mechanically secured. The cover must be closed and must be bolted or otherwise mechanically secured at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.


(8) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof must have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover.


(9) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of an unslotted leg ladder or unslotted ladder/guidepole combination must have a gasketed sliding cover. The cover must be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the well must be opened for access.


(10) Each slotted guidepole must be equipped with one of the controls specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (v) of this section. The covers must be designed to be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the cover must be opened for access.


(i) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole sleeve. The sleeve must extend into the stored liquid.


(ii) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole sleeve and pole wiper. The sleeve must extend into the stored liquid.


(iii) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole float and pole wiper. The wiper or seal of the pole float must be at or above the height of the pole wiper.


(iv) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole float, pole sleeve, and pole wiper. The sleeve must extend into the stored liquid. The wiper or seal of the pole float must be at or above the height of the pole wiper.


(v) A flexible device that completely encloses the slotted guidepole and eliminates the hydrocarbon vapor emissions pathway from inside the storage vessel through the guidepole slots to the outside air; a gasketed guidepole cover at the top of the guidepole; and a gasketed sliding well cover positioned at the top of the guidepole well that seals any openings between the well cover and the guidepole (*e.g.,* pole wiper), any openings between the well cover and any other objects that pass through the well cover, and any other openings in the top of the guidepole well.


(11) Ladder-slotted guidepole combination wells must be equipped with a gasketed sliding well cover and a ladder sleeve. The sliding well cover must be designed to be closed at all times with no visible gaps, except when gauging or sampling.


(12) Unslotted guidepoles must be equipped with one of the controls specified in paragraph (b)(12)(i) or (ii) of this section. The controls must be designed to be closed at all times with no visible gaps.


(i) A gasketed guidepole cover at the top of the guidepole; a gasketed sliding well cover; and a pole sleeve. The guidepole cover must be closed at all times, except when required to be opened for access. The gasketed sliding well cover must seal any openings between the well cover and the guidepole, any openings between the well cover and any other objects that pass through the well cover, and any other openings in the top of the guidepole well.


(ii) A gasketed guidepole cover at the top of the guidepole; a gasketed sliding well cover; and a pole wiper. The guidepole cover must be closed at all times, except when required to be opened for access. The gasketed sliding well cover must seal any openings between the well cover and the guidepole (*e.g.,* pole wiper), any openings between the well cover and any other objects that pass through the well cover, and any other openings in the top of the guidepole well.


(13) Except for leg sleeves and stub drains, each opening in the internal floating roof not specified in paragraphs (b)(4) through (12) of this section, must be equipped with a cover or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (*i.e.,* no visible gap) except when the device must be opened for access. The cover or lid must be equipped with a gasket.


(14) For each modified storage vessel as specified in § 60.110c(d) with an existing internal floating roof, you may elect to comply with the rim seal system requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(ii) or § 60.110b(e) instead of the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and you may elect to comply with the gauge hatch/sample well requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(vii) or § 60.110b(e) instead of the requirements in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(15) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (b)(1) though (14) of this section, as applicable, as provided in § 60.114c.


(16) Equip, maintain, and operate each internal floating roof control system to maintain the vapor concentration above the floating roof at or below 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) on a 5-minute rolling average basis without the use of purge gas. This standard may require additional controls, such as improved seam seals, beyond those specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (15) of this section. Compliance with this paragraph (b)(16) must be determined using the methods in § 60.113c(a)(3). Exceeding the LEL is considered an inspection failure under § 60.113c(a)(2)(i) and must be remedied as such. Any repairs made must be confirmed effective through re-monitoring of the LEL and meeting the limits in this paragraph (b)(16) within the timeframes specified in § 60.113c(a)(2)(i).


(c) *Requirements for an external floating roof.* You must equip and operate each external floating roof as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The roof must be floating on the liquid at all times (*i.e.,* off the roof supports) except during initial fill until the roof is lifted off roof supports and when the storage vessel is completely emptied or subsequently emptied and refilled. The process of filling, emptying, or refilling when the roof is resting on the roof supports must be continuous and must be accomplished as rapidly as possible.


(2) Each external floating roof must be equipped with a primary and secondary rim seal system as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, except that if a mechanical shoe primary seal is used, it must be installed so that one end of the shoe extends into the stored VOL and the other end extends a minimum vertical distance of 24 inches (61 centimeters) above the stored organic liquid surface. The external floating roof also must have welded deck seams, and it must have deck fitting controls as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section, as applicable. References to an internal floating roof in paragraph (b)(2) of this section means an external floating roof for the purposes of this paragraph (c)(2).


(i) Each opening in an external floating roof except for vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and the rim vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.


(ii) Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be equipped with a gasket and are to be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, when the roof is floating. Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be set to open only when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof supports.


(iii) Rim vents must be equipped with a gasket and must be closed at all times with no visible gaps when the roof is floating. Rim vents must be set to open only when the external floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim seal system exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.


(iv) Each penetration of the external floating roof for the purpose of sampling must be a gauge hatch/sample well. The gauge hatch/sample well must have a gasketed cover, which must be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.


(v) Each access hatch and gauge float well must be equipped with a cover that is gasketed and that is bolted or otherwise mechanically secured. The cover must be closed and must be bolted or otherwise mechanically secured at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.


(vi) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if the external floating roof does not have a liquid-mounted primary seal, all guidepoles must be unslotted and must be equipped as specified in paragraph (b)(12) of this section.


(vii) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if the external floating roof has a liquid-mounted primary seal, equip each guidepole as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) Each slotted guidepole must be equipped as specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(ii) or (iv) of this section.


(B) Each unslotted guidepole must be equipped as specified in paragraph (b)(12) of this section.


(viii) Each emergency roof drain is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.


(ix) Except for leg sleeves, each opening in the external floating roof not subject to controls specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section must be equipped with a cover or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (*i.e.,* no visible gap), except when the device must be opened for access. The cover or lid must be equipped with a gasket.


(3) For each modified storage vessel as specified in § 60.110c(d) with an existing external floating roof, you may elect to comply with any of the guidepole controls specified in paragraphs (b)(10) and (12) of this section regardless of the type of primary seal used.


(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section as provided in § 60.114c.


(d) *Requirements for closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process.* You must design, install, and operate each affected storage vessel with a closed vent system that routes to a control device, fuel gas system, or process as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) The storage vessel must be designed and operated to be routed through a closed vent system to a control device, fuel gas system, or process at all times the storage vessel contains VOL without venting to the atmosphere through either meeting the storage vessel design requirements specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section or the vapor recovery system design requirements specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. Compliance with this requirement must be demonstrated according to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. Any vacuum breaking device on the storage vessel must close while the storage vessel is still under vacuum of at least −0.1 inches of water (−0.0036 psig or −0.025 kPa gauge).


(i) The storage vessel must be designed to operate at a gauge pressure of no less than 1 psi greater than the maximum true vapor pressure of the stored liquid and any back pressure anticipated when the storage vessel is filled at its maximum rate without venting to the atmosphere.


(ii) The vapor recovery system must be designed and operated to maintain the pressure in each storage vessel routed to a control device below the venting pressure of that storage vessel.


(iii) You must equip each pressure relief device and vacuum breaking device on a storage vessel with a device(s) or use a monitoring system that is capable of meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section. If all emissions from a pressure relief device are routed through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or fuel gas system, then you are not required to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1)(iii).


(A) Identifying the pressure release.


(B) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release.


(C) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system must be either specific to the pressure relief device or vacuum breaking device itself or must be associated with each storage vessel to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.


(2) Except for closed vent systems operated and maintained under negative pressure, each closed vent system must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The closed vent system must be designed to collect all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel and operated with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million by volume (ppmv) above background, as determined using Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part as specified in § 60.113c(c)(2) and (3), and as determined by observations for visible, audible, and olfactory indications of leaks. Visible, audible, and olfactory inspections must be performed quarterly and Method 21 of appendix A-7 instrument monitoring must be conducted at least annually.


(ii) Except for pressure relief devices and except for open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c), you must comply with the provisions of either paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section for each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream to the atmosphere.


(A) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that is capable of taking readings every 15 minutes. Install the flow indicator at the entrance to any bypass line.


(B) Secure the bypass line valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.


(iii) You must equip each pressure relief device on a closed vent system with a device(s) or use a monitoring system that is capable of meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section. If all releases and potential leaks from a pressure relief device are routed through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or fuel gas system, then you are not required to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (d)(2)(iii).


(A) Identifying the pressure release.


(B) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release.


(C) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system must be either specific to the pressure relief device itself or must be associated with the process system or piping, sufficient to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.


(3) If you route emissions from a storage vessel to a control device, the control device must be designed and operated to reduce inlet VOC emissions by 98 percent or greater. If a flare is used as the control device or if an enclosed combustion device is used for which you elect to comply with the flare operating limits, you must meet the specifications described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. The control device must be operated at all times when emissions from an affected storage vessel are routed to it except as provided in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section as provided in § 60.114c.


(5) If you route from a storage vessel to a flare or enclosed combustion device for with you elect to comply with these flare operating limits, you must meet all applicable requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.670(b) through (g) and (i) through (n) except as provided in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) For the purpose of this subpart,


(A) The term “regulated materials” refers to “vapors from a storage vessel affected facility”;


(B) The term “pilot flame” means “pilot flame or flare flame”;


(C) The terms “petroleum refinery” and “refinery” mean “storage vessel affected facility”.


(ii) For visible emissions, use the following text instead of 40 CFR 63.670(c): The owner or operator shall operate with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of five (5) minutes during any two (2) consecutive hours, when regulated material is routed to the flare. You must monitor for visible emissions from the flare as specified in § 60.113c(c)(1)(iv)(A).


(iii) The phrase “and the flare vent gas flow rate is less than the smokeless design capacity of the flare” in 40 CFR 63.670(d) for flare tip velocity requirements does not apply.


(6) If you route emissions from a storage vessel to a fuel gas system or process, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.


(i) The fuel gas system or process must be operating at all times when emissions from an affected storage vessel are routed to it.


(ii) If all emissions are routed to a process, the VOL in the emissions must meet one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section and you must comply with the compliance demonstration requirements in paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.


(A) Recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in that process.


(B) Transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not regulated materials.


(C) Incorporated into a product.


(D) Recovered.


(iii) To demonstrate compliance with paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section for an affected storage vessel, you must prepare a design evaluation (or engineering assessment) that demonstrates the extent to which one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section are being met.


(iv) If emissions from an affected storage vessel are routed to a fuel gas system, you must submit the statement of connection for fuel gas systems specified in § 60.116c(a)(7).


(7) To the extent practical, routine maintenance on the control device should be conducted when the storage vessel(s) is(are) out of VOL service. If you comply with all the provisions in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section, you may conduct routine maintenance on a control device while one or more storage vessels vented to the control device are storing a VOL.


(i) The storage vessel(s) storing VOL must be designed to operate above the maximum true vapor pressure of the stored VOL according to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.


(ii) The control device must be isolated from the storage vessel(s) using valves(s), blind flange(s), or similar device(s) at the control device or in the closed vent system as near as practical to the control device. You may purge the control device and downstream portion of the closed vent system to remove potentially explosive vapors and create a safe work environment only after the control device is isolated from the storage vessel(s).


(iii) You must continue to comply with the bypass and pressure relief device monitoring requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii), (d)(2)(ii), and (d)(2)(iii) of this section and their associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements. If there are multiple storage vessels connected to the closed vent system with significantly different pressure design limits, you must isolate individual storage vessels to prevent venting during planned maintenance. Compliance with this paragraph (d)(7)(iii) may limit VOL addition to the storage vessel. If VOL is added to the storage vessel, there must be an approximately equivalent withdrawal of VOL such that the liquid level does not rise sufficiently to increase the pressure in the storage vessel to cause a pressure release from the storage vessel or the closed vent system.


(iv) During this routine maintenance period the affected storage vessels cannot be actively degassed. If the storage vessel is to be emptied and actively degassed, the planned maintenance activity must be conducted when the storage vessel is out of VOL service.


(e) *Requirements for storage vessel degassing.* For each storage vessel meeting the specifications in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section during emptying and degassing of a storage vessel until the vapor space concentration in the storage vessel is less than 10 percent of the LEL or, for nonflammable liquids, 5,000 ppmv as methane. You must determine the LEL or methane concentration using process instrumentation or a portable measurement device and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications. You must check instrument calibration and check the instrumental offset response each day the instrument is used and prior to discontinuing controlled degassing to confirm the accuracy of the instrument's readings.


(1) Remove liquids from the storage vessel as much as practicable. Chemicals or a diluent such as a distillate fuel may be introduced into the storage vessel for the purpose of reducing vapor concentration before or during active degassing.


(2) Comply with one of the following:


(i) Reduce total VOC emissions by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare or enclosed combustion device for which you elect to comply with the flare provisions and meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(ii) Reduce total VOC emissions by 98 weight percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of non-flare control devices.


(iii) Reduce total VOC emissions by routing emissions to a fuel gas system or process and meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.


(3) For floating roof storage vessels, the storage vessel may be opened to set up equipment (*e.g.,* making connections to a temporary control device) for the shutdown operations but must not be actively degassed during this time period.






