# ยง 2.22   Property.

(a) The following are prohibited: 


(1) Abandoning property. 


(2) Leaving property unattended for longer than 24 hours, except in locations where longer time periods have been designated or in accordance with conditions established by the superintendent. 


(3) Failing to turn in found property to the superintendent as soon as practicable. 


(b) *Impoundment of property.* (1) Property determined to be left unattended in excess of an allowed period of time may be impounded by the superintendent. 


(2) Unattended property that interferes with visitor safety, orderly management of the park area, or presents a threat to park resources may be impounded by the superintendent at any time. 


(3) Found or impounded property shall be inventoried to determine ownership and safeguard personal property. 


(4) The owner of record is responsible and liable for charges to the person who has removed, stored, or otherwise disposed of property impounded pursuant to this section; or the superintendent may assess the owner reasonable fees for the impoundment and storage of property impounded pursuant to this section. 


(c) *Disposition of property.* (1) Unattended property impounded pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be abandoned unless claimed by the owner or an authorized representative thereof within 60 days. The 60-day period shall begin when the rightful owner of the property has been notified, if the owner can be identified, or from the time the property was placed in the superintendent's custody, if the owner cannot be identified. 


(2) Unclaimed, found property shall be stored for a minimum period of 60 days and, unless claimed by the owner or an authorized representative thereof, may be claimed by the finder, provided that the finder is not an employee of the National Park Service. Found property not claimed by the owner or an authorized representative or the finder shall be deemed abandoned. 


(3) Abandoned property shall be disposed of in accordance with title 41 Code of Federal Regulations. 


(4) Property, including real property, located within a park area and owned by a deceased person, shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws of the State within whose exterior boundaries the property is located. 


(d) The regulations contained in paragraphs (a)(2), (b) and (c) of this section apply, regardless of land ownership, on all lands and waters within a park area that are under the legislative jurisdiction of the United States. 



---

[N] [48 FR 30282, June 30, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 35240, Sept. 18, 1987]




