# § 1610.31   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions provided in section 2 of the Flammable Fabrics Act as amended (15 U.S.C. 1191), and in § 1610.2 of the Standard, the following definitions apply for this subpart.


(a) *Act* means the “Flammable Fabrics Act” (approved June 30, 1953, Pub. Law 88, 83d Congress, 1st sess., 15 U.S.C. 1191; 67 Stat. 111) as amended, 68 Stat. 770, August 23, 1954.


(b) *Rule, rules, regulations, and rules and regulations,* mean the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 5(c) of the act.


(c) *United States* means, the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Territories, and Possessions of the United States.


(d) *Marketing or handling* means the transactions referred to in section 3 of the Flammable Fabrics Act, as amended in 1967.


(e) *Test* means the application of the relevant test method prescribed in the procedures provided under section 4(a) of the Act (16 CFR part 1609).


(f) *Finish type* means a particular finish, but does not include such variables as changes in color, pattern, print, or design, or minor variations in the amount or type of ingredients in the finish formulation. Examples of finish types would be starch finishes, resin finishes or parchmentized finishes.


(g) *Uncovered or exposed part* means that part of an article of wearing apparel that might during normal wear be open to flame or other means of ignition. The outer surface of an undergarment is considered to be an uncovered or exposed part of an article of wearing apparel, and thus subject to the Act. Other examples of exposed parts of an article of wearing apparel subject to the Act include, but are not limited to:


(1) Linings, with exposed areas, such as full front zippered jackets;


(2) Sweatshirts with exposed raised fiber surface inside and capable of being worn napped side out;


(3) Unlined hoods;


(4) Rolled cuffs.


(h) *Coated fabrics* means a flexible material composed of a fabric and any adherent polymeric material applied to one or both surfaces.




