# § 252.58   Disclosure of stress test results.

(a) *Public disclosure of results*—(1) *In general.* A covered company must publicly disclose a summary of the results of the stress test required under § 252.54 within the period that is 15 calendar days after the Board publicly discloses the results of its supervisory stress test of the covered company pursuant to § 252.46(b), unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.


(2) *Disclosure method.* The summary required under this section may be disclosed on the Web site of a covered company, or in any other forum that is reasonably accessible to the public.


(b) *Summary of results.* The summary results must, at a minimum, contain the following information regarding the severely adverse scenario:


(1) A description of the types of risks included in the stress test;


(2) A general description of the methodologies used in the stress test, including those employed to estimate losses, revenues, provision for credit losses, and changes in capital positions over the planning horizon.


(3) Estimates of—


(i) Pre-provision net revenue and other revenue;


(ii) Provision for credit losses, realized losses or gains on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, trading and counterparty losses or gains;


(iii) Net income before taxes;


(iv) Loan losses (dollar amount and as a percentage of average portfolio balance) in the aggregate and by subportfolio, including: Domestic closed-end first-lien mortgages; domestic junior lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit; commercial and industrial loans; commercial real estate loans; credit card exposures; other consumer loans; and all other loans; and


(v) Pro forma regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board;


(4) An explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios; and


(5) With respect to any depository institution subsidiary that is subject to stress testing requirements pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2), as implemented by subpart B of this part, 12 CFR part 46 (OCC), or 12 CFR part 325, subpart C (FDIC), changes over the planning horizon in regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board and an explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios.


(c) *Content of results.* (1) The following disclosures required under paragraph (b) of this section must be on a cumulative basis over the planning horizon:


(i) Pre-provision net revenue and other revenue;


(ii) Provision for credit losses, realized losses/gains on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, trading and counterparty losses, and other losses or gain;


(iii) Net income before taxes; and


(iv) Loan losses in the aggregate and by subportfolio.


(2) The disclosure of pro forma regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board that is required under paragraph (b) of this section must include the beginning value, ending value, and minimum value of each ratio over the planning horizon.



---

[N] [Reg. YY, 79 FR 64051, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75426, Dec. 2, 2015; 82 FR 9330, Feb. 3, 2017; 84 FR 4246, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019; 86 FR 7949, Feb. 3, 2021]




