# § 405.1208   Hospital requests expedited QIO review.

(a) *General rule.* (1) If the hospital (acting directly or through its utilization review committee) believes that the beneficiary does not require further inpatient hospital care but is unable to obtain the agreement of the physician, it may request an expedited determination by the QIO.


(2) When the hospital requests review, and the QIO concurs with the hospital's discharge determination, a hospital may not charge a beneficiary until the date specified by the QIO in accordance with 405.1206(f)(4). 


(b) *Procedures hospital must follow.* (1) The hospital must (acting directly or through its utilization review committee) notify the beneficiary (or his or her representative) that it has requested that review.


(2) The hospital must supply any pertinent information the QIO requires to conduct its review and must make it available by phone or in writing, by close of business of the first full working day immediately following the day the hospital submits the request for review.


(c) *Procedures the QIO must follow.* (1) The QIO must notify the hospital that it has received the request for review and must notify the hospital if it has not received all pertinent records.


(2) The QIO must examine the pertinent records pertaining to the services.


(3) The QIO must solicit the views of the beneficiary in question.


(4) The QIO must make a determination and notify the beneficiary, the hospital, and physician within 2 working days of the hospital's request and receipt of any pertinent information submitted by the hospital.


(d) *Notice of an expedited determination.* (1) When a QIO issues an expedited determination as stated in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, it must notify the beneficiary, physician, and hospital of its decision, by telephone and subsequently in writing.


(2) A written notice of the expedited initial determination must contain the following:


(i) The basis for the determination;.


(ii) A detailed rationale for the determination;


(iii) A statement explaining the Medicare payment consequences of the expedited determination and date of liability, if any; and


(iv) A statement informing the beneficiary of his or her appeal rights and the timeframe for requesting an appeal.


(e) *Effect of an expedited determination.* The expedited determination under this section is binding upon the beneficiary, physician, and hospital, except in the following circumstances:


(1) *When a beneficiary remains in the hospital.* If the beneficiary is still an inpatient in the hospital and is dissatisfied with this determination, he or she may request a reconsideration according to the procedures described in § 405.1204. The procedures described in § 405.1204 will apply to reconsiderations requested under this section. If the beneficiary does not make a request in accordance with § 405.1204(b)(1), the timeframes described in § 405.1204(c)(3), the escalation procedures described in § 405.1204(c)(5), and the coverage rule described in § 405.1204(f) will not apply.


(2) *When a beneficiary is no longer an inpatient in the hospital.* If the beneficiary is no longer an inpatient in the hospital and is dissatisfied with this determination, this determination is subject to the general claims appeal process.



---

[N] [69 FR 69624, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 68722, Nov. 27, 2006]








