# § 622.382   Bag and possession limits.

Section 622.11(a) provides the general applicability for bag and possession limits.


(a) *King mackerel and Spanish mackerel*—(1) *Bag limits.* (i) Atlantic migratory group king mackerel—3.


(ii) Gulf migratory group king mackerel—3.


(iii) Atlantic migratory group Spanish mackerel—15.


(iv) Gulf migratory group Spanish mackerel—15.


(v) Coastal migratory pelagic fish within certain South Atlantic SMZs—§ 622.11(a) notwithstanding, all harvest and possession of coastal migratory pelagic fish within the South Atlantic SMZs specified in § 622.182(a)(1)(i) through (xi) and (a)(1)(xxii) through (xxxix) is limited to the bag limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.




(2) *Possession limits*—(i) *Possession limits for vessels with a valid Federal charter vessel/headboat permit for Atlantic coastal migratory pelagic fish.* A person who is on a trip that spans more than 24 hours may possess no more than two daily bag limits, provided such trip is on a vessel that is operating as a charter vessel or headboat, the vessel has two licensed operators aboard, and each passenger is issued and has in possession a receipt issued on behalf of the vessel that verifies the length of the trip.


(ii) *Possession limits for vessels with a valid Federal charter vessel/headboat permit for Gulf coastal migratory pelagic fish.* A person who is on a trip that spans more than 30 hours may possess, at any time during the trip, no more than two daily bag limits of Gulf king and Spanish mackerel, provided such trip is on a vessel that is operating as a charter vessel or headboat, the vessel has two licensed operators aboard, each passenger is issued and has in possession a receipt issued on behalf of the vessel that verifies the date and time of departure and length of the trip, and the entire trip occurs on days when the harvest and possession of the applicable coastal migratory pelagic species are allowed.


(b) *Gulf migratory group cobia*—(1) *Bag limits.* The following applies to persons who fish for cobia in the Gulf zone or Florida east coast zone, and do not sell their catch.


(i) One fish per person per day, not to exceed 2 fish per vessel per trip.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 17397, Apr. 11, 2017; 82 FR 36347, Aug. 4, 2017; 84 FR 4736, Feb. 19, 2019; 86 FR 11155, Feb. 24, 2021; 87 FR 23150, Apr. 19, 2022; 87 FR 56237, Sept. 13, 2022; 87 FR 63966, Oct. 21, 2022; 88 FR 29847, May 9, 2023]




