# § 721.11229   Epoxy-amine adduct, methanesulfonates (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as epoxy-amine adduct, methanesulfonates (PMNs P-16-489, P-16-490, and P-16-491) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (2)(ii), (3)(i) and (ii), and (5). Alternative hazard and warning statement that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o). It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substances resulting in inhalation exposure to vapor, mist, or aerosols.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=208 ppb.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (c), (f) through (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section



---

[N] [84 FR 66604, Dec. 5, 2019]




