# § 1282.62   Mortgage reports.

(a) *Loan-level data elements.* To implement the data collection and submission requirements for mortgage data, and to assist the Director in monitoring the Enterprises' housing goal activities, each Enterprise shall collect and compile computerized loan-level data on each mortgage purchased in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1456(e) and 1723a(m). The Director may, from time to time, issue a list entitled “Required Loan-level Data Elements” specifying the loan-level data elements to be collected and maintained by the Enterprises and provided to the Director. The Director may revise the list by written notice to the Enterprises.


(b) *Quarterly Mortgage Reports.* Each Enterprise shall submit to the Director a quarterly Mortgage Report. The fourth quarter Mortgage Report shall serve as the Annual Mortgage Report and shall be designated as such. Each Mortgage Report shall include:


(1) Aggregations of the loan-level mortgage data compiled by the Enterprise under paragraph (a) of this section for year-to-date mortgage purchases, in the format specified in writing by the Director;


(2) Year-to-date dollar volume, number of units, and number of mortgages on owner-occupied and rental properties purchased by the Enterprise that do, and do not, qualify under each housing goal as set forth in this part; and


(3) Year-to-date computerized loan-level data consisting of the data elements required under paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Timing of Reports.* The Enterprises shall submit the Mortgage Report for each of the first 3 quarters of each year within 60 days of the end of the quarter. Each Enterprise shall submit its Annual Mortgage Report within 75 days after the end of the calendar year.


(d) *Revisions to Reports.* At any time before submission of its Annual Mortgage Report, an Enterprise may revise any of its quarterly reports for that year.


(e) *Format.* The Enterprises shall submit to the Director computerized loan-level data with the Mortgage Report, in the format specified in writing by the Director.




