# 206.302-1   Only one responsible source and no other supplies or services will satisfy agency requirements.

(a) *Authority.* (2)(i) Section 8059 of Pub. L. 101-511 and similar sections in subsequent defense appropriations acts prohibit departments and agencies from entering into contracts for studies, analyses, or consulting services (see FAR subpart 37.2) on the basis of an unsolicited proposal without providing for full and open competition, unless—


(*1*) The head of the contracting activity, or a designee no lower than chief of the contracting office, determines that—


(*i*) Following thorough technical evaluation, only one source is fully qualified to perform the proposed work;


(*ii*) The unsolicited proposal offers significant scientific or technological promise, represents the product of original thinking, and was submitted in confidence; or


(*iii*) The contract benefits the national defense by taking advantage of a unique and significant industrial accomplishment or by ensuring financial support to a new product or idea;


(*2*) A civilian official of the DoD, whose appointment has been confirmed by the Senate, determines the award to be in the interest of national defense; or


(*3*) The contract is related to improvement of equipment that is in development or production.


(b) *Application.* This authority may be used for acquisitions of test articles and associated support services from a designated foreign source under the DoD Foreign Comparative Testing Program.


(c) *Application for brand-name descriptions.*

(2) Notwithstanding FAR 6.302-1(c)(2), in accordance with section 888(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Pub. L. 114-328), the justification and approval addressed in FAR 6.303 is required in order to use brand name or equal descriptions.


(d) *Limitations.* Follow the procedures at PGI 206.302-1(d) prior to soliciting a proposal without providing for full and open competition under this authority.


(S-70) *Application for proprietary specifications or standards*. In accordance with section 888(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Pub. L. 114-328), the justification and approval addressed in FAR 6.303 is required in order to use proprietary specifications and standards.



---

[N] [56 FR 36303, July 31, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 14992, Apr. 23, 1992; 58 FR 28463, May 13, 1993; 69 FR 74991, Dec. 15, 2004; 80 FR 21657, Apr. 20, 2015; 84 FR 25192, May 31, 2019]




