# § 119.67   Management personnel: Qualifications for operations conducted under part 121 of this chapter.

(a) *Director of Operations.* To serve as Director of Operations under § 119.65(a), a person must hold an airline transport pilot certificate and—


(1) If the certificate holder uses large aircraft, at least 3 years of supervisory or managerial experience within the last 6 years in large aircraft, in a position that exercised operational control over any operations conducted under part 121 or 135 of this chapter.


(2) If the certificate holder uses large aircraft, at least 3 years of experience as pilot in command under part 121 or 135 of this chapter in large aircraft in at least one of the categories of aircraft the certificate holder uses, as listed in § 61.5(b)(1) of this chapter. In the case of a person becoming Director of Operations for the first time, he or she must have accumulated this experience as pilot in command within the past 6 years.


(3) If the certificate holder uses only small aircraft in its operations, the experience required in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section may be obtained in either large or small aircraft.


(b) *Chief Pilot.* To serve as Chief Pilot under § 119.65(a), a person must:


(1) Hold an airline transport pilot certificate with appropriate ratings in the category of aircraft that the certificate holder uses in its operations under part 121 of this chapter and over which the Chief Pilot exercises responsibility; and


(2) Have at least 3 years of experience as pilot in command in the same category of aircraft that the certificate holder uses, as listed in § 61.5(b) of this chapter. The experience as pilot in command described in this paragraph (b)(2) must:


(i) Have occurred within the past 6 years, in the case of a person becoming a Chief Pilot for the first time.


(ii) Have occurred in large aircraft operated under part 121 or 135 of this chapter. If the certificate holder uses only small aircraft in its operation, this experience may be obtained in either large or small aircraft.


(iii) Be in the same category of aircraft over which the Chief Pilot exercises responsibility.


(c) *Director of Maintenance.* To serve as Director of Maintenance under § 119.65(a), a person must:


(1) Hold a mechanic certificate with airframe and powerplant ratings;


(2) Have 1 year of experience in a position responsible for returning aircraft to service;


(3) Have at least 1 year of experience in a supervisory capacity under either paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section maintaining the same category and class of aircraft as the certificate holder uses; and


(4) Have 3 years of experience within the past 6 years in one or a combination of the following—


(i) Maintaining large aircraft with 10 or more passenger seats, including, at the time of appointment as Director of Maintenance, experience in maintaining the same category and class of aircraft as the certificate holder uses; or


(ii) Repairing aircraft in a certificated airframe repair station that is rated to maintain aircraft in the same category and class of aircraft as the certificate holder uses.


(d) *Chief Inspector.* To serve as Chief Inspector under § 119.65(a), a person must:


(1) Hold a mechanic certificate with both airframe and powerplant ratings, and have held these ratings for at least 3 years;


(2) Have at least 3 years of maintenance experience on different types of large aircraft with 10 or more passenger seats with an air carrier or certificated repair station, 1 year of which must have been as maintenance inspector; and


(3) Have at least 1 year of experience in a supervisory capacity maintaining the same category and class of aircraft as the certificate holder uses.


(e) *Deviation.* A certificate holder may request a deviation to employ a person who does not meet the appropriate airman experience, managerial experience, or supervisory experience requirements of this section if the Manager of the Air Transportation Division or the Manager of the Aircraft Maintenance Division, as appropriate, finds that the person has comparable experience and can effectively perform the functions associated with the position in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the procedures outlined in the certificate holder's manual. Deviations under this paragraph (e) may be issued after consideration of the size and scope of the operation and the qualifications of the intended personnel. The Administrator may, at any time, terminate any grant of deviation authority issued under this paragraph (e).



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2022-1563; Amdt. No. 119-20, 88 FR 48089, July 26, 2023]




