# ยง 200.12   Land status and title records.

(a) *Land Status Records System.* The Land Status Records System is the official, permanent repository for all agency realty records and land title documents for National Forest System lands. It includes an automated database which contains an accurate account of: acreage, condition of title, administrative jurisdiction, rights held by the United States, administrative and legal use restrictions, encumbrances, and access rights on land or interests in land in the National Forest System.


(1) *Components.* The system shall include, but is not limited to, the following components:


(i) A current and accurate Land Status Atlas for each National Forest, National Grassland, and other proclaimed or designated administrative unit, which shall graphically portray on maps keyed to a tabular summary the following categories of information:


(A) Jurisdiction of and condition of title to lands administered as part of the National Forest System.


(B) All encumbrances on National Forest System lands.


(C) All partial interests administered by the Forest Service on other lands.


(D) All use restrictions, withdrawals, and special designated areas on National Forest System lands.


(E) The acreage of National Forest System lands, including riparian lands.


(ii) A master Land Status File, from which the agency data for the Atlas is derived and which includes the following:


(A) Discrete title files of each landownership adjustment.


(B) The original authorizing documents establishing or adjusting National Forest System lands and interests therein.


(C) Withdrawals, use restrictions, and special designated areas on National Forest System lands.


(D) Other information as deemed necessary.


(iii) Such reporting systems as are needed to provide title or status reports.


(2) *Display of Information.* Information in the system may be collected and maintained in narrative, graphic, tabular, or other form and may be entered into and maintained in automated systems as well as produced in paper form in accordance with such administrative direction as the Chief of the Forest Service or Regional Foresters may establish.


(b) *Availability.* A Land Status Atlas shall be maintained at each National Forest administrative unit or subunit, such as Ranger Districts or National Recreation Area offices. Each Regional Office shall maintain copies of the Atlas for all National Forests within that Region. Related land title and realty records for each National Forest System unit shall be maintained at the administrative headquarters of that unit. The Land Status Atlas and such title and realty records as are held at an administrative unit shall be available for public inspection.



---

[N] [56 FR 29181, June 26, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 2987, Jan. 20, 1994] 




