# § 3.3   Eligibility for payments by the Department of Commerce.

(a) The Department of Commerce may provide a payment to covered individuals, as defined this section, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN), the American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry (AOBNP), the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (ABPMR), or the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AOBPMR); and occurred on or after January 1, 2016, and while the individual was a covered employee of the Department of Commerce.


(b) The Department of Commerce may provide a payment to covered employees, as defined in this section, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBPMR; and occurred on or after January 1, 2016, and while the employee was a covered employee of the Department.


(c) The Department of Commerce may provide a payment to a covered dependent, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBMR; and occurred on or after January 1, 2016, and while the dependent's sponsor was a covered employee of the Department.


(d) Payment for a qualifying injury to the brain will be a non-taxable, one-time lump sum payment.


(e) The Department will determine the amount paid to each eligible person based on the following factors:


(1) The responses on Form CD-350, “Eligibility Questionnaire for HAVANA Act Payments”; and


(2) Whether the Department of Labor has determined that the requestor has no reemployment potential, or the Social Security Administration has approved the requestor for Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Insurance (SSI) benefits; or the requestor's ABPN, AOBPN, ABPMR, or AOBPMR-certified physician has certified that the individual requires a full-time caregiver for activities of daily living, as defined by the Katz Index of Independence of Daily Living.


(3) The award thresholds are based on the Level III of the Executive Schedule: Base payment will be 75 percent of Level III pay, and Base Plus payment will be 100 percent of Level III pay. If the requestor meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the requestor will be eligible to receive a Base Plus payment. Requestors who are otherwise eligible for payment for a qualifying injury to the brain (defined in § 3.2(e)) but do not meet any of the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section will be eligible to receive a Base payment. If a requestor who received a Base payment later meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the requestor may apply for an additional payment that will be the difference between the Base and Base Plus payment.


(f) The Director, Office of Human Resources Management may approve payments under this section. The Office of Human Resources Management will notify individuals of the decision in writing.


(g) An appeal of a decision made by the Director, Office of Human Resources Management may be directed to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration in writing. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration is the final appeal authority. The Office of Human Resources Management will notify individuals of the decision in writing.






