# ยง 851.40   Investigations and inspections.

(a) The Enforcement Director may initiate and conduct investigations and inspections relating to the scope, nature, and extent of compliance by a contractor with the requirements of this part and take such action as the Enforcement Director deems necessary and appropriate to the conduct of the investigation or inspection. DOE Enforcement Officers have the right to enter work areas without delay to the extent practicable, to conduct inspections under this subpart.


(b) Contractors must fully cooperate with the Enforcement Director during all phases of the enforcement process and provide complete and accurate records and documentation as requested by the Enforcement Director during investigation or inspection activities.


(c) Any worker or worker representative may request that the Enforcement Director initiate an investigation or inspection pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. A request for an investigation or inspection must describe the subject matter or activity to be investigated or inspected as fully as possible and include supporting documentation and information. The worker or worker representative has the right to remain anonymous upon filing a request for an investigation or inspection.


(d) The Enforcement Director must inform any contractor that is the subject of an investigation or inspection in writing at the initiation of the investigation or inspection and must inform the contractor of the general purpose of the investigation or inspection.


(e) DOE shall not disclose information or documents that are obtained during any investigation or inspection unless the Enforcement Director directs or authorizes the public disclosure of the investigation. Prior to such authorization, DOE must determine that disclosure is not precluded by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 and part 1004 of this title. Once disclosed pursuant to the Enforcement Director's authorization, the information or documents are a matter of public record.


(f) A request for confidential treatment of information for purposes of the Freedom of Information Act does not prevent disclosure by the Enforcement Director if the Enforcement Director determines disclosure to be in the public interest and otherwise permitted or required by law.


(g) During the course of an investigation or inspection, any contractor may submit any document, statement of facts, or memorandum of law for the purpose of explaining the contractor's position or furnish information which the contractor considers relevant to a matter or activity under investigation or inspection.


(h) The Enforcement Director may convene an informal conference to discuss any situation that might be a violation of a requirement of this part, its significance and cause, any corrective action taken or not taken by the contractor, any mitigating or aggravating circumstances, and any other information. A conference is not normally open to the public and DOE does not make a transcript of the conference. The Enforcement Director may compel a contractor to attend the conference.


(i) If facts disclosed by an investigation or inspection indicate that further action is unnecessary or unwarranted, the Enforcement Director may close the investigation without prejudice.


(j) The Enforcement Director may issue enforcement letters that communicate DOE's expectations with respect to any aspect of the requirements of this part, including identification and reporting of issues, corrective actions, and implementation of the contractor's safety and health program; provided that an enforcement letter may not create the basis for any legally enforceable requirement pursuant to this part.


(k) The Enforcement Director may sign, issue and serve subpoenas. 



---

[N] [71 FR 6931, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 88 FR 41294, June 26, 2023]




