# ยง 416.1232   Replacement of lost, damaged, or stolen excluded resources.

(a) Cash (including any interest earned on the cash) or in-kind replacement received from any source for purposes of repairing or replacing an excluded resource (as defined in ยง 416.1210) that is lost, damaged, or stolen is excluded as a resource. This exclusion applies if the cash (and the interest) is used to repair or replace the excluded resource within 9 months of the date the individual received the cash. Any of the cash (and interest) that is not used to repair or replace the excluded resource will be counted as a resource beginning with the month after the 9-month period expires.


(b) The initial 9-month time period will be extended for a reasonable period up to an additional 9 months where we find the individual had good cause for not replacing or repairing the resource. An individual will be found to have good cause when circumstances beyond his or her control prevented the repair or replacement or the contracting for the repair or replacement of the resource. The 9-month extension can only be granted if the individual intends to use the cash or in-kind replacement items to repair or replace the lost, stolen, or damaged excluded resource in addition to having good cause for not having done so. If good cause is found for an individual, any unused cash (and interest) is counted as a resource beginning with the month after the good cause extension period expires. *Exception: For victims of Hurricane Andrew only,* the extension period for good cause may be extended for up to an additional 12 months beyond the 9-month extension when we find that the individual had good cause for not replacing or repairing an excluded resource within the 9-month extension.


(c) The time period described in paragraph (b) of this section (except the time period for individuals granted an additional extension under the Hurricane Andrew provision) may be extended for a reasonable period up to an additional 12 months in the case of a catastrophe which is declared to be a major disaster by the President of the United States if the excluded resource is geographically located within the disaster area as defined by the Presidential order; the individual intends to repair or replace the excluded resource; and, the individual demonstrates good cause why he or she has not been able to repair or replace the excluded resource within the 18-month period.


(d) Where an extension of the time period is made for good cause and the individual changes his or her intent to repair or replace the excluded resource, funds previously held for replacement or repair will be counted as a resource effective with the month that the individual reports this change of intent.



---

[N] [44 FR 15662, Mar. 15, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 48579, Nov. 26, 1985; 61 FR 5944, Feb. 15, 1996]




