# § 98.62   Allotments from the Mandatory Fund.

(a) Each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia will be allocated from the funds appropriated under section 418(a)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act, less the amounts reserved for technical assistance pursuant to § 98.60(b)(1) an amount of funds equal to the greater of:


(1) the Federal share of its child care expenditures under subsections (g) and (i) of section 402 of the Social Security Act (as in effect before October 1, 1995) for fiscal year 1994 or 1995 (whichever is greater); or


(2) the average of the Federal share of its child care expenditures under the subsections referred to in subparagraph (a)(1) of this section for fiscal years 1992 through 1994.


(b) For Indian Tribes and tribal organizations will be allocated from the funds appropriated under section 418(a)(3)(B) of the Social Security Act shall be allocated according to the formula at paragraph (c) of this section. In Alaska, only the following 13 entities shall receive allocations under this subpart, in accordance with the formula at paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) The Metlakatla Indian Community of the Annette Islands Reserve:


(2) Arctic Slope Native Association;


(3) Kawerak, Inc.;


(4) Maniilaq Association;


(5) Association of Village Council Presidents;


(6) Tanana Chiefs Conference;


(7) Cook Inlet Tribal Council;


(8) Bristol Bay Native Association;


(9) Aleutian and Pribilof Islands Association;


(10) Chugachmuit;


(11) Tlingit and Haida Central Council;


(12) Kodiak Area Native Association; and


(13) Copper River Native Association.


(c)(1) Grants to individual Tribes with 50 or more Indian children, and to Tribes with fewer than 50 Indian children that apply as part of a consortium pursuant to § 98.80(b)(1), will be equal to an amount per Indian child under age 13 (or such similar age as determined by the Secretary from the best available data), which is determined by dividing the amount of funds available, by the number of Indian children in each Tribe's service area pursuant to § 98.80(e).


(2) Tribal consortia will receive grants that are equal to the sum of the individual grants of their members.


(d) The Territories will be allocated from the funds appropriated under section 418(a)(3)(C) of the Social Security Act based upon the following factors:


(1) A Young Child factor—the ratio of the number of children in the Territory under five years of age to the number of such children in all Territories; and


(2) An Allotment Proportion factor—determined by dividing the per capita income of all individuals in all the Territories by the per capita income of all individuals in the Territory.


(i) Per capita income shall be:


(A) Equal to the average of the annual per capita incomes for the most recent period of three consecutive years for which satisfactory data are available at the time such determination is made; and


(B) Determined every two years.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [63 FR 39981, July 24, 1998, as amended at 89 FR 15415, Mar. 1, 2024




