# ยง 51.13   Examples of changes.

Changes affecting voting include, but are not limited to, the following examples: 


(a) Any change in qualifications or eligibility for voting.


(b) Any change concerning registration, balloting, and the counting of votes and any change concerning publicity for or assistance in registration or voting.


(c) Any change with respect to the use of a language other than English in any aspect of the electoral process.


(d) Any change in the boundaries of voting precincts or in the location of polling places.


(e) Any change in the constituency of an official or the boundaries of a voting unit (*e.g.,* through redistricting, annexation, deannexation, incorporation, dissolution, merger, reapportionment, changing to at-large elections from district elections, or changing to district elections from at-large elections).


(f) Any change in the method of determining the outcome of an election (e.g., by requiring a majority vote for election or the use of a designated post or place system).


(g) Any change affecting the eligibility of persons to become or remain candidates, to obtain a position on the ballot in primary or general elections, or to become or remain holders of elective offices.


(h) Any change in the eligibility and qualification procedures for independent candidates.


(i) Any change in the term of an elective office or an elected official, or any change in the offices that are elective (*e.g.,* by shortening or extending the term of an office; changing from election to appointment; transferring authority from an elected to an appointed official that, in law or in fact, eliminates the elected official's office; or staggering the terms of offices).


(j) Any change affecting the necessity of or methods for offering issues and propositions for approval by referendum.


(k) Any change affecting the right or ability of persons to participate in pre-election activities, such as political campaigns.


(l) Any change that transfers or alters the authority of any official or governmental entity regarding who may enact or seek to implement a voting qualification, prerequisite to voting, or standard, practice, or procedure with respect to voting.



---

[N] [52 FR 490, Jan. 6, 1987, as amended by Order No. 3262-2011, 76 FR 21244, Apr. 15, 2011]




