# § 721.11081   3-Butenenitrile, 2-(acetyloxy).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 3-butenenitrile, 2-(acetyloxy) (PMN P-16-438, CAS No. 15667-63-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(5) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1000), (a)(6)(particulate), (a)(6)(v), (vi), (b)(concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). It is a significant new use to manufacture, process or use the substance without following the monitoring procedure as specified in the worker protection section of the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) Order.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(fatal if swallowed), (fatal if in contact with skin), (toxic if inhaled), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (g)(3)(i), (ii), (g)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g). It is a significant new use to manufacture or use the substance other than in an enclosed system as described in the PMN.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 49050, Sept. 18, 2019]




