# § 350.217   MCSAP administration: Allocation of funds.

(a) *General.* Subject to the availability of funding, FMCSA must allocate MCSAP funds to grantees with approved CVSPs in accordance with this section.


(b) *Territories—excluding the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.* (1) Not more than 0.49 percent of the MCSAP funds may be allocated in accordance with this paragraph among the Territories of American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.


(2) Half of the MCSAP funds available under paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be divided equally among the Territories.


(3) The remaining MCSAP funds available under paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be allocated among the Territories in a manner proportional to the Territories' populations, as reflected in the decennial census issued by the U.S. Census Bureau.


(4) The amounts calculated under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section will be totaled for each Territory.


(5) The amounts calculated under paragraph (b)(4) of this section will be adjusted proportionally, based on population, to ensure that each Territory receives at least $350,000.


(c) *Border States.* (1) Not more than 11 percent of the MCSAP funds may be allocated in accordance with this paragraph among Border States that maintain a border enforcement program.


(2) The shares for each Border State will be calculated based on the number of CMV crossings at each United States port of entry, as determined by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, with each Border State receiving:


(i) 1 share per 25,000 annual CMV crossings at each United States port of entry on the Mexican border, with a minimum of 8 shares for each port of entry; or


(ii) 1 share per 200,000 annual CMV crossings at each United States port of entry on the Canadian border, with a minimum of 0.25 share for each port of entry with more than 1,000 annual CMV crossings.


(3) The shares of all Border States calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be totaled.


(4) Each individual Border State's shares calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section will be divided by the total shares calculated in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(5) The percentages calculated in paragraph (c)(4) of this section will be adjusted proportionally to ensure that each Border State receives at least 0.075 percent but no more than 55 percent of the total border allocation available under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(6) Each Border State's percentage calculated in paragraph (c)(5) of this section will be multiplied by the total border allocation available under this paragraph to determine the dollar amount of the Border State's allocation.


(7) To maintain eligibility for an allocation under this paragraph, a Border State must maintain a border enforcement program, but may expend more or less than the amounts allocated under this paragraph for border activities. Failure to maintain a border enforcement program will result in forfeiture of all funds allocated under this paragraph, but will not affect the Border State's allocation under paragraph (d) of this section.


(8) Allocations made under this paragraph are in addition to allocations made under paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *States—including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.* (1)(i) At least 88.51 percent of the MCSAP funds must be allocated in accordance with this paragraph (d)(1)(i) among the eligible States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, but excluding American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.


(ii) The amounts made available under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section that are not allocated under those paragraphs must be added to the total amount to be allocated in accordance with this paragraph.


(iii) In the case of reallocation of funds under paragraph (c) of this section by a Border State that no longer maintains a border enforcement program, no portion of the reallocated funds will be allocated to that Border State.


(2) The amount available under paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be calculated based on each State's percentage of the national total for each of the following equally-weighted factors:


(i) National Highway System Road Length Miles, as reported by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA);


(ii) All Vehicle Miles Traveled, as reported by the FHWA;


(iii) Population (annual census estimates), as issued by the U.S. Census Bureau;


(iv) Special Fuel Consumption, as reported by the FHWA; and


(v) Carrier Registrations, as determined by FMCSA, based on the physical State of the carrier, and calculated as the sum of interstate carriers and intrastate hazardous materials carriers.


(3) Each State's percentages calculated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section will be averaged.


(4) The percentage calculated in paragraph (d)(3) of this section will be adjusted proportionally to ensure that each State receives at least 0.44 percent but no more than 4.944 percent of the MCSAP funds available under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(5) Each State's percentage will be multiplied by the total MCSAP funds available under this paragraph to determine the dollar amount of the State's allocation.


(e) *Hold-harmless provision and funding cap.* (1) The dollar amounts calculated under paragraphs (c)(6) and (d)(5) of this section will be totaled for each State and then divided by the total MCSAP funds available for allocation under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section to determine a State's percentage of the total MCSAP funds.


(2) Each State's percentage of total MCSAP funding in the fiscal year immediately prior to the year for which funding is being allocated will be determined by dividing the State's dollar allocation by the total MCSAP funding in that prior year, excluding funds allocated to the Territories of American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.


(3) Proportional adjustments will be made to ensure that each State's percentage of MCSAP funds as calculated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be no less than 97 percent or more than 105 percent of the State's percentage of MCSAP funds allocated for the prior fiscal year as calculated under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(f) *Withholding.* (1) Allocations made under this section are subject to withholdings under § 350.231(d).


(2) Minimum or maximum allocations described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section are to be applied prior to any reduction under § 350.231(d).


(3) State MCSAP funds affected by § 350.231(d) will be allocated to the unaffected States in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(4) Paragraph (e) of this section does not apply after any reduction under § 350.231(d).




