# ยง 608.2   Collection, compromise, and use of consumer reporting agencies.

(a) Subject to the specific limitations and procedures of 31 U.S.C. 3711 and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards, NSF, acting through its Chief Financial Officer or those to whom he or she delegates authority or assigns responsibilities, shall try to collect claims of the United States Government for money or property arising out of the activities of NSF or that are referred to NSF and may compromise or suspend or end collection action of certain claims. In making demands for payment, NSF will follow the guidance set forth at 4 CFR 102.2. In appropriate cases, as authorized by and subject to 31 U.S.C. 3718 and 4 CFR 102.6, NSF may contract for collection services. Before compromising or suspending or ending the collection of a claim in excess of $5,000, the matter shall be referred to the NSF Office of General Counsel for legal review. 


(b) When trying to collect a claim of the Government (except for claims under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*), NSF may disclose to a consumer reporting agency information from a system of records that an individual is responsible for a claim if (1) a notice published pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(3)(4) indicates that information in the system of records may be disclosed to a consumer reporting agency that an individual is responsible for a claim and (2) if the Chief Financial Officer of NSF decides that the claim is valid and overdue. Such disclosures to a consumer reporting agency will be done only under the conditions and procedures specified in 31 U.S.C. 3711(f) and in the Federal Claims Collections Standards. Specifically, before NSF provides the information to the consumer reporting agency, the individual will be given the notice required by 31 U.S.C. 3711(f)(1)(C); and in accordance with 4 CFR 102.5(c), the right of administrative review to be provided to the individual shall be consistent with the provisions of 4 CFR 102.3(c). If NSF does not have a current address for the individual in its files, it will take reasonable action to locate the individual, but if unsuccessful will mail the notice to the individual's last known address. NSF will disclose information only to a consumer reporting agency that gives satisfactory assurances that it is complying with all laws of the United States relating to providing consumer credit information. The information provided by NSF shall be limited to the type of information described in 31 U.S.C. 3711(f)(1)(F). Moreover, NSF will not provide such information until it has established internal procedures to disclose promptly to a consumer reporting agency to which disclosure is made of any substantial changes in the condition or amount of the claim and to verify or correct promptly information about the claim on request of a consumer reporting agency for verification of information disclosed. 


(c) If in response to the notice referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, the individual repays or agrees in writing with NSF to a repayment plan, the information will not be disclosed to a consumer reporting agency. If in response to the notice referred to in paragraph (b) the individual requests a review or reconsideration of the claim, information shall not be disclosed to the consumer reporting agency until such a review is provided. 


(d) The review referred to in paragraph (c) of this section shall be based only on the written documentation in the file, including any additional written information provided by the individual in response to the notice referred to in paragraph (b). A written summary briefly describing the nature of the review performed and the conclusion reached shall be made. The written summary and conclusion shall be referred to the NSF Office of General Counsel for legal review. After legal review, a copy of the written summary shall be sent to the individual. 




