# ยง 228.107   Review of surface use plan of operations.

(a) *Review.* The authorized Forest officer shall review a surface use plan of operations as promptly as practicable given the nature and scope of the proposed plan. As part of the review, the authorized Forest officer shall comply with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, implementing regulations at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508, and the Forest Service implementing policies and procedures set forth in Forest Service Manual Chapter 1950 and Forest Service Handbook 1909.15 and shall ensure that:


(1) The surface use plan of operations is consistent with the lease, including the lease stipulations, and applicable Federal laws;


(2) To the extent consistent with the rights conveyed by the lease, the surface use plan of operations is consistent with, or is modified to be consistent with, the applicable current approved forest land and resource management plan;


(3) The surface use plan of operations meets or exceeds the surface use requirements of ยง 228.108 of this subpart; and


(4) The surface use plan of operations is acceptable, or is modified to be acceptable, to the authorized Forest officer based upon a review of the environmental consequences of the operations.


(b) *Decision.* The authorized Forest officer shall make a decision on the approval of a surface use plan of operations as follows: 


(1) If the authorized Forest officer will not be able to make a decision on the proposed plan within 3 working days after the conclusion of the 30-day notice period provided for by 30 U.S.C. 226(f), the authorized Forest officer shall advise the appropriate Bureau of Land Management office and the operator as soon as such delay becomes apparent, either in writing or orally with subsequent written confirmation, that additional time will be needed to process the plan. The authorized Forest officer shall explain the reason why additional time is needed and project the date by which a decision on the plan will likely be made. 


(2) When the review of a surface use plan of operations has been completed, the authorized Forest officer shall promptly notify the operator and the appropriate Bureau of Land Management office, in writing, that: 


(i) The plan is approved as submitted: 


(ii) The plan is approved subject to specified conditions; or, 


(iii) The plan is disapproved for the reasons stated. 


(c) *Notice of decision.* The authorized Forest officer shall give public notice of the decision on a surface use plan of operations and include in the notice that the decision is subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 214 or 215.


(d) *Transmittal of decision.* The authorized Forest officer shall immediately forward a decision on a surface use plan of operations to the appropriate Bureau of Land Management office and the operator. This transmittal shall include the estimated cost of reclamation and restoration (ยง 228.109(a)) if the authorized Forest officer believes that additional bonding is required. 


(e) *Supplemental plans.* A supplemental surface use plan of operations (ยง 228.106(d)) shall be reviewed in the same manner as an initial surface use plan of operations. 



---

[N] [55 FR 10444, Mar. 21, 1990, as amended at 72 FR 10328, Mar. 7, 2007; 78 FR 33724, June 5, 2013]




