# § 1955.103   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following apply:


*Approval official.* The Rural Development official having loan and grant approval authority auhorized under Subpart A of Part 1901 of this chapter.


*Auction sale.* A public sale in which property is sold to the highest bidder in open verbal competition.


*Beginning farmer or rancher.* A beginning farmer or rancher is an individual or entity who:


(1) Is an eligible applicant for FO loan assistance in accordance with § 1943.12 of subpart A of part 1943 of this chapter or § 1980.180 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter.


(2) Has not operated a farm or ranch, or who has operated a farm or ranch for not more than 10 years. This requirement applies to all members of an entity.


(3) Will materially and substantially participate in the operation of the farm or ranch.


(i) In the case of a loan made to an individual, individually or with the immediate family, material and substantial participation requires that the individual provide substantial day-to-day labor and management of the farm or ranch, consistent with the practices in the county or State where the farm is located.


(ii) In the case of a loan made to an entity, all members must materially and substantially participate in the operation of the farm or ranch. Material and substantial participation requires that the individual provides some amount of the management, or labor and management necessary for day-to-day activities, such that if the individual did not provide these inputs, operation of the farm or ranch would be seriously impaired.


(4) Agrees to participate in any loan assessment, borrower training, and financial management programs required by Rural Development regulations.


(5) Does not own real farm or ranch property or who, directly or through interests in family farm entities, owns real farm or ranch property, the aggregate acreage of which does not exceed 30 percent of the average farm or ranch acreage of the farms or ranches in the county where the property is located. If the farm is located in more than one county, the average farm acreage of the county where the applicant's residence is located will be used in the calculation. If the applicant's residence is not located on the farm or if the applicant is an entity, the average farm acreage of the county where the major portion of the farm is located will be used. The average county farm or ranch acreage will be determined from the most recent Census of Agriculture developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census. State Directors will publish State supplements containing the average farm or ranch acreage by county.


(6) Demonstrates that the available resources of the applicant and spouse (if any) are not sufficient to enable the applicant to enter or continue farming or ranching on a viable scale.


(7) In the case of an entity:


(i) All the members are related by blood or marriage.


(ii) All the stockholders in a corporation are qualified beginning farmers or ranchers.


*Borrower.* An individual or entity which has outstanding obligations to the Rural Development under any Farmer Programs loan(s), without regard to whether the loan has been accelerated. A borrower includes all parties liable for the Rural Development debt, including collection-only borrowers, except for debtors whose total loans and accounts have been voluntarily or involuntarily foreclosed or liquidated, or who have been discharged of all Rural Development debt.


*Capitalization value.* The value determined in accordance with subpart E of part 1922 of this chapter.


*Closing agent.* An attorney or title insurance company which is approved as a loan closing agent in accordance with subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter.


*CONACT or CONACT property,* Property acquired or sold pursuant to the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (CONACT). Within this subpart, it shall also be construed to cover property which secured loans made pursuant to the Emergency Agricultural Credit Act of 1984; the Food Security Act of 1985; and other statutes giving agricultural lending authority to the respective Agency.


*Credit sale.* A sale in which financing is provided to an applicant for the purchase of inventory property.


*Decent, safe and sanitary (DSS) housing.* Standards required for the sale of Government acquired SFH, MFH and LH structures acquired pursuant to the Housing Act of 1949, as amended. “DSS” housing unit(s) are structures which meet the requirements of Rural Development as described in Subpart A of Part 1924 of this chapter for existing construction or if not meeting the requirements:


(1) Are structurally sound and habitable,


(2) Have a potable water supply,


(3) Have functionally adequate, safe and operable heating, plumbing, electrical and sewage disposal systems,


(4) Meet the Thermal Performance Standards as outlined in exhibit D of subpart A of part 1924 of this chapter, and


(5) Are safe; that is, a hazard does not exist that would endanger the safety of dwelling occupants.


*Eligible terms.* Credit terms, for other than SFH or MFH property sales, prescribed in Rural Development program regulations for its various loan programs; available only to persons/entities meeting eligibility requirements set forth for the respective loan program. For SFH and MFH properties, see the definition of “Program terms.”


*Farmer program loans.* This includes Farm Ownership (FO), Soil and Water (SW), Recreation (RL), Economic Opportunity (EO), Operating (OL), Emergency (EM), Economic Emergency (EE), Special Livestock (SL), Softwood Timber (ST) and Rural Housing loans for farm service buildings (RHF).


*Homestead protection (FP only).* The program which permits former Farmer Program borrowers to lease their former principal residence with an option to buy. See subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter.


*Indian Reservation.* All land located within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States notwithstanding the issuance of any patent and including rights-of-way running through the reservation; trust or restricted land located within the boundaries of a former reservation of a federally recognized Indian Tribe in the State of Oklahoma; or all Indian allotments the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished if such allotments are subject to the jurisdiction of a federally recognized Indian Tribe.


*Ineligible terms.* Credit terms, for other than SFH or MFH property sales, offered for the convenience of the Government to facilitate sales; more stringent than terms offered under Rural Development's loan programs. Applicable when the purchaser does not meet program eligibility requirements or when the property is classified as surplus. Loans made on ineligible terms are classified as Nonprogram (NP) loans and are serviced accordingly. For SFH and MFH properties, see the definition of “Nonprogram (NP) terms.”


*Inventory property.* Property for which title is vested in the Government and which secured an a Rural Development loan loan or which was acquired from another Agency for program purposes.


*Market value.* The most probable price which property should bring, as of a specific date, in a competitive and open market, assuming the buyer and seller are prudent and knowledgeable, and the price is not affected by undue stimulus such as forced sale or loan interest subsidy.


*Negotiated sale.* A sale in which there is a bargaining of price and/or terms.


*Nonprogram (NP) property.* SFH and MFH property acquired pursuant to the Housing Act of 1949, as amended, that cannot be used by a borrower to effectively carry out the objectives of the respective loan program; for example, a dwelling that cannot be feasibly repaired to meet the requirements for existing housing as described in subpart A of part 1944 of this chapter. It may contain a structure which would meet program standards, however is so remotely located it would not serve as an adequate residential unit or be an older house which is excessively expensive to heat and/or maintain for a very-low or low-income homeowner.


*Nonprogram (NP) terms.* Credit terms for SFH or MFH property sales, offered for the convenience of the Government to facilitate sales; more stringent than terms offered under Rural Development's loan programs. Applicable when the purchaser does not meet program eligibility requirements or when the property is classified as nonprogram (NP). Loans made on NP terms are classified as NP loans and are serviced accordingly. For property other than SFH and MFH, see the definition of “Ineligible terms.”


*Organization property.* Property for which the following loans were made is considered organization property. Community Facility (CF); Water and Waste Disposal (WWD); Association Recreation; Watershed (WS); Resource Conservation and Development (RC&D); loans to associations for Shift-In-Land Use (Grazing Association); loans to associations for Irrigation and Drainage and other soil and water conservation measures; loans to Indian Tribes and Tribal corporations; Rural Rental Housing (RRH) to both groups and individuals; Rural Cooperative Housing (RCH); Rural Housing Site (RHS); Labor Housing (LH) to both groups and individuals; Business and Industry (B&I) to both individuals and groups or corporations; Rural Development Loan Fund (RDLF); Intermediary Relending Program (IRP); Nonprofit National Corporations (NNC); and Economic Opportunity Cooperative (EOC). Housing-type (RHS, RCH, RRH and LH) organization property is referred to collectively in this subpart as Multiple Family Housing (MFH) property.


*Owner.* An individual or an entity which owned the farm but who may or may not have been operating the farm at the time the farm was taken into inventory.


*Participating broker.* A duly licensed real estate broker who has executed a listing agreement with Rural Development.


*Program property.* SFH and MFH inventory property that can be used to effectively carry out the objectives of their respective loan programs with financing through that program. Inventory property located in an area where the designation has been changed from rural to nonrural will be considered as if it were still in a rural area.


*Program terms.* Credit terms for SFH or MFH property sales, prescribed in Rural Development program regulations for its various loan programs; available only to persons/entities meeting eligibility requirements set forth for the respective loan program. For property sales other than SFH and MFH, see the definition of “Eligible terms.”


*Regular Agency sale.* Sale made by Rural Deveopment employees or real estate brokers other than by sealed bid, auction, or negotiation.


*Regular sale.* Sale by Rural Development employees or real estate brokers other than by sealed bid, auction or negotiation.


*Safe.* No hazard exists on property which would likely endanger the health or safety of occupants or users.


*Sealed bid sale.* A public sale in which property is offered to the highest bidder by prior written bid submitted in a sealed envelope.


*Servicing official.* For loans to individuals, as defined in § 1955.53 of subpart B of part 1955 of this chapter, the servicing official is the County Supervisor. For all other loans, excluding insured B&I, the servicing official is the District Director. For insured B&I loans, the servicing official is the State Director.


*Socially disadvantaged applicant (SDA).* An applicant who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as a member of a group, without regard to their individual qualities. For entity SDA applicants, the majority interest in the entity must be held by socially disadvantaged individuals. The Agency has identified socially disadvantaged groups as Women, Blacks, American Indians, Alaskan Natives, Hispanics, Asians, and Pacific Islanders.


*Suitable property.* Real property that could be used to carry out the objectives of Rural Development's loan programs with financing provided through that program.


*Surplus property.* Property that cannot be used to carry out the objectives of financing available through the applicable loan program.



---

[N] [50 FR 23904, June 7, 1985]


