# ยง 167.20   Establishments requiring registration.

(a) *Who must register.* (1) Any establishment where a pesticidal product is produced must be registered with the Agency. This requirement does not apply to custom blenders as defined in this part.


(2) Any establishment where a substance is produced must be registered with the Agency if the producer intends the substance to be used as an active ingredient of a pesticide, or has actual or constructive knowledge that the substance will be used by any person as an active ingredient of a pesticide.


(3) Any domestic establishment producing a pesticidal product for export, or any unregistered pesticide, or any foreign establishment producing a pesticidal product for import into the United States must be registered. Also, any establishment, either foreign or domestic, which produces a pesticidal product for use under an Experimental Use Permit, FIFRA section 18 Emergency Exemption or section 24(c) Special Local Needs registration, must be registered.


(b) *Information required.* An applicant for establishment registration must submit the following information:


(1) Name and address of the company.


(2) The type of ownership (individual, partnership, cooperative association, corporation, or any organized group of persons whether incorporated or not).


(3) The name and address of each producing establishment for which registration is sought.


(c) *When to apply.* An application for establishment registration must be submitted, and an establishment registration number must be assigned by the Agency, before any production may occur at an establishment. In the case of an establishment which has not previously been required to be registered and is not currently registered, the producer must apply for establishment registration by submitting an application within 180 days after the effective date of this regulation.


(d) *Assignment of establishment registration number.* The Agency will return incomplete or inaccurately completed applications to the applicant. If the application is complete and accurate, the Agency will register the establishment and assign a registration number to the establishment. The establishment registration number will be entered on the application, and a copy of the application will be returned to the applicant.


(e) *Amendment.* If at any time after the first report there is a change in the information required to be submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, that new information must be reported to EPA, in writing on letterhead stationery or on forms supplied by the Agency, within 30 days after such change occurs.


(f) *Duration of registration.* Establishment registration will remain effective provided pesticide reports are submitted annually pursuant to the requirements of this part. Failure to submit a report may result in termination of establishment registration, civil and/or criminal penalty assessments.



---

[N] [53 FR 35058, Sept. 8, 1988; 54 FR 32638, Aug. 9, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993]




