# § 493.1810   Imposition and lifting of alternative sanctions.

(a) *Notice of noncompliance and of proposed sanction: Content.* If CMS or its agency identifies condition level noncompliance in a laboratory, CMS or its agent gives the laboratory written notice of the following:


(1) The condition level noncompliance that it has identified.


(2) The sanction or sanctions that CMS or its agent proposes to impose against the laboratory.


(3) The rationale for the proposed sanction or sanctions.


(4) The projected effective date and duration of the proposed sanction or sanctions.


(5) The authority for the proposed sanction or sanctions.


(6) The time allowed (at least 10 days) for the laboratory to respond to the notice.


(b) *Opportunity to respond.* During the period specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the laboratory may submit to CMS or its agent written evidence or other information against the imposition of the proposed sanction or sanctions.


(c) *Notice of imposition of sanction*—(1) *Content.* CMS gives the laboratory written notice that acknowledges any evidence or information received from the laboratory and specifies the following:


(i) The sanction or sanctions to be imposed against the laboratory.


(ii) The authority and rationale for the imposing sanction or sanctions.


(iii) The effective date and duration of sanction.


(2) *Timing.* (i) If CMS or its agent determines that the deficiencies pose immediate jeopardy, CMS provides notice at least 5 days before the effective date of sanction.


(ii) If CMS or its agent determines that the deficiencies do not pose immediate jeopardy, CMS provides notice at least 15 days before the effective date of the sanction.


(d) *Duration of alternative sanctions.* An alternative sanction continues until the earlier of the following occurs:


(1) The laboratory corrects all condition level deficiencies.


(2) CMS's suspension, limitation, or revocation of the laboratory's CLIA certificate becomes effective.


(e) *Lifting of alternative sanctions*—(1) *General rule.* Alternative sanctions are not lifted until a laboratory's compliance with all condition level requirements is verified.


(2) *Credible allegation of compliance.* When a sanctioned laboratory submits a credible allegation of compliance, CMS's agent determines whether—


(i) It can certify compliance on the basis of the evidence presented by the laboratory in its allegation; or 


(ii) It must revisit to verify whether the laboratory has, in fact, achieved compliance.


(3) *Compliance achieved before the date of revisit.* If during a revisit, the laboratory presents credible evidence (as determined by CMS or its agent) that it achieved compliance before the date of revisit, sanctions are lifted as of that earlier date.




