# ยง 820.25   Final notice of violation.

(a) *General rule.* If, after reviewing the reply submitted by the respondent, the Director determines that a person violated or is continuing to violate a provision of the Act or a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement, he may file a Final Notice of Violation. The Final Notice shall concisely state the determined violation, any designated penalty, and further actions necessary by or available to respondent. 


(b) *Effect of final notice.* (1) If a Final Notice of Violation does not contain a civil penalty, it shall be deemed filed as a Final Order 15 days after the Final Notice is filed unless the Secretary files a Final Order which modifies the Final Notice. 


(2) If a Final Notice of Violation contains a civil penalty, the respondent must file within 30 days after the filing of the Final Notice: 


(i) A waiver of further proceedings; 


(ii) A request for an on-the-record adjudication; or 


(iii) A notice of intent to seek judicial review. 


(c) *Effect of waiver.* If a respondent waives further proceedings, the Final Notice of Violation shall be deemed a Final Order enforceable against the respondent. The respondent must pay any civil penalty set forth in the Notice of Violation within 60 days of the filing of waiver unless the Director grants additional time. 


(d) *Effect of request.* If a respondent files a request for an on-the-record adjudication, then an enforcement adjudication commences. 


(e) *Effect of notice of intent.* If a respondent files a Notice of Intent, the Final Notice of Violation shall be deemed a Final Order enforceable against the respondent. 


(f) *Amendment.* The Director may amend the Final Notice of Violation at any time before an action takes place pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. An amendment shall add fifteen days to the time periods under paragraph (b) of this section. 


(g) *Withdrawal.* The Director may withdraw the Final Notice of Violation, or any part thereof, at any time before an action under paragraph (b) of this section. 




