# ยง 63.4   Grants to foreign participants to lecture, teach, and engage in research.

A citizen or national of a foreign country who has been awarded a grant to lecture, teach, and engage in research may be entitled to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency:


(a) *Transportation.* Accommodations, as authorized on steamship, airplane, railway, or other means of conveyance. For travel in a privately owned vehicle, reimbursement will be in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations.


(b) *Excess baggage.* Excess baggage as deemed necessary by the Agency.


(c) *Per diem allowance.* Per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence expenses while participating in the program in the United States, its territories or possessions and while traveling within or between the United States, its territories or possessions shall be established by the Secretary of State from time to time, within limitations prescribed by law.


(d) *Allowance.* A special allowance in lieu of per diem while traveling to and from the United States may be established by the Secretary of State, within limitations prescribed by law.


(e) *Tuition and related expenses.* Tuition and related expenses in connection with attendance at educational institutions, seminars and workshops, professional meetings or other events in keeping with the purpose of the grant.


(f) *Books and educational materials allowance.* A reasonable allowance for books and educational materials.


(g) *Advance of funds.* Advance of funds including per diem.




