# § 643.22   How does the Secretary evaluate prior experience?

(a) In the case of an application described in § 643.20(a)(2)(i), the Secretary—


(1) Evaluates the applicant's performance under its expiring Talent Search project;


(2) Uses the approved project objectives for the applicant's expiring Talent Search grant and the information the applicant submitted in its annual performance reports (APRs) to determine the number of PE points; and


(3) May adjust a calculated PE score or decide not to award PE points if other information such as audit reports, site visit reports, and project evaluation reports indicates the APR data used to calculate PE are incorrect.


(b) The Secretary does not award PE points for a given year to an applicant that does not serve at least 90 percent of the approved number of participants. For purposes of this section, the approved number of participants is the total number of participants the project would serve as agreed upon by the grantee and the Secretary.


(c) The Secretary does not award any PE points for the criterion specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (Number of participants) if the applicant did not serve at least the approved number of participants.


(d) For purposes of the evaluation of grants awarded after January 1, 2009, the Secretary evaluates the applicant's PE on the basis of the following outcome criteria:


(1) (3 points) *Number of participants.* Whether the applicant provided services to no less than the approved number of participants.


(2) (3 points) *Secondary school persistence.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding the continued secondary school enrollment of participants.


(3) (3 points) *Secondary school graduation* (regular secondary school diploma). Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding the graduation of participants served during the project year from secondary school with a regular secondary school diploma in the standard number of years.


(4) (1.5 points) *Secondary school graduation* (rigorous secondary school program of study). Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding the graduation of participants served during the project year who completed a rigorous secondary school program of study.


(5) (3 points) *Postsecondary enrollment.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding the participants expected to graduate from high school in the school year who enrolled in an institution of higher education within the time period specified in the approved objective.


(6) (1.5 points) *Postsecondary completion.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective regarding project participants who enrolled in and completed a program of postsecondary education within the number of years specified in the approved objective. The applicant may determine success in meeting the objective by using a randomly selected sample of participants in accordance with the parameters established by the Secretary in the _Federal Register_ notice inviting applications or other published application materials for the competition.



---

[N] [75 FR 65777, Oct. 26, 2010]




