# ยง 60-741.40   General purpose and applicability of the affirmative action program requirement.

(a) *General purpose.* An affirmative action program is a management tool designed to ensure equal employment opportunity and foster employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities. An affirmative action program institutionalizes the contractor's commitment to equality in every aspect of employment and is more than a paperwork exercise. An affirmative action program is dynamic in nature and includes measurable objectives, quantitative analyses, and internal auditing and reporting systems that measure the contractor's progress toward achieving equal employment opportunity for individuals with disabilities.


(b) *Applicability of the affirmative action program.* (1) The requirements of this subpart apply to every Government contractor that has 50 or more employees and a contract of $50,000 or more.


(2) Contractors described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall, within 120 days of the commencement of a contract, prepare and maintain an affirmative action program at each establishment. The affirmative action program shall set forth the contractor's policies and procedures in accordance with this part. This program may be integrated into or kept separate from other affirmative action programs.


(3) The affirmative action program shall be reviewed and updated annually by the official designated by the contractor pursuant to ยง 60-741.44(i).


(c) *Submission of program to OFCCP.* The contractor shall submit the affirmative action program within 30 days of a request from OFCCP, unless the request provides for a different time. The contractor also shall make the affirmative action program promptly available on-site upon OFCCP's request.




