# § 1304.103   Health, safety, and environmental standards.

(a) *Wastewater.* Floating cabins shall comply with § 1304.2(d) with regard to discharges into navigable waters of the United States. All discharges, sewage, and wastewater, and the pumping, collection, storage, transport, and treatment of sewage and wastewater shall be managed in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations (satisfactory evidence of compliance to be provided to TVA upon request). Upon receipt of documentation that a floating cabin is in violation of any federal, state, or local discharge or water quality regulation by the respective regulatory agency or upon failure to provide satisfactory evidence of compliance at TVA's request, TVA is authorized to revoke the permit and require removal of the floating cabin from the Tennessee River System if the violation is not corrected as specified by the regulatory agency in accordance with the agency's requirements or if satisfactory evidence of compliance is not provided to TVA.






(b) *Flotation.* Floating cabins shall comply with the requirements for flotation devices and material contained in § 1304.400.


(c) *Mooring.* All floating cabins must be moored in such a manner as to:


(1) Avoid obstruction of or interference with navigation, flood control, public lands, or reservations;


(2) Avoid adverse effects on public lands or reservations;


(3) Prevent the preemption of public waters when moored in permanent locations outside of the approved harbor limits of commercial marinas;


(4) Protect land and land rights owned by the United States alongside and subjacent to TVA reservoirs from trespass and other unlawful and unreasonable uses;


(5) Maintain, protect, and enhance the quality of the human environment;


(6) Ensure visibility of all mooring cables; and


(7) Comply with § 1304.205(c).


(d) *Electrical.* Floating cabins shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding electrical wiring and equipment (satisfactory evidence of compliance to be provided to TVA upon request). Upon receipt of documentation that a floating cabin is in violation of any federal, state, or local electrical standard or regulation by the respective regulatory agency or upon failure to provide satisfactory evidence of compliance at TVA's request, TVA is authorized to revoke the permit and require removal of the floating cabin from the Tennessee River System if the violation is not corrected as specified by the regulatory agency in accordance with the agency's requirements or if satisfactory evidence of compliance is not provided to TVA. Floating cabins shall comply with § 1304.209(c)(2).







---

[N] [86 FR 50635, Sept. 10, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 104882, Dec. 26, 2024]














