# § 721.10594   Hexanedioic acid, polymer with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol, 1,6-hexanediol, hydrazine, 3-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methylpropanoic acid, 5-isocyanato-1-(isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane and 1,1′-[(1-methylethylidene)bis(4,1-phenyleneoxy)]bis[2-propanol], iso-Bu alc.-blocked, compds. with triethylamine.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as hexanedioic acid, polymer with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol, 1,6-hexanediol, hydrazine, 3-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methylpropanoic acid, 5-isocyanato-1-(isocyanatomethyl)-1,3,3-trimethylcyclohexane and 1,1′-[(1-methylethylidene)bis(4,1-phenyleneoxy)]bis[2-propanol], iso-Bu alc.-blocked, compds. with triethylamine (PMN P-11-173; CAS No. 1138156-39-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 150) (Where primary, secondary, and tertiary waste treatment will occur, or treatment in a lined, self-contained solar evaporation pond where ultraviolet light will degrade the substance, the number of kilograms per day per site is calculated after wastewater treatment).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 61151, Oct. 5, 2012]




