# § 147.2800   State-administered program—Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Division of Environmental Quality approved by EPA pursuant to Section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on January 18, 1985; the effective date of this program is August 30, 1985. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective July 31, 1985.


(1) CNMI Environmental Protection Act, 2 CMC sections 3101, *et seq.* (1984);


(2) CNMI Coastal Resources Management Act, 2 CMC sections 1501, *et seq.* (1984);


(3) CNMI Drinking Water Regulations, Commonwealth Register, Volume 4, Number 4 (August 15, 1982);


(4) CNMI Underground Injection Control Regulations, Commonwealth Register, Volume 6, Number 5 (May 15, 1984, amended November 15, 1984, January 15, 1985);


(5) CNMI Coastal Resources Management Regulations, Commonwealth Register, Volume 6, Number 12, December 17, 1984.


(b)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region IX and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Division of Environmental Quality, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 3, 1985;


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* Statement from Attorney General Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, “Underground Injection Control Program—Attorney General's Statement,” signed on October 10, 1984.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [50 FR 28943, July 17, 1985]




