# ยง 145.12   Repair station records: Falsification, reproduction, alteration, or omission.

(a) No person may make or cause to be made:


(1) Any fraudulent or intentionally false entry in:


(i) Any application for a repair station certificate or rating (including in any document used in support of that application); or


(ii) Any record or report that is made, kept, or used to show compliance with any requirement under this part;


(2) Any reproduction, for fraudulent purpose, of any application (including any document used in support of that application), record, or report under this part; or


(3) Any alteration, for fraudulent purpose, of any application (including any document used in support of that application), record, or report under this part.


(b) No person may, by omission, knowingly conceal or cause to be concealed, a material fact in:


(1) Any application for a repair station certificate or rating (including in any document used in support of that application); or


(2) Any record or report that is made, kept, or used to show compliance with any requirement under this part.


(c) The commission by any person of an act prohibited under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section is a basis for any one or any combination of the following:


(1) Suspending or revoking the repair station certificate and any certificate, approval, or authorization issued by the FAA and held by that person.


(2) A civil penalty.


(3) The denial of an application under this part.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2006-26408, 79 FR 46984, Aug. 12, 2014]




