# § 62.8104   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* On December 11, 2019, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) a Clean Air Act revised section 111(d) state plan, to incorporate revisions to Title 6 NYCRR Parts 208 and 200 for the implementation of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf, “Emissions Guidelines for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills.”


(b) *Identification of sources.* The plan applies to all existing municipal solid waste landfills under the jurisdiction of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation that have accepted waste after November 8, 1987, and began construction, reconstruction, or modification on or prior to July 17, 2014, and have a design capacity threshold of 2.5 million megagrams (Mg) and 2.5 million cubic meters, as described in 40 CFR 60 subpart Cf.


(c) *Effective date.* The effective date of the plan for September 22, 2021.


(d) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register Office in accordance with U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and 1 CFR part 51. The material is available from the sources identified elsewhere in this paragraph. It may be inspected or obtained from the EPA Region 2 Office, 290 Broadway, 25th Floor, New York, New York 10007-1866, 212-637-3378. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fr.inspection@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of New York, Department of State, Albany, New York 12231; *https://dos.ny.gov/state-register.*

(i) 6 NYCRR Part 208: Official Compilation of (New York) Codes, Rules and Regulations; Title 6—Environmental Conservation; Part 208—Landfill Gas Collection and Control Systems for Certain Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, effective September 4, 2019.


(ii) [Reserved]





---

[N] [86 FR 46991, Aug. 23, 2021]










