# ยง 49.25   Financial resources.

(a) *General rule.* (1) A swap data repository shall maintain sufficient financial resources to perform its statutory and regulatory duties set forth in this chapter.


(2) An entity that operates as both a swap data repository and a derivatives clearing organization shall also comply with the financial resource requirements applicable to derivatives clearing organizations under ยง 39.11 of this chapter.


(3) Financial resources shall be considered sufficient if their value is at least equal to a total amount that would enable the swap data repository, or applicant for registration, to cover its operating costs for a period of at least one year, calculated on a rolling basis.


(4) The financial resources described in this paragraph (a) must be independent and separately dedicated to ensure that assets and capital are not used for multiple purposes.


(b) *Types of financial resources.* Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may include:


(1) The swap data repository's own capital; and


(2) Any other financial resource deemed acceptable by the Commission.


(c) *Computation of financial resource requirement.* A swap data repository shall, on a quarterly basis, based upon its fiscal year, make a reasonable calculation of its projected operating costs over a 12-month period in order to determine the amount needed to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The swap data repository shall have reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to compute such projected operating costs. The Commission may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate.


(d) *Valuation of financial resources.* At appropriate intervals, but not less than quarterly, a swap data repository shall compute the current market value of each financial resource used to meet its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section. Reductions in value to reflect market and credit risk (haircuts) shall be applied as appropriate.


(e) *Liquidity of financial resources.* The financial resources allocated by the swap data repository to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) shall include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (*i.e.,* cash and/or highly liquid securities) equal to at least six months' operating costs. If any portion of such financial resources is not sufficiently liquid, the swap data repository may take into account a committed line of credit or similar facility for the purpose of meeting this requirement.


(f) *Reporting requirements.* (1) Each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon Commission request, a swap data repository shall report to the Commission the amount of financial resources necessary to meet the requirements of paragraph (a), the value of each financial resource available, computed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d); and provide the Commission with a financial statement, including the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows of the swap data repository or of its parent company. Financial statements shall be prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding financial statement.


(2) The calculations required by this paragraph shall be made as of the last business day of the swap data repository's fiscal quarter.


(3) The report shall be filed not later than 17 business days after the end of the swap data repository's fiscal quarter, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in its discretion, upon request by the swap data repository.



---

[N] [76 FR 54575, Sept. 1, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 75662, Nov. 25, 2020]




