# ยง 18.437   Nonacademic services.

(a) *General.* (1) Elementary, secondary, and adult education programs that receive Federal financial assistance shall provide nonacademic and extracurricular services and activities in a manner which gives handicapped students an equal opportunity for participation in these services and activities. 


(2) Nonacademic and extracurricular services and activities may include counseling services, physical recreational athletics, transportation, health services, recreational activities, special interest groups or clubs sponsored by the recipient, referrals to agencies which provide assistance to handicapped persons, and employment of students, including both employment by the recipient and assistance in making available outside employment. 


(b) *Counseling services.* Elementary, secondary, and adult education programs that receive Federal financial assistance and that provide personal, academic, or vocational counseling, guidance, or placement services to their students shall provide these services without discrimination on the basis of handicap and shall ensure that qualified handicapped students are not counseled toward more restrictive career objectives than are nonhandicapped students with similar interests and abilities. 


(c) *Physical education and athletics.* (1) In providing physical education courses and athletics and similar aid, benefits, or services to any of its students, an elementary, secondary, or adult education program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance may not discriminate on the basis of handicap. A recipient that offers physical education courses or that operates or sponsors interscholastic, club, or intramural activities shall provide to qualified handicapped students an equal opportunity for participation. 


(2) A recipient may offer to handicapped students physical education and athletic activities that are separate or different from those offered to nonhandicapped students only if separation or differentiation is consistent with the requirements of ยง 18.434 and only if no qualified handicapped student is denied the opportunity to compete for teams or to participate in courses that are not separate or different. 



---

[N] [45 FR 63268, Sept. 24, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51370, Aug. 26, 2003]




