# § 9.71   Hermann.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Hermann.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the Hermann viticultural area are six U.S.G.S. Missouri Quadrangle maps, 7.5 minute series. They are entitled:


(1) Hermann (1974).


(2) Berger (1974).


(3) Gasconade (1974).


(4) Pershing (1974).


(5) Swiss (1973).


(6) Dissen (1973).


(c) *Boundaries.* The Hermann viticultural area is located in central Missouri along and south of the Missouri River, in the northern portions of Gasconade and Franklin Counties. The boundaries of the Hermann viticultural area, using landmarks and points of reference found on the appropriate U.S.G.S. maps, are as follows:


(1) Starting at the intersection of the Gasconade River with the Missouri River.


(2) Then continuing east and northeast approximately 16.5 miles along the Missouri River Pacific Railroad, as it parallels the Missouri River, to the Gasconade/Franklin County line.


(3) Then continuing along the Missouri Pacific Railroad southeast approximately 8.5 miles to the intersection Big Berger Creek.


(4) Then southwest along the winding course of Big Berger Creek for approximately 20 miles (eight miles due southwest) to Township line T.44/45N.


(5) Then west along the T.44/45N. line approximately 15.5 miles to the intersection of First Creek.


(6) Then north and northwest along the course of First Creek approximately 13.7 miles (6.5 miles straight northwest) to the intersection of the Gasconade River.


(7) Then northeast along the course of the Gasconade River approximately 3.8 miles to the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-136, 48 FR 37372, Aug. 18, 1983, as amended by T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5959, Feb. 27, 1987]




