# § 14.405   Procedures.

(a) Upon written request for the owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or individual in charge of the vessel to the Coast Guard OCMI in whose zone the vessel is located, the Commandant may grant an exemption of any oceanographic research vessel designated by 46 U.S.C. 2113(2) from any requirement of any section listed by § 14.403(b).


(b) The request must state—


(1) Any requirement of any section listed in § 14.403(b) from which the applicant wishes an exemption; and


(2) What business practices regarding, among other things, the shipment and discharge of merchant mariners, their pay and allotments, and the adequacy of their clothing would justify the exemption.


(c) The Coast Guard OCMI will forward the request, along with their recommendation, to the Commandant, who will determine whether to grant any exemption of any vessel from any requirement. The Coast Guard will issue a letter indicating any exemption granted. The master or individual in charge of the vessel must keep the letter aboard the vessel.


(d) If operating conditions change, the owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or individual in charge of the vessel must so advise the Coast Guard OCMI in whose zone the vessel is located. The Coast Guard OCMI will forward pertinent information on how the conditions have changed, along with their recommendation, to the Commandant, who will determine whether any exemption should remain granted.



---

[N] [CGD 94-004, 61 FR 56637, Nov. 4, 1996, as amended by USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 78000, Dec. 24, 2013; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102337, Dec. 17, 2024]




