# § 770.45   Labeling.

(a) Panels or bundles of panels that are imported, sold, supplied, or offered for sale in the United States must be labeled with the panel producer's name, the lot number, the number of the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, and a statement that the products are TSCA Title VI certified. If a composite wood panel is not individually labeled, the panel producer, importer, distributor, fabricator, or retailer must have a method (e.g., color-coded edge marking) sufficient to identify the supplier of the panel and linking the information on the label to the products. This information must be made available to potential customers upon request. The label may be applied as a stamp, tag, or sticker.


(1) A panel producer number may be used instead of a name to protect identity, so long as the identity of the panel producer can be determined at the request of EPA.


(2) Only panels or bundles of panels manufactured in accordance with § 770.17 may also be labeled that they were made with no-added formaldehyde-based resins in addition to the other information required by this section.


(3) Only panels or bundles of panels manufactured in accordance with § 770.18 may also be labeled that they were made with ultra low-emitting formaldehyde resins in addition to the other information required by this section.


(b) Panels imported into or transported across the United States for quarterly or quality control testing purposes in accordance with § 770.20 must be labeled “For TSCA Title VI testing only, not for sale in the United States.” The panels may be re-labeled if test results are below the applicable emission standards in this subpart.


(c) Fabricators of finished goods containing composite wood products must label every finished good they produce or every box or bundle containing finished goods. If a finished good (including component parts sold separately to end users) is not individually labeled, the importer, distributor, or retailer must retain a copy of the label, be able to identify the products associated with that label, and make the label information available to potential customers upon request.


(1) The label may be applied as a stamp, tag, or sticker.


(2) The label must include, at a minimum, in legible English text, the fabricator's name, the date the finished good was produced (in month/year format), and a statement that the finished goods are TSCA Title VI compliant.


(3) Finished goods made from panels manufactured in accordance with § 770.17 and/or § 770.18 may also be labeled that they were made with no-added formaldehyde-based resins, or ultra low-emitting formaldehyde resins in addition to the other information required by this section. They may be labeled as being made with a combination of compliant composite wood, no-added formaldehyde-based resins, and ultra low-emitting formaldehyde resins, if this is accurate.


(4) Fabricators may substitute the name of a responsible downstream fabricator, importer, distributor, or retailer for their name on the label if they obtain and maintain written consent from the downstream entity.


(d) Importers, distributors, and retailers must leave intact labels on finished goods, including component parts sold separately to end users.


(e) Finished goods, including component parts sold separately to end users, containing only a *de minimis* amount of regulated composite wood product are excepted from the labeling requirements. A finished good, including component parts sold directly to consumers, contains a *de minimis* amount of regulated composite wood product if its regulated composite wood product content does not exceed 144 square inches, based on the surface area of its largest face. The exception does not apply to finished goods or component parts that are designed to be used in combination or in multiples to create larger surfaces, finished goods, or component parts.


(f) All panels (or bundles of panels) and finished goods (or boxes or bundles containing finished goods) must be properly labeled pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section before being imported into the United States, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 89724, Dec. 12, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 31924, July 11, 2017; 84 FR 43526, Aug. 21, 2019]




