# § 63.987   Flare requirements.

(a) *Flare equipment and operating requirements.* Flares subject to this subpart shall meet the performance requirements in 40 CFR 63.11(b) (General Provisions).


(b) *Flare compliance assessment.* (1) The owner or operator shall conduct an initial flare compliance assessment of any flare used to comply with the provisions of this subpart. Flare compliance assessment records shall be kept as specified in § 63.998(a)(1) and a flare compliance assessment report shall be submitted as specified in § 63.999(a)(2). An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet regulated material or total organic compound concentration when a flare is used.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Flare compliance assessments shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Method 22 of appendix A of part 60 shall be used to determine the compliance of flares with the visible emission provisions of this subpart. The observation period is 2 hours, except for transfer racks as provided in (b)(3)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) For transfer racks, if the loading cycle is less than 2 hours, then the observation period for that run shall be for the entire loading cycle.


(B) For transfer racks, if additional loading cycles are initiated within the 2-hour period, then visible emissions observations shall be conducted for the additional cycles.


(ii) The net heating value of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be calculated using Equation 1:


(iii) The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by dividing the volumetric flow rate (in unit of standard temperature and pressure), as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, by the unobstructed (free) cross sectional area of the flare tip. 


(iv) Flare flame or pilot monitors, as applicable, shall be operated during any flare compliance assessment.


(c) *Flare monitoring requirements.* Where a flare is used, the following monitoring equipment is required: a device (including but not limited to a thermocouple, ultra-violet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting that at least one pilot flame or the flare flame is present. Flare flame monitoring and compliance records shall be kept as specified in § 63.998(a)(1) and reported as specified in § 63.999(a).



---

[N] [64 FR 34866, June 29, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 63705, Nov. 22, 1999; 67 FR 46277, July 12, 2002; 85 FR 40417, July 6, 2020]




