# § 66.116   Voluntary disclosure.

(a) *Disclosure of bioengineered food by exempt entities.* If a food on the List of Bioengineered Foods is subject to disclosure, a very small food manufacturer, restaurant, or similar retail food establishment may voluntarily provide that disclosure. The disclosure must be in one or more of the forms described in this paragraph (a).


(1) A text disclosure, in accordance with § 66.102.


(2) A symbol disclosure, in accordance with § 66.104.


(3) An electronic or digital link disclosure, in accordance with § 66.106.


(4) A text message disclosure, in accordance with § 66.108.


(5) Appropriate small manufacturer and small and very small package disclosure options, in accordance with §§ 66.110 and 66.112.


(b) *Disclosure of foods derived from bioengineering.* For foods or food ingredients that do not meet paragraph (1) of the definition of bioengineered food in § 66.1, that do not qualify as a factor or condition under paragraph (2) of the definition of bioengineered food in § 66.1, that are not exempt from disclosure under § 66.5, and that are derived from a food on the List of Bioengineered Foods, regulated entities may disclose such foods with one of the disclosures described in this paragraph (b).


(1) A text disclosure with the following statement: “derived from bioengineering” or “ingredient(s) derived from a bioengineered source.” The word “ingredient(s)” may be replaced with the name of the specific crop(s) or food ingredient(s).


(2) A symbol disclosure using the following symbol:


(3) An electronic or digital link disclosure, in accordance with § 66.106, provided that the disclosure is the text described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or the symbol in Figure 1 to this section.


(4) A text message disclosure, in accordance with § 66.108, provided that the response is the text described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or the symbol in Figure 1 to this section.


(5) Appropriate small manufacturer and small and very small package disclosure options, in accordance with §§ 66.110 and 66.112, provided that the disclosure is the text described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or the symbol in Figure 1 to this section.


(c) *Appearance of disclosure.* The disclosure should be of sufficient size and clarity to appear prominently and conspicuously on the label, making it likely to be read and understood by the consumer under ordinary shopping conditions.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* Reasonable and customary records should be maintained to verify disclosures made under this section, in accordance with § 66.302.




