# § 405.511   Reasonable charges for medical services, supplies, and equipment.

(a) *General rule.* (1) A charge for any medical service, supply, or equipment (including equipment servicing) that in the judgment of CMS generally does not vary significantly in quality from one supplier to another (and that is identified by a notice published in the _Federal Register_) may not be considered reasonable if it exceeds: 


(i) The customary charge of the supplier (see § 405.503); 


(ii) The prevailing charge in the locality (see § 405.504); 


(iii) The charge applicable for a comparable service and under comparable circumstances to the policyholders or subscribers of the carrier (see § 405.508); 


(iv) The lowest charge level at which the item or service is widely and consistently available in the locality (see paragraph (c) of this section); or 


(v) The inflation-indexed charge, as determined under § 405.509, in the case of medical services, supplies, and equipment that are reimbursed on a reasonable charge basis (excluding physicians' services). 


(2) In the case of laboratory services, paragraph (a)(1) of this section is applicable to services furnished by physicians in their offices, by independent laboratories (see § 405.1310(a)) and to services furnished by a hospital laboratory for individuals who are neither inpatients nor outpatients of a hospital. Allowance of additional charges exceeding the lowest charge level can be approved by the carrier on the basis of unusual circumstances or medical complications in accordance with § 405.506.


(b) *Public notice of items and services subject to the lowest charge level rule.* Before the Secretary determines that lowest charge levels should be established for an item or service, notice of the proposed determination will be published with an opportunity for public comment. The descriptions or specifications of items or services in the notice will be in sufficient detail to permit a determination that items or services conforming to the descriptions will not vary significantly in quality. 


(c) *Calculating the lowest charge level.* The lowest charge level at which an item or service is widely and consistently available in a locality is calculated by the carrier in accordance with instructions from CMS as follows: 


(1) *For items or services furnished on or before December 31, 1986.* (i) A lowest charge level is calculated for each identified item or service in January and July of each year. 


(ii) The lowest charge level for each identified item or service is set at the 25th percentile of the charges (incurred or submitted on claims processed by the carrier) for that item or service, in the locality designated by the carrier for this purpose, during the second calendar quarter preceding the determination date. Accordingly, the January calculations will be based on charges for the July through September quarter of the previous calendar year, and the July calculations will be based on charges for the January through March quarter of the same calendar year. 


(2) *For items or services furnished on or after January 1, 1987.* (i) A lowest charge level is calculated for each identified item or service in January of each year.


(ii) The lowest charge level for each identified item or service is set at the 25th percentile of the charges (incurred or submitted on claims processed by the carrier) for that item or service, in the locality designated by the carrier for this purpose, during the 3-month period of July 1 through September 30 preceding the fee screen year (January 1 through December 31) for which the item or service was furnished. 


(3) *Lowest charge levels for laboratory services.* In setting lowest charge levels for laboratory services, the carrier will consider only charges made for laboratory services performed by physicians in their offices, by independent laboratories which meet coverage requirements, and for services furnished by a hospital laboratory for individuals who are neither inpatients nor outpatients of a hospital.


(d) *Locality.* Subject to the approval of the Secretary, the carrier may designate its entire service area as the locality for purposes of this section, or may otherwise modify the localities used for calculating prevailing charges. (The modified locality for an item or service will also be used for calculating the prevailing charge for that item or service.) 



---

[N] [43 FR 32300, July 26, 1978, as amended at 50 FR 40174, Oct. 1, 1985; 51 FR 34979, Oct. 1, 1986]




