# § 762.142   Servicing related to collateral.

(a) *General.* The lender's responsibilities regarding servicing collateral include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Obtain income and insurance assignments when required.


(2) Ensure the borrower has or obtains marketable title to the collateral.


(3) Inspect the collateral as often as deemed necessary to properly service the loan.


(4) Ensure the borrower does not convert loan security.


(5) Ensure the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of collateral are accounted for and applied in accordance with the lien priorities on which the guarantee is based or used for the purchase of replacement collateral.


(6) Ensure the loan and the collateral are protected in the event of foreclosure, bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency, condemnation, or other litigation.


(7) Ensure taxes, assessments, or ground rents against or affecting the collateral are paid.


(8) Ensure adequate insurance is maintained.


(9) Ensure that insurance loss payments, condemnation awards, or similar proceeds are applied on debts in accordance with lien priorities on which the guarantee was based, or used to rebuild or acquire needed replacement collateral.


(b) *Partial releases.* (1) A lender may release guaranteed loan security without FSA concurrence as follows:


(i) When the security item is being sold for market value and the proceeds will be applied to the loan in accordance with lien priorities. In the case of term loans, proceeds will be applied as extra payments and not as a regular installment on the loan.


(ii) The security item will be used as a trade-in or source of down payment funds for a like item that will be taken as security.


(iii) The security item has no present or prospective value.


(2) A partial release of security may be approved in writing by the Agency upon the lender's request when:


(i) Proceeds will be used to make improvements to real estate that increase the value of the security by an amount equal to or greater than the value of the security being released.


(ii) Security will be released outright with no consideration, but the total unpaid balance of the guaranteed loan is less than or equal to 75 percent of the value of the security for the loan after the release, excluding the value of growing crops or planned production, based on a current appraisal of the security.


(iii) Significant income generating property will not be released unless it is being replaced and business assets will not be released for use as a gift or any similar purpose.


(iv) Agency concurrence is provided in writing to the lender's written request. Standard eligible lenders and CLP lenders will submit the following to the Agency:


(A) A current balance sheet on the borrower; and


(B) A current appraisal of the security. Based on the level of risk and estimated equity involved, the Agency will determine what security needs to be appraised. Any required security appraisals must meet the requirements of § 762.127; and


(C) A description of the purpose of the release; and


(D) Any other information requested by the Agency to evaluate the proposed servicing action.


(3) The lender will provide the Agency copies of any agreements executed to carry out the servicing action.


(4) PLP lenders will request servicing approval in accordance with their agreement with the Agency at the time of PLP status certification.


(c) *Subordinations.* (1) The Agency may subordinate its security interest on a direct loan when a guaranteed loan is being made if the requirements of the regulations governing Agency direct loan subordinations are met and only in the following circumstances:


(i) To permit a guaranteed lender to advance funds and perfect a security interest in crops, feeder livestock, livestock offspring, or livestock products;


(ii) When the lender requesting the guarantee needs the subordination of the Agency's lien position to maintain its lien position when servicing or restructuring;


(iii) When the lender requesting the guarantee is refinancing debt and the Agency's position on real estate security will not be adversely affected; or


(iv) To permit a line of credit to be advanced for annual operating expenses.


(2) The Agency may subordinate its basic security in a direct loan to permit guaranteed line of credit only when both of the following additional conditions are met:


(i) The total unpaid balance of the direct loans is less than or equal to 75 percent of the value of all of the security for the direct loans, excluding the value of growing crops or planned production, at the time of the subordination. The direct loan security value will be determined by an appraisal. The lender requesting the subordination and guarantee is responsible for providing the appraisal and may charge the applicant a reasonable appraisal fee.


(ii) The applicant cannot obtain sufficient credit through a conventional guaranteed loan without a subordination.


(3) The lender may not subordinate its interest in property which secures a guaranteed loan except as follows:


(i) The lender may subordinate its security interest in crops, feeder livestock, livestock offspring, or livestock products when no funds have been advanced from the guaranteed loan for their production, so a lender can make a loan for annual production expenses; or


(ii) The lender may, with written Agency approval, subordinate its interest in basic security in cases where the subordination is required to refinance an existing prior lien, no additional debt is being incurred, and the lender's security position will not be adversely affected by the subordination.


(iii) The Agency's national office may provide an exception to the subordination prohibition if such action is in the Agency's best interest. However, in no case can the loan made under the subordination include tax exempt financing.


(d) *Transfer and assumption.* Transfers and assumptions are subject to the following conditions:


(1) The servicing action must be approved by the Agency in writing.




(2) The transferee must apply for a loan in accordance with § 762.110, and provide any other information requested by the Agency to evaluate the transfer and assumption request. A current appraisal is required unless the lien position of the guaranteed loan will not change.


(3) Any required security appraisals must meet the requirements of § 762.127.


(4) The Agency will review, approve or reject the request in accordance with the time frames in § 762.130.


(5) The transferee must meet the eligibility requirements and loan limitations for the loan being transferred, including all requirements relating to loan rates and terms, loan security, feasibility, and environmental and other laws applicable to an applicant under this part, except for a current appraisal when permitted in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(6) The lender will use its own assumption agreements or conveyance instruments, providing they are legally sufficient to obligate the transferee for the total outstanding debt. The lender will provide the Agency copies of any agreements executed to carry out the servicing action.


(7) The Agency approves the transfer and assumption by executing a modification of the guarantee to designate the party that assumed the guaranteed debt, the amount of debt at the time of the assumption, including interest that is being capitalized, and any new loan terms, if applicable. 


(8) The lender must give any holder notice of the transfer. If the rate and terms are changed, written concurrence from the holder is required.


(9) The Agency will agree to releasing the transferor or any guarantor from liability only if the requirements of § 762.146(c) are met.



---

[N] [64 FR 7378, Feb. 12, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 7567, Jan. 24, 2001; 69 FR 44579, July 27, 2004; 89 FR 65038, Aug. 8, 2024]










