# ยง 2553.23   What are a sponsor's project responsibilities?

A sponsor shall:


(a) Focus RSVP resources to have a positive impact on critical human and social needs within the project service area.


(b) In collaboration with other community organizations or by using existing assessments, assess the needs of the community or service area, and develop strategies to respond to identified needs using RSVP volunteers.


(c) Develop and manage one or more volunteer stations to provide a wide range of placement opportunities that appeal to persons age 55 and over by:


(1) Ensuring that a volunteer station is a public or non-profit private organization, whether secular or faith-based, or an eligible proprietary health care agency, capable of serving as a volunteer station for the placement of RSVP volunteers to meet locally identified needs; 


(2) Ensuring the placement of RSVP volunteers is governed by a Memorandum of Understanding:


(i) That is negotiated prior to placement;


(ii) That specifies the mutual responsibilities of the station and sponsor;


(iii) That is renegotiated at least every three years;


(iv) That states the station will not discriminate against RSVP volunteers, service beneficiaries, or in the operation of its program on the basis of race, color, national origin including individuals with limited English proficiency, gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, disability, gender identity or expression, political affiliation, marital or parental status, or military service; and


(v) That states the station will provide for the safety of the RSVP volunteers assigned to the station. 


(d) Consider the demographic make-up of the project service area in the enrollment of RSVP volunteers, taking special efforts to recruit eligible individuals from minority groups, persons with disabilities and under represented groups.


(e) Encourage the most efficient and effective use of RSVP volunteers by coordinating project services and activities with related national, state and local programs, including other AmeriCorps programs.


(f) Provide RSVP volunteers with cost reimbursements specified in ยง 2553.43.


(g) Make every effort to meet such performance measures as established in the approved grant application.



---

[N] [64 FR 14135, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 6875, Feb. 14, 2002; 69 FR 60095, Oct. 7, 2004; 76 FR 20246, Apr. 12, 2011; 83 FR 64655, Dec. 17, 2018]




