# ยง 3560.159   Termination of occupancy.

(a) *Tenants in violation of lease.* Borrowers, in accordance with lease agreements, may terminate or refuse to renew a tenant's lease only for material non-compliance with the lease provisions, material non-compliance with the occupancy rules, or other good causes. Prior to terminating a lease, the borrower must give the tenant written notice of the violation and give the tenant an opportunity to correct the violation. Subsequently, termination may only occur when the incidences related to the termination are documented and there is documentation that the tenant was given notice prior to the initiation of the termination action that their activities would result in occupancy termination.


(1) Material non-compliance with lease provisions or occupancy rules, for purposes of occupancy termination by a borrower, includes actions such as:


(i) Violations of lease provisions or occupancy rules that are substantial and/or repeated;


(ii) Non-payment or repeated late payment of rent or other financial obligations due under the lease or occupancy rules; or


(iii) Admission to or conviction for use, attempted use, possession, manufacture, selling, or distribution of an illegal controlled substance when such activity occurred on the housing project's premises by the tenant, a member of the tenant's household, a guest of the tenant, or any other person under the tenant's control at the time of the activity.


(2) Good causes, for purposes of occupancy terminations by a borrower, include actions such as:


(i) Actions by the tenant or a member of the tenant's household which disrupt the livability of the housing by threatening the health and safety of other persons or the right of other persons to enjoyment of the premises and related facilities;


(ii) Actions by the tenant or a member of the tenant's household which result in substantial physical damage causing an adverse financial effect on the housing or the property of other persons; or


(iii) Actions prohibited by state and local laws.




(3) In cases of nonpayment of rent, the termination notice will be effective no earlier than 30 days after the tenant's receipt of the written termination notice. Notice will be provided in accordance with ยง 3560.160(e) of this chapter. All notices of lease termination required by this section due to a tenant's failure to pay rent must also include the following:


(i) Instructions on how the tenant can cure the nonpayment of rent violation;


(ii) Information on how the tenant can recertify their income pursuant to 7 CFR 3560.152; and


(iii) In the event of a presidential declaration of a national emergency, such information as required by the Secretary.








(b) *Lease expiration or tenant eligibility.* A tenant's occupancy in an Agency-financed housing project may not be terminated by a borrower when the lease agreement expires unless the tenant's actions meet the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section, or the tenant is no longer eligible for occupancy in the housing. Borrowers must handle terminations of occupancy due to a change in tenant eligibility status in accordance with ยง 3560.158. At a minimum, the occupancy termination notice must include the following information:


(1) A specific date by which lease termination will occur;


(2) A statement of the basis for lease termination with specific reference to the provisions of the lease or occupancy rules that, in the borrower's judgment, have been violated by the tenant in a manner constituting material non-compliance or good cause; and


(3) A statement explaining the conditions under which the borrower may initiate judicial action to enforce the lease termination notice.


(c) *Other terminations.* Should occupancy be terminated due to conditions which are beyond the control of the tenant, such as a condition related to required repair or rehabilitation of the building, or a natural disaster, and prior to expiration of the disaster declaration, the tenants who are affected by such a circumstance are entitled to benefits under the Uniform Relocation Act and may request a Letter of Priority Entitlement (LOPE) from the Agency. If tenants need additional time to secure replacement housing, the Agency may, at the tenant's request, extend the LOPE entitlement period.




(d) *Criminal activity.* Borrowers may terminate tenancy for criminal activity or alcohol abuse by household members in accordance with the provisions of 24 CFR 5.858, 5.859, 5.860, and 5.861. 



---

[N] [69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 87 FR 11282, Mar. 1, 2022; 89 FR 20543, Mar. 25, 2024]








