# § 1805.803   Data collection and reporting.

(a) *Data—General.* A Recipient shall maintain such records as may be prescribed by the CDFI Fund that are necessary to:


(1) Disclose the manner in which CDFI Fund assistance is used;


(2) Demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part and an Assistance Agreement; and


(3) Evaluate the impact of the CDFI Program.


(b) *Customer profiles.* A Recipient (and a Community Partner, if appropriate) shall compile such data on the gender, race, ethnicity, national origin, or other information on individuals that utilize its products and services as the CDFI Fund shall prescribe in an Assistance Agreement. Such data will be used to determine whether residents of Investment Area(s) or members of Targeted Population(s) are adequately served and to evaluate the impact of the CDFI Program.


(c) *Access to records.* A Recipient (and a Community Partner, if appropriate) must submit such financial and activity reports, records, statements, and documents at such times, in such forms, and accompanied by such reporting data, as required by the CDFI Fund or the Department of the Treasury to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part and to evaluate the impact of the CDFI Program. The United States Government, including the Department of the Treasury, the Comptroller General, and their duly authorized representatives, shall have full and free access to the Recipient's offices and facilities and all books, documents, records, and financial statements relating to use of Federal funds and may copy such documents as they deem appropriate. The CDFI Fund, if it deems appropriate, may prescribe access to record requirements for entities that are borrowers of, or that receive investments from a Recipient.


(d) *Retention of records.* A Recipient shall comply with all record retention requirements as set forth in the Uniform Requirements (as applicable).


(e) *Data collection and reporting.* Each Recipient shall submit to the CDFI Fund information and documentation that will permit the CDFI Fund to review the Recipient's progress (and the progress of its Affiliates, Subsidiaries, and/or Community Partners, if appropriate) in implementing its Comprehensive Business Plan and satisfying the terms and conditions of its Assistance Agreement. The information and documentation shall include, but not be limited to, an audit and an annual report, which shall comprise the following components:


(1) *Audits and Audited Financial Statements.* (i) All non-profit organizations that are required to have their financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Requirements, must submit their single-audits no later than nine months after the end of the Recipient's fiscal year. Non-profit organizations (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) that are not required to have financial statements audited pursuant to the Uniform Requirements, must submit to the CDFI Fund a statement signed by the Recipient's Authorized Representative or certified public accountant, asserting that the Recipient is not required to have a single audit pursuant to the Uniform Requirements as indicated in the Assistance Agreement. In such instances, the CDFI Fund may require additional audits to be performed as stated in the applicable Notice of Funds Availability.


(ii) For-profit organizations (excluding Insured CDFIs and State-Insured Credit Unions) must submit to the CDFI Fund financial statements audited in conformity with generally accepted auditing standards as promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, no later than six months after the end of the Recipient's fiscal year.


(iii) Insured CDFIs are not required to submit financial statements to the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund will obtain the necessary information from publicly available sources. State-Insured Credit Unions must submit to the CDFI Fund copies of the financial statements that they submit to the Appropriate State Agency.


(iv) If multiple for-profit organizations sign the Assistance Agreement: The Recipient may submit combined financial statements and footnotes for the Recipient and other entities that signed the Assistance Agreement as long as the financial statements of each signatory are shown separately (for example, in combining financial statements).


(2) *Annual Report.* (i) Each Recipient shall submit to the CDFI Fund a performance and financial report at the times that shall be specified in the Assistance Agreement (Annual Report). The Annual Report consists of several components which may include, but are not limited to, an institution level report, transaction level report, use of financial or technical assistance report, explanation of any Recipient noncompliance, and shareholder report. The Annual Report components shall be specified and described in the Assistance Agreement.


(ii) The CDFI Fund will use the Annual Report to collect data to assess the Recipient's compliance with its Performance Goals and the impact of the CDFI Program and the CDFI industry.


(iii) Recipients are responsible for the timely and complete submission of the Annual Report, even if all or a portion of the documents actually are completed by another entity or signatory to the Assistance Agreement. If such other entities or signatories are required to provide Annual Reports, or other documentation that the CDFI Fund may require, the Recipient is responsible for ensuring that the information is submitted timely and complete. The CDFI Fund reserves the right to contact such additional signatories to the Assistance Agreement and require that additional information and documentation be provided.


(3) The CDFI Fund's review of the progress of an Insured CDFI, a Depository Institution Holding Company or a State-Insured Credit Union in implementing its Comprehensive Business Plan and satisfying the terms and conditions of its Assistance Agreement may also include information from the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be.


(4) *Public Access.* The CDFI Fund shall make reports described in this section available for public inspection after deleting or redacting any materials necessary to protect privacy or proprietary interests.


(f) *Exchange of information with Appropriate Federal Banking Agencies and Appropriate State Agencies.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, prior to directly requesting information from or imposing reporting or record keeping requirements on an Insured CDFI or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, the CDFI Fund shall consult with the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency to determine if the information requested is available from or may be obtained by such agency in the form, format, and detail required by the CDFI Fund.


(2) If the information, reports, or records requested by the CDFI Fund pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not provided by the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency within 15 calendar days after the date on which the material is requested, the CDFI Fund may request the information from or impose the record keeping or reporting requirements directly on such institutions with notice to the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency.


(3) The CDFI Fund shall use any information provided by an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency under this section to the extent practicable to eliminate duplicative requests for information and reports from, and record keeping by, an Insured CDFI, State-Insured Credit Union or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency.


(4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, the CDFI Fund may require an Insured CDFI, State-Insured Credit Union, or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency to provide information with respect to the institution's implementation of its Comprehensive Business Plan or compliance with the terms of its Assistance Agreement, after providing notice to the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be.


(5) Nothing in this part shall be construed to permit the CDFI Fund to require an Insured CDFI, State-Insured Credit Union, or other institution that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency to obtain, maintain, or furnish an examination report of any Appropriate Federal Banking Agency or Appropriate State Agency, or records contained in or related to such report.


(6) The CDFI Fund and the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency shall promptly notify each other of material concerns about a Recipient that is an Insured CDFI or that is examined by or subject to the reporting requirements of an Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, and share appropriate information relating to such concerns.


(7) Neither the CDFI Fund nor the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be) shall disclose confidential information obtained pursuant to this section from any party without the written consent of that party.


(8) The CDFI Fund, the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (or Appropriate State Agency, as the case may be), and any other party providing information under this paragraph (f) shall not be deemed to have waived any privilege applicable to the any information or data, or any portion thereof, by providing such information or data to the other party or by permitting such data or information, or any copies or portions thereof, to be used by the other party.




