# ยง 35.3545   Capitalization grant agreement.

(a) *General.* A State must submit a capitalization grant application to EPA in order to receive a capitalization grant award. Approval of an application results in EPA and the State entering into a capitalization grant agreement which is the principal instrument by which the State commits to manage the DWSRF program in accordance with the requirements of section 1452 of the Act and this subpart. 


(b) *Content.* In addition to the items listed in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, the capitalization grant agreement must contain or incorporate by reference the Application for Federal Assistance (EPA Form 424) and other related forms, IUP, negotiated payment schedule, State environmental review process (SERP), demonstrations of the specific capitalization grant agreement requirements listed in ยง 35.3550, and other documentation required by the Regional Administrator (RA). The capitalization grant agreement must also define the types of performance measures, reporting requirements, and oversight responsibilities that will be required to determine compliance with section 1452 of the Act. 


(c) *Operating agreement.* At the option of a State, the framework and procedures of the DWSRF program that are not expected to change annually may be described in an Operating Agreement. The Operating Agreement may be amended if the State negotiates the changes with EPA. 


(d) *Attorney General certification.* With the capitalization grant application, the State's Attorney General, or someone designated by the Attorney General, must sign or concur in a certification that: 


(1) The authority establishing the DWSRF program and the powers it confers are consistent with State law; 


(2) The State may legally bind itself to the proposed terms of the capitalization grant agreement; and 


(3) An agency of the State is authorized to enter into capitalization grant agreements with EPA, accept capitalization grant awards made under section 1452 of the Act, and otherwise manage the Fund in accordance with the requirements and objectives of the Act and this subpart. 


(e) *Roles and responsibilities of agencies.* If more than one State agency participates in the implementation of the DWSRF program, the State must describe the roles and responsibilities of each agency in the capitalization grant application and include a Memorandum of Understanding or interagency agreement describing these roles and responsibilities. 


(f) *Process for evaluating capability and compliance.* A State must include in the capitalization grant application a description of the following: 


(1) The process it will use to assess the technical, financial, and managerial capability of all systems requesting assistance to ensure that the systems are in compliance with the requirements of the Act. 


(2) If a State provides assistance to systems that lack technical, financial, and managerial capability, the process it will use to ensure that the systems undertake feasible and appropriate changes in operations to comply with the requirements of the Act over the long-term. 


(3) If a State provides assistance to systems in significant noncompliance with any national primary drinking water regulation or variance, the process it will use to ensure that the systems return to compliance. 




