# § 19.111   Suspension, removal, or prohibition of institution-affiliated party.

(a) *Issuance of notice or order.* The Comptroller may serve a notice of suspension or prohibition or order of removal or prohibition pursuant to section 8(g) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(g)) on an institution-affiliated party. The Comptroller will serve a copy of this notice or order on any depository institution that the subject of the notice or order is affiliated with at the time the OCC issues the notice or order. After service of the notice or order, the institution-affiliated party must immediately cease service to, or participation in the affairs of, that depository institution and, if so determined by the OCC, any other depository institution. The notice or order will indicate the basis for suspension, removal, or prohibition and will inform the institution-affiliated party of the right to request in writing, within 30 days from the date that the institution-affiliated party was served, an opportunity to show at an informal hearing that continued service to or participation in the conduct of the affairs of any depository institution has not posed, does not pose, or is not likely to pose a threat to the interests of the depositors of, or has not threatened, does not threaten, or is not likely to threaten to impair public confidence in, any relevant depository institution. The Comptroller will serve the notice or order upon the institution-affiliated party and the related institution in the manner set forth in § 19.11(c).


(b) *Request for hearing*—(1) *Submission.* Unless instructed otherwise in writing by the Comptroller, an institution-affiliated party must send the written request for an informal hearing referenced in paragraph (a) of this section to the OCC Supervisory Office by certified mail, a same day courier service, an overnight delivery service, or by personal service with a signed receipt.


(2) *Content of request for a hearing.* The request filed under this section must state specifically the relief desired and the grounds on which that relief is based and must admit, deny, or state that the institution-affiliated party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation in the notice or order. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation denied; general denials are not permitted. When the institution-affiliated party denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation in the notice or order which is not denied is deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. The request must state with particularity how the institution-affiliated party intends to show that its continued service to or participation in the affairs of the institution would not pose a threat to the interests of the institution's depositors or impair public confidence in any institution.


(c) *Default.* If the institution-affiliated party fails to timely file a petition for a hearing pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or fails to appear at a hearing, either in person or by counsel, or fails to submit a written argument where oral argument has been waived pursuant to § 19.112(c), the notice will remain in effect until the information, indictment, or complaint is finally disposed of and the order will remain in effect until terminated by the OCC.






