# ยง 556.6   Report to the Commission.

(a) When a Tribe licenses a primary management official or a key employee, the Tribe shall maintain the information listed under ยง 556.4(a)(1) through (14).


(b) Before issuing a license to a primary management official or to a key employee, a tribe shall:


(1) Create and maintain an investigative report on each background investigation. An investigative report shall include all of the following:


(i) Steps taken in conducting a background investigation;


(ii) Results obtained;


(iii) Conclusions reached; and


(iv) The basis for those conclusions.


(2) Submit a notice of results of the applicant's background investigation to the Commission no later than sixty (60) days after the applicant begins work. The notice of results shall contain:


(i) Applicant's name, date of birth, and social security number;


(ii) Date on which applicant began or will begin work as key employee or primary management official;


(iii) A summary of the information presented in the investigative report, which shall at a minimum include a listing of:


(A) Licenses that have previously been denied;


(B) Gaming licenses that have been revoked, even if subsequently reinstated;


(C) Every known criminal charge brought against the applicant within the last 10 years of the date of application; and


(D) Every felony of which the applicant has been convicted or any ongoing prosecution.


(iv) A copy of the eligibility determination made under ยง 556.5.



---

[N] [78 FR 5279, Jan. 25, 2013, as amended at 88 FR 55371, Aug. 15, 2023]






