# § 890.308   Disenrollment and removal from enrollment.

(a) *Carrier disenrollment: Enrollment reconciliation.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a carrier that cannot reconcile its record of an individual's enrollment with agency enrollment records or does not receive documentation necessary to resolve the discrepancy from the employing office within 31 days of a request must provide written notice to the individual that the employing office of record does not show him or her as enrolled in the carrier's plan and that he or she will be disenrolled 31 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee provides appropriate documentation to resolve the discrepancy. Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, a copy of the Standard Form 2809 (basic enrollment document) (or a letter confirming an electronic transaction), the Standard Form 2810 transferring the enrollment into the gaining employing office (or the equivalent electronic submission), copies of earnings and leave statements or annuity statements showing withholdings for the health benefits plan, or a document or other credible information from the enrollee's employing office stating that the individual is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan and that the premiums are being paid. After receiving documentation from the enrollee, the carrier must notify both the enrollee and the employing office of record of their decision on the information.


(2) If the carrier does not receive documentation required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section within the specified time frame, the carrier should disenroll the individual, without further notice.


(3) The enrollee may request his or her employing office to reconsider the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, name of carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, retirement claim number. The employing office must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to disenroll the individual is made.


(4) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision must be filed within 60 calendar days after the date of the carrier's disenrollment notice. The time limit on filing may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.


(5) After reconsideration, the employing office must issue a written notice of its final decision to the individual and notify the carrier of the decision. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based. If upon reconsideration the employing office determines the individual is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan, the disenrollment under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.


(6) If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.


(b) *Carrier disenrollment: Death of enrollee.* When a carrier receives, from any reliable source, information of the death of an enrollee with a self only enrollment, the carrier may take action to disenroll the individual on the date set forth in § 890.304(a)(1)(iv) or § 890.304(b)(4), as appropriate. When the date of death is unknown, the carrier may take action to disenroll the individual on the date which is the last day of the pay period in which information of the death is received. Reliable sources include, but are not limited to, claims for hospital or physician costs incurred at time of death and correspondence returned from the Postal Service noting that the addressee is deceased. If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under this paragraph (b) is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.


(c) *Carrier disenrollment: Child survivor annuitant.* (1) When a child survivor annuitant covered under a self only enrollment reaches age 22, the carrier may take action to disenroll the individual effective with the date set forth in § 890.304(c)(1) unless records with the carrier indicate that the child is incapable of self support due to a physical or mental disability. The carrier must provide the enrollee with a written notice of disenrollment prescribed or approved by OPM prior to the date set forth in § 890.304(c)(1).


(2) The child survivor annuitant may request the retirement system to reconsider the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other identifier, name of carrier, reason(s) for the request, and the survivor annuity claim number. The retirement system must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision to disenroll the individual is made.


(3) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's decision must be filed with the retirement system within 60 calendar days from the date of the carrier's disenrollment notice. The time limit on filing may be extended when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit.


(4) After reconsideration, the retirement system must issue a written notice of its final decision to the child survivor annuitant and notify the carrier of the decision. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based. If upon reconsideration the retirement system determines that he or she is entitled to continued enrollment in the plan, the disenrollment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.


(5) If, at any time after the disenrollment has occurred, the employing office or OPM determines that another provision of this part applies to the individual's enrollment or the carrier discovers or receives appropriate documentation showing that another section of this part applies to the individual's enrollment, the disenrollment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is void and coverage is reinstated retroactively.


(d) *Carrier disenrollment: Separation from Federal employment.* When an enrollee notifies the carrier that he or she has separated from Federal employment and is no longer eligible for enrollment, the carrier must disenroll the individual on the last day of the pay period in which the separation occurred, if known, otherwise the carrier must disenroll the employee on the date the employee provides as the date of separation. The carrier must provide the enrollee with a written notice of disenrollment prescribed or approved by OPM.


(e) *Carrier removal from enrollment: Ineligible individuals.* (1) A carrier may request verification of eligibility from the enrollee at any time of an individual who is covered as a family member of the enrollee in accordance with § 890.302. To verify eligibility, the carrier shall send the enrollee a request for appropriate documentation of the individual's relationship to the enrollee with a copy to the enrollee's employing office of record. The request shall contain a written notice that the individual will no longer be covered 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee or the employing office provides appropriate documentation as requested. If the carrier does not receive the requested documentation within the specified time frame or if based on the documentation provided the individual is found not to be eligible, the carrier shall remove the individual from the enrollment and shall provide written notice of removal to the enrollee, with a copy to the employing office, including an explanation of the process for seeking reconsideration. The carrier may extend the time limit to provide appropriate documentation if the enrollee or the removed individual shows to the carrier that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from providing timely documentation.


(2) Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, copies of birth certificates, marriage certificates, and, if applicable, other proof including that the individual lives with the enrollee and the enrollee is the individual's primary source of financial support.


(3) The effective date of a removal shall be prospective unless the record shows that the enrollee or the removed individual has committed fraud or made an intentional misrepresentation of material fact as prohibited by the terms of the plan. If fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact is found, the effective date of the removal is the date of loss of eligibility.


(4) A request for reconsideration of the carrier's initial decision must be filed by the enrollee or the removed individual with the enrollee's employing office within 60 calendar days after the date of the carrier's initial decision. The employing office must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to remove the individual from the enrollment is made. The time limit for filing may be extended if the enrollee or the removed shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, individual's name, the name of the enrollee's carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, the enrollee's retirement claim number.


(5) The employing office must issue a written notice of its final decision to the enrollee, and notify the carrier of the decision, within 30 days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based.


(6) If an enrollee or the removed individual provides acceptable proof of eligibility of an individual subsequent to removal, coverage under the enrollment shall be reinstated retroactively so that there is no gap in coverage, as appropriate.


(f) *Employing office and OPM removal from enrollment: Ineligible individuals.* (1) An enrollee's employing office or OPM may request verification of eligibility from the enrollee at any time of an individual who is covered as a family member of the enrollee in accordance with § 890.302. To verify eligibility, the employing office or OPM shall send the enrollee a request for appropriate documentation of the individual's relationship to the enrollee. The request shall contain a written notice that the individual will no longer be covered 60 calendar days after the date of the notice unless the enrollee provides appropriate documentation as requested. If the employing office or OPM, as applicable, does not receive the requested documentation within the specified time frame or if based on the documentation provided the individual is found not to be eligible, the employing office or OPM, as applicable, shall direct the carrier to remove the individual from the enrollment and the employing office or OPM, as applicable, shall provide written notice of the removal to the enrollee, with a copy to the carrier, including an explanation of the process for seeking reconsideration. The time limit to provide appropriate documentation may be extended if the enrollee or the removed individual shows to the employing office or OPM, as appropriate, that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from providing timely documentation.


(2) Appropriate documentation includes, but is not limited to, copies of birth certificates, marriage certificates, and, if applicable, other proof including that the individual lives with the enrollee and that the enrollee is the individual's primary source of financial support.


(3) The effective date of the removal shall be prospective unless the record shows that the enrollee or the removed individual has committed fraud or made an intentional misrepresentation of material fact as prohibited by the terms of the plan. If fraud or intentional misrepresentation of material fact is found, the effective date of the removal is the date of loss of eligibility.


(4) The enrollee or the removed individual may request reconsideration of an employing office or OPM's decision to remove the individual from the enrollment within 60 days of an employing office or OPM's initial decision. The enrollee or the removed individual may request reconsideration of an employing office decision to the employing office or an OPM decision to OPM. The employing office or OPM, as applicable, must notify the carrier when a request for reconsideration of the decision to remove the individual from the enrollment is made. The time limit for filing may be extended if the enrollee or the removed individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit. The request for reconsideration must be made in writing and must include the enrollee's name, address, Social Security Number or other personal identification number, the individual's name, the name of the enrollee's carrier, reason(s) for the request, and, if applicable, the enrollee's retirement claim number.


(5) The employing office or OPM, as applicable, must issue a written notice of its final decision to the enrollee, and notify the carrier of the decision within 30 days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. The notice must fully set forth the findings and conclusions on which the decision was based.


(6) If an enrollee or the removed individual provides acceptable proof of eligibility of an individual subsequent to removal, coverage under the enrollment shall be reinstated retroactively so that there is no gap in coverage, as appropriate.


(g) *Temporary extension of coverage, conversion and/or temporary continuation of coverage.* If an individual is removed from an enrollment pursuant to paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, the individual may be eligible for a 31-day temporary extension of coverage, conversion and/or temporary continuation of coverage in accordance with § 890.401 and subparts H and K of this part. Any opportunity to enroll under § 890.401 and subparts H and K shall not extend beyond the date that opportunity would have ended if the individual had been removed on the date of loss of eligibility.


(1) *Example.* An enrollee and his spouse divorce on May 4, 2017. The enrollee does not remove the former spouse from the enrollee's self and family enrollment, so the former spouse is receiving coverage but is not eligible. In this example, the former spouse is not eligible to receive an annuity listed in § 890.805(2). If the employing office later discovers the divorce, and removes the spouse from the enrollment on June 20, 2018, the former spouse is not eligible for a 31-day extension of coverage, conversion and/or temporary continuation of coverage because the regulatory window for election of 60 days outlined in § 890.805(1) has passed. The sixty-day window began on the final date of the divorce, May 4, 2017 and ended on July 3, 2017.


(2) [Reserved]


(h) *Removal from enrollment: Eligible family members.* (1) An eligible family member may be removed from a self plus one or a self and family enrollment if a request is submitted to the enrollee's employing office for approval at any time during the plan year in the following circumstances:


(i) In the case of a spouse, if the enrollee and his or her spouse provide a notarized request for removal.


(ii) In the case of a child who has reached the age of majority in the child's state of residence (the enrollee's state of residence if the child's is not known), if the enrollee provides proof that the child is no longer his or her dependent as described under § 890.302(b). The enrollee shall also provide the last known contact information for the child.


(iii) In the case of a child who has reached the age of majority in the child's state of residence, if the child provides a notarized request for removal to the employing office.


(2) For removals under paragraph (h)(1) of this section the effective date is the first day of the third pay period following the date the request is approved by the employing office for employees who pay bi-weekly and the second pay period following the date that the request is approved by the employing office for enrollees who pay premiums monthly.


(3) The family member's removal under this paragraph (h) is considered a cancellation under § 890.304(d) and removed family members are not eligible for temporary extension of coverage and conversion under § 890.401 or temporary continuation of coverage under § 809.1103.


(4) If an eligible family member is removed under this paragraph (h), he or she may only regain coverage under the applicable self plus one or self and family enrollment if requested by the enrollee during the annual open season or within 60 days of the family member losing other health insurance coverage. The enrollee must also provide written consent to reinstatement of coverage from the family member and demonstrate eligibility of the spouse or child as a family member to the employing office.


(5) If an employing office approves a request for removal, the employing office must notify the enrollee and the carrier of the removal immediately. For removals under paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, the employing office must also immediately notify the child of the removal using the last known contact provided by the enrollee.


(i) *Disenrollment and removal from enrollment: Medicare enrollment requirement for certain Postal Service annuitants and family members.* Postal Service Medicare covered annuitants not enrolled in Medicare Part B may be disenrolled, and Medicare covered members of family not enrolled in Medicare Part B may be removed from coverage, pursuant to § 890.1608(b).



---

[N] [63 FR 59459, Nov. 4, 1998, as amended at 83 FR 3061, Jan. 23, 2018; 88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023]




