# § 63.7342   What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or notification of compliance status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).


(2) Beginning on January 2, 2025, records of the occurrence and duration of each startup, shutdown, or malfunction of process, air pollution control, and monitoring equipment.


(3) Beginning on January 2, 2025, for each failure to meet an applicable standard, a list of the affected sources or equipment, whether the failure occurred during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, and records of the start date, start time, and duration (in hours) of each failure to meet an applicable standard. Include an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(4) Beginning on January 2, 2025, records of the actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.7310(a), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(5) Records of performance tests, performance evaluations, and opacity observations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(b) For each COMS or CEMS, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).


(2) Monitoring data for COMS during a performance evaluation as required in § 63.6(h)(7)(i) and (ii).


(3) You shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(4) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, the cause of the deviation, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(c) You must keep the records in § 63.6(h)(6) for visual observations.


(d) You must keep the records required in §§ 63.7333 through 63.7335 to show continuous compliance with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement that applies to you.





---

[N] [89 FR 55754, July 5, 2024]






