# ยง 62.1   Definitions.

As used in these regulations:


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Bureau* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.


*Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*Director* means the Area Director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs area office which has administrative jurisdiction over the local field office responsible for administering the affairs of a tribe, band, or group of Indians or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative acting under delegate authority.


*Sponsor* means any authorized person, including an attorney, who files an appeal on behalf of another person.


*Superintendent* means the official or other designated representative of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in charge of the field office which has immediate administrative responsibility with respect to the affairs of a tribe, band, or group of Indians or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority.


*Tribal committee* means the body of a federally recognized tribal entity vested with final authority to act on enrollment matters.


*Tribal governing document* means the written organizational statement governing a tribe, band or group of Indians and/or any valid document, enrollment ordinance or resolution enacted thereunder.


*Tribal member* means a person who meets the requirements for enrollment in a tribal entity and has been duly enrolled.




