# ยง 164.40   Qualifications and duties of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) *Qualifications.* The Administrative Law Judge shall have the qualifications required by statute. He shall not decide any matter in connection with a proceeding where he has a financial interest in any of the parties or a relationship with a party that would make it otherwise inappropriate for him to act.


(b) *Disqualification of the Administrative Law Judge.* (1) Any party may, by motion made to the Administrative Law Judge, as soon as practicable, request that he disqualify himself and withdraw from the proceeding. The Administrative Law Judge shall then rule upon the motion and, upon request of the movant, shall certify an adverse ruling for appeal.


(2) Withdrawal sua sponte. The Administrative Law Judge may at any time withdraw from any proceedings in which he deems himself disqualified for any reason.


(c) *Conduct.* The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct the proceeding in a fair and impartial manner subject to the precepts of the Canons of Judicial Ethics of the American Bar Association.


(d) *Power.* Subject to review, as provided elsewhere in this part, the Administrative Law Judge shall have power to take actions and decisions in conformity with statute or in the interests of justice. The Administrative Law Judge shall not interrupt the recording of the proceedings on the record over the objection of any party.


(e) *Absence or change of the Administrative Law Judge.* In the case of the absence or unavailability of the Administrative Law Judge, or his inability to act, or his removal by disqualification or withdrawal, the powers and duties to be performed by him under this part in connection with a hearing assigned to him may, unless otherwise directed by the Administrator, be assigned to another Administrative Law Judge so designated to act by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, the Administrator or the Environmental Appeals Board.



---

[N] [38 FR 19371, July 20, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 34117, Dec. 11, 1973; 57 FR 5342, Feb. 13, 1992]




