# ยง 1228.12   How do agencies obtain approval to loan permanent or unscheduled records?

(a) An agency proposing to loan permanent or unscheduled records must prepare a written loan agreement with the proposed recipient. The agreement must include:


(1) The name of the department or agency and subdivisions having custody of the records;


(2) The name and address of the proposed recipient of the records;


(3) A list containing:


(i) Identification of the records to be loaned, by series or system;


(ii) The inclusive dates for each series or system;


(iii) The volume and media of the records to be loaned; and


(iv) The NARA disposition job (SF 115) and item numbers covering the records, if any.


(4) A statement of the purpose and duration of the loan;


(5) A statement specifying any restrictions on the use of the records and how these restrictions will be imposed by the recipient;


(6) A certification that the records will be stored in areas with security and environmental controls equal to those specified in part 1234 of this subchapter; and


(7) A signature block for the Archivist of the United States. The loan must not take place until the Archivist has signed the agreement.


(b) On request, NARA may allow an agency to prepare an annual loan agreement covering multiple transfers from the same series of records to another single Federal agency.


(c) The agency must send a written request to NARA, by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Office of the Chief Records Officer (AC); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001, or by email at *RM.Communications@nara.gov,* transmitting the proposed loan agreement, citing the rationale for not providing copies in place of the original records, and specifying the name, title, and phone number of an agency contact. The request must be submitted or approved by the individual authorized to sign records schedules as described in ยง 1220.34(b) of this subchapter.



---

[N] [74 FR 51014, Oct. 2, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 13654, Mar. 30, 2018]




