# § 52.1535   Original identification of plan section.

(a) This section identifies the original “Air Implementation Plan for the State of New Hampshire” and all revisions submitted by New Hampshire that were federally approved prior to August 18, 2009.


(b) The plan was officially submitted on January 27, 1972.


(c) The plan revisions listed below were submitted on the dates specified.


(1) Miscellaneous non-regulatory additions to the plan correcting minor deficiencies submitted on February 23, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(2) Non-regulatory provisions for retention and availability of air quality data submitted on March 23, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(3) Attainment dates of national primary and secondary air quality standards submitted on August 8, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(4) Revision of regulation No. 5, section 111.A, limiting sulfur content of fuels submitted on September 26, 1972, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(5) Compliance schedules submitted on February 14, 1973, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(6) Compliance schedules submitted on March 22, 1973, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(7) Revision exempting steam locomotives from the plan submitted on April 3, 1973, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(8) Regulation No. 20 requiring review of indirect sources submitted on December 13, 1973, by New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(9) AQMA identification material submitted on May 20, 1974, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(10) Miscellaneous revisions to Regulation numbers, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, and 17 submitted on June 6, 1974, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(11) Revision to Regulation 18, “Requirements for Recordkeeping at Facilities which Discharge Air Contaminants,” submitted on May 28, 1975, by the New Hampshire Air Pollution Control Agency.


(12) Attainment plans to meet the requirements of Part D for carbon monoxide for Metropolitan Manchester and ozone for AQCR 121, programs for the review of construction and operation of new and modified major stationary sources of pollution in both attainment and non-attainment areas and certain miscellaneous provisions were submitted on May 29, 1979, November 6, 1979, and March 17, 1980.


(13) Attainment plans to meet the requirements of Part D for total suspended particulates and sulfur dioxide in Berlin were submitted by the Governor of New Hampshire on September 19, 1979.


(14) Revisions to Regulation 5, Prevention, Abatement, and Control of Sulfur Emission from Stationary Combustion Equipment, submitted by the Governor of New Hampshire on July 12, 1973 and April 11, 1975.


(15) A plan to provide comprehensive public participation and an analysis of the effects of the New Hampshire 1979 SIP revisions were submitted on February 28, 1980.


(16) Revised regulations to assure reasonable further progress and compliance by owners of proposed new sources with Federal as well as state regulations were submitted on July 8, 1980.


(17) A comprehensive air quality monitoring plan, intended to meet requirements of 40 CFR part 58, was submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resource Agency Director on January 30, 1980.


(18) A plan to attain and maintain the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for lead and to amend the state's air quality standards was submitted on April 15, 1980. A letter further explaining the state procedures for review of new major sources of lead emissions and confirming the use of reference methods was submitted on December 9, 1980 by the Director of the Air Resources Agency.


(19) Revisions to meet the requirements of Part D and certain other sections of the Clean Air Act, as amended, for attaining carbon monoxide standards in the City of Manchester which were submitted on January 12, 1981 and February 18, 1981. The revisions supplement the 1979 CO attainment plan (§ 52.1520(c)(12)) and include three air quality-improving transportation projects and a schedule for submitting a plan which will demonstrate attainment by no later than December 31, 1987.


(20) Revisions to meet ozone attainment requirements of Part D (VOC Control Regulations) were submitted on August 17, 1981 and are approved as follows: Regulations Air 1204.03, 1204.11(d), 1204.12, 1204.13, 1204.18 and 1204.21.


(21) Operating permits with compliance schedules for VOC sources were submitted May 2, 1980, May 16, 1980, November 20, 1981 and January 8, 1982. Approved are operating permits for Mobil Oil Corporation; ATC Petroleum, Inc.; Velcro USA, Inc.; and Nashua Corporation's facility at Nashua.


(22) Revisions to (i) provide a new format and renumber the SIP regulations with associated miscellaneous language changes for purposes of consistency; (ii) to delete redundant regulations and definitions; (iii) amend several regulations; and (iv) to add additional regulations submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Commission on June 17, 1982 and August 31, 1982. The federally-approved regulations of the New Hampshire SIP are as follows:


(23) Carbon monoxide attainment plan revisions for the City of Manchester which meet the requirements of Part D of the Act for 1982 SIP revisions. The revisions were submitted on October 5, 1982 and December 20, 1982 by the New Hampshire Air Resources Agency.


(24) A revision specifying the State will follow Federal permit notice and hearing procedures for applications subject to PSD requirements was submitted by the Air Resources Commission on November 19, 1982.


(25) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan for ozone, consisting of emission limits and compliance schedules for Oak Materials Group, Ideal Tape Co., Markem Corp., Essex Group, and Nashua Corp.'s Merrimack Facility, were submitted on December 23, 1982, December 30, 1982, January 19, 1983, and March 18, 1983.


(26) Revisions to CHAPTER Air 400, Section Air 402.02 (formerly Regulation 5). raising the allowable sulfur-in-oil limit for all but ten sources, were submitted by New Hampshire on July 12, 1973, April 11, 1975, December 21, 1982 and March 29, 1983. The excluded sources are:


(27) Amendments to Regulation Air 1204.02(c), defining “equivalent” to include “solids-applied basis” and Air 1204.21(j), altering the maximum time for compliance schedule extensions from December 31, 1987 to July 1, 1985 were submitted on August 9, 1983. An additional regulation, Air 1204.17, “Emission Standards for Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products” was submitted on August 17, 1981.


(28) Revisions to Air 1204.01, updating the list of volatile organic compounds exempted from PART Air 1204, and a revision to Air 101.74, ‘Process weight’ were submitted on November 10, 1983.


(29) Revisions raising the allowable sulfur-in-oil limit to 2.0% for five sources excluded from revisions to CHAPTER Air 400, Section 402.02 (identified at subparagraph (c)(26) above), submitted on November 1, 1983. The five sources, and the source specific emission limits where applicable, are:


(30) Revisions to Air 1201.05 adding paragraph (e), concerning hazardous waste incinerators, was submitted on April 9, 1984. Approval of this regulation shall not be construed to supersede New Source Performance Standards; National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants; and the regulations controlling emissions from major new or modified stationary sources in attainment and non-attainment areas.


(31) Revisions raising the allowable sulfur-in-oil limit to 2.0% for two sources excluded from revisions to CHAPTER Air 400, Section 402.02 (identified at paragraph (c)(26) of this section), submitted on January 13, 1984. The two sources, and the source specific restrictions at each, are:


(i) Manchester Steam Station, Public Service Company of N.H., Manchester (The auxiliary boiler is allowed to burn 2.0% sulfur oil as long as the main boilers remain inactive. If either or both of the main boilers are reactivated, the maximum sulfur content of oil burned in any boiler shall not exceed 1.7% by weight. In addition, each main boiler shall not operate until its stack height is increased to 45 m.)


(ii) Hinsdale Products Co., Inc., Hinsdale (Limited to a maximum hourly fuel firing rate of 213 gallons.)


(32) A revision submitted on December 22, 1983 which requires Markem Corporation to install an incinerator. The installation of the incinerator must be completed by July 1, 1985.


(33) The TSP plan to attain primary standards in Berlin, New Hampshire and the administrative order issued May 2, 1984 to the James River Corporation which were submitted by the Air Resources Agency on May 9, 1984.


(34) Revisions to Part (Air) 610 of Chapter 600, “Statewide Permit System” for the preconstruction permitting of new major sources and major modifications in nonattainment areas submitted on April 9, 1984 and September 10, 1984 by the New Hampshire Air Resources Commission.


(35) A revision to approve operating limits for boilers at Dartmouth College, submitted on May 19, 1986 by the Director of the New Hampshire Air Resources Agency.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Permits to Operate issued by the State of New Hampshire Air Resources Agency to Dartmouth College, No. PO-B-1501.5, No. PO-B-1502.5, and No. PO-B-1503.5, and Temporary Permit TP-B-150.2, 3, and 4, dated January 6, 1986.


(36) Approval of a revision to allow the James River Corporation (Cascade Mill), Gorham, to burn oil having a 2.2% sulfur-by-weight limit in accordance with previously approved SIP regulation Chapter Air 400, Section Air 402.02, submitted on February 11, 1985. This sources was excluded from revisions pertaining to New Hampshire regulation Chapter Air 400, Section Air 402.02 (identified at paragraph (c)(26) of this section), but New Hampshire has now submitted adequate technical support for approval.


(37) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted on April 26, 1985, January 20, 1986 and May 12, 1987 by the Air Resources Commission.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter dated April 26, 1985 from the New Hampshire Air Resources Commission submitting revisions to the State Implementation Plan for EPA approval.


(B) Revisions to New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Part Air 704.01, “Permit Review Fee for Large Fuel Burning Devices,” Part Air 704.02, “Permit Review Fee for All Other Devices,” Part Air 706.01, “Renewal Review Fee For Large Fuel Burning Devices,” Part Air 706.02, “Renewal Review Fee For All Other Devices,” Part Air 1202, “Fuel Burning Devices,” effective on December 27, 1984.


(C) Certification from the State of New Hampshire dated April 26, 1985.


(D) Letter from the State of New Hampshire dated January 20, 1986.


(E) Letter from the State of New Hampshire dated May 12, 1987.


(38) Approval of a revision to allow the James River Corporation, Groveton, to burn oil having a 2.2% sulfur-by-weight limit in accordance with previously approved SIP regulation CHAPTER Air 400, Section Air 402.02, submitted on January 22, 1986. This source was previously excluded from revisions pertaining to New Hampshire regulation CHAPTER Air 400, Section Air 402.02 (identified at paragraph (c)(26) of this section), but New Hampshire has now submitted adequate technical support for approval.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) The conditions in the following five Permits to Operate issued by the State of New Hampshire Air Resources Agency on September 6, 1985, to the James River Corporation—Groveton Group: Permit No. PO-B-1550, Conditions 5B, 5C, and 5D; Permit No. PO-B-213, Conditions 2 and 5A; Permit No. PO-B-214, Conditions 2 and 5A; Permit No. PO-B-215, Conditions 2 and 5A; and Permit No. PO-BP-2240, Condition 5B. These conditions limit the sulfur-in-fuel content at the James River Corporation, Groveton, to 2.2% sulfur by weight.


(39) Attainment plans for carbon monoxide for the City of Nashua including an extension of the attainment date to December 31, 1990 as submitted on September 12, 1985, December 3, 1985, October 7, 1986, March 6, 1987, May 12, 1987 and October 15, 1987.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) The New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Department of Safety, Chapter 900, Emission Inspections, Part Saf-M, 901, Part Saf-M 902, Part Saf-M 903, Part Saf-M 904, Part Saf-M 905, Part Saf-M 906,Part Saf-M 907, Part Saf-M 908, Part Saf-M 909, and Part Saf-M 910, effective October 6, 1986.


(B) Section 715.02 Introductory Text and paragraph (1) of Part Saf-M-715, and § 716.01 Introductory Text and paragraph (g) of Part Saf-M-716, submitted to New Hampshire Department of Safety by the State of New Hampshire on August 14, 1985.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) A letter from Governor John H. Sununu to Michael R. Deland, dated March 6, 1987, committing to take legislative measures to convert the Inspection/Maintenance program in the Nashua area to the use of computerized emission analyzers in the event that the program is found to not be achieving the necessary emission reductions.


(B) Narrative submittals, including an attainment demonstration.


(40) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 6, 1989. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 6, 1989 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(B) Revisions to New Hampshire's Rule Env-A 303.01 entitled “Particulate Matter,” effective April 21, 1989. 


(C) Revisions to New Hampshire's Rule Env-A 1001.02 entitled “permissible Open Burning,” effective May 26, 1989. 


(41) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on February 12, 1991.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated February 12, 1991 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) Env-A 802.09 and Env-A 802.10 of the New Hampshire Administrative Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution entitled “Continuous Emission Monitoring” and “CEM Recordkeeping Requirements,” respectively. These regulations were effective on December 27, 1990.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Nonregulatory portions of the State submittal.


(42) [Reserved]


(43) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on November 21, 1989.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter form the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated November 21, 1989 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) Amendments to regulations for the State of New Hampshire's Administrative Rules Governing Air Pollution in Chapters Env-A 100, 800, 900 and 1200 which were effective November 16, 1989.


(C) Letter from Robert W. Varney, Commissioner of the Department of Environmental Services of New Hampshire, to John B. Hammond, Acting Director of the New Hampshire Office of Legislative Services, dated November 15, 1989, adopting final rules.


(44) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on September 12, 1990.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated September 12, 1990 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan that withdraws nine source-specific operating permits incorporated by reference at 40 CFR 52.1520(c)(21), (c)(25) and (c)(32).


(ii) Additional materials.


Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 2, 1991 submitting documentation of a public hearing.


(45) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan consisting of a readoption of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on February 12, 1991.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated February 12, 1991 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire effective on December 27, 1990:


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated May 7, August 20, and August 26, 1991, March 6, and May 6, 1992 withdrawing certain portion of the February 12, 1991 SIP submittal.


(46) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan consisting of amendments to Chapter Env-A 1204.12 *Emission Control Methods for Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt* submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on May 15, 1992.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated May 15, 1992 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire effective on January 17, 1992: Chapter Env-A 1200: PART Env-A 1204.12 *Emission Control Methods for Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt.*

(47) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on May 15, 1992.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated May 15, 1992 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) The following portions of the Rules Governing the Control of Air Pollution for the State of New Hampshire effective on January 17, 1992:


(48) [Reserved]


(49) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on June 17, 1994, and December 21, 1992.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated June 17, 1994, and December 21, 1992, submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) Regulations Chapter Env-A 1200, Part Env-A 1211, “Nitrogen Oxides (NO_X_),” effective on May 20, 1994, and Chapter Env-A 900, Part Env-A 901, sections Env-A 901.06 “NO_X_ Recordkeeping Requirements,” and Env-A 901.07, “NO_X_ Reporting Requirements,” effective on November 13, 1992.


(50) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 7, 1995, September 18, 1995, and October 18, 1995.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 7, 1995, September 18, 1995, and October 18, 1995, submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) New Hampshire NO_X_ RACT Order ARD-95-001, concerning Groveton Paperboard Corporation, effective on May 10, 1995.


(C) New Hampshire NO_X_ RACT Order ARD-95-002, concerning Plymouth Cogeneration Limited Partnership, effective September 12, 1995.


(D) New Hampshire NO_X_ RACT Order ARD-95-003, concerning Waterville Valley Ski Area Limited, effective September 19, 1995.


(51) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on December 9, 1996, June 28, 1996, October 24, 1996, and July 10, 1995.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated December 9, 1996, June 28, 1996, October 24, 1996, July 10, 1995 and December 21, 1992 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan (SIP), and a letter dated November 21, 1997 withdrawing Env-A 1204.06 from the SIP submittal.


(B) Regulations Part Env-A 801 “Purpose;” Part Env-A 802 “Testing and Monitoring for Stationary Sources: General Requirements;” Part Env-A 902 “Malfunctions and Breakdowns of Air Pollution Control Equipment;” and Part Env-A 903 “Compliance Schedules” all effective November 15, 1992.


(C) Regulations Part Env-A 803 “VOC Testing;” Part Env-A 804 “Capture Efficiency;” Sections Env-A 901.01 through 901.05, 901.08 and 901.09 of Part Env-A 901 “Recordkeeping and Reporting by Sources;” and Part Env-A 1204 “Stationary Sources of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (except 1204.06),” all effective on August 31, 1995.


(D) New Hampshire VOC RACT Order ARD-94-001, concerning L.W. Packard, effective May 5, 1995.


(E) New Hampshire VOC RACT Order ARD-95-010, concerning Kalwall in Manchester, NH, effective September 10, 1996.


(F) New Hampshire VOC RACT Order ARD-96-001, concerning Textile Tapes Corporation, NH, effective October 4, 1996.


(52) A revision to the New Hampshire SIP regarding ozone monitoring. The State of New Hampshire will modify its SLAMS and its NAMS monitoring system to include a PAMS network design and establish monitoring sites. The State's SIP revision satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f) PAMS requirements.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) State of New Hampshire Photochemical Assessment Monitoring Stations—Network Plan—Network Overview.


(ii) Additional material.


(A) NH-DES letter dated December 13, 1994, and signed by Thomas M. Noel, Acting Director, NH-DES. 


(53) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on August 29, 1996. This revision is for the purpose of satisfying the rate-of-progress requirement of section 182(b) and the contingency measure requirement of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, for the Portsmouth-Dover-Rochester serious ozone nonattainment area, and the New Hampshire portion of the Boston-Lawrence-Worcester serious ozone nonattainment area.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated August 29, 1996 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(54) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on April 14, 1997, May 6, 1997, and September 24, 1997.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated April 14, 1997, May 6, 1997, and September 24, 1997 submitting revisions to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) New Hampshire NO_X_ RACT Order ARD-97-001, concerning Public Service Company of New Hampshire in Bow, effective on April 14, 1997.


(C) New Hampshire NO_X_ RACT Order ARD-95-011, concerning Hampshire Chemical Corporation, effective on May 6, 1997.


(D) New Hampshire NO_X_ RACT Order ARD-97-003, concerning Crown Vantage, effective September 24, 1997.


(55)-(56) [Reserved]


(57) Revision to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 27, 1998. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Regulation Chapter Env-A 3200 NO_X_ Budget Trading Program adopted and effective on July 17, 1998. 


(ii) Additional materials. 


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 27, 1998 submitting Chapter Env-A 3200 NO_X_ Budget Trading Program as a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(58) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on November 25, 1992.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated November 24, 1992 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) Part Env-A 1205 “Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC): Gasoline Dispensing Facilities and Gasoline Tank Trucks,” effective in the State of New Hampshire on August 17, 1992.


(ii) Additional materials.


(A) New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services “Stage II Equivalency Demonstration,” dated November 1992.


(B) Nonregulatory portions of the submittal.


(59) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on September 4, 1998 and November 20, 1998. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Part Saf-C 3221A “Emission Amendments to Official Motor Vehicle Inspection Requirements” as adopted on November 17, 1998; and Part Saf-C 5800 “Roadside Diesel Opacity Inspection Program Rules” as adopted on November 17, 1998. 


(ii) Additional material. 


(A) Document entitled “Alternative New Hampshire Motor Vehicle Inspection/Maintenance State Implementation Plan Revision” dated September 4, 1998. 


(B) Letters from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated September 4, 1998 and November 20, 1998 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(60) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division August 6, 2001 and April 26, 1995. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Section 623.01 and sections 623.03 through 623.06 of New Hampshire's rule PART Env-A 623 rule entitled, “Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Of Air Quality Permit Requirements.” This regulation was adopted in the State of New Hampshire on July 23, 2001. 


(B) New Hampshire's rules PART Env-A 205.03, “Applications Subject to PSD Requirements,” and PART Env-A 205.04, “Applications Subject to Nonattainment Requirements.” These regulations were adopted in the State of New Hampshire on February 22, 1995 and amended on July 23, 2001. 


(ii) Additional materials. 


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated August 6, 2001 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(B) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated April 26, 1995 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(C) Nonregulatory portions of the State submittal.


(61) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on July 9, 1998.


(i) Additional materials.


(A) “New Hampshire Stage II Comparability Analysis,” prepared by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, dated July 1, 1998.


(62) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on June 7, 1994.


(i) Additional materials.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated June 7, 1994 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) “Clean Fuel Fleet Equivalency Demonstration,” prepared by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, dated May, 1994.


(63) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan Submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on July 10, 1996.


(i) Incorporation by reference.


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated July 10, 1996 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(B) Part Env-A 1502 of Chapter Env-A 1500 of the New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules titled “Conformity of General Federal Actions,” adopted in the State of New Hampshire on April 25, 1996.


(64) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 27, 1998. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Order ARD 98-001 issued by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services to Public Service Company of New Hampshire on July 17, 1998, with attachments: Discrete emission reduction protocol for Public Service of New Hampshire's Schiller Station, Units 4, 5 and 6, submitted to the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on April 10, 1998; and Discrete emission reduction protocol for Public Service of New Hampshire's Newington Station, Unit 1, submitted to the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on April 10, 1998. 


(ii) Additional materials. 


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 17, 1998 submitting Final RACT Order 98-001 as a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(65) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services on August 16, 1999. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. New Hampshire regulation Chapter Env-A 3600, entitled “National Low Emission Vehicle (National LEV) Program” adopted July 21, 1999. 


(ii) Additional material. Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated August 16, 1999 submitting the Low Emission Vehicle program as a revision to the State Implementation Plan. 


(66) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on July 29, 1993 and July 2, 1999. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) New Hampshire's PART Env-A 610 “Additional Requirements in Non-attainment Areas and the New Hampshire Portion of the Northeast Ozone Transport Region” adopted on May 21, 1993. 


(B) New Hampshire's PART Env-A 622 (Formally Env-A 610) “Additional Requirements in Non-attainment Areas and the New Hampshire Portion of the Northeast Ozone Transport Region” incorporating the “Plant-wide Source,” adopted on June 26, 1997. 


(C) New Hampshire's PART Env-A 622 (Formally Env-A 610) “Additional Requirements in Non-attainment Areas and the New Hampshire Portion of the Northeast Ozone Transport Region,” addition of the requirements for section 173(a)(4) and (5) of the CAA, adopted on January 29, 1999. 


(D) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 29, 1993 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan. 


(E) Letter from the New Hampshire Air Resources Division dated July 2, 1999 submitting a revision to the New Hampshire State Implementation Plan.


(67) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on September 11, 1998. 


(i) Additional materials. 


(A) Letter from the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services dated September 11, 1998 stating a negative declaration for the aerospace coating operations Control Techniques Guideline category.


(68) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the New Hampshire Air Resources Division on June 28, 1996 and April 15, 2002. 


(i) Incorporation by reference. 


(A) Order ARD-00-001 issued by the New Hampshire DES to Anheuser-Busch Incorporated, effective April 15, 2002. 


(B) Env-A 1204.27, “Applicability Criteria and Compliance Options for Miscellaneous and Multi-category Stationary VOC Sources,” effective August 21, 1995, is granted full approval for the New Hampshire portion of the eastern Massachusetts serious ozone nonattainment area. 


(ii) Additional materials. 


(A) Letter from the DES, dated April 15, 2002, submitting revised Anheuser-Busch order to EPA as a SIP revision and withdrawing previous submittal for this facility dated June 20, 2000. 


(B) Letter from the DES, dated March 22, 2002, containing information on New Filcas of America.



---

[N] [37 FR 10879, May 31, 1972]


