# § 301.6234-1   Judicial review of partnership adjustment.

(a) *In general.* Within 90 days after the date on which a notice of a final partnership adjustment (FPA) under section 6231(a)(3) with respect to any partnership taxable year is mailed, a partnership may file a petition for a readjustment of any partnership adjustment (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(6)) reflected in the FPA for such taxable year (without regard to whether an election under section 6226 has been made with respect to any imputed underpayment (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(3)) reflected in such FPA) with—


(1) The Tax Court;


(2) The district court of the United States for the district in which the partnership's principal place of business is located; or


(3) The Court of Federal Claims.


(b) *Jurisdictional requirement for bringing action in district court or Court of Federal Claims.* A petition for readjustment under this section with respect to any partnership adjustment may be filed in a district court of the United States or the Court of Federal Claims only if the partnership filing the petition deposits with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), on or before the date the petition is filed, the amount of (as of the date of the filing of the petition) any imputed underpayment (as shown on the FPA) and any penalties, additions to tax, and additional amounts with respect to such imputed underpayment. If there is more than one imputed underpayment reflected in the FPA, the partnership must deposit the amount of each imputed underpayment to which the petition for readjustment relates and the amount of any penalties, additions to tax, and additional amounts with respect to each such imputed underpayment.


(c) *Treatment of deposit as payment of tax.* Any amount deposited in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, while deposited, will not be treated as a payment of tax for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, an amount deposited in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section will be treated as a payment of tax for purposes of chapter 67 of the Code (relating to interest). Interest will be allowed and paid in accordance with section 6611.


(d) *Effect of decision dismissing action.* If an action brought under this section is dismissed other than by reason of a rescission of the FPA under section 6231(d) and § 301.6231-1(g), the decision of the court dismissing the action is considered as its decision that the FPA is correct.


(e) *Amount deposited may be applied against assessment.* If the limitations on assessment under section 6232(b) and § 301.6232-1(c) no longer apply with respect to an imputed underpayment for which a deposit under paragraph (b) of this section was made, the IRS may apply the amount deposited against any such imputed underpayment that is assessed. In the case of a deposit made under this section that is in an amount in excess of the amount assessed against the partnership (excess deposit), a partnership may obtain a return of the excess deposit by making a request in writing in accordance with forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS.


(f) *Applicability date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, this section applies to partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and ending after August 12, 2018.


(2) *Election under § 301.9100-22 in effect.* This section applies to any partnership taxable year beginning after November 2, 2015, and before January 1, 2018, for which a valid election under § 301.9100-22 is in effect.



---

[N] [T.D. 9844, 84 FR 6566, Feb. 27, 2019]










