# § 98.227   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section for each nitric acid production facility: 


(a) Records of significant changes to process.


(b) Documentation of how process knowledge was used to estimate abatement technology destruction efficiency (if applicable).


(c) Performance test reports.


(d) Number of operating hours in the calendar year for each nitric acid train (hours).


(e) Annual nitric acid permitted production capacity (tons).


(f) Measurements, records, and calculations used to determine reported parameters.


(g) Documentation of the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of all reported parameters, including but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided. 


(h) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (10) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (h)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) Annual nitric acid produced from each nitric acid train (tons nitric acid produced, 100% acid basis).


(2) Indicate which equation was used to calculate emissions for each nitric acid train.


(3) N_2_O concentration per test run during the performance test (ppm N_2_O) (Equation V-1 of § 98.223).


(4) Volumetric flow rate of effluent gas per test run during the performance test (dscf/hr) (Equation V-1).


(5) Production rate per test run during the performance test (tons nitric acid produced per hour, 100 percent acid basis) (Equation V-1).


(6) Annual nitric acid production from each nitric acid train during which each N_2_O abatement technology was operational (tons nitric acid produced, 100 percent acid basis) (Equation V-2 of § 98.223).


(7) Destruction efficiency of N_2_O abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of N_2_O removed from vent stream) (Equation V-3a of § 98.223).


(8) Destruction efficiency of each N_2_O abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of N_2_O removed from vent stream) (Equation V-3b of § 98.223).


(9) Destruction efficiency of each N_2_O abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of N_2_O removed from vent stream) (Equation V-3c of § 98.223).


(10) Fraction control factor of each N_2_O abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of total emissions from nitric acid train “t” that are sent to abatement technology “n”) (Equation V-3c).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63793, Oct. 24, 2014]




