# § 107.315   Admission of violations.

(a) In responding to a notice of probable violation issued under § 107.311, the respondent may admit the alleged violations and agree to accept the terms of a proposed compliance order or to pay the amount of the preliminarily assessed civil penalty, or, if proposed in the notice, both.


(b) If the respondent agrees to the terms of a proposed compliance order, the Chief Counsel issues a final order prescribing the remedial action to be taken by the respondent.


(c) Payment of a civil penalty, when the amount of the penalty exceeds $10,000, must be made by wire transfer, through the Federal Reserve Communications System (Fedwire), to the account of the U.S. Treasury. Detailed instructions on making payments by wire transfer may be obtained from the Financial Operations Division (AMZ-120), Federal Aviation Administration, Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125.


(d) Payment of a civil penalty, when the amount of the penalty is $10,000 or less, must be made either by wire transfer, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, or certified check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Transportation” and submitted to the Financial Operations Division (AMZ-120), Federal Aviation Administration, Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125.



---

[N] [Amdt. 107-11, 48 FR 265l, Jan. 20, 1983, as amended by Amdt. 107-23, 57 FR 45453, Oct. 1, 1992; Amdt. 107-29, 58 FR 51527, Oct. 1, 1993; Amdt. 107-38, 61 FR 21100, May 9, 1996; 68 FR 52848, Sept. 8, 2003]




