# § 3.273   Rate computation.

The commencement date of change in benefit payments based on rate computations under the provisions of this section will be determined under the provisions of § 3.31 or § 3.660.


(a) *Initial award.* For the purpose of determining initial entitlement, or for resuming payments on an award which was previously discontinued, the monthly rate of pension payable to a beneficiary shall be computed by reducing the beneficiary's applicable maximum pension rate by the beneficiary's countable income on the effective date of entitlement and dividing the remainder by 12. Effective June 1, 1983, the provisions of § 3.29(b) apply to this paragraph. Recomputation of rates due to changes in the maximum annual pension rate or rate of income following the initial date of entitlement are subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Running awards*—(1) *Change in maximum annual pension rate.* Whenever there is change in a beneficiary's applicable maximum annual pension rate, the monthly rate of pension payable shall be computed by reducing the new applicable maximum annual pension rate by the beneficiary's countable income on the effective date of the change in the applicable maximum annual pension rate, and dividing the remainder by 12. Effective June 1, 1983, the provisions of § 3.29(b) apply to this paragraph.


(2) *Change in amount of income.* Whenever there is a change in a beneficiary's amount of countable income the monthly rate of pension payable shall be computed by reducing the beneficiary's applicable maximum annual pension rate by the beneficiary's new amount of countable income on the effective date of the change in the amount of income, and dividing the remainder by 12. Effective June 1, 1983, the provisions of § 3.29(b) apply to this paragraph.


(c) *Nonrecurring income.* The amount of any nonrecurring countable income (e.g. an inheritance) received by a beneficiary shall be added to the beneficiary's annual rate of income for a 12-month annualization period commencing on the effective date on which the nonrecurring income is countable.


(d) *Recurring and irregular income.* The amount of recurring and irregular income anticipated or received by a beneficiary shall be added to determine the beneficiary's annual rate of income for a 12-month annualization period commencing at the beginning of the 12-month annualization, subject to the provisions of § 3.660(a)(2) of this chapter. 



---

[N] [44 FR 45936, Aug. 6, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 34472, July 29, 1983; 57 FR 59300, Dec. 15, 1992] 




