# § 63.528   Reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems and/or is subject to the dioxins and furans emission limit for process vents, shall comply with the reporting requirements of applicable paragraphs of § 63.10, as specified in the General Provisions applicability table in this subpart. The owner or operator shall also submit to the Administrator, as part of the quarterly excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required by § 63.10(e)(3), the following recorded information. On and after July 15, 2027 or once the reporting template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, owners and operators must submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Polymers and Resins Sector Lead. Owners and operators must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.9(i) and § 63.10(a), the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. If a report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirements in § 63.10(e)(3)(v), § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(L), and § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(M) to submit the date of the report and the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report.


(1) Reports of monitoring data, including 15-minute monitoring values as well as daily average values or per-unit operation average values, as applicable, of monitored parameters for all operating days or unit operations when the average values were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, including reports specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(2) Reports of the duration of periods when monitoring data is not collected for each excursion caused by insufficient monitoring data, including reports specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. An excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section. For a control device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the control device. In the report, include the identification of the source, start date, start time, duration in hours, and monitored parameter(s) meeting the excursion criteria.


(i) When the period of control device operation is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.


(ii) When the period of control device operation is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than one of the hours during the period of operation does not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data.


(iii) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as used in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour.


(3) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes the emission rate from a de minimis emission point to become a process vent with an emission rate of one pound per year or greater, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 calendar days after the process change. The report may be submitted as part of the next summary report required under § 63.10(e)(3). The report shall include:


(i) A description of the process change; and


(ii) The results of the recalculation of the emission rate.


(4) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), for each excursion that is not an excused excursion, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, the monitored parameter, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the excursion (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken. Include the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each excursion.


(5) For pressure relief device subject to § 63.527(f), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including pressure relief device identification name or number, the start date, start time, and duration (in minutes) of the pressure release; and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of each organic HAP released.


(6) For heat exchangers subject to § 63.104 of subpart F of this part, the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) of subpart F of this part.


(b) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source who is subject to the leak detection and repair program specified in subpart H of this part, shall implement the reporting requirements outlined therein. Copies of all reports shall be retained as records for a period of 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 63.10(b)(1).


(c) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall include records of all monitoring parameters in the Notification of Compliance Status and summary reports required by subpart A of this part.


(d) Beginning no later than July 15, 2024, owners and operators must submit performance test reports in accordance with this paragraph. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, owners and operators must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, owners and operators may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.



---

[N] [89 FR 43273, May 16, 2024] 




