# § 642.22   How does the Secretary evaluate prior experience?

(a) In the case of an application described in § 642.20(b), the Secretary—


(1) Evaluates the applicant's performance under its expiring Training program grant;


(2) To determine the number of PE points to be awarded, uses the approved project objectives for the applicant's expiring Training program grant and the information the applicant submitted in its annual performance report (APR); and


(3) May adjust a calculated PE score or decide not to award PE points if other information such as audit reports, site visit reports, and project evaluation reports indicate the APR data used to calculate PE are incorrect.


(b)(1) The Secretary may add from 1 to 15 points to the point score obtained on the basis of the selection criteria in § 642.21, based on the applicant's success in meeting the administrative requirements and programmatic objectives of paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) The maximum possible score for each criterion is indicated in the parentheses preceding the criterion.


(c) The Secretary awards no PE points for a given year to an applicant that does not serve at least 90 percent of the approved number of participants. For purposes of this section, the approved number of participants is the total number of participants the project would serve as agreed upon by the grantee and the Secretary.


(d) For the criterion specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section (Number of participants), the Secretary awards no PE points if the applicant did not serve at least the approved number of participants.


(e) The Secretary evaluates the applicant's PE on the basis of the following criteria:


(1) (4 points) *Number of participants.* Whether the applicant provided training to no less than the approved number of participants.


(2) *Training objectives.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objectives for:


(i) (4 points) Assisting the participants in developing increased qualifications and skills to meet the needs of disadvantaged students.


(ii) (4 points) Providing the participants with an increased knowledge and understanding of the Federal TRIO programs.


(3) (3 points) *Administrative requirements.* Whether the applicant met all the administrative requirements under the terms of the expiring grant, including recordkeeping, reporting, and financial accountability.



---

[N] [Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 65772, Oct. 26, 2010]




