# ยง 1.161   Definitions.

As used in this part, words in the single form shall be deemed to import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may require. The following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


*Act* means the Capper-Volstead Act, approved February 18, 1922, 42 Stat. 388, 7 U.S.C. 291, 292. 


*Association* means a cooperative association, a federation of cooperatives, or other association of agricultural producers, as defined in section 1 of the Act. 


*Complainant* or *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture, United States Department of Agriculture, or any officer(s) or employee(s) to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his or her stead. 


*Complaint* means a formal complaint instituted by the Secretary of Agriculture requiring respondent to show cause why an order should not be made directing it to cease and desist from acts of monopolization or restraint of trade, which result in undue price enhancement. 


*Decision* means: (1) the Judge's decision, and includes (i) findings and conclusions and the reasons or basis therefor on all material issues of fact, law, or discretion, (ii) order, and (iii) rulings on proposed findings, conclusions and order submitted by the parties, and (2) the decision and order by the Judicial Officer upon an appeal of the Judge's decision. 


*Hearing* means that part of the proceeding which involves the submission of evidence before the Judge for the record in the proceeding. 


*Hearing Clerk* means the Hearing Clerk, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. 


*Judge* means any Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 (the Administrative Procedure Act) and assigned to the proceeding involved. 


*Judicial Officer* means an official of the United States Department of Agriculture delegated authority by the Secretary, pursuant to the Act of April 4, 1940 (7 U.S.C. 450c-450g) and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App. (1988)), to perform the function involved (ยง 2.35(a) of this chapter), or the Secretary if he or she exercises the authority so delegated. 


*Respondent* means the cooperative associations, or association, against whom a complaint has been issued. 



---

[N] [45 FR 6587, Jan. 29, 1980, as amended at 60 FR 8457, Feb. 14, 1995]




