# § 62.11880   Identification of plan—Spokane Regional Clean Air Agency.

(a) The plan for the control of emissions from existing large municipal waste combustors, submitted by the Spokane Regional Clean Air Agency on July 18, 2022, to implement the emission guideline of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cb, applies to all existing Large MWC in Spokane County, Washington meeting the requirements as stated in their State regulations. The plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, which the EPA incorporates by reference.


(b)(1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the EPA Docket Center—Public Reading Room, EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 566-1744; the U.S. EPA, Region 10 office, (206) 553-1200; or the source in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. You may inspect the material at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.*

(2) Spokane Regional Clean Air Agency, 1610 S Technology Blvd., Suite 101, Spokane, WA 99224; phone: (509) 477-4727; website: *https://spokanecleanair.org.*

(i) SRCAA Regulation I, Article VI, Section 6.17: Standards for Municipal Solid Waste Combustors, effective July 7, 2022.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [89 FR 105469, Dec. 27, 2024]






