# ยง 1.897-7T   Treatment of certain partnership interests as entirely U.S. real property interests under sections 897(g) and 1445(e) (temporary).

(a) *Rule.* Pursuant to section 897(g), an interest in a partnership in which, directly or indirectly, fifty percent or more of the value of the gross assets consist of U.S. real property interests, and ninety percent or more of the value of the gross assets consist of U.S. real property interests plus any cash or cash equivalents shall, for purposes of section 1445, be treated as entirely a U.S. real property interest. For purposes of section 897(g), such interest shall be treated as a U.S. real property interest only to the extent that the gain on the disposition is attributable to U.S. real property interests (and not cash, cash equivalents or other property). Consequently, a disposition of any portion of such partnership interest shall be subject to partial taxation under section 897(a) and full withholding under section 1445(a). For purposes of this paragraph, cash equivalent means any asset readily convertible into cash (whether or not denominated in U.S. dollars) including, but not limited to, bank accounts, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, commercial paper, U.S. and foreign treasury obligations and bonds, corporate obligations and bonds, precious metals or commodities, and publicly traded instruments.


(b) *Effective date.* Section 1.897-7T shall be effective for transfers, exchanges, distributions and other dispositions occurring after June 6, 1988.


(c) *Coordination with section 864(c)(8).* [Reserved]. For further guidance, see ยง 1.897-7(c).



---

[N] [T.D. 8198, 53 FR 16228, May 5, 1988, as amended by T.D. 9919, 85 FR 70971, Nov. 6, 2020]




