# ยง 880.5220   Intravenous catheter force-activated separation device.

(a) *Identification.* An intravenous catheter force-activated separation device is placed in-line with an intravenous (IV) catheter and an intravascular administration set, including any administration set accessories. It separates into two parts when a specified force is applied. The device is intended to reduce the risk of IV catheter failure(s) requiring IV catheter replacement.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) Performance data must be provided to demonstrate clinically acceptable performance for the intended use of the device.


(2) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:


(i) Separation force testing;


(ii) Validation of anti-reconnect features;


(iii) Air and liquid leakage testing, both before and after separation;


(iv) Luer connection testing;


(v) Flow rate testing;


(vi) Particulate testing; and


(vii) Microbial ingress testing.


(3) The device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.


(4) Performance testing must demonstrate that the device is sterile and non-pyrogenic.


(5) Performance testing must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating continued sterility and device functionality over the identified shelf life.


(6) Device labeling must include:


(i) Instructions for use; and


(ii) A discussion of catheter dressings intended to be used with the device.





---

[N] [89 FR 66560, Aug. 16, 2024]




