# ยง 51-8.7   Confidential Commercial Information.

(a) *Definitions.*

(1) *Confidential commercial information* means commercial or financial information obtained by the Committee from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).


(2) *Submitter* means any person or entity, including a corporation, State, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides confidential commercial information, either directly or indirectly to the Federal Government.


(b) *Designation of confidential commercial information.* A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or within a reasonable time thereafter, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations expire 10 years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.


(c) *When notice to submitters is required.* (1) The Committee will promptly provide written notice to the submitter of confidential commercial information whenever records containing such information are requested under the FOIA if, after reviewing the request, the responsive records, and any appeal by the requester, the Committee determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided:


(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or


(ii) The Committee has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure under that exemption or any other applicable exemption.


(2) The notice must either describe the commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, notice may be made by posting or publishing the notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to accomplish notification.


(d) *Exceptions to submitter notice requirements.* The notice requirements of this section do not apply if:


(1) The Committee determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA;


(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;


(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or


(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous, except that, in such a case, the Committee shall give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information and shall provide that notice within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.


(e) *Opportunity to object to disclosure.* (1) The Committee will specify a reasonable time period within which the submitter must respond to the notice referenced above. If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide the Committee a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis for nondisclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.


(2) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice shall be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. Information received by the Committee after the date of any disclosure decision shall not be considered by the Committee. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.


(f) *Analysis of objections.* The Committee will consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.


(g) *Notice of intent to disclose.* (1) Whenever the Committee decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, the Committee will provide the submitter written notice, which will include:


(i) A statement of the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;


(ii) A description of the information to be disclosed; and


(iii) A specified disclosure date, which must be a reasonable time after the notice, and not less than 10 business days after the date of the notice submission.


(iv) A statement that the submitter must notify the Committee immediately if the submitter intends to seek injunctive relief.


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(2) of this section, even if the submitter fails to respond to Committee's notice specified in paragraph (c) of this section, whenever the Committee decides to disclose the commercial information, the Committee will provide the submitter written notice of disclosure, as specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(h) *Notice of FOIA lawsuit.* Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the Committee will promptly notify the submitter.


(i) *Requester notification.* The Committee will notify the requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.




