# § 208.35   Limitation on asylum eligibility and credible fear procedures for those who enter the United States during emergency border circumstances.

Notwithstanding any contrary section of this part, including §§ 208.2, 208.13, 208.30, and 208.33—


(a) *Limitation on eligibility.* (1) *Applicability.* An alien who is described in § 208.13(g) and who is not described in section 3(b) of the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h), is ineligible for asylum.


(2) *Exceptions.* (i) This limitation on eligibility does not apply if the alien demonstrates by a preponderance of the evidence that exceptionally compelling circumstances exist, including if the alien, or the alien's family member as described in § 208.30(c) with whom the alien is traveling, demonstrates by a preponderance of the evidence that, at the time of entry, the alien or a member of the alien's family as described in § 208.30(c) with whom the alien is traveling:


(A) Faced an acute medical emergency;


(B) Faced an imminent and extreme threat to life or safety, such as an imminent threat of rape, kidnapping, torture, or murder; or


(C) Satisfied the definition of “victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons” provided in § 214.201 of this chapter.


(ii) An alien who demonstrates by a preponderance of the evidence any of the circumstances in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall necessarily establish exceptionally compelling circumstances.


(iii) An alien described in section 3(b) of the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h), or who establishes exceptionally compelling circumstances under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section has established exceptionally compelling circumstances under § 208.33(a)(3).


(b) *Application in credible fear determinations.* (1) *Initial determination.* The asylum officer shall first determine whether the alien is subject to the limitation on asylum eligibility under paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) Where the asylum officer determines that the alien is subject to the limitation on asylum eligibility under paragraph (a) of this section, then the asylum officer shall enter a negative credible fear determination with respect to the alien's asylum claim and continue to consider the alien's claim under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(ii) Where the asylum officer determines that the alien is not subject to the limitation on asylum eligibility under paragraph (a) of this section because the alien is not described in § 208.13(g), the asylum officer shall follow the procedures in § 208.33(b).


(iii) Where the asylum officer determines that the alien is not subject to the limitation on asylum eligibility under paragraph (a) of this section because the alien is described in section 3(b) of the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h), or is excepted from the limitation on asylum eligibility under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the asylum officer shall follow the procedures in § 208.30.


(2) *Protection eligibility screening.* (i) In cases in which the asylum officer enters a negative credible fear determination under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(3) of this section, the asylum officer will assess the alien under the procedures set forth in § 208.33(b)(2)(i) except that the asylum officer will apply a reasonable probability standard. For purposes of this section, *reasonable probability* means substantially more than a reasonable possibility, but somewhat less than more likely than not.


(ii) In cases described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(3) of this section, if the alien establishes a reasonable probability of persecution or torture with respect to the designated country or countries of removal, the Department will issue a positive credible fear determination and follow the procedures in § 208.30(f). For any case in which USCIS retains jurisdiction over the application for asylum pursuant to § 208.2(a)(1)(ii) for further consideration in an interview pursuant to § 208.9, USCIS may require aliens who received a negative credible fear determination with respect to their asylum claim under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section to submit a Form I-589, Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal, together with any additional supporting evidence in accordance with the instructions on the form, to USCIS within 30 days from the date of service of the positive credible fear determination. The date of service of the positive credible fear determination remains the date of filing and receipt of the asylum application under § 208.3(a)(2); however, for any case in which USCIS requires the alien to submit a Form I-589, it may extend the timelines in § 208.9(a)(1) and (e)(2) by up to 15 days. If USCIS requires the alien to submit a Form I-589 and the alien fails to do so within the applicable timeline, USCIS shall issue a Form I-862, Notice to Appear.


(iii) In cases described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(3) of this section, if the alien fails to establish a reasonable probability of persecution or torture with respect to all designated countries of removal, the asylum officer will provide the alien with a written notice of decision and inquire whether the alien wishes to have an immigration judge review the negative credible fear determinations.


(iv) The alien must indicate whether he or she desires such review on a Record of Negative Fear Finding and Request for Review by Immigration Judge.


(v) Only if the alien requests such review by so indicating on the Record of Negative Fear shall the asylum officer serve the alien with a Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge. The record of determination, including copies of the Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge, the asylum officer's notes, the summary of the material facts, and other materials upon which the determination was based shall be provided to the immigration judge with the negative determination. Immigration judges will evaluate the case as provided in 8 CFR 1208.35(b). The case shall then proceed as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(v)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) Where the immigration judge issues a positive credible fear determination under 8 CFR 1208.35(b)(2)(iii) or (b)(4), the case shall proceed under 8 CFR 1208.30(g)(2)(iv)(B).


(B) Where the immigration judge issues a negative credible fear determination, the case shall be returned to the Department for removal of the alien. No appeal shall lie from the immigration judge's decision and no request for reconsideration may be submitted to USCIS. Nevertheless, USCIS may, in its sole discretion, reconsider a negative determination.


(3) *Procedures in the absence of the limitation on asylum eligibility.* If the limitation on asylum eligibility in paragraph (a) of this section is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, then during the period(s) described in § 208.13(g), the asylum officer shall, as applicable, apply a reasonable probability screening standard for any protection screening under § 208.33(b)(2).


(c) *Family unity in the asylum merits process.* In cases where the Department retains jurisdiction over the application for asylum pursuant to § 208.2(a)(1)(ii), where a principal asylum applicant is found eligible for withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3) of the Act or withholding of removal under § 208.16(c)(2) and would be granted asylum but for the limitation on asylum in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or § 208.33(a), or both, and where an accompanying spouse or child as defined in section 208(b)(3)(A) of the Act does not independently qualify for asylum or other protection from removal or the principal asylum applicant has a spouse or child who would be eligible to follow to join that applicant as described in section 208(b)(3)(A) of the Act, the asylum officer may deem the principal applicant to have established exceptionally compelling circumstances under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and § 208.33(a)(3)(i).


(d) *Continuing applicability of limitation on eligibility.* (1) Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the limitation on asylum eligibility in paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to any asylum application filed by an alien who entered the United States during the time and in the manner described in § 208.13(g) and who is not covered by an exception in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, regardless of when the application is filed and adjudicated.


(2) The limitation on asylum eligibility in paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to an alien who was under the age of 18 at the time of the alien's entry, if—


(i) The alien is applying for asylum as a principal applicant; and


(ii) The asylum application is filed after the period of time in 208.13(g) during which the alien entered.


(e) *Severability.* The Department intends that in the event that any provision of this section, § 235.15, or the Presidential Proclamation of June 3, 2024, as defined in 8 CFR 208.13(h), is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, the provisions of this section and § 235.15 should be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to those provisions permitted by law, unless such holding is that a provision is wholly invalid and unenforceable, in which event the provision should be severed from the remainder of this section and the holding should not affect the remainder of this section or the application of the provision to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances.



---

[N] [89 FR 48769, June 7, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 81284, Oct. 7, 2024]




