# § 1489.10   General purpose and scope.

(a) This part sets forth the general terms, conditions, and policies governing the Commodity Credit Corporation's (CCC) operation of the Regional Agricultural Promotion Program (RAPP), which subsumes the former Agricultural Trade Promotion Program (ATP). This program will provide assistance to eligible organizations that conduct market promotion activities, including activities to address existing or potential non-tariff barriers to trade, to promote U.S. agricultural commodities in certain foreign markets. Specific program requirements will be set forth in Notices of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) announced through the *Grants.gov* website.


(b)(1) In addition to the provisions of this part, other regulations of general applicability issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), including the regulations set forth in chapter XXX of this title, may apply to the RAPP and RAPP Participants, to the extent that the regulations of general applicability in this paragraph (b)(1) do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part. The regulations include, but are not limited to:


(i) 7 CFR part 1, subpart A.


(ii) 7 CFR part 3.


(iii) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A.


(iv) 2 CFR part 417.


(v) 2 CFR part 418.


(vi) 2 CFR part 421.


(vii) 48 CFR part 31.


(2) In addition, relevant provisions of the CCC Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 *et seq.*) and any other statutory provisions that are generally applicable to the CCC are also applicable to the RAPP and the regulations set forth in this part.


(3) RAPP Participants must also comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and related civil rights regulations and policies.


(4) Other laws and regulations that apply to the RAPP and RAPP Participants include, but are not limited to:


(i) 2 CFR part 25.


(ii) 2 CFR part 170.


(iii) 2 CFR part 175.


(iv) 2 CFR part 180.


(v) 2 CFR part 200.


(vi) 2 CFR part 400.


(vii) 37 CFR 401.1.


(viii) Executive Order 13224, as amended, “Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism.”


(c) Under the RAPP, the CCC may provide multi-year grant assistance to eligible U.S. entities to conduct certain marketing and promotion activities, including activities to address existing or potential non-tariff trade barriers, aimed at developing, maintaining, or expanding commercial export markets for U.S. agricultural commodities. RAPP Participants may receive assistance for either generic or brand promotion activities. While activities generally take place overseas, reimbursable activities may also take place in the United States. The CCC expects that all activities that occur in the United States for which RAPP reimbursement is sought will develop, maintain, or expand the commercial export market for the relevant eligible commodity in accordance with the RAPP Participant's approved RAPP program.


(d) The RAPP generally operates on a reimbursement basis.


(e) The CCC's policy is to ensure that benefits generated by RAPP agreements are broadly available throughout the relevant agricultural sector and that no single entity gains an undue advantage. The CCC also endeavors to enter into RAPP agreements covering a broad array of agricultural commodity sectors. The RAPP is administered by personnel of the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) acting on behalf of the CCC.






