# § 300.201   Definitions.

For the purposes of the Moratorium Protection Act:


*Bycatch* means: the incidental or discarded catch of protected living marine resources or entanglement of such resources with fishing gear.


*Fishing vessel* means: any vessel, boat, ship, or other craft which is used for, equipped to be used for, or of a type which is normally used for—


(1) Fishing; or


(2) Any activity relating to fishing, including, but not limited to, preparation, supply, storage, refrigeration, transportation, or processing, bunkering or purchasing catch, or aiding or assisting one or more vessels at sea in the performance of such activity.


*Illegal, unreported, or unregulated (IUU) fishing* means:


(1) In the case of parties to an international fishery management agreement to which the United States is a party, fishing activities that violate conservation and management measures required under an international fishery management agreement to which the United States is a party, including but not limited to catch limits or quotas, capacity restrictions, bycatch reduction requirements, shark conservation measures, and data reporting;


(2) In the case of non-parties to an international fishery management agreement to which the United States is a party, fishing activities that would undermine the conservation of the resources managed under that agreement;


(3) Overfishing of fish stocks shared by the United States, for which there are no applicable international conservation or management measures, or in areas with no applicable international fishery management organization or agreement, that has adverse impacts on such stocks; or,


(4) Fishing activity that has a significant adverse impact on seamounts, hydrothermal vents, cold water corals and other vulnerable marine ecosystems located beyond any national jurisdiction, for which there are no applicable conservation or management measures or in areas with no applicable international fishery management organization or agreement.


(5) Fishing activities by foreign flagged vessels in U.S. waters without authorization of the United States.


*International agreement* means: an agreement between two or more States, agencies of two or more States, or intergovernmental organizations which is legally binding and governed by international law.


*International fishery management agreement* means: any bilateral or multilateral treaty, convention, or agreement for the conservation and management of fish.


*International fishery management organization* means: an international organization established by any bilateral or multilateral treaty, convention, or agreement for the conservation and management of fish.


*Protected living marine resources (PLMRs)* means: non-target fish, sea turtles, or marine mammals that are protected under United States law or international agreement, including the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Endangered Species Act, the Shark Finning Prohibition Act, and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna; but they do not include species, except sharks, that are managed under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act, or by any international fishery management agreement.



---

[N] [76 FR 2024, Jan. 12, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 3342, Jan. 16, 2013]




