# § 1.245A-9   Other rules and definitions.

(a) *In general.* This section provides rules of general applicability for purposes of §§ 1.245A-6 through 1.245A-10, a transition rule to revoke an election to eliminate disqualified basis, and definitions.


(b) *Rules of general applicability*—(1) *Correspondence.* An item of specified property corresponds to a section 245A shareholder's extraordinary disposition account if gain was recognized on the extraordinary disposition of the item and the gain was taken into account in determining the initial balance of the account. See § 1.245A-8(d) for additional rules regarding when an item of property is treated as corresponding to an extraordinary disposition account in certain complex cases.


(2) *Timing rules related to disqualified basis for purposes of applying §§ 1.245A-7(b) and 1.245A-8(b)*—(i) *Determination of disqualified basis.* For purposes of determining the fraction described in § 1.245A-7(b)(1)(ii) or § 1.245A-8(b)(1)(ii) when applying § 1.245A-7(b)(1) or § 1.245A-8(b)(1)(ii), respectively, for a taxable year of a section 245A shareholder, disqualified basis of an item of specified property is determined as of the beginning of the taxable year of the CFC that holds the item of specified property (in a case in which § 1.245A-7(b) applies) or the specified property owner (in a case in which § 1.245A-8(b) applies), in either case, that includes the date on which the section 245A shareholder's taxable year ends (and without regard to any reductions to the disqualified basis of the item of specified property pursuant to § 1.245A-7(b)(1) or § 1.245A-8(b)(1) for such taxable year of the CFC or the specified property owner, as applicable). However, if disqualified basis of the item of specified property arose as a result of an extraordinary disposition that occurred after the beginning of the taxable year of the CFC or the specified property owner described in the preceding sentence, then the disqualified basis of the item of specified property is determined as of the date on which the extraordinary disposition occurred (and without regard to any reductions to the disqualified basis of the item of specified property pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section for such taxable year of the CFC or the specified property owner).


(ii) *Reduction to disqualified basis of an item of specified property.* The reduction to disqualified basis of an item of specified property pursuant to § 1.245A-7(b)(1) or § 1.245A-8(b)(1) occurs on the date described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(iii) *Definition of specified property owner.* For purposes of applying § 1.245A-8(b)(1) and paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section for a taxable year of a section 245A shareholder, the term *specified property owner* means, with respect to an item of specified property, the person that, on at least one day of the taxable year of the person that includes the date on which the section 245A shareholder's taxable year ends, held the item of specified property. However, if, but for this sentence, there would be more than one specified property owner with respect to the item of specified property, then the specified property owner is the person that held the item of specified property on the earliest date that falls within the section 245A shareholder's taxable year.


(3) *Timing rules for reducing an extraordinary disposition account under §§ 1.245A-7(c) and 1.245A-8(c).* For purposes of § 1.245A-7(c)(1) or § 1.245A-8(c)(1), as applicable, with respect to a taxable year of a CFC, the reduction to an extraordinary disposition account pursuant to § 1.245A-7(c)(1) or § 1.245A-8(c)(1) occurs as of the end of the taxable year of the section 245A shareholder that includes the date on which the CFC's taxable year ends (and after the determination of any extraordinary disposition amounts or tiered extraordinary amounts, adjustments to the extraordinary disposition account for prior extraordinary disposition amounts, and the application of § 1.245A-7(b) or § 1.245A-8(b), as applicable, each for the taxable year of the section 245A shareholder).


(4) *Currency translation.* For purposes of applying §§ 1.245A-7(b) and 1.245A-8(b), the disqualified basis of (and, if applicable, a basis benefit amount with respect to) an item of specified property that corresponds to an extraordinary disposition account are translated (if necessary) into the functional currency in which the extraordinary disposition account is maintained, using the spot rate on the date the extraordinary disposition occurred. A reduction in disqualified basis of an item of specified property determined under § 1.245A-7(b)(1) or § 1.245A-8(b)(1) is translated (if necessary) into the functional currency in which the disqualified basis of the item of specified property is maintained, and a reduction in an extraordinary disposition account determined under § 1.245A-7(c) or § 1.245A-8(c) section is translated (if necessary) into the functional currency in which the extraordinary disposition account is maintained, in each case using the spot rate described in the preceding sentence.


(5) *Anti-avoidance rule.* Appropriate adjustments are made pursuant to this paragraph (b)(5), including adjustments that would disregard a transaction or arrangement in whole or in part, to any amounts determined under (or subject to application of) this section if a transaction or arrangement is engaged in with a principal purpose of avoiding the purposes of §§ 1.245A-6 through 1.245A-10.


(c) *Transition rule to revoke election to eliminate disqualified basis*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (c)(1) applies to an election that is filed, pursuant to § 1.951A-3(h)(2)(ii)(B)(*3*), to eliminate the disqualified basis of an item of specified property. An election to which this paragraph (c)(1) applies may be revoked if, on or before March 1, 2021—


(i) All controlling domestic shareholders (as defined in § 1.964-1(c)(5)) of the CFC (or, in the case of an election made by a partnership, the partnership) each attach a revocation statement (in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) to an amended return, for the taxable year to which the election applies, that revokes the election (or, in the case of a partnership subject to subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code, requests administrative adjustment under section 6227); and


(ii) The controlling domestic shareholders (or the partnership) each file an amended tax return, for any other taxable years reflecting the election to eliminate the disqualified basis, that reflects the election having been revoked (or, in the case of a partnership subject to subchapter C of chapter 63, requests administrative adjustment under section 6227).


(2) *Revocation statement.* Except as otherwise provided in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, a revocation statement attached by a person to an amended tax return must include the person's name, taxpayer identification number, and a statement that the revocation statement is filed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section to revoke an election pursuant to § 1.951A-3(h)(2)(ii)(B)(*3*). In addition, the revocation statement must be filed in the manner prescribed in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(d) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions in § 1.245A-5, the following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1.245A-6 through 1.245A-11.


(1) The term *adjusted earnings* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-7(c)(3) or § 1.245A-8(c)(3), as applicable.


(2) The term *basis benefit account* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(i).


(3) The term *basis benefit amount* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-8(b)(4)(ii).


(4) The term *disqualified basis* has the meaning provided in § 1.951A-3(h)(2)(ii).


(5) The term *domestic affiliate* means, with respect to a section 245A shareholder, a domestic corporation that is a related party with respect to the section 245A shareholder. *See also* § 1.245A-5(i)(19) (defining related party).


(6) The term *duplicate DQB* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-8(d)(2)(iii).


(7) The term *ECTI* means, with respect to a taxable year of a specified foreign person, the taxable income (or loss) of the specified foreign person determined by taking into account only items of income and gain that are, or are treated as, effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States (as described in § 1.882-4(a)(1)) and are not exempt from U.S. tax pursuant to a treaty obligation of the United States, and items of deduction and loss that are allocated and apportioned to such items of income and gain.


(8) The term *exchanged basis property* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-8(d)(2)(ii).


(9) The term *qualified deficit* has the meaning provided in section 952(c)(1)(B)(ii).


(10) The term *qualified related party* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-8(b)(3)(ii).


(11) The term *RGI account* means, with respect to a CFC and an extraordinary disposition account of a section 245A shareholder with respect to an SFC, an account of the section 245A shareholder with respect to an SFC (the initial balance of which is zero), adjusted at the end of each taxable year of the CFC pursuant to the rules of § 1.245A-7(c)(4) or § 1.245A-8(c)(4), as applicable. The RGI account must be maintained in the functional currency of the CFC.


(12) The term *specified foreign person* means a nonresident alien individual (as defined in section 7701(b) and the regulations under section 7701(b)) or a foreign corporation (including a CFC) that conducts, or is treated as conducting, a trade or business in the United States (as described in § 1.882-4(a)(1)).


(13) The term *specified property owner* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-8(b)(2)(iii).


(14) The term *subpart F income* has the meaning provided in section 952(a).


(15) The term *substituted property* has the meaning provided in § 1.245A-8(d)(1)(ii).


(16) The term *tested income* has the meaning provided in section 951A(c)(2)(A).


(17) The term *tested loss* has the meaning provided in section 951A(c)(2)(B).



---

[N] [T.D. 9934, 85 FR 76963, Dec. 1, 2020]




