# § 192.150   Information required in an application for conversion.

(a) *Required information.* A savings association's application for conversion must include all of the following information.


(1) The savings association's plan of conversion.


(2) Pricing materials meeting the requirements of § 192.200(b).


(3) Proxy soliciting materials under § 192.270, including:


(i) A preliminary proxy statement with signed financial statements;


(ii) A form of proxy meeting the requirements of § 192.255; and


(iii) Any additional proxy soliciting materials, including press releases, personal solicitation instructions, radio or television scripts that the savings association plans to use or furnish to its members, and a legal opinion indicating that any marketing materials comply with all applicable securities laws.


(4) An offering circular described in § 192.300.


(5) The documents and information required by Form AC. The savings association may obtain Form AC from the appropriate Federal banking agency.


(6) Where indicated, written consents, signed and dated, of any accountant, attorney, investment banker, appraiser, or other professional who prepared, reviewed, passed upon, or certified any statement, report, or valuation for use. *See* Form AC, instructions.


(7) The savings association's business plan, submitted as a separately bound, confidential exhibit. *See* § 192.160.


(8) Any additional information that the appropriate Federal banking agency requests.


(b) *Rejection of filing.* The appropriate Federal banking agency will not accept for filing, and may return, any application for conversion that is executed improperly, materially deficient, substantially incomplete, or that provides for unreasonable conversion expenses.




