# § 708b.304   Merger of a federally insured credit union into another federally insured credit union.

(a) *Merger resolution for continuing credit union, NCUA 6302.* The continuing credit union's board of directors must complete this form after it votes to merge with the merging credit union. The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include merger resolutions from both the merging and continuing credit unions.


(b) *Merger resolution for merging credit union, NCUA 6303.* The merging credit union's board of directors must complete this form after it votes to merge with the continuing credit union. The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include merger resolutions from both the merging and continuing credit unions.


(c) *Merger agreement, Form 6304.* Submit a proposed merger agreement to the NCUA with the initial merger package required by § 708b.104. Do not sign, date, or notarize the proposed agreement. At the completion of the merger, officials of the merging and continuing credit unions must sign this agreement and have it notarized. The continuing credit union should retain the original document. Send one copy of the executed form to the NCUA Regional Director (see Form NCUA 6309 in paragraph (g) of this section). The date you execute this document is the effective date of the merger.


(d) *Sample form notice to members, NCUA 6305A.* If a federally insured credit union is merging into another federally insured credit union, use of this form will meet the requirements of § 708b.106. Brackets provide instructions or indicate that the merging credit union should fill in the appropriate information, or select the appropriate option to conform the notice to the circumstances of the merger.


(e) *Form ballot, NCUA 6306A.*

(f) *Form certification of vote, NCUA 6308A.* Within ten calendar days after the membership vote, the merging credit union must complete this form and mail it to the NCUA Regional Director.


(g) *Form certification of completion of merger, NCUA 6309.* Within 30 calendar days after the effective date of the merger, the continuing credit union must complete this form and mail it to the NCUA Regional Director with the documents listed on the form.


(h) *Form calculation of PAS ratio, NCUA 6311.* The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include PAS calculations for both the merging and continuing credit unions. The Probable Asset/Share Ratio (PAS) reflects the relative worth of $1 of shares in a credit union, assuming it will be an on-going concern. The ratio is computed by dividing the net value of assets by the credit union's total shares.


(i) *Certification of no non-disclosed merger-related financial arrangements.* The merger package required by § 708b.104 must include the following certification.



---

[N] [83 FR 30311, June 28, 2018]




