# § 415.55   General payment rules.

(a) *Allowable costs.* Except as specified otherwise in §§ 413.102 of this chapter (concerning compensation of owners), 415.60 (concerning allocation of physician compensation costs), and 415.162 (concerning payment for physician services furnished to beneficiaries in teaching hospitals), costs a provider incurs for services of physicians are allowable only if the following conditions are met: 


(1) The services do not meet the conditions in § 415.102(a) regarding fee schedule payment for services of physicians to a beneficiary in a provider. 


(2) The services include a surgeon's supervision of services of a qualified anesthetist, but do not include physician availability services, except for reasonable availability services furnished for emergency rooms and the services of standby surgical team physicians. 


(3) The provider has incurred a cost for salary or other compensation it furnished the physician for the services. 


(4) The costs incurred by the provider for the services meet the requirements in § 413.9 of this chapter regarding costs related to patient care. 


(5) The costs do not include supervision of interns and residents unless the provider elects reasonable cost payment as specified in § 415.160, or any other costs incurred in connection with an approved GME program that are payable under §§ 413.75 through 413.83 of this chapter. 


(b) *Allocation of allowable costs.* The provider must follow the rules in § 415.60 regarding allocation of physician compensation costs to determine its costs of services. 


(c) *Limits on allowable costs.* The intermediary must apply the limits on compensation set forth in § 415.70 to determine its payments to a provider for the costs of services.



---

[N] [60 FR 63178, Dec. 8, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 47490, Aug. 12, 2005] 




