# ยง 315.802   Length of probationary period; crediting service.

(a) The probationary period required by ยง 315.801 is 1 year and may not be extended.


(b) Prior Federal civilian service (including nonappropriated fund service) counts toward completion of probation when the prior service:


(1) Is in the same agency, e.g., Department of the Army;


(2) Is in the same line of work (determined by the employee's actual duties and responsibilities); and 


(3) Contains or is followed by no more than a single break in service that does not exceed 30 calendar days.


(c) Periods of absence while in a pay status count toward completion of probation. Absence in nonpay status while on the rolls (other than for compensable injury or military duty) is creditable up to a total of 22 workdays. Absence (whether on or off the rolls) due to compensable injury or military duty is creditable in full upon restoration to Federal service. Nonpay time in excess of 22 workdays extends the probationary period by an equal amount. An employee serving probation who leaves Federal service to become a volunteer with the Peace Corps or the Corporation for National and Community Service serves the remainder of the probationary period upon reinstatement provided the employee is reinstated within 90 days of termination of service as a volunteer or training for such service.


(d) The probationary period for part-time employees is computed on the basis of calendar time, in the same manner as for full-time employees. For intermittent employees, *i.e.,* those who do not have regularly scheduled tours of duty, each day or part of a day in pay status counts as 1 day of credit toward the 260 days in a pay status required for completion of probation. (However, the probationary period cannot be completed in less than 1 year of calendar time.)



---

[N] [60 FR 53504, Oct. 16, 1995]




