# § 880.504   Leasing to eligible families.

(a) *Availability of units for occupancy by Eligible Families.* During the term of the Contract, an owner shall make available for occupancy by eligible families the total number of units for which assistance is committed under the Contract. For purposes of this section, making units available for occupancy by eligible families means that the owner: (1) Is conducting marketing in accordance with § 880.601(a); (2) has leased or is making good faith efforts to lease the units to eligible and otherwise acceptable families, including taking all feasible actions to fill vacancies by renting to such families; and (3) has not rejected any such applicant family except for reasons acceptable to the contract administrator. If the owner is temporarily unable to lease all units for which assistance is committed under the Contract to eligible families, one or more units may be leased to ineligible families with the prior approval of the contract administrator in accordance with HUD guidelines. Failure on the part of the owner to comply with these requirements is a violation of the Contract and grounds for all available legal remedies, including specific performance of the Contract, suspension or debarment from HUD programs, and reduction of the number of units under the Contract as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Reduction of number of units covered by Contract*—(1) *Part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects.* HUD (or the PHA at the direction of HUD, as appropriate) may reduce the number of units covered by the Contract to the number of units available for occupancy by eligible families if:


(i) The owner fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; or


(ii) Notwithstanding any prior approval by the contract administrator to lease such units to ineligible families, HUD (or the PHA at the direction of HUD, as appropriate) determines that the inability to lease units to eligible families is not a temporary problem.


(2) *For 24 CFR part 883 projects.* HUD and the Agency may reduce the number of units covered by the Contract to the number of units available for occupancy by eligible families if:


(i) The owner fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; or


(ii) Notwithstanding any prior approval by the Agency to lease such units to ineligible families, HUD and the Agency determine that the inability to lease units to eligible families is not a temporary problem.


(c) *Restoration.* For this part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects, HUD will agree to an amendment of the ACC or the Contract, as appropriate, to provide for subsequent restoration of any reduction made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, and for 24 CFR part 883 projects, HUD will agree to an amendment of the ACC and the Agency may agree to an amendment to the Contract to provide for subsequent restoration of any reduction made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, if:


(1) HUD determines (for 24 CFR part 883 projects, HUD and the Agency determine) that the restoration is justified by demand,


(2) The owner otherwise has a record of compliance with his obligations under the Contract, and 


(3) Contract and budget authority is available. 


(d) *Applicability.* In accordance with section 555 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990, paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to all Contracts. An owner who had leased an assisted unit to an ineligible family consistent with the regulations in effect at the time will continue to lease the unit to that family. However, the owner must make the unit available for occupancy by an eligible family when the ineligible family vacates the unit. 


(e) *Termination of assistance for failure to submit evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status.* If an owner who is subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is required to terminate housing assistance payments for the family in accordance with 24 CFR part 5 because the owner determines that the entire family does not have U.S. citizenship or eligible immigration status, the owner may allow continued occupancy of the unit by the family without Section 8 assistance following the termination of assistance, or if the family constitutes a mixed family, as defined in 24 CFR part 5, the owner shall comply with the provisions of 24 CFR part 5 concerning assistance to mixed families, and deferral of termination of assistance.


(f) *Protections for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.* The regulations of 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), apply to this section.



---

[N] [44 FR 59410, Oct. 15, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 31397, Aug. 7, 1984; 51 FR 11224, Apr. 1, 1986; 53 FR 846, Jan. 13, 1988; 53 FR 6601, Mar. 2, 1988; 59 FR 13652, Mar. 23, 1994; 60 FR 14841, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 13587, Mar. 27, 1996; 73 FR 72342, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66260, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 80811, Nov. 16, 2016]




