# § 2.510   How will the AS-IA handle my appeal?

If the AS-IA takes jurisdiction over your appeal, or if an appeal is made to the AS-IA in accordance with table 1 to paragraph (d) in § 2.507, the following procedures shall apply:


(a) Within 10 days of receipt of an appeal, or of assumption of jurisdiction over an appeal to the IBIA, the AS-IA shall transmit to the official who issued the decision being appealed and all known interested parties a notice that will include information on when and how to file briefs, access to the administrative record, and may include instructions for filing briefs via email.


(b) Briefs shall comply with § 2.214, and be submitted as follows, unless the AS-IA specifies otherwise:


(1) Initial briefs are invited from the appellant, all interested parties, and the official whose decision is on appeal. Initial briefs may not exceed 30 pages and shall be due within 21 days of the date of the AS-IA's notice. Initial briefs must include certification of service on the reviewing official and all other interested parties identified in the AS-IA's initial notice to interested parties;


(2) Answering briefs shall be due within 35 days of the date of the AS-IA's notice. Answering briefs shall not exceed 15 pages; and


(3) For good cause shown, the AS-IA may extend deadlines, may allow handwritten briefs, may provide for different page limits, and may permit submission of reply briefs.


(c) The AS-IA shall render a decision on the appeal within 60 days of the end of briefing. The AS-IA may, for good cause and with notice to the participants, extend the deadline for issuing a decision by no more than 60 days.


(d) The AS-IA may summarily affirm the decision of the official whose decision is on appeal based on the record before the official whose decision is on appeal.


(e) The AS-IA may delegate to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs the authority and responsibility for rendering a final agency decision on an appeal over which the AS-IA is exercising jurisdiction.






