# § 141.113   Recall of merchandise released from Customs and Border Protection custody.

(a)(1) *Merchandise not legally marked.* Certain merchandise is required to be marked or labeled pursuant to the following provisions: 


(i) Section 304, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1304), pertaining to marking with country of origin; 


(ii) Textile Fiber Products Identification Act (15 U.S.C. 70); 


(iii) Wool Products Labeling Act (15 U.S.C. 68); 


(iv) Fur Products Labeling Act (15 U.S.C. 69); and 


(v) Chapter 91, Additional U.S. Note 4, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), pertaining to special marking for watch and clock movements, cases, and dials. 


(2) If such merchandise is found after release to be not legally marked, the Center director may demand its return to CBP custody for the purpose of requiring it to be properly marked or labeled. The demand for marking or labeling shall be made not later than 30 days after the date of entry in the case of merchandise examined in public stores, and places of arrival, such as docks, wharfs, or piers. Demand may be made no later than 30 days after the date of examination in the case of merchandise examined at the importer's premises or such other appropriate places as determined by the port director or Center director. 


(b) *Textiles and textile products.* For purposes of determining whether the country of origin of textiles and textile products subject to the provisions of § 102.21 or § 102.22 of this chapter, as applicable, has been accurately represented to CBP, the release from CBP custody of any such textile or textile product shall be deemed conditional during the 180-day period following the date of release. If the Center director finds during the conditional release period that a textile or textile product is not entitled to admission into the commerce of the United States because the country of origin of the textile or textile product was not accurately represented to CBP, he shall promptly demand its return to CBP custody. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section and § 113.62(n)(1) of this chapter, a failure to comply with a demand for return to CBP custody made under this paragraph shall result in the assessment of liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved.


(c) *Food, drugs, devices, cosmetics, and tobacco products*—(1) *Conditional release period.* For purposes of determining the admissibility of any food, drug, device, cosmetic, or tobacco product imported pursuant to section 801(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 381(a)), as amended, the release from CBP custody of any such product will be deemed conditional. Unless extended in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the conditional release period will terminate upon the earliest occurring of the following events:


(i) The date that FDA issues a notice of refusal of admission;


(ii) The date that FDA issues a notice that the merchandise may proceed; or


(iii) Upon the end of the 30-day period following the date of release.


(2) *Extension of conditional release period.* The conditional release period provided under this paragraph (c) may be extended. The FDA must issue a written or electronic notice of sampling, detention, or other FDA action to the bond principal (*i.e.*, importer of record) within 30 days of the release of the merchandise in order for the extension of the conditional release period to be valid.


(3) *Issuance of a redelivery notice.* If FDA refuses admission of a food, drug, device, cosmetic, or tobacco product into the United States, or if any notice of sampling or other request is not complied with, FDA will communicate that fact to the Center director. An authorized CBP official will demand the redelivery of the product to CBP custody. CBP will issue a notice of redelivery within 30 days from the date the product was refused admission by the FDA or from the date FDA determined the noncompliance with a notice of sampling or other request. The demand for redelivery may be made contemporaneously with the notice of refusal issued by the FDA. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (i) of this section, a failure to comply with a demand for redelivery made under this paragraph (c) will result in the assessment of liquidated damages equal to three times the value of the merchandise involved unless the port director has prescribed a bond equal to the domestic value of the merchandise pursuant to § 12.3(b) of this Chapter.


(d) *Other merchandise not entitled to admission.* If at any time after entry an authorized CBP official finds that any merchandise contained in an importation is not entitled to admission into the commerce of the United States for any reason not enumerated in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, an authorized CBP official shall promptly demand the return to CBP custody of any such merchandise which has been released. 


(e) *Request for samples or additional examination packages not complied with by importer.* If the importer has not promptly complied with a request for samples or additional examination packages made by an authorized CBP official pursuant to § 151.11 of this chapter, an authorized CBP official may demand the return of the necessary merchandise to CBP custody. 


(f) *Demand to importer of record or actual owner.* A demand for the return of merchandise to CBP custody shall be made on the importer of record, except that it shall be made on the actual owner if an actual owner's declaration and superseding bond have been filed in accordance with § 141.20 before the date of the demand. 


(g) *Form of demand.* A demand for the return of merchandise to CBP custody shall be made on Customs Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent, or other appropriate form, or by letter. One copy, with the date of mailing or delivery noted thereon, shall be retained by an authorized CBP official and made part of the entry record. 


(h) *Time limitation.* A demand for the return of merchandise to CBP custody shall not be made after the liquidation of the entry covering such merchandise has become final. 


(i) *Demand not complied with.* When the demand of an authorized CBP official for return of merchandise to CBP custody is not complied with, liquidated damages shall be assessed, except in the case of merchandise entered under chapter 98, subchapter XIII, HTSUS (19 U.S.C. 1202), in an amount equal to the value of the merchandise not returned or three times the value of the merchandise not returned if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, as determined at the time of entry. The amount of liquidated damages to be assessed on merchandise entered under chapter 98, subchapter XIII, HTSUS is set forth in § 10.39(d)(3) of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973]


