# 25.400   Scope of subpart.

(a) This subpart provides policies and procedures applicable to acquisitions that are covered by—


(1) The World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement (WTO GPA), as approved by Congress in the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (Pub. L. 103-465);


(2) Free Trade Agreements (FTA), consisting of—


(i) USMCA (United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act (Government Procurement Agreement applicable only to the United States and Mexico) (Pub. L. 116-113) (19 U.S.C. chapter 29 (sections 4501-4732));


(ii) Chile FTA (the United States-Chile Free Trade Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Chile Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 108-77) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note));


(iii) Singapore FTA (the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 108-78) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note));


(iv) Australia FTA (the United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 108-286) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note));


(v) Morocco FTA (The United States—Morocco Free Trade Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States—Morocco Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 108-302) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note));


(vi) CAFTA-DR (The Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement, as approved by Congress in the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 109-53) (19 U.S.C. 4001 note));


(vii) Bahrain FTA (the United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 109-169) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note));


(viii) Oman FTA (the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 109-283) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note)); 


(ix) Peru FTA (the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 110-138) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note));


(x) Korea FTA (the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 112-41) (19 U.S.C 3805 note));


(xi) Colombia FTA (the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 112-42) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note)); and


(xii) Panama FTA (the United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 112-43) (19 U.S.C. 3805 note));


(3) The least developed country designation made by the U.S. Trade Representative, pursuant to the Trade Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 2511(b)(4)), in acquisitions covered by the WTO GPA;


(4) The Caribbean Basin Trade Initiative (CBTI) (determination of the U.S. Trade Representative that end products or construction material granted duty-free entry from countries designated as beneficiaries under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2701, *et seq.*), with the exception of Panama, must be treated as eligible products in acquisitions covered by the WTO GPA);


(5) The Israeli Trade Act (the U.S.-Israel Free Trade Area Agreement, as approved by Congress in the United States-Israel Free Trade Area Implementation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 2112 note)); or


(6) The Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft (U.S. Trade Representative waiver of the Buy American statute for signatories of the Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft, as implemented in the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2513)).


(b) For application of the trade agreements that are unique to individual agencies, see agency regulations.



---

[N] [69 FR 77873, Dec. 28, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 219, 2006; 71 FR 20307, Apr. 19, 2006; 71 FR 36937, June 28, 2006; 71 FR 67777, Nov. 22, 2006; 74 FR 28428, June 15, 2009; 77 FR 13954, Mar. 7, 2012; 77 FR 27549, May 10, 2012; 77 FR 69724, Nov. 20, 2012; 79 FR 24209, Apr. 29, 2014; 87 FR 73892, Dec. 1, 2022]




