# ยง 105.220   Drill and exercise requirements.

(a) *General.* (1) Drills and exercises must test the proficiency of facility personnel in assigned security duties at all MARSEC Levels and the effective implementation of the Facility Security Plan (FSP). They must enable the Facility Security Officer (FSO) to identify any related security deficiencies that need to be addressed.


(2) A drill or exercise required by this section may be satisfied with the implementation of security measures required by the FSP as the result of an increase in the MARSEC Level, provided the facility reports attainment to the cognizant COTP.


(b) *Drills.* (1) The FSO must ensure that at least one security drill is conducted every 3 months. Security drills may be held in conjunction with non-security drills, where appropriate.


(2) Drills must test individual elements of the FSP, including response to security threats and incidents. Drills should take into account the types of operations of the facility, facility personnel changes, the type of vessel the facility is serving, and other relevant circumstances. Examples of drills include unauthorized entry to a restricted area, response to alarms, and notification of law enforcement authorities.


(3) If a vessel is moored at the facility on the date the facility has planned to conduct any drills, the facility cannot require the vessel or vessel personnel to be a part of or participate in the facility's scheduled drill.


(c) *Exercises.* (1) Exercises must be conducted at least once each calendar year, with no more than 18 months between exercises.


(2) Exercises may be:


(i) Full scale or live;


(ii) Tabletop simulation or seminar;


(iii) Combined with other appropriate exercises; or


(iv) A combination of the elements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(3) Exercises may be facility-specific or part of a cooperative exercise program with applicable facility and vessel security plans or comprehensive port exercises.


(4) Each exercise must test communication and notification procedures, and elements of coordination, resource availability, and response.


(5) Exercises are a full test of the security program and must include substantial and active participation of FSOs, and may include government authorities and vessels visiting the facility. Requests for participation of Company and Vessel Security Officers in joint exercises should consider the security and work implications for the vessel.



---

[N] [USCG-2003-14732, 68 FR 39322, July 1, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 60541, Oct. 22, 2003]




