# § 221.22   How do I file a notice of intervention and response?

(a) *General.* (1) To intervene as a party to the hearing process, you must:


(i) Be a license party; and


(ii) File with the Office of Habitat Conservation, at the address provided in § 221.2, a notice of intervention and a written response to any request for a hearing within 20 days after the deadline in § 221.21(a)(2).


(2) A notice of intervention and response must be limited to one or more of the issues of material fact raised in the hearing request and may not raise additional issues.


(b) *Content.* In your notice of intervention and response you must explain your position with respect to the issues of material fact raised in the hearing request under § 221.21(b).


(1) If you agree with the information provided by NOAA under § 221.20(a) or by the requester under § 221.21(b), your response may refer to NOAA's explanation or the requester's hearing request for support.


(2) If you wish to rely on additional information or analysis, your response must provide the same level of detail with respect to the additional information or analysis as required under § 221.21(b).


(3) Your notice of intervention and response must also indicate whether or not you consent to service by electronic means under § 221.13(c)(4) and, if so, by what means.


(c) *Witnesses and exhibits.* Your response and notice must also list the witnesses and exhibits that you intend to present at the hearing, other than solely for impeachment purposes.


(1) For each witness listed, you must provide:


(i) His or her name, address, telephone number, and qualifications; and


(ii) A brief narrative summary of his or her expected testimony; and


(2) For each exhibit listed, you must specify whether it is in the license proceeding record.


(d) *Page limits.* (1) For each disputed factual issue, the information provided under paragraph (b) of this section (excluding citations to scientific studies, literature, and other documented information supporting your opinions) may not exceed two pages.


(2) For each witness, the information provided under paragraph (c)(1) of this section may not exceed one page.




