# § 417.496   Cost plan crosswalk.

(a) *General rules*—(1) *Definition.* Crosswalk means the movement of enrollees from one plan (or plan benefit package (PBP)) to another plan (or PBP) under a cost plan contract between the CMP or HMO and CMS. To crosswalk enrollees from one PBP to another is to change the enrollment from the first PBP to the second.


(2) *Prohibition.* (i) Crosswalks are prohibited between different contracts.


(ii) Crosswalks are prohibited between different plan IDs unless the crosswalk to a different plan ID meets the requirements in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(3) *Compliance with renewal/nonrenewal rules.* The cost plan must comply with renewal and nonrenewal rules in §§ 417.490 and 417.492 in order to complete plan crosswalks.


(b) *Allowable crosswalk types.* All cost plans may perform a crosswalk in the following circumstances:


(1) *Renewal.* A plan in the following contract year that links to a current contract year plan and retains the entire service area from the current contract year. The following contract year plan must retain the same plan ID as the current contract year plan.


(2) *Consolidated renewal.* A plan in the following contract year that combines 2 or more PBPs. The plan ID for the following contract year must retain one of the current contract year plan IDs.


(3) *Renewal with a service area expansion (SAE).* A plan in the following contract year plan that links to a current contract year plan and retains all of its plan service area from the current contract year, but also adds one or more new counties. The following year contract plan must retain the same plan ID as the current contract year plan.


(4) *Renewal with a service area reduction (SAR).* A plan in the following contract year that links to a current contract year plan and only retains a portion of its plan service area. The following contract year plan must retain the same plan ID as the current contract year plan. The crosswalk is limited to the enrollees in the remaining service area.


(c) *Exception.* (1) In order to perform a crosswalk that is not specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a cost organization must request an exception. CMS reviews requests and may permit a crosswalk exception in the following circumstance:


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, terminating cost plans offering optional benefits may transfer enrollees from one of the PBPs under its contract to another PBP under its contract, including new PBPs that have no optional benefits or optional benefits different than those in the terminating PBP.


(ii) A terminating cost plan cannot move an enrollee from a PBP that does not include Part D to a PBP that does include Part D.


(iii) If the terminated supplemental benefit includes Part D and the new PBP does not, enrollees must receive written notification about the following:


(A) That they are losing Part D coverage;


(B) The options for obtaining Part D; and


(C) The implications of not getting Part D through some other means.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [86 FR 6093, Jan. 19, 2021]




