# ยง 1.22   Use of futures customer funds restricted.

(a) No futures commission merchant shall use, or permit the use of, the futures customer funds of one futures customer to purchase, margin, or settle the trades, contracts, or commodity options of, or to secure or extend the credit of, any person other than such futures customer.


(b) Futures customer funds shall not be used to carry trades or positions of the same futures customer other than in contracts for the purchase of sale of any commodity for future delivery or for options thereon traded through the facilities of a designated contract market.


(c)(1) The undermargined amount for a futures customer's account is the amount, if any, by which:


(i) The total amount of collateral required for that futures customer's positions in that account, at the time or times referred to in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, exceeds


(ii) The value of the futures customer funds for that account, as calculated in ยง 1.20(i)(2).


(2) Each futures commission merchant must compute, based on the information available to the futures commission merchant as of the close of each business day,


(i) The undermargined amounts, based on the clearing initial margin that will be required to be maintained by that futures commission merchant for its futures customers, at each derivatives clearing organization of which the futures commission merchant is a member, at the point of the daily settlement (as described in ยง 39.14 of this chapter) that will complete during the following business day for each such derivatives clearing organization less


(ii) Any debit balances referred to in ยง 1.20(i)(4) included in such undermargined amounts.


(3)(i) Prior to the Residual Interest Deadline, such futures commission merchant must maintain residual interest in segregated funds that is at least equal to the computation set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Where a futures commission merchant is subject to multiple Residual Interest Deadlines, prior to each Residual Interest Deadline, such futures commission merchant must maintain residual interest in segregated funds that is at least equal to the portion of the computation set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section attributable to the clearing initial margin required by the derivatives clearing organization making such settlement.


(ii) A futures commission merchant may reduce the amount of residual interest required in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section to account for payments received from or on behalf of undermargined futures customers (less the sum of any disbursements made to or on behalf of such customers) between the close of the previous business day and the Residual Interest Deadline.


(4) For purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a futures commission merchant should include, as clearing initial margin, customer initial margin that the futures commission merchant will be required to maintain, for that futures commission merchant's futures customers, at another futures commission merchant.


(5) *Residual Interest Deadline defined.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the Residual Interest Deadline shall be the time of the settlement referenced in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or, as appropriate, (c)(4), of this section.


(ii) Starting on November 14, 2014 and during the phase-in period described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, the Residual Interest Deadline shall be 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the date of the settlement referenced in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or, as appropriate, (c)(4), of this section.


(iii)(A) No later than May 16, 2016, the staff of the Commission shall complete and publish for public comment a report addressing, to the extent information is practically available, the practicability (for both futures commission merchants and customers) of moving that deadline from 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the date of the settlement referenced in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or, as appropriate, (c)(4), of this section to the time of that settlement (or to some other time of day), including whether and on what schedule it would be feasible to do so, and the costs and benefits of such potential requirements. Staff shall, using the Commission's Web site, solicit public comment and shall conduct a public roundtable regarding specific issues to be covered by such report.


(B) Nine months after publication of the report required by paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(A) of this section, the Commission may (but shall not be required to) do either of the following:


(*1*) Terminate the phase-in period through rulemaking, in which case the phase-in period shall end as of a date established by a final rule published in the _Federal Register,_ which date shall be no less than one year after the date such rule is published; or


(*2*) Determine that it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest to propose through rulemaking a different Residual Interest Deadline. In that event, the Commission shall establish, if necessary, a phase-in schedule in the final rule published in the _Federal Register_.


(C) If the phase-in schedule has not been terminated or revised pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, then the Residual Interest Deadline shall remain 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the date of the settlement referenced in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or, as appropriate, (c)(4) of this section until such time that the Commission takes further action through rulemaking.



---

[N] [78 FR 68631, Nov. 14, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 15509, Mar. 24, 2015]




