# § 447.321   Outpatient hospital and clinic services: Application of upper payment limits.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to rates set by the agency to pay for outpatient services furnished by hospitals and clinics within one of the following categories:


(1) State government-owned or operated facilities (that is, all facilities that are owned or operated by the State.)


(2) Non-State government owned or operated facilities (that is, all government operated facilities that are neither owned nor operated by the State).


(3) Privately-owned and operated facilities.


(b) *General rules.* (1) Upper payment limit refers to a reasonable estimate of the amount that would be paid for the services furnished by the group of facilities under Medicare payment principles in subchapter B of this chapter.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, aggregate Medicaid payments to a group of facilities within one of the categories described in paragraph (a) of this section may not exceed the upper payment limit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Exceptions.* Indian Health Services and tribal facilities. The limitation in paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to Indian Health Services facilities and tribal facilities that are funded through the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638).


(d) *Compliance dates.* Except as permitted under paragraph (e) of this section, a State must comply with the upper payment limit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by one of the following dates:


(1) For non-State government-owned or operated hospitals—March 19, 2002.


(2) For all other facilities—March 13, 2001. 



---

[N] [66 FR 3176, Jan. 12, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 46399, Sept. 5, 2001; 67 FR 2611, Jan. 18, 2002; 72 FR 29835, May 29, 2007; 75 FR 73975, Nov. 30, 2010; 77 FR 31513, May 29, 2012]




