# § 52.36   What are the requirements of the Federal Implementation Plans (FIPs) for the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) relating to emissions of sulfur dioxide?

(a) The Federal CAIR SO2 Trading Program provisions of part 97 of this chapter constitute the Clean Air Interstate Rule Federal Implementation Plan provisions for emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO_2_). Each State that is described in § 51.124(c) of this chapter is subject to a finding by the Administrator that the State failed to submit a State Implementation Plan (SIP) to satisfy the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) of the Clean Air Act for the PM_2.5_ NAAQS. The provisions of subparts AAA through III of part 97 of this chapter, regarding the CAIR SO_2_ Trading Program, apply to sources in each of these States that has not promulgated a SIP revision approved by the Administrator as correcting that deficiency. Following promulgation of an approval by the Administrator of a State's SIP as meeting the requirements of CAIR for PM_2.5_ relating to SO_2_ under § 51.124 of this chapter, these provisions of part 97 of this chapter will no longer apply to sources in that State, except to the extent the Administrator's approval of the SIP is partial or conditional or unless such approval is under § 51.124(r) of this chapter.


(b) The provisions of this section do not invalidate or otherwise affect the obligations of States, emissions sources, or other responsible entities with respect to all portions of plans approved or promulgated under this part or the obligations of States under the requirements of §§ 51.124 and 51.125 of this chapter.


(c) The States with SIPs approved by the Administrator as meeting the requirements of CAIR for PM_2.5_ relating to SO_2_ under § 51.124(o) of this chapter are: Indiana, and Ohio


(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, such paragraph is not applicable as it relates to sources in the State of Minnesota as of December 3, 2009.


(e) Notwithstanding any provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, subparts AAA through III of part 97 of this chapter and any State's SIP to the contrary:


(1) With regard to any control period that begins after December 31, 2014,


(i) The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section relating to SO_2_ emissions shall not be applicable; and


(ii) The Administrator will not carry out any of the functions set forth for the Administrator in subparts AAA through III of part 97 of this chapter; and


(2) The Administrator will not deduct for excess emissions any CAIR SO_2_ allowances allocated for 2015 or any year thereafter.



---

[N] [72 FR 62343, Nov. 2, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 48863, Sept. 25, 2009; 74 FR 56726, Nov. 3, 2009; 75 FR 72962, Nov. 29, 2010; 76 FR 48354, Aug. 8, 2011; 79 FR 71671, Dec. 3, 2014; 81 FR 74586, Oct. 26, 2016]




