# § 122.730   Servicing of inflatable liferafts, inflatable buoyant apparatus, inflatable life jackets, and inflated rescue boats.

(a) An inflatable liferaft or inflatable buoyant apparatus must be serviced at a facility specifically approved by the Commandant for the particular brand, and in accordance with servicing procedures meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.151, of this chapter— 


(1) No later than the month and year on its servicing sticker affixed under 46 CFR 160.151-57(n), except that servicing may be delayed until the next scheduled inspection of the vessel, provided that the delay does not exceed 5 months; and 


(2) Whenever the container is damaged or the container straps or seals are broken. 


(b) Each inflatable lifejacket and hybrid inflatable lifejacket or work vest must be serviced: 


(1) Within 12 months of its initial packing; and 


(2) Within 12 months of each subsequent servicing, except that servicing may be delayed until the next scheduled inspection of the vessel, provided that the delay does not exceed 5 months.


(c) Each inflatable life jacket must be serviced in accordance with the servicing procedure under § 160.176 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant.


(d) Each hybrid inflatable life jacket or work vest must be serviced in accordance with the servicing procedure under § 160.077 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant.


(e) Repair and maintenance of inflated rescue boats must be in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. All repairs must be made at a servicing facility approved by the Commandant, except for emergency repairs carried out on board the vessel.



---

[N] [CGD 85-080, 61 FR 935, Jan. 10, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 51353, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-2001-11118, 67 FR 58541, Sept. 17, 2002]




