# ยง 63.3004   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined the Clean Air Act, in ยง 63.2, and in this section as follows: 


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative (e.g., a State that has been delegated the authority to implement the provisions of this part). 


*Deviation* means:


(1) Before August 28, 2019, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard;


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(iii) Fails to meet any emission limit, or operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.


(2) After February 28, 2019 for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after April 6, 2018, and after August 27, 2019 for all other affected sources, any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Drying and curing oven* means the process section that evaporates excess moisture from a fiberglass mat and cures the resin that binds the fibers. 


*Emission limitation* means an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard. 


*Fiberglass mat production rate* means the weight of finished fiberglass mat produced per hour of production including any trim removed after the binder is applied and before final packaging. 


*Loss-on-ignition* means the percentage decrease in weight of fiberglass mat measured before and after it has been ignited to burn off the applied binder. The loss-on-ignition is used to monitor the weight percent of binder in fiberglass mat. 


*Maximum residence time* means the longest time, during normal operation and excluding periods of ramping up to speed during startup, that a particular point on the fiberglass mat remains in the drying and curing oven. It is determined for each line by the equation:


*Non-HAP binder* means a binder formulation that does not contain any substance that is required to be listed in Section 3 of a safety data sheet (SDS) pursuant to 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and that is a HAP as defined in section 112(b) of the Clean Air Act. In designating a non-HAP binder under this subpart, you may not rely on the SDS for a binder where the manufacturer has withheld the specific chemical identity, including the chemical name, other specific identification of a hazardous chemical, or the exact percentage (concentration) of the substance in a mixture from Section 3 of the SDS. You may not withhold this information when making the case that the binder is a non-HAP binder for the purposes of ยง 63.2996.


*Nonwoven wet-formed fiberglass mat manufacturing* means the production of a fiberglass mat by bonding glass fibers to each other using a resin solution. Nonwoven wet-formed fiberglass mat manufacturing is also referred to as wet-formed fiberglass mat manufacturing. 


*Roofing square* means the amount of finished product needed to cover an area 10 feet by 10 feet (100 square feet) of finished roof. 


*Shutdown* after February 28, 2019 for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after April 6, 2018, and after August 27, 2019 for all other affected sources, means the cessation of operation of the drying and curing of any binder-infused fiberglass mat for any purpose. Shutdown ends when the maximum residence time has elapsed after binder-infused fiberglass mat ceases to enter the drying and curing oven.


*Startup* after February 28, 2019 for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after April 6, 2018, and after August 27, 2019 for all other affected sources, means the setting in operation of the drying and curing of binder-infused fiberglass mat for any purpose. Startup begins when binder-infused fiberglass mat enters the oven to be dried and cured for the first time or after a shutdown event.


*Thermal oxidizer* means an air pollution control device that uses controlled flame combustion inside a combustion chamber to convert combustible materials to noncombustible gases. 


*Urea-formaldehyde content in binder formulation* means the mass-based percent of urea-formaldehyde resin in the total binder mix as it is applied to the glass fibers to form the mat. 



---

[N] [67 FR 17835, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 6696, Feb. 28, 2019]




