# § 42.75   Director review.

(a) *Director Review generally.* In a proceeding under this part, the Director may review any decision on institution under 35 U.S.C. 135, 314, or 324, any final decision under 35 U.S.C. 135, 318, or 328, any decision granting rehearing of such a decision, or any other decision concluding a proceeding brought under 35 U.S.C. 135, 311, or 321. In the course of reviewing such a decision, the Director may review any interlocutory decision rendered by the Board in reaching that decision. For purposes of this section, the term “final decision” is defined as a “final decision” under 35 U.S.C. 135 as well as a “final written decision” under 35 U.S.C. 318 or 328.


(b) *Sua sponte Director review.* The Director, on the Director's own initiative, may initiate sua sponte Director Review of a decision as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. Absent exceptional circumstances, any sua sponte Director Review will be initiated within 21 days after the expiration of the period for filing a request for rehearing pursuant to § 42.71(d).


(c) *Requests for Director review.* A party to a proceeding under this part may file one request for Director Review of a decision as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, instead of filing a request for rehearing of that decision pursuant to § 42.71(d), subject to the limitations herein and any further guidance provided by the Director.


(1) *Timing.* The request must be filed within the time period set forth in § 42.71(d) unless an extension is granted by the Director upon a showing of good cause. No response to a Director Review request is permitted absent Director authorization.


(2) *Format and length.* A request for Director Review must comply with the format requirements of § 42.6(a). Absent Director authorization, the request must comply with the length limitations for motions to the Board provided in § 42.24(a)(1)(v).


(3) *Content.* Absent Director authorization, a request for Director Review may not introduce new evidence.


(d) *Final agency decision.* A decision on institution, a final decision, a decision granting rehearing of such decision on institution or final decision, or any other decision concluding a proceeding brought under 35 U.S.C. 135, 311, or 321 shall become the final agency decision unless:


(1) A party requests rehearing or Director Review within the time provided by § 42.71(d) or an extension of time for a request for Director Review is granted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section; or


(2) The Director initiates sua sponte review as provided by § 42.75(b). Upon denial of a request for Director Review of a final decision, of a decision granting rehearing of a final decision, or of any other decision concluding a proceeding brought under 35 U.S.C. 135, 311, or 321, the Board's decision becomes the final agency decision.


(e) *Process*—(1) *Effect on underlying proceeding.* Unless the Director orders otherwise, and except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, a request for Director Review or the initiation of review on the Director's own initiative does not stay the time for the parties to take action in the underlying proceeding.


(2) *Grant and scope.* If the Director grants Director Review, the Director shall issue an order or decision that will be made part of the public record, subject to the limitations of any protective order entered in the proceeding or any other applicable requirements for confidentiality. If the Director grants review and does not subsequently withdraw the grant, the Director Review will conclude with the issuance of a decision or order that provides the reasons for the Director's disposition of the case.


(3) *Appeal.* A party may appeal a Director Review decision of a final decision under 35 U.S.C. 135, 318, or 328, a decision granting rehearing of a final decision under 35 U.S.C. 135, 318, or 328, or any other appealable decision concluding a proceeding brought under 35 U.S.C. 135, 311, or 321 to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit using the same procedures for appealing other decisions under 35 U.S.C. 141(c), 141(d), 319. Director Review decisions on decisions on institution are not appealable. A request for Director Review of a final decision, a decision granting rehearing of a final decision, or any other appealable decision concluding a proceeding brought under 35 U.S.C. 135, 311, or 321, or the initiation of a review on the Director's own initiative of such a decision, will be treated as a request for rehearing under § 90.3(b)(1) of this chapter and will reset the time for appeal until after all issues on Director Review in the proceeding are resolved.


(f) *Delegation.* The Director may delegate their review of a decision provided in paragraph (a) of this section, subject to any conditions provided by the Director.


(g) *Ex parte communications.* All communications from a party to the Office concerning a specific Director Review request or proceeding must copy counsel for all parties. Communications from third parties regarding a specific Director Review request or proceeding, aside from authorized amicus briefing, are not permitted and will not be considered.





---

[N] [89 FR 79751, Oct. 1, 2024]




