# § 31.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Agency* means— 


(1) An Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, including the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission; 


(2) A military department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102; 


(3) An agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in 28 U.S.C. 610, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation; 


(4) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and 


(5) Any other independent establishment that is an entity of the Federal Government. 


*Days* refer to calendar days. 


*Department* means the Education Department. 


*Disposable pay* means the amount that remains from an employee's pay after required deductions for Federal, State, and local income taxes; Social Security taxes, including Medicare taxes; Federal retirement programs; premiums for basic life insurance and health insurance benefits; and such other deductions that are required by law to be withheld. 


*Employee* means a current or former employee of an agency. In the case of an offset proposed to collect a debt owed by a deceased employee, the references in this part to the employee shall be read to refer to the payee of benefits from the Federal retirement account or other pay of the employee. 


*Federal retirement account* means an account of an employee under the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employee Retirement System. 


*Offset* means a deduction from the pay of an employee, or a payment due from the Federal retirement account of an employee, to satisfy a debt. 


*Pay* means basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or, in the case of an individual not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay, including severance pay or lump sum payments for accrued annual leave, and amounts payable from the Federal retirement account of an employee. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Education or an official or employee of the Department acting for the Secretary under a delegation of authority.


