# § 3011.400   Motion for disclosure of non-public materials.

(a) *Application of this section.* This section applies to non-public materials during the initial duration of non-public status, up to ten years, and any non-public materials for which the Commission enters an order extending the duration of that status under § 3011.401(a).


(b) *Motion for disclosure of non-public materials.* Any person may file a motion with the Commission requesting that non-public materials be publicly disclosed. Any part of the motion revealing non-public information shall be filed in accordance with subpart B of this part. The motion shall justify why the non-public materials should be made public and specifically address any pertinent rationale(s) provided in the application for non-public treatment. The motion shall specify whether actual notice of the motion has been provided to each person identified in the application pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2). If the motion states that actual notice has been provided, the motion shall identify the individual(s) to whom actual notice was provided, the date(s) and approximate time(s) of actual notice, the method(s) of actual notice (by telephone conversation, face-to-face conversation, or an exchange of telephone or email messages), and whether the movant is authorized to represent that the motion (in whole or in part) has been resolved or is contested by the submitter or any other affected person. The motion shall be filed in the docket in which the materials were filed or in the docket in which the materials will be used; in all other circumstances, the motion shall be filed in the G docket for the applicable fiscal year.


(c) *Response.* If actual notice of the motion was provided in advance of the filing to each person identified pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2) by telephone conversation, face-to-face conversation, or an exchange of telephone or email messages, a response to the motion is due within three business days of the filing of the motion, unless the Commission otherwise provides. In all other circumstances, a response to the motion is due within seven calendar days of filing the motion, unless the Commission otherwise provides.


(d) *Reply.* No reply to a response shall be filed, unless the Commission otherwise provides.


(e) *Non-public treatment pending resolution.* Pending the Commission's resolution of the motion, information designated as non-public will be accorded non-public treatment.


(f) *Commission ruling.* The Commission may enter an order at any time after receiving a motion if the movant states that actual notice has been given to each person identified pursuant to § 3011.201(b)(2) and that the movant is authorized to represent that the motion is uncontested. In all other circumstances, the Commission will enter an order determining what non-public treatment, if any, will be accorded to the materials after the response period described in paragraph (c) of this section has expired. The determination of the Commission shall follow the applicable standard described in § 3011.104.



---

[N] [83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9644, Feb. 19, 2020]




