# § 516.71   Duties.

(a) *DA General Counsel.* The DA General Counsel is responsible for the following:


(1) Provide overall guidance on all issues concerning cooperation with OSC, including the investigation of alleged prohibited personnel practices and allegations of improper or illegal conduct.


(2) Review for adequacy and legal sufficiency each OSC report of investigation that must be personally reviewed by the Secretary of the Army.


(3) Ensure compliance with the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 by obtaining a suitable investigation of allegations of improper or illegal conduct received from OSC. This includes compliance with time limits for reporting results of the investigation and personal review of the report by the Secretary of the Army when required.


(4) Forward to the DOD Inspector General (DODIG) copies of each allegation of improper or illegal conduct referred to DA by OSC.


(5) Delegate to The Judge Advocate General the authority to act on behalf of the DA General Counsel in all OSC investigations of prohibited personnel practices.


(6) Act upon requests for counsel from “accused” or “suspected” employees.


(b) *Chief, Labor and Employment Law Office.* The Chief, Labor and Employment Law Office, OTJAG (DAJA-LE) is responsible for the following:


(1) Act for TJAG as the Senior Management Official in cooperating with OSC. As Senior Management Official, the Chief, DAJA-LE, through TJAG, will be responsible to the DA General Counsel for administration of the policies and procedures contained in this chapter.


(2) Promptly inform the DA General Counsel of any OSC investigation and consult with the DA General Counsel on any legal or policy issue arising from an OSC investigation.


(3) Serve as the HQDA point of contact in providing assistance to OSC.


(4) Act as DA attorney-of-record in administrative matters initiated by OSC before the MSPB which arise from an OSC investigation. As DA attorney-of-record, the Chief, DAJA-LE, will file necessary pleadings and make necessary appearances before the MSPB to represent DA interests.


(5) Monitor ongoing OSC investigations within DA.


(6) Ensure that appropriate DA personnel are fully apprised of their rights, duties and the nature and basis for an OSC investigation.


(7) Review and prepare recommendations to the General Counsel concerning any OSC recommended corrective action referred to DA. Such review and recommendations will address whether disciplinary action should be taken against DA civilian employees or military members, and whether the information warrants referral to appropriate authorities for corrective and disciplinary action.


(8) Seek OSC approval of DA proposed disciplinary action against an employee for an alleged prohibited personnel practice or other misconduct which is the subject of or related to any OSC investigation.


(9) Review and prepare recommendations for DA General Counsel concerning requests for counsel, to include identifying available DA attorneys to act as individual representatives. Upon approval of DA General Counsel, appoint DA civilian and military attorneys, to include attorneys from the U.S. Army Materiel Command and the Corps of Engineers, to represent individual military members or employees.


(10) Determine, to the extent practicable, whether an investigation is being or has been conducted which duplicates, in whole or in part, a proposed or incomplete OSC investigation, and convey that information to the OSC whenever it might avoid redundant investigative efforts.


(11) Provide guidance and assistance to activity Labor Counselors in fulfilling their duties as Liaison Officers.


(c) *Activity Labor Counselor.* The activity Labor Counselor will do the following:


(1) Act as Liaison Officer for OSC investigations arising within the command, activity or installation serviced by the Labor Counselor's client Employment Office.


(2) Promptly inform the MACOM labor counselor and the Chief, DAJA-LE, of any OSC inquiry or investigation.


(3) Act as the legal representative of the command, activity, or installation.


(4) Assist the OSC investigator with administrative matters related to the investigation, such as requests for witnesses and documents.


(5) Process all OSC requests for documents.


(6) Make appropriate arrangements for OSC requests to interview civilian employees and military members.


(7) Ensure that personnel involved are advised of the nature and basis for an OSC investigation, the authority of the OSC, and their rights and duties.


(8) Consult with the Chief, DAJA-LE, on policy and legal issues arising from the OSC investigation.


(9) Keep the Chief, DAJA-LE, informed of the status of the OSC investigation.


(l0) Act as agency representative before the MSPB in actions initiated by employees (individual right of action appeals).




