# ยง 73.2110   Bismuth citrate.

(a) *Identity.* The color additive bismuth citrate is the synthetically prepared crystalline salt of bismuth and citric acid, consisting principally of BiC_6_H_5_O_7_.


(b) *Specifications.* The color additive bismuth citrate shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that those impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* The color additive bismuth citrate may be safely used in cosmetics intended for coloring hair on the scalp, subject to the following restrictions:


(1) The amount of bismuth citrate in the cosmetic shall not be in excess of 2.0 percent (w/v).


(2) The cosmetic may not be used for coloring eyelashes, eyebrows, or hair on parts of the body other than the scalp.


(d) *Labeling.* (1) The label of the color additive bismuth citrate shall bear, in addition to any information required by law, labeling in accordance with the provisions of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(2) The label of a cosmetic containing the color additive bismuth citrate shall bear, in addition to other information required by law, the following statement, conspicuously displayed thereon:


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive for the prescribed use is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and, therefore, batches thereof are exempt from certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.



---

[N] [43 FR 44831, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 75 FR 14493, Mar. 26, 2010]




