# § 1.36B-3   Computing the premium assistance credit amount.

(a) *In general.* A taxpayer's premium assistance credit amount for a taxable year is the sum of the premium assistance amounts determined under paragraph (d) of this section for all coverage months for individuals in the taxpayer's family.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section—


(1) The cost of a qualified health plan is the premium the plan charges; and


(2) The term *coverage family* means, in each month, the members of a taxpayer's family for whom the month is a coverage month.




(c) *Coverage month*—(1) *In general.* A month is a coverage month for an individual if—


(i) As of the first day of the month, the individual is enrolled in a qualified health plan through an Exchange;


(ii) The taxpayer pays the taxpayer's share of the premium for the individual's coverage under the plan for the month by the unextended due date for filing the taxpayer's income tax return for that taxable year, the full premium for the month is paid by advance credit payments, or the amount of the premium paid (including by advance credit payments) for the month is sufficient to avoid termination of the individual's coverage for that month under one of the scenarios described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section; and




(iii) The individual is not eligible for the full calendar month for minimum essential coverage (within the meaning of § 1.36B-2(c)) other than coverage described in section 5000A(f)(1)(C) (relating to coverage in the individual market).


(2) *Certain individuals enrolled during a month.* If an individual enrolls in a qualified health plan and the enrollment is effective on the date of the individual's birth, adoption, or placement for adoption or in foster care, or on the effective date of a court order, the individual is treated as enrolled as of the first day of that month for purposes of this paragraph (c).


(3) *Premiums paid for a taxpayer.* Premiums another person pays for coverage of the taxpayer, taxpayer's spouse, or dependent are treated as paid by the taxpayer.


(4) *Scenarios for payments sufficient to avoid coverage termination.* The scenarios under which the amount of the premium paid (including by advance credit payments) for the month is sufficient to avoid termination of an individual's coverage for that month under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section are the following:


(i) The first month of a grace period described in 45 CFR 156.270(d) for the individual.


(ii) A month for which a premium payment threshold under 45 CFR 155.400(g) has been met and for which month the issuer of the individual's qualified health plan provides coverage.


(iii) A month for which a State department of insurance has, during a declared emergency, issued an order prohibiting the issuer of the individual's qualified health plan from terminating the individual's coverage for the month irrespective of whether the full premium for the month is paid.


(5) *Appeals of coverage eligibility.* A taxpayer who is eligible for advance credit payments pursuant to an eligibility appeal decision implemented under 45 CFR 155.545(c)(1)(ii) for coverage of a member of the taxpayer's coverage family who, based on the appeal decision, retroactively enrolls in a qualified health plan is considered to have met the requirement in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section for a month if the taxpayer pays the taxpayer's share of the premiums for coverage under the plan for the month on or before the 120th day following the date of the appeals decision.




(6) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (c):


(d) *Premium assistance amount*—(1) *Premium assistance amount.* The premium assistance amount for a coverage month is the lesser of—


(i) The enrollment premiums, which are the premiums for the month for one or more qualified health plans in which a taxpayer or a member of the taxpayer's family enrolls, reduced by any amounts—


(A) Refunded in the same taxable year as the premium liability is incurred; or


(B) Unpaid as of the unextended due date for filing the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxable year that includes the month; or


(ii) The excess of the adjusted monthly premium for the applicable benchmark plan (benchmark plan premium) over 
1/12 of the product of a taxpayer's household income and the applicable percentage for the taxable year (the taxpayer's contribution amount).




(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(e) *Adjusted monthly premium.* The adjusted monthly premium is the premium an issuer would charge for the applicable benchmark plan to cover all members of the taxpayer's coverage family, adjusted only for the age of each member of the coverage family as allowed under section 2701 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg). The adjusted monthly premium is determined without regard to any premium discount or rebate under the wellness discount demonstration project under section 2705(d) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-4(d)) and may not include any adjustments for tobacco use. The adjusted monthly premium for a coverage month is determined as of the first day of the month.


(f) *Applicable benchmark plan*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (f), the applicable benchmark plan for each coverage month is the second-lowest-cost silver plan (as described in section 1302(d)(1)(B) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18022(d)(1)(B))) offered to the taxpayer's coverage family through the Exchange for the rating area where the taxpayer resides for—


(i) Self-only coverage for a taxpayer—


(A) Who computes tax under section 1(c) (unmarried individuals other than surviving spouses and heads of household) and is not allowed a deduction under section 151 for a dependent for the taxable year;


(B) Who purchases only self-only coverage for one individual; or


(C) Whose coverage family includes only one individual; and


(ii) Family coverage for all other taxpayers.


(2) *Family coverage.* The applicable benchmark plan for family coverage is the second lowest-cost silver plan that would cover the members of the taxpayer's coverage family (such as a plan covering two adults if the members of a taxpayer's coverage family are two adults).


(3) *Silver-level plan not covering pediatric dental benefits.* If one or more silver-level qualified health plans offered through an Exchange do not cover pediatric dental benefits, the premium for the applicable benchmark plan is determined based on the second lowest-cost option among—


(i) The silver-level qualified health plans that are offered by the Exchange to the members of the coverage family and that provide pediatric dental benefits; and


(ii) The silver-level qualified health plans that are offered by the Exchange to the members of the coverage family that do not provide pediatric dental benefits in conjunction with the second lowest-cost portion of the premium for a stand-alone dental plan (within the meaning of section 1311(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031(d)(2)(B)(ii)) offered by the Exchange to the members of the coverage family that is properly allocable to pediatric dental benefits determined under guidance issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.


(4) *Family members residing in different locations.* If members of a taxpayer's coverage family reside in different locations, the taxpayer's benchmark plan premium is the sum of the premiums for the applicable benchmark plans for each group of coverage family members residing in different locations, based on the plans offered to the group through the Exchange where the group resides. If all members of a taxpayer's coverage family reside in a single location that is different from where the taxpayer resides, the taxpayer's benchmark plan premium is the premium for the applicable benchmark plan for the coverage family, based on the plans offered through the Exchange to the taxpayer's coverage family for the rating area where the coverage family resides.


(5) *Single or multiple policies needed to cover the family*—(i) *Policy covering a taxpayer's family.* If a silver-level plan or a stand-alone dental plan offers coverage to all members of a taxpayer's coverage family who reside in the same location under a single policy, the premium (or allocable portion thereof, in the case of a stand-alone dental plan) taken into account for the plan for purposes of determining the applicable benchmark plan under paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), and (f)(3) of this section is the premium for this single policy.


(ii) *Policy not covering a taxpayer's family.* If a silver-level qualified health plan or a stand-alone dental plan would require multiple policies to cover all members of a taxpayer's coverage family who reside in the same location (for example, because of the relationships within the family), the premium (or allocable portion thereof, in the case of a standalone dental plan) taken into account for the plan for purposes of determining the applicable benchmark plan under paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), and (f)(3) of this section is the sum of the premiums (or allocable portion thereof, in the case of a stand-alone dental plan) for self-only policies under the plan for each member of the coverage family who resides in the same location.


(6) *Plan not available for enrollment.* A silver-level qualified health plan or a stand-alone dental plan that is not open to enrollment by a taxpayer or family member at the time the taxpayer or family member enrolls in a qualified health plan is disregarded in determining the applicable benchmark plan.


(7) *Benchmark plan terminates or closes to enrollment during the year.* A silver-level qualified health plan or a stand-alone dental plan that is used for purposes of determining the applicable benchmark plan under this paragraph (f) for a taxpayer does not cease to be the applicable benchmark plan for a taxable year solely because the plan or a lower cost plan terminates or closes to enrollment during the taxable year.


(8) *Only one silver-level plan offered to the coverage family.* If there is only one silver-level qualified health plan or one stand-alone dental plan offered through an Exchange that would cover all members of a taxpayer's coverage family who reside in the same location (whether under one policy or multiple policies), that plan is used for purposes of determining the taxpayer's applicable benchmark plan.


(9) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (f). Unless otherwise stated, in each example the plans are open to enrollment to a taxpayer or family member at the time of enrollment and are offered through the Exchange for the rating area where the taxpayer resides:


(g) *Applicable percentage*—(1) *In general.* The applicable percentage multiplied by a taxpayer's household income determines the taxpayer's annual required share of premiums for the benchmark plan. The required share is divided by 12 and this monthly amount is subtracted from the adjusted monthly premium for the applicable benchmark plan when computing the premium assistance amount. The applicable percentage is computed by first determining the percentage that the taxpayer's household income bears to the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size. The resulting Federal poverty line percentage is then compared to the income categories described in the table in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. An applicable percentage within an income category increases on a sliding scale in a linear manner and is rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014, the applicable percentages in the table will be adjusted by the ratio of premium growth to income growth for the preceding calendar year and may be further adjusted to reflect changes to the data used to compute the ratio of premium growth to income growth for the 2014 calendar year or the data sources used to compute the ratio of premium growth to income growth. Premium growth and income growth will be determined in accordance with published guidance, see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter. In addition, the applicable percentages in the table may be adjusted for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018, to reflect rates of premium growth relative to growth in the consumer price index.




(2) *Applicable percentage table.*

(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (g):


(h) *Plan covering more than one family*—(1) *In general.* If a qualified health plan covers more than one family under a single policy, each applicable taxpayer covered by the plan may claim a premium tax credit, if otherwise allowable. Each taxpayer computes the credit using that taxpayer's applicable percentage, household income, and the benchmark plan that applies to the taxpayer under paragraph (f) of this section. In determining whether the amount computed under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section (the premiums for the qualified health plan in which the taxpayer enrolls) is less than the amount computed under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section (the benchmark plan premium minus the product of household income and the applicable percentage), the premiums paid are allocated to each taxpayer in proportion to the premiums for each taxpayer's applicable benchmark plan.


(2) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of this paragraph (h):


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Additional benefits*—(1) *In general.* If a qualified health plan offers benefits in addition to the essential health benefits a qualified health plan must provide under section 1302 of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18022), or a State requires a qualified health plan to cover benefits in addition to these essential health benefits, the portion of the premium for the plan properly allocable to the additional benefits is excluded from the monthly premiums under paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. Premiums are allocated to additional benefits before determining the applicable benchmark plan under paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) *Method of allocation.* The portion of the premium properly allocable to additional benefits is determined under guidance issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. See section 36B(b)(3)(D).


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (j):


(k) *Pediatric dental coverage*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of determining the amount of the monthly premium a taxpayer pays for coverage under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, if an individual enrolls in both a qualified health plan and a plan described in section 1311(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 13031(d)(2)(B)(ii)) (a stand-alone dental plan), the portion of the premium for the stand-alone dental plan that is properly allocable to pediatric dental benefits that are essential benefits required to be provided by a qualified health plan is treated as a premium payable for the individual's qualified health plan.


(2) *Method of allocation.* The portion of the premium for a stand-alone dental plan properly allocable to pediatric dental benefits is determined under guidance issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.


(3) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of this paragraph (k):


(l) *Families including individuals not lawfully present*—(1) *In general.* If one or more individuals for whom a taxpayer is allowed a deduction under section 151 are not lawfully present (within the meaning of § 1.36B-1(g)), the percentage a taxpayer's household income bears to the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size for purposes of determining the applicable percentage under paragraph (g) of this section is determined by excluding individuals who are not lawfully present from family size and by determining household income in accordance with paragraph (l)(2) of this section.


(2) *Revised household income computation*—(i) *Statutory method.* For purposes of paragraph (l)(1) of this section, household income is equal to the product of the taxpayer's household income (determined without regard to this paragraph (l)(2)) and a fraction—


(A) The numerator of which is the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size determined by excluding individuals who are not lawfully present; and


(B) The denominator of which is the Federal poverty line for the taxpayer's family size determined by including individuals who are not lawfully present.


(ii) *Comparable method.* The Commissioner may describe a comparable method in additional published guidance, see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter.


(m) *Applicability date.* Paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013.




(n) *Applicability dates.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (n)(2) through (4) of this section, this section applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013.


(2) Paragraphs (d)(1) (except for paragraph (d)(1)(i)) and (2) of this section apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016. Paragraph (f) of this section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018. Paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of § 1.36B-3, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2016, apply to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013, and beginning before January 1, 2017. Paragraph (f) of § 1.36B-3, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2016, applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013, and beginning before January 1, 2019.


(3) Paragraphs (c)(4) through (6) of this section apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2025. Paragraph (c)(4) of this section, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2024, applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016, and beginning before January 1, 2025. Paragraph (c)(5) of this section, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2024, applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013, and beginning before January 1, 2025.


(4) Paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2025. Paragraph (d)(1)(i) of § 1.36B-3, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2016, applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 2013, and beginning before January 1, 2017. Paragraph (d)(1)(i) of § 1.36B-3, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2022, applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016, and beginning before January 1, 2023. Paragraph (d)(1)(i) of § 1.36B-3, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2024, applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022, and beginning before January 1, 2025.





---

[N] [T.D. 9590, 77 FR 30385, May 23, 2012; 77 FR 41048, July 12, 2012; T.D. 9683, 79 FR 43627, July 28, 2014; T.D. 9745, 80 FR 78975, Dec. 18, 2015; 81 FR 2088, Jan. 15, 2016; T.D. 9804, 81 FR 91765, Dec. 19, 2016; T.D. 9822, 82 FR 34606, July 26, 2017; T.D. 9968, 87 FR 62002, Oct. 13, 2022; T.D. 10019, 89 FR 102725, Dec. 18, 2024]




