# ยง 648.72   Surfclam and ocean quahog specifications.

(a) *Establishing catch quotas.* The amount of surfclams or ocean quahogs that may be caught annually by fishing vessels subject to these regulations will be specified by the Regional Administrator for a period up to the maximum number of years needed to align with the Northeast Region Coordinating Council-approved stock assessment schedule. Specifications of the annual quotas will be accomplished in the final year of the quota period, unless the quotas are modified in the interim pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(1) *Quota reports.* On an annual basis, MAFMC staff will produce and provide to the MAFMC an Atlantic surfclam and ocean quahog annual quota recommendation paper based on the ABC recommendation of the SSC, the latest available stock assessment report prepared by NMFS, data reported by harvesters and processors, and other relevant data, as well as the information contained in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section. Based on that report, and at least once prior to August 15 of the year in which a multi-year annual quota specification expires, the MAFMC, following an opportunity for public comment, will recommend to the Regional Administrator annual quotas and estimates of DAH and DAP for a period up to the maximum number of years needed to align with the Northeast Region Coordinating Council-approved stock assessment schedule. In selecting the annual quotas, the MAFMC shall consider the current stock assessments, catch reports, and other relevant information concerning:


(i) Exploitable and spawning biomass relative to the quotas.


(ii) Fishing mortality rates relative to the quotas.


(iii) Magnitude of incoming recruitment.


(iv) Projected effort and corresponding catches.


(v) Geographical distribution of the catch relative to the geographical distribution of the resource.


(vi) Status of areas previously closed to surfclam fishing that are to be opened during the year and areas likely to be closed to fishing during the year.


(2) *Public review.* Based on the recommendation of the MAFMC, the Regional Administrator shall publish proposed surfclam and ocean quahog quotas in the _Federal Register._ The Regional Administrator shall consider public comments received, determine the appropriate annual quotas, and publish the annual quotas in the _Federal Register._ The quota shall be set at that amount that is most consistent with the objectives of the Atlantic Surfclam and Ocean Quahog FMP. The Regional Administrator may set quotas at quantities different from the MAFMC's recommendations only if he/she can demonstrate that the MAFMC's recommendations violate the national standards of the Magnuson-Stevens Act or the objectives of the Atlantic Surfclam and Ocean Quahog FMP or other applicable law.


(b) *Interim quota modifications.* Based upon information presented in the quota reports described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the MAFMC may recommend to the Regional Administrator a modification to the annual quotas that have been specified for a multi-year period and any estimate of DAH or DAP made in conjunction with such specifications within the ranges specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Based upon the MAFMC's recommendation, the Regional Administrator may propose surfclam and or ocean quahog quotas that differ from the annual quotas specified for the current multi-year period. Such modification shall be in effect for a period up to the maximum number of years needed to align with the Northeast Region Coordinating Council-approved stock assessment schedule, unless further modified. Any interim modification shall follow the same procedures for establishing the annual quotas that are specified for a multi-year period.


(c) *Annual quotas.* The annual quotas for surfclams and ocean quahogs will remain effective unless revised pursuant to this section. At the end of a multiyear quota period, NMFS will issue notification in the _Federal Register_ if the previous year's specifications will not be changed.



---

[N] [76 FR 60622, Sept. 29, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 38972, June 15, 2016; 87 FR 71529, Nov. 23, 2022]




