# § 48.4082-4   Diesel fuel and kerosene; back-up tax.

(a) *Imposition of tax*—(1) *In general.* Tax is imposed by section 4041 on the delivery into the fuel supply tank of the propulsion engine of a diesel-powered highway vehicle (other than a diesel-powered bus) of—


(i) Any diesel fuel or kerosene on which tax has not been imposed by section 4081;


(ii) Any diesel fuel or kerosene for which a credit or payment has been allowed under section 6427; or 


(iii) Any liquid (other than taxable fuel) for use as fuel.


(2) *Liability for tax*—(i) *In general.* The operator of the highway vehicle into which the fuel is delivered is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(ii) *Joint and several liability of the seller.* The seller of the fuel is jointly and severally liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the seller knows or has reason to know that the fuel will not be used in a nontaxable use.


(3) *Rate of tax.* The rate of tax is the rate imposed on diesel fuel by section 4081(a).


(b) *Tax on diesel fuel and kerosene; buses and trains*—(1) *In general.* Tax is imposed by section 4041 on the delivery into the fuel supply tank of the propulsion engine of a diesel-powered bus or a diesel-powered train of—


(i) Any diesel fuel or kerosene on which tax has not been imposed by section 4081;


(ii) Any diesel fuel or kerosene for which a credit or payment has been allowed under section 6427; or 


(iii) Any liquid (other than taxable fuel) for use as fuel.


(2) *Liability for tax*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the operator of the bus or train into which the fuel is delivered is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) *Special rule for certain train operators.* The person that delivers the fuel into the fuel supply tank of a train, rather than the train operator, is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if, at the time of the delivery—


(A) The deliverer of the fuel and the operator of the train are both registered as train operators under § 48.4101-1; and


(B) A written agreement between the deliverer of the fuel and the operator requires the deliverer to pay the tax imposed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) *Rate of tax*—(i) *Buses*—(A) *In general.* The rate of tax under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the sum of the rates described in sections 4041(a)(1)(C)(iii)(I) and 4041(d)(1) (the bus rate) if the bus is used to furnish (for compensation) passenger land transportation available to the general public and either such transportation is scheduled and along regular routes or the seating capacity of the bus is at least 20 adults (not including the driver). A bus is available to the general public if the bus is available for hire to more than a limited number of persons, groups, or organizations.


(B) *Other uses.* The rate of tax under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the rate of tax imposed on diesel fuel by section 4081(a) if the bus is used for a purpose other than that described in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.


(ii) *Trains.* The rate of tax under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the rate prescribed in section 4041 for diesel fuel sold for use in a train (the train rate).


(4) *Cross reference.* For the registration requirement relating to certain bus and train operators, see § 48.4101-1(c)(2).


(c) *Exemptions.* The taxes imposed under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to a delivery of any liquid for—


(1) Use on a farm for farming purposes as that term and related terms are defined in § 48.6420-4 (a) through (g);


(2) The exclusive use of a State;


(3) Use described in section 4041(h) (relating to use in a vehicle owned by an aircraft museum);


(4) Use in a bus while the bus is engaged in the transportation of students and employees of schools (as defined in the last sentence of section 4221(d)(7)(C));


(5) Use in a qualified local bus (as defined in section 6427(b)(2)(D)) while the bus is engaged in furnishing (for compensation) intracity passenger land transportation that is available to the general public and is scheduled and along regular routes;


(6) Use in a highway vehicle that—


(i) Is not registered (and is not required to be registered) for highway use under the laws of any State or foreign country; and


(ii) Is used in the operator's trade or business or in an activity of the operator described in section 212 (relating to the production of income);


(7) The exclusive use of a nonprofit educational organization, as defined in § 48.4221-6(b); or


(8) Use in a highway vehicle that is owned by the United States and is not used on the highway.


(d) *Effective date.* This section is applicable after December 31, 1993, except that references to kerosene are applicable after June 30, 1998.



---

[N] [T.D. 8659, 61 FR 10458, Mar. 14, 1996, as amended by T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17157, Mar. 31, 2000]




