# ยง 134.207   Amendments and supplemental pleadings.

(a) *Amendments.* Upon motion (*see* ยง 134.211), and under terms needed to avoid prejudice to any non-moving party, the Judge may permit the filing and service of amendments to pleadings. However, an amendment will not be permitted if it would cause unreasonable delay in the determination of the matter. The proposed amendment must be filed and served with the motion. The Judge, on his or her own initiative, may order a party to file and serve an amendment to a pleading.


(b) *Supplemental pleadings.* Upon motion (*see* ยง 134.211), and under terms needed to avoid prejudice to any non-moving party, the Judge may permit the filing and service of a supplemental pleading setting forth relevant transactions or occurrences that have taken place since the filing of the original pleading. The proposed supplemental pleading must be filed and served with the motion. The Judge, on his or her own initiative, may order a party to file and serve a supplemental pleading.


(c) *8(a) appeals.* In 8(a) program appeals, amendments to pleadings and supplemental pleadings will be permitted by the Judge only upon a showing of good cause.


(d) *Answer or response.* In an order permitting the filing and service of an amended or supplemented petition or order to show cause, the Judge will establish the time for filing and serving an answer or response.



---

[N] [61 FR 2683, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47248, July 18, 2002; 75 FR 47441, Aug. 6, 2010]




