# § 51.122   Emissions reporting requirements for SIP revisions relating to budgets for NO

(a) As used in this section, words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in § 51.50. In addition, the following terms shall apply to this section:


(1) Ozone season emissions means emissions during the period from May 1 through September 30 of a year.


(2) Summer day emissions means an average day's emissions for a typical summer work weekday. The state will select the particular month(s) in summer and the day(s) in the work week to be represented.


(b) For its transport SIP revision under § 51.121, each state must submit to EPA NO_X_ emissions data as described in this section.


(c) Each revision must provide for periodic reporting by the state of NO_X_ emissions data to demonstrate whether the state's emissions are consistent with the projections contained in its approved SIP submission.


(1) For the every-year reporting cycle, each revision must provide for reporting of NO_X_ emissions data every year as follows:


(i) The state must report to EPA emissions data from all NO_X_ sources within the state for which the state specified control measures in its SIP submission under § 51.121(g), including all sources for which the state has adopted measures that differ from the measures incorporated into the baseline inventory for the year 2007 that the state developed in accordance with § 51.121(g).The state must also report to EPA ozone season emissions of NO_X_ and summer day emissions of NO_X_ from any point, nonpoint, onroad mobile, or nonroad mobile source for which the state specified control measures in its SIP submission under § 51.121(g).


(ii) If sources report NO_X_ emissions data to EPA for a given year pursuant to the monitoring and reporting requirements of 40 CFR part 75, then the state need not provide an every-year cycle report to EPA for such sources.


(2) For the 3-year cycle reporting, each plan must provide for triennial (*i.e.,* every third year) reporting of NO_X_ emissions data from all sources within the state. The state must also report to EPA ozone season emissions of NO_X_ and summer day emissions of NO_X_ from all point sources, nonpoint sources, onroad mobile sources, and nonroad mobile sources.


(3) The data availability requirements in § 51.116 must be followed for all data submitted to meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) Each state must submit for EPA approval an example of the calculation procedure used to calculate ozone season emissions along with sufficient information to verify the calculated value of ozone season emissions.


(f) Data collection is to begin during the ozone season 1 year prior to the state's NO_X_ SIP Call compliance date.


(g) The state shall report emissions as point sources according to the point source emissions thresholds of the Air Emissions Reporting Rule (AERR), 40 CFR part 51, subpart A. The detail of the emissions inventory shall be consistent with the data elements required by 40 CFR part 51, subpart A. When submitting a formal NO_X_ Budget Emissions Report and associated data, states shall notify the appropriate EPA Regional Office.





---

[N] [73 FR 76558, Dec. 17, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 8796, Feb. 19, 2015; 84 FR 8443, Mar. 8, 2019]




