# ยง 362.17   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart, the following definitions will apply: 


(a) *Activity, company, control, insured depository institution, insured state bank, insured state nonmember bank and subsidiary* have the same meaning as provided in subpart A of this part. 


(b) *Affiliate* has the same meaning provided in subpart B of this part. 


(c) *Financial subsidiary* means any company that is controlled by one or more insured depository institutions other than: 


(1) A subsidiary that only engages in activities that the state nonmember bank is permitted to engage in directly and that are conducted on the same terms and conditions that govern the conduct of the activities by the state nonmember bank; or


(2) A subsidiary that the state nonmember bank is specifically authorized to control by the express terms of a federal statute (other than section 46(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831w)), and not by implication or interpretation, such as the Bank Service Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1861 *et seq.*). 


(d) *Tangible equity* and *Tier 2 capital* have the same meaning as set forth in part 324 of this chapter.


(e) *Well-managed* means: 


(1) Unless otherwise determined in writing by the appropriate federal banking agency, the institution has received a composite rating of 1 or 2 under the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System (or an equivalent rating under an equivalent rating system) in connection with the most recent state or federal examination or subsequent review of the depository institution and at least a rating of 2 for management, if such a rating is given; or 


(2) In the case of any depository institution that has not been examined by its appropriate federal banking agency, the existence and use of managerial resources that the appropriate federal banking agency determines are satisfactory. 



---

[N] [63 FR 66326, Dec. 1, 1998, as amended at 78 FR 55596, Sept. 10, 2013; 83 FR 17741, Apr. 24, 2018]




