# § 199.130   Stowage of survival craft.

(a) *General.* Each survival craft must be stowed—


(1) As close to the accommodation and service spaces as possible;


(2) So that neither the survival craft nor its stowage arrangements will interfere with the embarkation and operation of any other survival craft or rescue boat at any other launching station;


(3) As near the water surface as is safe and practicable;


(4) Except for liferafts intended for throw-overboard launching, not less than 2 meters above the waterline with the vessel—


(i) In the fully loaded condition;


(ii) Under unfavorable conditions of trim; and


(iii) Listed up to 20 degrees either way, or to the angle at which the vessel's weatherdeck edge becomes submerged, whichever is less.


(5) Sufficiently ready for use so that two crew members can complete preparations for embarkation and launching in less than 5 minutes;


(6) In a secure and sheltered position and protected from damage by fire and explosion, as far as practicable; and


(7) So as not to require lifting from its stowed position in order to launch, except that—


(i) A davit-launched liferaft may be lifted by a manually powered winch from its stowed position to its embarkation position; or


(ii) A survival craft that weights 185 kilograms (407.8 pounds) or less may be lifted not more than 300 millimeters (1 foot) in order to launch.


(b) *Additional lifeboat stowage requirements.* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each lifeboat must be stowed as follows:


(1) Each lifeboat for lowering down the side of the vessel must be stowed as far forward of the vessel's propeller as practicable. Each lifeboat, in its stowed position, must be protected from damage by heavy seas.


(2) Each lifeboat must be stowed attached to its launching appliance.


(3) Each lifeboat must have a means for recharging the lifeboat batteries from the vessel's power supply at a supply voltage not exceeding 50 volts.


(c) *Additional liferaft stowage requirements.* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each liferaft must be stowed as follows:


(1) Each liferaft must be stowed to permit manual release from its securing arrangements.


(2) Each liferaft must be stowed at a height above the waterline not greater than the maximum stowage height indicated on the liferaft container with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition. Each liferaft without an indicated maximum stowage height must be stowed not more than 18 meters (59 feet) above the waterline with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition.


(3) Each liferaft must be arranged to permit it to drop into the water from the deck on which it is stowed. A liferaft stowage arrangements meets this requirement if it—


(i) Is outboard of the rail or bulwark;


(ii) Is on stanchions or on a platform adjacent to the rail or bulwark; or


(iii) Has a gate or other suitable opening large enough to allow the liferaft to be pushed directly overboard and, if the liferaft is intended to be available for use on either side of the vessel, such gate or opening is provided on each side of the vessel.


(4) Each davit-launched liferaft must be stowed within reach of its lifting hook, unless some means of transfer is provided that is not rendered inoperable—


(i) Within the limits of trim and list specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;


(ii) By vessel motion; or


(iii) By power failure.


(5) Each rigid container for an inflatable liferaft to be launched by a launching appliance must be secured so that the container or parts of it do not fall into the water during and after inflation and launching of the contained liferaft.


(6) Each liferaft must have a painter system providing a connection between the vessel and the liferaft.


(7) Each liferaft or group of liferafts must be arranged for float-free launching. The arrangement must ensure that the liferaft or liferafts, when released and inflated, are not dragged under by the sinking vessel. A hydrostatic release unit used in a float-free arrangement must be approved under approval series 160.162.




