# § 301-73.106   What are the basic services that should be covered by a TMS?

The TMS must, at a minimum—


(a) Include a Travel Management Center (TMC), commercial ticket office (CTO), an in-house system, an electronically available system, or other method(s) of arranging travel, which has the ability to provide the following as appropriate to the agency's travel needs: 


(1) Booking and fulfillment of common carrier arrangements (e.g., flight confirmation and seat assignment, compliance with the Fly America Act, Governmentwide travel policies, contract city-pair fares, electronic ticketing, ticket delivery, etc.).


(2) Lodging information (e.g., room availability, reservations and confirmation, compliance with Hotel/Motel Fire Safety Act, availability of FedRooms® properties, per diem rate availability, etc.).


(3) Car rental and rail information (e.g., availability of Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) Government agreement rates where applicable, confirmation of reservations, etc.).


(b) Provide basic management information, such as—


(1) Number of reservations by type of service (common carrier, lodging, and car rental);


(2) Extent to which reservations are in compliance with policy and reasons for exceptions; 


(3) Origin and destination points of common carrier usage; 


(4) Destination points for lodging accommodations; 


(5) Number of lodging nights in approved accommodations; 


(6) City or location where car rentals are obtained; and 


(7) Other tasks, e.g., reconciliation of charges on centrally billed accounts and processing ticket refunds. 



---

[N] [FTR Amdt. 2003-07, 68 FR 71030, Dec. 22, 2003, as amended by FTR Amdt. 2007-05, 72 FR 61540, Oct. 31, 2007; FTR Amdt. 2010-05, 75 FR 63104, Oct. 14, 2010; 85 FR 39849, July 2, 2020; FTR Case 2023-03, 89 FR 77028, Sept. 20, 2024]












