# § 160.076-31   Production tests and examinations.

(a) Samples used in testing must be selected in accordance with the sampling plan accepted by the Commandant.




(b) On each sample selected—


(1) The manufacturer must conduct the tests specified in the follow-up program accepted by the Commandant;


(2) The recognized laboratory inspector must conduct or supervise the tests specified in the follow-up program accepted by the Commandant; and




(3) In addition to meeting the requirements of this section, each test result must meet the requirements, if any, contained in the approved plans and specifications.




(c) *Final lot examination and inspection*—(1) *General.* On each PFD lot that passes production testing, the manufacturer must perform a final lot examination and, on every fifth lot, a laboratory inspector must perform a final lot inspection. Each final lot must demonstrate—


(i) First quality workmanship;


(ii) That the general arrangement and attachment of all components, such as body straps, closures, inflation mechanisms, tie tapes, and drawstrings, are as specified in the approved plans and specifications;


(iii) Compliance with the marking requirements in § 160.076-39; and


(iv) That the information pamphlet and owner's manual required by § 160.076-35 and 160.076-37, respectively, are securely attached to the device, with the pamphlet selection information visible and accessible prior to purchase.


(2) *Accept/reject criteria.* Each nonconforming PFD must be rejected. If three or more nonconforming PFDs are rejected for the same kind of defect, lot examination or inspection must be discontinued and the lot rejected.


(3) *Manufacturer examination.* This examination must be conducted by a manufacturer's representative who is familiar with the approved plans and specifications, the functioning of the PFD and its components, and the production testing procedures. This person must not be responsible for meeting production schedules or be supervised by someone who is. This person must prepare and sign the record required by 159.007-13(a) of this chapter and 160.076-33(b).


(4) *Independent laboratory inspection.* (i) The inspector must discontinue lot inspection and reject the lot if examination of individual PFDs or the records for the lot shows noncompliance with either this section or the laboratory's or the manufacturer's quality control procedures.


(ii) If the inspector rejects a lot, the inspector must advise the Commandant or the recognized laboratory within 15 days.


(iii) The inspector must prepare and sign the inspection record required by 159.007-13(a) of this chapter and 160.076-33(b). If the lot passes, the record must include the inspector's certification that the lot passed inspection and that no evidence of noncompliance with this section was observed.


(d) *Disposition of rejected PFD lot or PFD.* (1) A rejected PFD lot may be resubmitted for testing, examination or inspection if the manufacturer first removes and destroys each defective PFD or, if authorized by the Commandant, reworks the lot to correct the defect.


(2) Any PFD rejected in a final lot examination or inspection may be resubmitted for examination or inspection if all defects have been corrected and reexamination or reinspection is authorized by the Commandant.


(3) A rejected lot or rejected PFD may not be sold or offered for sale under the representation that it meets this subpart or that it is Coast Guard-approved.



---

[N] [CGD 94-110, 60 FR 32848, June 23, 1995, as amended by CGD 94-110, 61 FR 13946, Mar. 28, 1996; USCG-2011-0076, 77 FR 19942, Apr. 3, 2012; USCG-2022-0120, 89 FR 97395, Dec. 6, 2024]




