# § 3420.1-3   Special leasing opportunities.

(a) The Secretary shall, under the procedures established in this subpart, including § 3420.3 of this title, reserve and offer a reasonable number of lease tracts through competitive lease sales open only to a restricted class of potential bidders. Except for the limitation on bidding contained in paragraph (b) of this section, all requirements in this subpart apply equally to special leasing opportunities, including the requirement that coal be leased at its fair market value.


(b) Special leasing opportunities shall be provided for two classes of potential lessees:


(1) *Public bodies.* (i) Only public bodies with a definite plan for producing energy for their own use or for their members or customers shall bid for leases designated as special leasing opportunities for public bodies. To qualify as a definite plan, a plan must clearly state the intended use of the coal and have been approved by the governing board of the public body submitting the plan. In the event an electric generating station which will produce energy for the public body is either jointly owned with or participated in by others, or both, the definite plan shall assure that the public body's proportionate part of the energy produced is utilized pursuant to this paragraph.


(ii) Each public body shall submit the information specified in § 3472.2-5(a) (1) and (2) of this title as part of its expression of leasing interest or upon submission of a bid if no expression of leasing interest is made. The information specified in § 3472.2-5(a) (3) and (4) of this title shall be submitted within 60 days after submission of an expression of leasing interest or lease bid if no expression of leasing interest is made.


(iii) The Secretary may designate, during the process of preparing a regional lease sale schedule, certain coal lease tracts for special leasing opportunities for public bodies only if a public body has submitted an expression of leasing interest under § 3420.3-2, requesting that the procedures of this section apply.


(iv) Leases issued under this section to public bodies may be assigned only to other public bodies, or to a person who will mine the coal on behalf of and for the use of the public body, or to a person for the limited purpose of creating a security interest in favor of a lender who agrees to be obligated to mine the coal on behalf of the public body.


(2) *Small businesses.* (i) When necessary to comply with the requirements of the Small Business Act, the Secretary shall designate a reasonable number of tracts for special leasing opportunities for businesses qualifying under 13 CFR part 121.


(ii) Leases issued under this section may be assigned only to other small businesses qualifying under 13 CFR part 121.


(c) Potential lessees qualifying for special leasing opportunities may participate in competitive lease sales not designated as special leasing opportunities and shall not be required to submit the evidence and information required specifically for a special leasing opportunity to participate.



---

[N] [44 FR 42615, July 19, 1979. Redesignated and amended at 47 FR 33136, July 30, 1982]




