# ยง 657.9   Formulation of a plan for enforcement.

(a) Each State shall develop a plan for the maintenance of an effective enforcement process. The plan shall describe the procedures, resources, and facilities which the State intends to devote to the enforcement of its vehicle size and weight laws. Each State plan must be accepted by the FHWA and will then serve as a basis by which the annual certification of enforcement will be judged for adequacy.


(b) The plan shall discuss the following subjects:


(1) *Facilities and resources.* (i) No program shall be approved which does not utilize a combination of at least two of the following listed devices to deter evasion of size and weight measurement in sufficient quantity to cover the FA system: fixed platform scales; portable wheel weigher scales; semiportable or ramp scales; WIM equipment.


(ii) Staff assigned to the program, identified by specific agency. Where more than one State agency has weight enforcement responsibility, the lead agency should be indicated.


(2) *Practices and procedures.* (i) Proposed plan of operation, including geographical coverage and hours of operation in general terms.


(ii) Policy and practices with respect to overweight violators, including off-loading requirements for divisible loads. In those States in which off-loading is mandatory by law, an administrative variance from the legal requirement shall be fully explained. In those States in which off-loading is permissive administrative guidelines shall be included.


(iii) Policy and practices with respect to penalties, including those for repeated violations. Administrative directives, booklets or other written criteria shall be made part of the plan submission.


(iv) Policy and practices with respect to special permits for overweight. Administrative directives, booklets or other written criteria shall be made part of the plan submission.


(3) *Updating.* Modification and/or additions to the plan based on experience and new developments in the enforcement program. It is recognized that the plan is not static and that changes may be required to meet changing needs.




