# § 103.9   Final agency decision after settlement negotiations.

(a) *Settlements based on letter of intent to charge*—(1) *Approval of settlement.* Pursuant to § 719.5(b) of the CWCR (15 CFR parts 710 through 722), the Department of Commerce may notify a respondent by letter of the intent to charge. If, following the issuance of such a letter of intent to charge, the Department of Commerce and respondent reach an agreement to settle a case, the Department of Commerce will recommend the proposed settlement to the Secretary. If the recommended settlement is in accordance with applicable law the Secretary will approve and sign it. No action is required by the ALJ in cases where the Secretary approves and signs such a settlement agreement and order.


(2) *Refusal to approve settlement.* If the Secretary refuses to approve the recommended settlement, the Secretary will notify the parties and the case will proceed as though no settlement proposal had been made.


(b) *Settlements following issuance of a NOVA*—(1) *Approval of settlement.* When the Department of Commerce and respondent reach an agreement to settle a case after administrative proceedings have been initiated before an ALJ, the Department of Commerce will recommend the settlement to the Secretary of State. If the recommended settlement is in accordance with applicable law, the Secretary will approve and sign it. If the Secretary approves the settlement, the Secretary shall notify the ALJ that the case is withdrawn from adjudication.


(2) *Refusal to approve settlement.* If the Secretary of State refuses to approve the recommended settlement, the Secretary will notify the parties of the disapproval, and the case will proceed as though no settlement proposal had been made.


(c) *Scope of settlement.* Any respondent who agrees to an order imposing any administrative sanction does so solely for the purpose of resolving the claims in the administrative enforcement proceeding brought pursuant to this part. This reflects the fact that the Government officials involved have neither the authority nor the responsibility for initiating, conducting, settling, or otherwise disposing of criminal proceedings. That authority and responsibility is vested in the Attorney General and the Department of Justice.


(d) *Finality.* Cases that are settled may not be reopened or appealed.




