# § 86.094-21   Application for certification.

(a) A separate application for a certificate of conformity shall be made for each set of standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) and each class of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines. Such application shall be made to the Administrator by the manufacturer and shall be updated and corrected by amendment.


(b) The application shall be in writing, signed by an authorized representative of the manufacturer, and shall include the following:


(1)(i) Identification and description of the vehicles (or engines) covered by the application and a description of their engine (vehicles only), emission control system, and fuel system components. This description will include:


(A) A detailed description of each Auxiliary Emission Control Device (AECD) to be installed in or on any vehicle (or engine) covered by the application;


(B) A detailed justification of each AECD (described in (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section) which results in a reduction in effectiveness of the emission control system. Such a justification may be disapproved by consideration of currently available technology, whereupon the application for certification may be disapproved under § 86.094-22(b) for the incorporation of a defeat device;


(ii)(A) The manufacturer shall provide to the Administrator in the application for certification:


(*1*) A list of those parameters which are physically capable of being adjusted (including those adjustable parameters for which access is difficult) and that, if adjusted to settings other than the manufacturer's recommended setting, may affect emissions;


(*2*) A specification of the manufacturer's intended physically adjustable range of each such parameter, and the production tolerances of the limits or stops used to establish the physically adjustable range;


(*3*) A description of the limits or stops used to establish the manufacturer's intended physically adjustable range of each adjustable parameter, or any other means used to inhibit adjustment;


(*4*) The nominal or recommended setting, and the associated production tolerances, for each such parameter.


(B) The manufacturer may provide, in the application for certification, information relating to why certain parameters are not expected to be adjusted in actual use and to why the physical limits or stops used to establish the physically adjustable range of each parameter, or any other means used to inhibit adjustment, are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use vehicles to settings outside the manufacturer's intended physically adjustable ranges. This may include results of any tests to determine the difficulty of gaining access to an adjustment or exceeding a limit as intended or recommended by the manufacturer. 


(C) The Administrator may require to be provided detailed drawings and descriptions of the various emission related components, and/or hardware samples of such components, for the purpose of making his determination of which vehicle or engine parameter will be subject to adjustment for new certification and Selective Enforcement Audit testing and of the physically adjustable range for each such vehicle or engine parameter.


(2) Projected U.S. sales data sufficient to enable the Administrator to select a test fleet representative of the vehicles (or engines) for which certification is requested, and, for model year 1994 through 1995 light-duty vehicles and light light-duty trucks and model year 1996 heavy light-duty trucks, data sufficient to determine projected compliance with the Tier 1 standards implementation schedules of §§ 86.094-8 and 86.094-9. The data shall also include the altitude of intended sale for model year 1994 light-duty trucks certified to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9. Volume projected to be produced for U.S. sale may be used in lieu of projected U.S. sales.


(3) A description of the test equipment and fuel proposed to be used.


(4)(i) [Reserved] 


(ii) For heavy-duty vehicles equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled engines, the Administrator does not assume that each evaporative emission family-evaporative emission control system combination will deteriorate in a unique manner during the useful life of the vehicle. The manufacturer shall therefore identify those evaporative emission deterioration factors which shall be applied to the various evaporative emission family-evaporative emission control system combinations which are expected to exhibit similar deterioration characteristics during the useful life of the vehicle.


(5)(i)(A) A description of the test procedures to be used to establish the durability data or the exhaust emission deterioration factors required to be determined and supplied in § 86.094-23(b)(1).


(B) For each light-duty truck engine family provided an optional useful life period under the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, and for each heavy-duty engine family, a statement of the useful life.


(C) For engine families provided an alternative useful-life period under paragraph (f) of this section, a statement of that alternative period and a brief synopsis of the justification.


(ii) For heavy-duty diesel engine families, a statement of the primary intended service class (light, medium, or heavy) and an explanation as to why that service class was selected. Each diesel engine family shall be certified under one primary intended service class only. After reviewing the guidance in § 86.090-2, the class shall be determined on the basis of which class best represents the majority of the sales of that engine family.


(iii)(A) For each light-duty vehicle engine family, each light-duty truck engine family, and each heavy-duty engine family, a statement of recommended maintenance and procedures necessary to assure that the vehicles (or engines) covered by a certificate of conformity in operation conform to the regulations, and a description of the program for training of personnel for such maintenance, and the equipment required.


(B) [Reserved] 


(iv) At the option of the manufacturer, the proposed composition of the emission data test fleet or (where applicable) the durability data test fleet.


(6) [Reserved]


(7)(i) For Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines, the application must state whether the engine family is being certified for use in all vehicles regardless of their Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (see § 86.091-10 (a)(1)(i) and (a)(3)(i)), or only for use in vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating greater than 14,000 pounds.


(ii) If the engine family is being certified for use in all vehicles and is being certified to the emission standards applicable to Otto-cycle engines for use only in vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating over 14,000 pounds under the provisions of § 86.091-10(a)(3), then the application must also attest that the engine family, together with all other engine families being certified under the provisions of § 86.091-10(a)(3), represent no more than 5 percent of model year sales of the manufacturer of all Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines for use in vehicles with Gross Vehicle Weight Ratings of up to 14,000 pounds.


(8) [Reserved] 


(c) Complete copies of the application and of any amendments thereto, and all notifications under §§ 86.079-32, 86.079-33, and 86.082-34 shall be submitted in such multiple copies as the Administrator may require.


(d) [Reserved] 


(e) For vehicles equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled heavy-duty engines, the manufacturer shall specify a maximum nominal fuel tank capacity for each evaporative emission family-evaporative emission control system combination.


(f) Light-duty truck and heavy-duty engine manufacturers who believe that the useful life periods of § 86.094-2 are significantly unrepresentative for one or more engine families (either too long or too short), may petition the Administrator to provide an alternative useful-life period. This petition must include the full rationale behind the request together with any supporting data and other evidence. Based on this or other information the Administrator may assign an alternative useful-life period. Any petition should be submitted in a timely manner, to allow adequate time for a thorough evaluation. For model year 1994 and later light-duty trucks not subject to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9, alternative useful life periods will be granted only for THC, THCE, and idle CO requirements.


(g) [Reserved] 


(h) For each engine family incorporating an emission control diagnostic system, the manufacturer shall submit the following information:


(1) Detailed written information fully describing the functional operation characteristics of the diagnostic system.


(2) The general method of detecting malfunctions for each emission-related powertrain component.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) For methanol-fueled vehicles, the manufacturer shall specify:


(1) Whether the vehicle is a flexible fuel vehicle or a dedicated vehicle (manufacturers must obtain advance approval from the Administrator to classify methanol-fueled vehicles that can use gasoline as dedicated vehicles); and


(2) The fuel(s) (i.e., the percent methanol) for which the vehicle was designed.



---

[N] [58 FR 4009, Jan. 12, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 9487, Feb. 19, 1993, 60 FR 34335, June 30, 1995; 63 FR 70694, Dec. 22, 1998; 75 FR 22978, Apr. 30, 2010; 79 FR 23691, Apr. 28, 2014]




