# ยง 273.39   Tracking universal waste shipments.

(a) *Receipt of shipments.* A large quantity handler of universal waste must keep a record of each shipment of universal waste received at the facility. The record may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading, movement document or other shipping document. The record for each shipment of universal waste received must include the following information:


(1) The name and address of the originating universal waste handler or foreign shipper from whom the universal waste was sent;


(2) The quantity of each type of universal waste received (e.g., batteries, pesticides, thermostats);


(3) The date of receipt of the shipment of universal waste.


(b) *Shipments off-sit*e. A large quantity handler of universal waste must keep a record of each shipment of universal waste sent from the handler to other facilities. The record may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading, movement document or other shipping document. The record for each shipment of universal waste sent must include the following information:


(1) The name and address of the universal waste handler, destination facility, or foreign destination to whom the universal waste was sent;


(2) The quantity of each type of universal waste sent (e.g., batteries, pesticides, thermostats);


(3) The date the shipment of universal waste left the facility.


(c) *Record retention.* (1) A large quantity handler of universal waste must retain the records described in paragraph (a) of this section for at least three years from the date of receipt of a shipment of universal waste.


(2) A large quantity handler of universal waste must retain the records described in paragraph (b) of this section for at least three years from the date a shipment of universal waste left the facility.



---

[N] [60 FR 25542, May 11, 1995, as amended at 81 FR 85729, Nov. 28, 2016]




