# § 39.5003   Additional requirements for multi-breasted loading using an inboard barge vapor collection system—B/CLBR.

(a) Each barge must have at least one liquid overfill protection system that fulfills the requirements of 46 CFR 39.2009.


(b) The vapor header of an inboard barge that is used during outboard barge loading must—


(1) Be aligned with the vapor header of the outboard barge;


(2) Have a diameter at least as large as the diameter of the largest pipe in the vapor collection system of the outboard barge; and


(3) Be marked in accordance with 46 CFR 39.2001(h).


(c) Persons holding an appropriate tank vessel endorsement trained in and familiar with multi-breasted loading operations, must be onboard each barge during transfer operations. The Tank Barge-PIC serves as the barge Person in Charge (PIC). During transfer operations, the barge PICs must maintain constant communication with each other as well as with the facility PIC.


(d) If multi-breasted loading will be conducted using more than one liquid transfer hose from the shore facility, the facility must be capable of activating the emergency shutdown system required by 33 CFR 154.550. This will automatically stop the cargo flow to each transfer hose simultaneously, in the event an upset condition occurs that closes the remotely operated cargo vapor shutoff valve in the facility's vapor control system. Multi-breasted loading is prohibited unless the shore facility can comply with this requirement.



---

[N] [USCG-1999-5150, 78 FR 42642, July 16, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93140, Nov. 25, 2024]






