# § 344.1   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

As appropriate, the definitions of terms used in this part are those found in the relevant portions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Income Tax Regulations.


*Fiscal Service's Web site* refers to *http://www.slgs.gov.*

*Business day(s)* means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is open for business.


*Cost-free option* means the use of any provision(s) in the SLGS program to exploit movements in interest rates, including, but not limited to, those designed to provide marginal flexibility to issuers in structuring their SLGS investments.


*Current Treasury borrowing rate* means the prevailing market rate, as determined by Treasury, for a Treasury security with the specified period to maturity. In the case where SLGS rates are needed for maturities currently not issued by Treasury, at our discretion, suitable proxies for Treasury securities and/or a rate setting methodology, as determined by the Secretary, may be used to derive a current Treasury borrowing rate. At any time that the Secretary establishes such proxies or a rate-setting method or determines that the methodology should be revised, we will make an announcement.


*Day(s)* means calendar day(s).


*Eligible source of funds* means:


(1) Any amounts that are gross proceeds of an issue of tax-advantaged bonds or are reasonably expected to become gross proceeds of such an issue of tax-advantaged bonds;


(2) Any amounts that formerly were gross proceeds of a tax-advantaged bond issue, but no longer are treated as gross proceeds of such issue as a result of the operation of the universal cap on the maximum amount treated as gross proceeds under 26 CFR 1.148-6(b)(2);


(3) Amounts held or to be held together with gross proceeds of one or more tax-advantaged bond issues in a refunding escrow, defeasance escrow, parity debt service reserve fund, or commingled fund (as defined in 26 CFR 1.148-1(b));


(4) Proceeds of a bond issue that is not an issue of tax-advantaged bonds but that refunds, or is refunded by, an issue of tax-advantaged bonds; or


(5) Any other amounts that are subject to yield limitations under the rules applicable to tax-advantaged bonds under the Internal Revenue Code (see title 26 of the U.S. Code and 26 CFR chapter I).


*Governmental purpose,* under this part, means the issuer's expected use of the invested funds, including but not limited to, financing a construction project, repaying a prior issue of bonds, or funding a debt service reserve. Such use must be consistent with the purposes of the Income Tax Regulations in 26 CFR part 1 under section 148 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generating gain on the proceeds of a bond issue through the use of a cost-free option in purchasing and redeeming SLGS is not a permitted governmental purpose.


*Issuer* refers to the government body or other entity that issues tax-advantaged bonds, or to a conduit borrower.


*Marketable security,* with reference to the types of securities that issuers are permitted to purchase with an eligible source of funds, means any security other than a SLGS security. Examples of marketable securities include Treasury securities (other than SLGS securities) and Federal agency securities.


*SLGS rate* means the current Treasury borrowing rate, less one basis point, as released daily by Treasury in a SLGS rate table. If the current Treasury borrowing rate, together with the one basis point adjustment, results in a negative rate, such corresponding SLGS rate will be set at zero.


*SLGS rate table* means a compilation of SLGS rates available for a given day.


*Tax-advantaged bond* means tax-advantaged bond as defined in 26 CFR 1.150-1(b).


*“We,” “us,” or “the Secretary”* refers to the Secretary and the Secretary's delegates at the Department of the Treasury (Treasury), Bureau of the Fiscal Service (Fiscal Service). The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agent acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates.


*Yield* on an investment means “yield” as computed under 26 CFR 1.148-5.


*You* or *your* refers to a SLGS program user or a potential SLGS program user. 



---

[N] [70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 33635, June 7, 2012; 89 FR 15447, Mar. 4, 2024]




