# § 55.6   Complying with this part.

(a) *Process.* The process to comply with this part is as follows:


(1) HUD or the responsible entity shall determine whether compliance with this part is required. Refer to § 55.12 for a list of activities that do not require further compliance with this part beyond the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) HUD or the responsible entity shall refer to § 55.8 to determine whether the proposed action is eligible for HUD assistance or if it must be rejected as proposed.


(3) If the project requires compliance under this part and is not prohibited by § 55.8, HUD or the responsible entity shall refer to § 55.13 to determine whether the 8-step decision making process in § 55.20 is required.


(4) HUD or the responsible entity shall refer to § 55.10 to determine whether the 8-step decision making process in § 55.20 for wetland protection is required or whether best practices to minimize potential indirect impacts to wetlands should be pursued.


(5) HUD or the responsible entity shall determine whether an exception in § 55.14 applies that would allow them to complete an abbreviated decision-making process under § 55.20.


(6) Where the decision-making process is required, HUD or the responsible entity shall follow the decision-making process described in § 55.20, eliminating any steps as permitted under § 55.14.


(b) *Decision making.* HUD or the responsible entity shall determine whether to approve the action as proposed, approve the action with modifications or at an alternative site, or reject the proposed action, based on its analysis of the proposed risks and impacts. HUD or the responsible entity has discretion to reject any project where it determines that the level of flood hazard is incompatible with the proposed use of the site or that the extent of impacts to wetlands or to the beneficial function of floodplains is not acceptable, regardless of whether it would otherwise be acceptable under this part.


(c) *Other requirements.* Refer to §§ 55.4 and 55.5 to determine whether the proposed action may require notifications and/or flood insurance. Actions that do not require full compliance under this part may still trigger notification and flood insurance requirements.


(d) *Documentation.* HUD or the responsible entity shall require that all of the analysis required under this part, including applicable exceptions and all required steps described in § 55.20, be documented in the environmental review record.



---

[N] [89 FR 30905, Apr. 23, 2024]




