# § 612.2150   Prohibited conduct.

(a) *General.* If you are a System institution director or employee you must not act inconsistently with the Standards of Conduct core principles set forth in this subpart. You also must not act in the following manner:


(1) *Use your position for personal gain or advantage.* Do not participate in deliberations on, or the determination of, any matter affecting your financial interest either directly or indirectly. Matters affecting your financial interest include financial interests of family or reportable business entities. You also may not use your position as a director or employee of the institution to obtain special advantage or favoritism for yourself, your family, or a reportable business entity. However, you may participate in matters of general applicability affecting shareholders or borrowers of a particular class if your participation occurs in a nondiscriminatory way.


(2) *Divulge confidential information.* Do not make use of or disclose any fact, information, or document not generally available to the public that you acquired by virtue of your position as a director or employee of the institution. You may use confidential information in the performance of your official duties.


(3) *Accept prohibited gifts.* Do not solicit, obtain, or accept (directly or indirectly), any gift, fee, or other compensation that is offered or requested based on your position as a director or employee of an institution if it could be viewed as being offered to influence your decision-making, an official action, or to obtain information related to your institution's operations.


(4) *Purchase property owned by the institution.* Do not knowingly purchase or otherwise acquire (directly or indirectly) any interest (including mineral interests) in any real or personal property that currently is owned, or within the past 12 months was owned, by your institution, your supervising institution, or institutions supervised by your institution as a result of foreclosure, deed in lieu, or similar action. The prohibition in this paragraph (a)(4) extends to property held or sold by a chartered service corporation or a System unincorporated business entity. The prohibition does not apply in the following situations:


(i) You acquire the property by inheritance.


(ii) You are exercising your rights of first refusal under section 4.36 of the Act.


(iii) If you are a director of the institution, you may purchase property from a System institution when the property is sold through public auction or similar open, competitive bidding process. The exception in this paragraph (a)(4)(iii) only applies if you did not participate in the decision to foreclose upon the property nor did you participate in deciding how the institution would dispose of the property. Participating in these decisions includes setting the sale terms or receiving information as a result of your position with the institution that could give you an advantage over other potential bidders or purchasers of the property.


(5) *Enter into transactions with prohibited sources.* Do not directly or indirectly borrow from, lend to, or become financially obligated with or on behalf of a director, employee, or agent of your institution, your supervising institution, or institution supervised by your institution. You are also prohibited from directly or indirectly borrowing, lending to, or becoming financially obligated with or on behalf of a borrower or loan applicant of your institution. The transaction prohibition does not apply to:


(i) Transactions with family members.


(ii) Transactions that occur in the ordinary course of business as determined and documented by the written policies and procedures of your institution.


(iii) Transactions undertaken in an official capacity and in connection with the institution's discounting, lending, or participation relationships with other financing institutions (OFIs) and other lenders.


(6) *Purchase System obligations.* Do not purchase any obligation of a System institution, including any joint, consolidated or System-wide obligation, unless such obligation is part of an offering available to the public and you either purchase it through a dealer or dealer bank affiliated with a member of the selling group designated by the Funding Corporation or purchase it in the secondary markets.


(i) Do not purchase or retire any stock in advance of the release of material, non-public, information concerning the institution to other stockholders.


(ii) If you are a director or employee of the Funding Corporation, do not purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, except by inheritance, any obligation or equity of a System institution, including any joint, consolidated or System-wide obligations, unless it is a common cooperative equity as defined in § 628.2 of this chapter.


(b) *Employees only.* In addition to the prohibitions under paragraph (a) of this section, if you are an institution employee you must not:


(1) *Serve as a director or employee of certain entities.* Do not serve as a director or employee of any commercial bank, savings and loan, or other non-System financial institution. You may not serve as a director or employee of a non-System entity that transacts business with a System institution within your institution's district unless specifically allowed in this paragraph (b). For the purpose of this paragraph (b)(1), “transacts business” does not include loans by a System institution to a family-owned entity or a reportable business entity; service on the board of directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation; transactions with non-profit entities; or transactions with entities in which the System institution has an ownership interest. The prohibition in this paragraph (b)(1) does not apply in the following situations:


(i) You may serve as a director or employee of an employee credit union.


(ii) You may serve as a director of a cooperative that borrows from the System under the Act's Title III authorities if you are not employed at an institution with Title III lending authority and your employing institution approves your service on the cooperative's board.


(2) *Act as a real estate agent or broker.* Do not act as a real estate agent or broker unless you are buying or selling real estate for your own use or for family.


(3) *Act as an insurance agent or broker.* Do not act as an insurance agent or broker for the sale and placement of insurance, unless authorized by section 4.29 of the Act.


(4) *Serve as a joint employee.* Do not serve as an employee for your supervising institution if you are an officer at your association. Do not serve as an employee for a supervised institution if you are an officer at your Farm Credit bank. The prohibition in this paragraph (b)(4) does not apply in the following situations:


(i) You may be both a non-officer employee at a Farm Credit bank and a supervised association if the employment expenses are appropriately reflected in each institution's financial statements.


(ii) If you are currently employed with a Farm Credit bank as other than an officer, in extraordinary circumstances, FCA may approve your serving as an officer of a supervised association. This requires the boards at both institutions to agree to the joint service and for the duties and compensation at each institution to be delineated in the board approval documents. The board documents, along with the request, must be sent at least 10 business days before the effective date to the Director of Regulatory Policy, Farm Credit Administration.




