# ยง 57.1502   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


(a) All terms not defined herein shall have the same meanings as given them in section 724 of the Act.


(b) *Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended.


(c) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved may be delegated.


(d) *School* means a school of medicine, dentistry, osteopathy, pharmacy, optometry, podiatry, veterinary medicine, or public health which provides a course of study or a portion thereof which leads respectively to a degree of doctor of medicine, doctor of dental surgery or an equivalent degree, doctor of osteopathy, doctor of optometry or an equivalent degree, doctor of podiatry or an equivalent degree, bachelor of science in pharmacy or an equivalent degree, doctor of veterinary medicine or an equivalent degree, or a graduate degree in public health, and which is accredited as provided in section 721(b)(1) of the Act.


(e) *Affiliated hospital* or *affiliated outpatient facility* means a hospital or outpatient facility (as defined in section 645 of the Act) which, although not owned by such school, has a written agreement with a school of medicine, osteopathy, or dentistry eligible for assistance under subpart B of this part, providing for effective control by the school of the health professions teaching program in the hospital or outpatient facility.


(f) *Nonprofit* as applied to any school, hospital, outpatient facility, or other entity means one which is owned and operated by one or more corporations or associations no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.


(g) *Council* means the National Advisory Council on Health Professions Education (established pursuant to section 725 of the Act).




