# § 77.33   Testing procedures for tuberculosis in captive cervids.

(a) *Approved testers.* Except as explained in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, official tuberculosis tests may only be given by a veterinarian employed by the State in which the test is administered or by a veterinarian employed by USDA. 


(1) A designated accredited veterinarian may conduct the SCT test, except as provided in § 77.34(a)(1)(ii) and § 77.39(e) and (f). 


(2) A designated accredited veterinarian may draw blood for the DPP® test.


(b) *Approved diagnostic laboratories.* (1) With one exception, histopathology and culture results for all tuberculosis diagnoses will be accepted only from the National Veterinary Services Laboratories (NVSL) in Ames, IA. The exception is that results will be accepted from a laboratory of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA, for tissue examination of regular-kill slaughter animals in those cases where no submission is made to NVSL. 


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Identification.* Any captive cervid tested with an official tuberculosis test must bear official identification in the form of an official eartag, or another identification device or method approved by the Administrator as unique and traceable, at the time of the official tuberculosis test. Use of any identification device or method other than an official eartag must first be approved by the Administrator as unique and traceable. Written requests for approval must be sent to National Animal Health Programs, VS, APHIS, 4700 River Road Unit 43, Riverdale, MD 20737-1231. 


(d) *Reporting of tests*—(1) *SCT and CCT tests.* For the SCT and CCT tests, the testing veterinarian must submit a report to cooperating State and Federal animal health officials of the State in which the captive cervid is tested. The report must include the following information for all SCT and CCT tests administered: The number of the individual eartag or other identification approved by the Administrator; the age, sex, and breed of each captive cervid tested; a record of all responses; the size of each response for the CCT test; and the test interpretation. 


(2) *DPP® test.* The veterinarian who draws blood from the captive cervid must submit a form specified by APHIS for such requests to NVSL to perform the DPP® test on the blood sample. The form is available at the following Web site: *http://www.aphis.usda.gov/wps/portal/footer/resources/forms;* click on the “VS forms” link on that Web page. The veterinarian must also fill out the relevant portions of a test record. This form may be obtained by contacting the local district VS office, information regarding which is available at: *http://www.aphis.usda.gov/wps/portal/aphis/ourfocus/animalhealth?1dmy&urile=wcm%3apath%3a%2Faphis_content_library%2Fsa_our_focus%2Fsa_animal_health%2Fsa_contact_us%2Fsa_map%2Fct_state_contacts_map.* This record must be sent to the offices of the State and Federal animal health officials in the State.


(e) *Test interpretation.* (1) Interpretation of an SCT test will be based upon the judgment of the testing veterinarian after observation and palpation of the injection site, in accordance with the classification requirements described in § 77.34(a). 


(2) Interpretation of a CCT test will be in accordance with the classification requirements described in § 77.34(b). 


(3) Interpretation of DPP® test results will be in accordance with the classification requirements described in § 77.34.


(f) *Captive cervids eligible for testing.* Except as provided in § 77.35(a)(1) and § 77.36(a)(1), testing of herds for individual herd classification must include all captive cervids 1 year of age or over and any captive cervids other than natural additions (captive cervids born into the herd) under 1 year of age. 



---

[N] [65 FR 63517, Oct. 23, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 24806, Apr. 27, 2006; 78 FR 1722, Jan. 9, 2013; 79 FR 43926, July 29, 2014]




