# § 303.183   Investment by insured state nonmember banks in foreign organization.

(a) Notice procedures for general consent. Notice in the form of a letter from an eligible depository institution making direct or indirect investments in a foreign organization pursuant to § 347.117(b) of this chapter shall be provided to the appropriate FDIC office no later than 30 days after taking such action. The FDIC will provide written acknowledgment of receipt of the notice.


(b) Filing procedures for other investments—(1) Where to file. An applicant seeking to make a foreign investment other than under § 347.117(b) of this chapter shall submit an application to the appropriate FDIC office.


(2) *Content of filing.* A complete application shall include the following information:


(i) Basic information about the terms of the proposed transaction, the amount of the investment in the foreign organization and the proportion of its ownership to be acquired;


(ii) Basic information about the foreign organization, its financial position and income, including any available balance sheet and income statement for the prior year, or financial projections for a new foreign organization;


(iii) A listing of all shareholders known to hold ten percent or more of any class of the foreign organization's stock or other evidence of ownership, and the amount held by each;


(iv) A brief description of the applicant's business plan with respect to the foreign organization;


(v) A brief description of any business or activities which the foreign organization will conduct directly or indirectly in the United States, and to the extent such activities are not authorized by subpart A of part 347, the applicant's reasons why they should be approved; 


(vi) A brief description of the foreign organization's activities, and to the extent such activities are not authorized by subpart A of part 347, the applicant's reasons why they should be approved; and


(vii) If the applicant seeks approval to engage in underwriting or dealing activities, a description of the applicant's plans and procedures to address all relevant risks.


(3) *Additional information.* The FDIC may request additional information to complete processing. 


(c) Processing—(1) Expedited processing for eligible depository institutions. An application filed under § 347.118(b) of this chapter by an eligible depository institution as defined in § 303.2(r) of this part seeking to make direct or indirect investments in a foreign organization will be acknowledged in writing by the FDIC and will receive expedited processing, unless the applicant is notified in writing to the contrary and provided with the basis for that decision. The FDIC may remove the application from expedited processing for any of the reasons set forth in § 303.11(c)(2) of this part. Absent such removal, an application processed under expedited processing is deemed approved 45 days after receipt of a substantially complete application by the FDIC, or on such earlier date authorized by the FDIC in writing.


(2) *Standard processing.* For those applications which are not processed pursuant to the expedited procedures, the FDIC will provide the applicant with written notification of the final action when the decision is rendered.


(d) *Divestiture.* If an insured state nonmember bank holding 50 percent or more of the voting equity interests of a foreign organization or otherwise controlling the foreign organization divests itself of such ownership or control, the insured state nonmember bank shall file a notice in the form of a letter, including the name, location, and date of divestiture of the foreign organization, with the appropriate FDIC office no later than 30 days after the divestiture.



---

[N] [67 FR 79247, Dec. 27, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 17558, Apr. 6, 2005]




