# § 52.130   Source surveillance.

(a) The requirements of § 51.211 of this chapter are not met since the plan does not contain legally enforceable procedures for requiring sources in the Northern Arizona, Mohave-Yuma, Central Arizona, and Southeast Arizona Intrastate Regions to maintain records of and periodically report on the nature and amounts of emissions.


(b) The requirements of § 51.213 of this chapter are not met because the plan does not provide procedures for obtaining and maintaining data on actual emission reductions achieved as a result of implementing transportation control measures.


(c) *Regulation for source recordkeeping and reporting.* (1) The owner or operator of any stationary source in the Northern Arizona, Mohave-Yuma, Central Arizona, or Southeast Arizona Intrastate Region (§§ 81.270, 81.268, 81.271, and 81.272 of this chapter) shall, upon notification from the Administrator, maintain records of the nature and amounts of emissions from such source or any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Administrator to determine whether such source is in compliance with applicable emission limitations or other control measures.


(2) The information recorded shall be summarized and reported to the Administrator, and shall be submitted within 45 days after the end of the reporting period. Reporting periods are January 1 to June 30 and July 1 to December 31, except that the initial reporting period shall commence on the date the Administrator issues notification of the recordkeeping requirements.


(3) Information recorded by the owner or operator and copies of the summarizing reports submitted to the Administrator shall be retained by the owner or operator for 2 years after the date on which the pertinent report is submitted.


(4) Emission data obtained from owners or operators of stationary sources will be correlated with applicable emission limitations and other control measures. All such emission data will be available during normal business hours at the regional office (region IX). The Administrator will designate one or more places in Arizona where such emission data and correlations will be available for public inspection.


(d) The requirements of § 51.214 of this chapter are not met since the plan does not contain legally enforceable procedures for requiring certain stationary sources subject to emission standards to install, calibrate, operate, and maintain equipment for continuously monitoring and recording emissions, and to provide other information as specified in Appendix P of part 51 of this chapter.


(e) The requirements of § 51.214 of this chapter are not met since the plan does not provide sufficient regulations to meet the minimum specifications of Appendix P in the Maricopa Intrastate Region. Additionally, Maricopa County Air Pollution Control Regulation IV, rule 41, paragraph B, sections 6.0-6.4 (Special Consideration) is disapproved since it does not contain the specific criteria for determining those physical limitations or extreme economic situations where alternative monitoring requirements would be applicable.



---

[N] [37 FR 15081, July 27, 1972]


