# ยง 126.15   Expedited processing of license applications for the export of defense articles and defense services to Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada.

(a) Any application submitted for authorization of the export of defense articles or services to Australia or the United Kingdom will be expeditiously processed by the Department of State, in consultation with the Department of Defense. Such license applications will not be referred to any other Federal department or agency, except when the defense articles or defense services are classified or exceptional circumstances apply. (See section 1225, Pub. L. 108-375).


(b) To be eligible for the expedited processing in paragraph (a) of this section, the destination of the prospective export must be limited to Australia or the United Kingdom. No other country may be included as intermediary or ultimate end-user.


(c) Any application submitted for authorization of the export of defense articles or defense services to Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada, describing an export that cannot be undertaken under an exemption provided in this subchapter, will be expeditiously processed by the Department of State. The prospective export must occur wholly within, or between the physical territories of Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, or the United States, and between governments or persons from such countries.


(d) To the extent practicable, any application in paragraph (c) of this section to export defense articles and defense services related to a government-to-government agreement between Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada, and the United States must be approved, returned, or denied within 30 days of submission. For all other license applications, any review shall be completed no later than 45 calendar days after the date of the application. The provisions of this paragraph (d) do not apply to any applications which require congressional certification.



---

[N] [70 FR 39919, July 12, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 67291, Aug. 20, 2024]




