# ยง 2004.3   Definitions.

*Counsel* means the Counsel to the Inspector General. 


*Demand* means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of an OIG employee that is issued in a legal proceeding. 


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation. 


*OIG* means the Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 


*OIG employee* or *employee means:*

(1) Any current or former officer or employee of OIG; 


(2) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of OIG or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for OIG; and 


(3) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to OIG, whether formal or informal. 


*Records or official records or information means:*

(1) All documents and materials that are OIG agency records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; 


(2) All other documents and materials contained in OIG files; and 


(3) All other information or materials acquired by an OIG employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status. 


*Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony that has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority. 


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, recorded interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding. 




