# § 19.11   Posting of notices to workers.

(a) Each licensee (except for a holder of an early site permit under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, or a holder of a manufacturing license under subpart F of part 52 of this chapter) shall post current copies of the following documents:


(1) The regulations in this part and in part 20 of this chapter;


(2) The license, license conditions, or documents incorporated into a license by reference, and amendments thereto;


(3) The operating procedures applicable to licensed activities;


(4) Any notice of violation involving radiological working conditions, proposed imposition of civil penalty, or order issued pursuant to subpart B of part 2 of this chapter, and any response from the licensee.


(b) Each applicant for and holder of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter, each applicant for an early site permit under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, each applicant for a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter, and each applicant for and holder of a manufacturing license under subpart F of part 52 of this chapter shall post:


(1) The regulations in this part;


(2) The operating procedures applicable to the activities regulated by the NRC which are being conducted by the applicant or holder; and


(3) Any notice of violation, proposed imposition of civil penalty, or order issued under subpart B of part 2 of this chapter, and any response from the applicant or holder.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) If posting of a document specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) or (3), or (b)(1) or (2) of this section is not practicable, the licensee or regulated entity may post a notice which describes the document and states where it may be examined.


(e)(1) Each licensee, each applicant for a specific license, each applicant for or holder of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter, each applicant for an early site permit under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, and each applicant for a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter shall prominently post NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” dated August 1997. Later versions of NRC Form 3 that supersede the August 1997 version shall replace the previously posted version within 30 days of receiving the revised NRC Form 3 from the Commission.


(2) Additional copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, via email to *FORMS.Resource@nrc.gov,* or by visiting the NRC's online library at *http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.*

(f) Documents, notices, or forms posted under this section shall appear in a sufficient number of places to permit individuals engaged in NRC-licensed or regulated activities to observe them on the way to or from any particular licensed or regulated activity location to which the document applies, shall be conspicuous, and shall be replaced if defaced or altered.


(g) Commission documents posted under paragraphs (a)(4) or (b)(3) of this section shall be posted within 2 working days after receipt of the documents from the Commission; the licensee's or regulated entity's response, if any, shall be posted within 2 working days after dispatch by the licensee or regulated entity. These documents shall remain posted for a minimum of 5 working days or until action correcting the violation has been completed, whichever is later.



---

[N] [38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 47 FR 30454, July 14, 1982; 58 FR 52408, Oct. 8, 1993; 60 FR 24551, May 9, 1995; 61 FR 6764, Feb. 22, 1996; 62 FR 48166, Sept. 15, 1997; 68 FR 58801, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 49484, Aug. 28, 2007; 73 FR 30457, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66602, Nov. 10, 2014]




