# ยง 1493.380   Recovery of defaulted payments.

(a) *Notification.* Upon claim payment to the holder of the payment guarantee, CCC will notify the foreign financial institution of CCC's rights under the subrogation agreement to recover all monies in default.


(b) *Receipt of monies.* (1) In the event that monies related to the obligation in default are recovered by the seller or the assignee from or on behalf of the defaulting party, the buyer, or any source whatsoever (excluding payments between CCC, the seller and the assignee), such monies shall be immediately paid to CCC. Any monies derived from insurance or through the liquidation of any security or collateral after the claim is filed with CCC shall be deemed recoveries that must be paid by the seller and/or assignee to CCC. If such monies are not received by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery by the seller or the assignee, such party will also owe to CCC interest from the date of recovery of such funds to the date of CCC's receipt of such funds. This interest will be calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery and will accrue from such date to the date of payment by the seller or the assignee to CCC. Such interest will be charged only on CCC's share of the recovery. If there has been no 91-day auction within 90 calendar days of the date interest begins to accrue, CCC will apply an alternative rate in a manner to be described on the USDA Web site.


(2) If CCC recovers monies that should be applied to a payment guarantee for which a claim has been paid by CCC, CCC will pay the holder of the payment guarantee its pro rata share if any, provided that the required information necessary for determining pro rata distribution has been furnished. If a required payment is not made by CCC within 15 business days from the date of recovery or 15 business days from receiving the required information for determining pro rata distribution, whichever is later, CCC will pay interest calculated at a rate equal to the latest average investment rate of the most recent Treasury 91-day bill auction, as announced by the Department of Treasury, in effect on the date of recovery, and interest will accrue from such date to the date of payment by CCC. The interest will apply only to the portion of the recovery payable to the holder of the payment guarantee.


(c) *Allocation of recoveries.* Recoveries received by CCC from any source whatsoever that are related to the obligation in default will be allocated by CCC to the holder of the payment guarantee and to CCC on a pro rata basis determined by their respective interests in such recoveries. The respective interest of each party will be determined on a pro rata basis, based on the combined amount of principal and interest in default on the date the claim is paid by CCC. Once CCC has paid out a particular claim under a payment guarantee, CCC prorates any collections it receives and shares these collections proportionately with the holder of the payment guarantee until both CCC and the holder of the payment guarantee have been reimbursed in full.


(d) *Liabilities to CCC.* Notwithstanding any other terms of the payment guarantee, under the following circumstances the seller or the assignee will be liable to CCC for any amounts paid by CCC under the payment guarantee:


(1) The seller will be liable to CCC when and if it is determined by CCC that the seller has engaged in fraud, or has been or is in material breach of any contractual obligation, certification or warranty made by the seller for the purpose of obtaining the payment guarantee or for fulfilling obligations under the FGP; and


(2) The assignee will be liable to CCC when and if it is determined by CCC that the assignee has engaged in fraud or otherwise violated program requirements.


(e) *Cooperation in recoveries.* Upon payment by CCC of a claim to the holder of the payment guarantee, the holder of the payment guarantee and the seller will cooperate with CCC to affect recoveries from the foreign financial institution and/or the buyer. Cooperation may include, but is not limited to, submission of documents to the foreign financial institution (or its representative) to establish a claim; participation in discussions with CCC regarding the appropriate course of action with respect to a default; actions related to accelerated payments as specified in ยง 1493.370(d); and other actions that do not increase the obligation of the holder of the payment guarantee or the seller under the payment guarantee.




