# ยง 556.5   General considerations.

(a) The tolerances listed in subpart B of this part pertain only to the species and production classes of the animal for which the drug use has been approved or conditionally approved. Approved and conditionally approved conditions of use in parts 516, 520, 522, 524, 526, 529, and 558 of this chapter, including the species and production classes of animals, are referenced in each tolerance section in subpart B of this part.


(b) All tolerances refer to the concentrations of a marker residue, or other residue indicated for monitoring, permitted in uncooked tissues.


(c) After a tolerance is listed, the finding that the concentration of the marker residue in the target tissue from a tested animal is at or below the tolerance indicates that all edible tissues (excluding milk and eggs unless otherwise indicated) from that tested animal are safe for human consumption. If a listed tolerance is not expressly linked to a target tissue, then the tolerance is specific only for the named edible tissue and inferences cannot be made about the safety of the other edible tissues from the tested animal.


(d) FDA requires that a drug sponsor submit a practicable method as part of their new animal drug application. FDA uses the practicable method to determine the quantity of the drug residues that can safely remain in edible tissues (*i.e.,* the tolerance), the withdrawal period, and any other use restrictions necessary to ensure that the proposed use of the drug will be safe.




