# ยง 431.106   Uniform test method for the measurement of energy efficiency of commercial water heating equipment.

(a) *Scope.* This section contains test procedures for measuring, pursuant to EPCA, the energy efficiency of commercial water heating equipment.


(b) *Testing and calculations.* Determine the energy efficiency of commercial water heating equipment by conducting the applicable test procedure(s):


(1) *Residential-duty commercial water heaters.* Test in accordance with appendix E to subpart B of part 430 of this chapter.


(2) *Commercial water heating equipment other than residential-duty commercial water heaters.* Test in accordance with the appropriate test procedures in appendices to subpart G of this part.


(i) *Gas-fired and oil-fired storage water heaters and storage-type instantaneous water heaters.* Test according to appendix A to subpart G of this part.


(ii) *Electric storage water heaters and storage-type instantaneous water heaters.* Test according to appendix B to subpart G of this part.


(iii) *Gas-fired and oil-fired instantaneous water heaters and hot water supply boilers (other than storage-type instantaneous water heaters).* Test according to appendix C to subpart G of this part.


(iv) *Electric instantaneous water heaters (other than storage-type instantaneous water heaters).* Test according to appendix D to subpart G of this part.


(v) *Commercial heat pump water heaters.* Test according to appendix E to subpart G of this part.



---

[N] [81 FR 79322, Nov. 10, 2016]




