# § 1820.2   Requirements for making FOIA requests.

(a) *Submission of requests.* (1) A request for OSC records under the FOIA must be made in writing. The request must be sent:


(i) *By email to: foiarequest@osc.gov* or other electronic means described on the FOIA page of OSC's website (*https://osc.gov/FOIA*);


(ii) *Electronically to:* The National FOIA Portal for the entire federal government at *www.foia.gov;* or


(iii) *By mail to:* U.S. Office of Special Counsel, FOIA Officer, 1730 M Street NW, Suite 218, Washington, DC 20036-4505.


(2) Both the request letter and envelope or email subject line should be clearly marked “FOIA Request.”


(3) A FOIA request will not be considered to have been received by OSC until it reaches the FOIA Officer.


(b) *Description of records sought.* Requests must state in the letter, email, or other prescribed electronic method the words “FOIA Request” or “FOIA/Privacy Request.” The request must also describe the records sought in enough detail for them to be located with a reasonable amount of effort. When requesting records about an OSC case file, the case file number, name, and type (for example, prohibited personnel practice (PPP), Hatch Act, USERRA, Hatch Act advisory opinion, or whistleblower disclosure) should be provided, if known. Whenever possible, requests should describe any particular record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter. OSC requires proof of identification from requestors seeking their own case files. OSC requires a signed release of information from requestors seeking another individual's case file.


(c) *Agreement to pay fees.* By making a FOIA request the requestor agrees to pay all applicable fees chargeable under § 1820.7 unless the Special Counsel waives fees, the requestor is exempt, or the requestor otherwise qualifies for a waiver of fees.






