# § 630.1702   Definitions.

(a) *Applicability of subpart L definitions.* The definitions of terms in § 630.1202 are applicable in this subpart to the extent the terms are used, except that, to the extent any definitions of terms have been further revised in § 630.1702(b), the provisions of that section shall apply for purposes of this subpart.


(b) *Other definitions.* In this subpart—


*Agency* means an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, excluding the Government Accountability Office. When the term “agency” is used in the context of an agency making determinations or taking actions, it means the agency head or management officials who are authorized (including by delegation) to make the given determination or take the given action.


*Birth or placement* means the birth of a son or daughter of a covered employee, or a new placement of a son or daughter with a covered employee for adoption or foster care, that is the basis for unpaid leave granted under § 630.1203(a)(1) or (2) (which correspond to 5 U.S.C. 6382(a)(1)(A) or (B), respectively). For the purpose of interpreting this definition, the terms *birth* and *placement* have the meanings given those terms in § 630.1202, except that paid parental leave may not be granted based on an anticipated birth or placement.


*Child* means a son or daughter as defined in § 630.1202 whose birth or placement is the basis for entitlement to paid parental leave.


*FMLA unpaid leave* means leave without pay granted under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) regulations in subpart L of this part.


*Paid parental leave* means paid time off from an employee's scheduled tour of duty that is authorized under 5 U.S.C. 6382(d)(2)(B)(i) and this subpart and that is granted to cover periods of time within the 12-month period commencing on the date of birth or placement to an employee who has a current parental role in connection with the child whose birth or placement was the basis for granting FMLA unpaid leave under § 630.1203(a)(1) or (2). This leave is not available to an employee who does not have a current parental role.








