# ยง 63.9630   When must I conduct subsequent performance tests?

(a) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate continued compliance with the ore crushing and handling emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval.


(b) You must conduct subsequent performance tests on all stacks associated with indurating furnaces to demonstrate continued compliance with the indurating furnace emission limits in tables 1 through 3 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit, but no less frequent than twice per 5-year permit term. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval. For an indurating furnace with multiple stacks, the performance tests for all stacks must be conducted within 7 calendar days of commencement of the performance tests, to the extent practicable, and the indurating furnace and associated control device (where applicable) operating characteristics must remain representative and consistent for the duration of the stack tests. If you determine that the performance tests cannot be completed within 7 calendar days, the Administrator must be notified within 24 hours of making that determination. Performance testing for mercury is not required for furnaces using CEMS to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission limits in table 2 to this subpart.








(c) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate continued compliance with the finished pellet handling emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval.


(d) You must conduct subsequent performance tests on all stacks associated with ore dryers to demonstrate continued compliance with the ore dryer emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval. For ore dryers with multiple stacks, the performance tests for all stacks associated with an ore dryer must be conducted within a reasonable period of time, such that the ore dryer operating characteristics remain representative for the duration of the stack tests.


(e) If your plant does not have a title V permit, you must submit a testing plan for subsequent performance tests as required in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. This testing plan must be submitted to the Administrator on or before the compliance date that is specified in ยง 63.9583. The testing plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. You must maintain a current copy of the testing plan onsite, and it must be available for inspection upon request. You must keep the plan for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(1) A list of all emission units.




(2) A schedule indicating when you will conduct subsequent performance tests for particulate matter, mercury, hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride for each of the emission units.





---

[N] [68 FR 61888, Oct. 30, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 16431, Mar. 6, 2024]






