# § 52.2228   Review of new sources and modifications.

(a) *Part D—Conditional approval.* The Nashville-Davidson County regulation for the review of new sources and modifications in nonattainment areas is approved on condition that the State by October 31, 1984, submit a revision limiting source shutdown credit for offsets to replacement units, and, in the interim, assure implementation of the regulation in conformity with Federal requirements.


(b) *Section 123—Conditional approval.* The plan's provision for implementation of the requirements of section 123 of the Clean Air Act in Nashville-Davidson County is approved on condition that the State by October 31, 1984, submit:


(1) Definitions in the local regulation of *nearby* and *excessive concentration* and


(2) Provision in the local regulation for public notification and opportunity for hearing in cases where stack heights in excess of normal good engineering practice are proposed on the basis of fluid modeling demonstrations, and, in the interim, assure implementation of the local regulation in conformity with Federal requirements.


(c) The State of Tennessee proposed to delete section 1200-3-18-.03 “Standard for New Sources” from the Tennessee State Implementation Plan (SIP) and the Memphis-Shelby County portion of the Tennessee SIP. EPA is disapproving the deletion of this rule for the Tennessee SIP because Tennessee does not have federally approved New Source Review (NSR) regulations which apply to some of the sources in this chapter. EPA is approving the deletion of this rule for the Memphis submittal because the federally approved TN NSR applies to the Memphis-Shelby County area. 


(d) The State of Tennessee proposed to delete rule 1200-3-18-.03 “Standard for New Sources” from the Tennessee State Implementation Plan (SIP). In paragraph (e) of this section, EPA disapproved the deletion of this rule because Tennessee did not have federally approved New Source Review (NSR) regulations that applied to some of the sources in this chapter. EPA is hereby approving the deletion of section 1200-3-18-.03 of the Tennessee SIP, and is deleting EPA's earlier disapproval in paragraph (e) of this section.



---

[N] [39 FR 7284, Feb. 25, 1974, as amended at 48 FR 50080, Oct. 31, 1983; 50 FR 32413, Aug. 12, 1985; 51 FR 40677, Nov. 7, 1986; 59 FR 18317, Apr. 18, 1994; 60 FR 7917, Feb. 10, 1995; 60 FR 33924, June 29, 1995]




