# ยง 1282.66   Enterprise reports on duty to serve.

(a) *First and third quarter reports.* Each Enterprise must submit to FHFA a first and third quarter report on its activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Underserved Markets Plan for the loan purchase evaluation area. The report must include detailed year-to-date information on the Enterprise's progress towards meeting the activities and objectives in its Plan. The Enterprise must submit the first and third quarter reports to FHFA within 60 days of the end of the respective quarter.


(b) *Second quarter report.* Each Enterprise must submit to FHFA a second quarter report on all of the activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Underserved Markets Plan. The report must include detailed year-to-date information on the Enterprise's progress towards meeting the activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Plan, and contain narrative and summary statistical information for the Plan objectives, supported by appropriate transaction level detail. The Enterprise must submit the second quarter report to FHFA within 60 days of the end of the second quarter.


(c) *Annual report.* To comply with the requirements in sections 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act and for purposes of FHFA's Annual Housing Report to Congress, each Enterprise must submit to FHFA an annual report on all of the activities and objectives under each underserved market in its Underserved Markets Plan no later than 75 days after the end of each calendar year. For each underserved market, the Enterprise's annual report must include, at a minimum: A description of the Enterprise's market opportunities for loan purchases during the evaluation year to the extent data is available; the volume of qualifying loans purchased by the Enterprise during the evaluation year; a comparison of the Enterprise's loan purchases with its loan purchases in prior years; a comparison of market opportunities with the size of the relevant markets in the past, to the extent data is available; and narrative and summary statistical information for the Plan objectives, supported by appropriate transaction level data.


(d) *Public disclosure of information from reports.* FHFA will make public certain information from the first, second, and third quarter reports at a reasonable time after the end of the calendar year for which they apply, with any confidential and proprietary information and data omitted. FHFA will make public certain information from the annual reports at a reasonable time after receiving them from the Enterprises, with any confidential and proprietary information and data omitted. In the third year of the Underserved Markets Plans, FHFA will make public certain narrative information from the year's second quarter report, excluding data under the loan purchase evaluation area and any confidential and proprietary information and data, at a reasonable time after receiving it within the calendar year.



---

[N] [81 FR 96300, Dec. 29, 2016]




