# § 1.901(m)-6   Successor rules.

(a) *In general.* This section provides successor rules applicable to section 901(m). Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for the continued application of section 901(m) after an RFA that has unallocated basis difference has been transferred, including special rules applicable to successor transactions that are also CAAs or that involve partnerships. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for determining when an aggregate basis difference carryover of a section 901(m) payor either becomes an aggregate basis difference carryover of the section 901(m) payor with respect to another foreign payor or is transferred to another section 901(m) payor, and paragraph (d) of this section provides applicability dates.


(b) *Successor rules for unallocated basis difference*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, section 901(m) continues to apply after a successor transaction to any unallocated basis difference attached to a transferred RFA until the entire basis difference has been taken into account as a cost recovery amount or a disposition amount (or both) under § 1.901(m)-5.


(2) *Definition of a successor transaction.* A successor transaction occurs with respect to an RFA if, after a CAA (*prior CAA*), there is a transfer of the RFA for U.S. income tax purposes and the RFA has unallocated basis difference with respect to the prior CAA, determined immediately after the transfer. A successor transaction may occur regardless of whether the transfer of the RFA is a disposition, a CAA, or a non-taxable transaction for purposes of U.S. income tax. If the RFA was subject to multiple prior CAAs, a separate determination must be made with respect to each prior CAA as to whether the transfer is a successor transaction.


(3) *Special considerations.* (i) If an asset is an RFA with respect to more than one foreign income tax, this paragraph (b) applies separately with respect to each foreign income tax.


(ii) Any subsequent cost recovery amount for an RFA transferred in a successor transaction is determined based on the post-transaction applicable cost recovery method, as described in § 1.901(m)-5(b)(3), that applies to the U.S. basis (or portion thereof) that corresponds to the unallocated basis difference.


(4) *Successor transaction is a CAA*—(i) *In general.* An asset may be an RFA with respect to multiple CAAs if a successor transaction is also a CAA (*subsequent CAA*). Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b)(4), if there is a subsequent CAA, unallocated basis difference with respect to any prior CAAs will continue to be taken into account under section 901(m) after the subsequent CAA. Furthermore, the subsequent CAA may give rise to additional basis difference subject to section 901(m).


(ii) *Foreign basis election.* If a foreign basis election is made under § 1.901(m)-4(c) with respect to a foreign income tax in a subsequent CAA, any unallocated basis difference with respect to one or more prior CAAs will not be taken into account under section 901(m). The only basis difference that will be taken into account after the subsequent CAA with respect to that foreign income tax is the basis difference with respect to the subsequent CAA.


(iii) *Multiple section 743(b) CAAs.* If an RFA is subject to two section 743(b) CAAs (*prior section 743(b) CAA* and *subsequent section 743(b) CAA*) and the same partnership interest is acquired in both the CAAs, the RFA will be treated as having no unallocated basis difference with respect to the prior section 743(b) CAA if the basis difference for the section 743(b) CAA is determined independently from the prior section 743(b) CAA. In this regard, see generally § 1.743-1(f). If the subsequent section 743(b) CAA results from the acquisition of only a portion of the partnership interest acquired in the prior section 743(b) CAA, then the transferor will be required to equitably apportion the unallocated basis difference attributable to the prior section 743(b) CAA between the portion retained by the transferor and the portion transferred. In this case, with respect to the portion transferred, the RFAs will be treated as having no unallocated basis difference with respect to the prior section 743(b) CAA if basis difference for the subsequent section 743(b) CAA is determined independently from the prior section 743(b) CAA.


(5) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of paragraph (b) of this section.


(i) *Facts.* USP, a domestic corporation, wholly owns CFC, a foreign corporation organized in Country A and treated as a corporation for both U.S. and Country A tax purposes. FT is an unrelated foreign corporation organized in Country A and treated as a corporation for both U.S. and Country A tax purposes. FT owns one asset, a parcel of land (Asset). Country A imposes a single tax that is a foreign income tax. On January 1, Year 1, CFC acquires all of the stock of FT in exchange for 300u in a qualified stock purchase (as defined in section 338(d)(3)) to which section 338(a) applies (Acquisition). Immediately before the Acquisition, Asset had a U.S. basis of 100u, and immediately after the Acquisition, Asset had a U.S. basis of 300u. Effective on February 1, Year 1, FT elects to be a disregarded entity pursuant to § 301.7701-3. As a result of the election, FT is deemed, for U.S. income tax purposes, to distribute Asset to CFC in liquidation (Deemed Liquidation) immediately before the closing of the day before the election is effective pursuant to § 301.7701-3(g)(1)(iii) and (3)(ii). The Deemed Liquidation is disregarded for Country A tax purposes. No gain or loss is recognized on the Deemed Liquidation for either U.S. or Country A tax purposes.


(ii) *Result.* Under § 1.901(m)-2(b)(1), the acquisition by CFC of the stock of FT is a section 338 CAA. Under § 1.901(m)-2(c)(1), Asset is an RFA with respect to Country A tax and the Acquisition, because immediately after the Acquisition, Asset is relevant in determining foreign income of FT for Country A tax purposes, and FT owned Asset when the Acquisition occurred. Under § 1.901(m)-4(b), the basis difference with respect to Asset is 200u (300u—100u). Under § 1.901(m)-2(b)(2), the Deemed Liquidation is a CAA (subsequent CAA) because the Deemed Liquidation is treated as an acquisition of assets for U.S. income tax purposes and is disregarded for Country A tax purposes. Because the U.S. basis in Asset is 300u immediately before and after the Deemed Liquidation, the subsequent CAA does not give rise to any additional basis difference. The Deemed Liquidation is not a disposition under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(15) because it did not result in gain or loss being recognized with respect to Asset for U.S. or Country A tax purposes. Accordingly, no basis difference with respect to Asset is taken into account under § 1.901(m)-5 as a result of the Deemed Liquidation, and the unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset immediately after the Deemed Liquidation is 200u (200u—0u). Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Deemed Liquidation is a successor transaction because there is a transfer of Asset for U.S. income tax purposes from FT to CFC and Asset has unallocated basis difference with respect to the Acquisition immediately after the Deemed Liquidation. Accordingly, under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, section 901(m) will continue to apply to the unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset until the entire 200u basis difference has been taken into account under § 1.901(m)-5.


(c) *Successor rules for aggregate basis difference carryover*—(1) *Transfers of a section 901(m) payor's aggregate basis difference carryover to another person.* If a corporation acquires the assets of a section 901(m) payor in a transaction to which section 381 applies, that corporation succeeds to any aggregate basis difference carryovers of the section 901(m) payor.


(2) *Transfers of a section 901(m) payor's aggregate basis difference carryover with respect to a foreign payor to another foreign payor.* If a section 901(m) payor has an aggregate basis difference carryover, with respect to a foreign income tax and a foreign payor, and substantially all of the assets of the foreign payor are transferred to another foreign payor in which the section 901(m) payor owns an interest, the section 901(m) payor's aggregate basis difference carryover with respect to the first foreign payor is transferred to the section 901(m) payor's aggregate basis difference carryover with respect to the other foreign payor. In such a case, the section 901(m) payor's aggregate basis difference carryover with respect to the first foreign payor is reduced to zero.


(3) *Anti-abuse rule.* If a section 901(m) payor has an aggregate basis difference carryover with respect to a foreign income tax and a foreign payor and, with a principal purpose of avoiding the application of section 901(m), assets of the foreign payor are transferred to another foreign payor in a transaction not described in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, then a portion of the aggregate basis difference carryover of the section 901(m) payor is transferred either to the aggregate basis difference carryover of the section 901(m) payor with respect to the other foreign payor or to another section 901(m) payor, as appropriate. The portion of the aggregate basis difference carryover transferred is determined based on the ratio of fair market value of the assets transferred to the fair market value of all of the assets of the foreign payor that transferred the assets. Similar principles apply when, with a principal purpose of avoiding the application of section 901(m), there is a change in the allocation of foreign income for foreign income tax purposes or the allocation of foreign income tax amounts for U.S. income tax purposes that would otherwise separate foreign income tax amounts from the related aggregate basis difference carryover.


(4) *Ownership.* For purposes of this paragraph (c), a section 901(m) payor owns an interest in a foreign payor if the section 901(m) payor owns the interest directly or indirectly through one or more fiscally transparent entities for U.S. income tax purposes.


(d) *Applicability dates.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, this section applies to CAAs occurring on or after March 23, 2020.


(2) Paragraphs (a), (b)(1) and (2), (b)(4)(i) and (iii), and (b)(5) of this section apply to CAAs occurring on or after July 21, 2014, and to CAAs occurring before that date resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after July 29, 2014, and that is effective on or before July 21, 2014. Paragraphs (a), (b)(1) and (2), (b)(4)(i) and (iii), and (b)(5) of this section also apply to CAAs occurring on or after January 1, 2011, and before July 21, 2014, other than CAAs occurring before July 21, 2014, resulting from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 that is filed on or after July 29, 2014, and that is effective on or before July 21, 2014, but only with respect to basis difference determined under § 1.901(m)-4T(e) with respect to the CAA.


(3) Taxpayers may, however, choose to apply provisions in this section before the date such provisions are applicable pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, provided that they (along with any persons that are related (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)) to the taxpayer)—


(i) Consistently apply this section, § 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(*c*)(*4*)(*v*) through (*vii*), § 1.901(m)-1, §§ 1.901(m)-3 through 1.901(m)-5 (excluding § 1.901(m)-4(e)), § 1.901(m)-7, and § 1.901(m)-8 to all CAAs occurring on or after January 1, 2011, and consistently apply § 1.901(m)-2 (excluding § 1.901(m)-2(d)) to all CAAs occurring on or after December 7, 2016, on any original or amended tax return for each taxable year for which the application of the provisions listed in this paragraph (d)(3)(i) affects the tax liability and for which the statute of limitations does not preclude assessment or the filing of a claim for refund, as applicable;


(ii) File all tax returns described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section for any taxable year ending on or before March 23, 2020, no later than March 23, 2021; and


(iii) Make appropriate adjustments to take into account deficiencies that would have resulted from the consistent application under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section for taxable years that are not open for assessment.



---

[N] [T.D. 9895, 85 FR 16263, Mar. 23, 2020]




