# § 555.103   Transactions among licensees/permittees and transactions among licensees and holders of user permits.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Transactions among licensees/permittees on and after May 24, 2003*—(1) *General.* (i) A licensed importer, licensed manufacturer or licensed dealer selling or otherwise distributing explosive materials (or a holder of a user permit disposing of surplus stock to a licensee; a holder of a user permit; or a holder of a limited permit who is within the same State as the distributor) who has the certified information required by this section may sell or distribute explosive materials to a licensee or permittee for not more than 45 days following the expiration date of the distributee's license or permit, unless the distributor knows or has reason to believe that the distributee's authority to continue business or operations under this part has been terminated.


(ii) A licensed importer, licensed manufacturer or licensed dealer selling or otherwise distributing explosive materials (or a holder of a user permit disposing of surplus stock to another licensee or permittee) must verify the license or permit status of the distributee prior to the release of explosive materials ordered, as required by this section.


(iii) Licensees or permittees desiring to return explosive materials to a licensed manufacturer may do so without obtaining a certified copy of the manufacturer's license.


(2) *Verification of license/user permit.* (i) Prior to or with the first order of explosive materials, the distributee must provide the distributor a certified copy (or, in the case of a user-limited, the original) of the distributee's license or user permit. However, licensees or holders of user permits that are business organizations may (in lieu of a certified copy of a license or user permit) provide the distributor with a certified list that contains the name, address, license or user permit number, and date of the license or user permit expiration of each location.


(ii) The distributee must also provide the distributor with a current list of the names of persons authorized to accept delivery of explosive materials on behalf of the distributee. The distributee ordering explosive materials must keep the list current and provide updated lists to licensees and holders of user permits on a timely basis. A distributor may not transfer possession of explosive materials to any person whose name does not appear on the current list of names of persons authorized to accept delivery of explosive materials on behalf of the distributee. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, in all instances the distributor must verify the identity of the distributee, or the employee of the distributee accepting possession of explosive materials on behalf of the distributee, by examining an identification document (as defined in § 555.11) before relinquishing possession.


(iii) A licensee or holder of a user permit ordering explosive materials from another licensee or permittee must provide to the distributor a current, certified statement of the intended use of the explosive materials, *e.g.,* resale, mining, quarrying, agriculture, construction, sport rocketry, road building, oil well drilling, seismographic research, etc.


(A) For individuals, the certified statement of intended use must specify the name, address, date and place of birth, and social security number of the distributee.


(B) For business organizations, the certified statement of intended use must specify the taxpayer identification number, the identity and the principal and local places of business.


(C) The licensee or holder of a user permit purchasing explosive materials must revise the furnished copy of the certified statement only when the information is no longer current.


(3) *Delivery of explosive materials by common or contract carrier.* When a common or contract carrier will transport explosive materials from a distributor to a distributee who is a licensee or holder of a user permit, the distributor must take the following actions before relinquishing possession of the explosive materials:


(i) Verify the identity of the person accepting possession for the common or contract carrier by examining such person's valid, unexpired driver's license issued by any State, Canada, or Mexico; and


(ii) Record the name of the common or contract carrier (*i.e.,* the name of the driver's employer) and the full name of the driver. This information must be maintained in the distributor's permanent records in accordance with § 555.121.


(4) *User-limited permit transactions.* A user-limited permit issued under the provisions of this part is valid for only a single purchase transaction and is not renewable (see § 555.51). Accordingly, at the time a user-limited permittee orders explosive materials, the licensed distributor must write on the front of the user-limited permit the transaction date, his signature, and the distributor's license number prior to returning the permit to the user-limited permittee.



---

[N] [ATF No. 1, 68 FR 13787, Mar. 20, 2003, as amended by ATF No. 2, 68 FR 53512, Sept. 11, 2003; ATF 2017R-21, 84 FR 13799, Apr. 8, 2019]




