# § 341.10   Reissue.

(a) *Addition or change of beneficiary.* A Retirement Plan Bond will be reissued to add a beneficiary in the case of a single ownership bond, or to eliminate or substitute a beneficiary in the case of a bond registered in beneficiary form upon the owner's request on Form PD 3564. No consent will be required to support any reissue transaction from a beneficiary whose name is to be removed from the registration of a Retirement Plan Bond. If the registered owner dies after the bond has been presented and surrendered for reissue, upon receipt of notice thereof by the agency to which the request for reissue was submitted, such request shall be treated as ineffective, provided the notice of death is received by the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC, 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101, to which the request was sent, in sufficient time to withhold delivery, by mail or otherwise, of the reissued bond.


(b) *Error in issue—change of name.* Reissue of a Retirement Plan Bond will be made where an error in issue has occurred, as well as in cases where the owner's name has been changed by marriage, divorce, annulment, order of court, or in any other legal manner, upon appropriate request supported by satisfactory evidence. Information as to the procedure to be followed in securing such reissue may be obtained from a Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Securities Transactions Branch, Washington, DC 20226, or Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Division of Transactions and Rulings, Parkersburg, WV 26101.



---

[N] [28 FR 405, Jan. 16, 1963, as amended at 42 FR 21611, Apr. 28, 1977; 42 FR 57123, Nov. 1, 1977]




