# § 721.10515   Partially fluorinated alcohol substituted glycols (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as partially fluorinated alcohol substituted glycols (PMNs P-10-58, P-10-59, P-10-60, and P-10-184) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (manufacture of the PMN substances according to the chemical synthesis and composition section of the TSCA section 5(e) consent order, including analysis, reporting, and limitations of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities; manufacture and import of P-10-60 and P-10-184 other than when the mean number of moles of the ethoxy group is between 3 and 11 or the average number molecular weight is between 496 and 848 daltons based on the amounts of raw materials charged to the reactor; manufacture and import of P-10-58 and P-10-59 only as intermediates for the manufacture of P-10-60), and (q).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances, except the recordkeeping requirements for § 721.125(b) and (c) do not apply to importers or processors when any one of the substances are contained in a formulation at less than 3 weight percent.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [78 FR 55635, Sept. 11, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 70175, Nov. 13, 2015]




