# § 779.318   Characteristics and examples of retail or service establishments.

(a) Typically a retail or service establishment is one which sells goods or services to the general public. It serves the everyday needs of the community in which it is located. The retail or service establishment performs a function in the business organization of the Nation which is at the very end of the stream of distribution, disposing in small quantities of the products and skills of such organization and does not take part in the manufacturing process. (See, however, the discussion of section 13(a)(4) in §§ 779.346 to 779.350.) Such an establishment sells to the general public its food and drink. It sells to such public its clothing and its furniture, its automobiles, its radios and refrigerators, its coal and its lumber, and other goods, and performs incidental services on such goods when necessary. It provides the general public its repair services and other services for the comfort and convenience of such public in the course of its daily living. Illustrative of such establishments are: Grocery stores, hardware stores, clothing stores, coal dealers, furniture stores, restaurants, hotels, watch repair establishments, barber shops, and other such local establishments.


(b) The legislative history of the section 13(a)(2) exemption for certain retail or service establishments shows that Congress also intended that the retail exemption extend in some measure beyond consumer goods and services to embrace certain products almost never purchased for family or noncommercial use. A precise line between such articles and those which can never be sold at retail cannot be drawn. But a few characteristics of items like small trucks and farm implements may offer some guidance; their use is very widespread as is that of consumer goods; they are often distributed in stores or showrooms by means not dissimilar to those used for consumer goods; and they are frequently used in commercial activities of limited scope. The list of strictly commercial items whose sale can be deemed retail is very small and a determination as to the application of the retail exemption in specific cases would depend upon the consideration of all the circumstances relevant to the situation. (*Idaho Sheet Metal Works, Inc.* v. *Wirtz* and *Wirtz* v. *Steepleton General Tire Company, Inc.,* 383 U.S. 190, 202, rehearing denied 383 U.S. 963.)



---

[N] [35 FR 5856, Apr. 9, 1970, as amended at 36 FR 14466, Aug. 6, 1971]




