# § 5f.103-1   Obligations issued after December 31, 1982, required to be in registered form.

(a) *Registration; general rule.* Interest on a registration-required obligation (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) shall not be exempt from tax notwithstanding section 103 (a) or any other provision of law, exclusive of any treaty obligation of the United States, unless the obligation is issued in registered form (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section).


(b) *Registration-required obligation.* For purposes of this section, the term “registration-required obligation” means any obligation except any one of the following:


(1) An obligation not of a type offered to the public. The determination as to whether an obligation is not of a type offered to the public shall be based on whether similar obligations are in fact publicly offered or traded.


(2) An obligation that has a maturity at the date of issue of not more than 1 year.


(3) An obligation issued before January 1, 1983. An obligation first issued before January 1, 1983, shall not be considered to have been issued on or after that date merely as a result of the existence of a right on the part of the holder of such obligation to convert the obligation from registered form into bearer form, or as a result of the exercise of such a right.


(4) An obligation described in § 5f.163-1 (c) (relating to certain obligations issued to foreign persons).


(c) *Registered form*—(1) *General rule.* An obligation issued after January 20, 1987, pursuant to a binding contract entered into after January 20, 1987, is in registered form if—


(i) The obligation is registered as to both principal and any stated interest with the issuer (or its agent) and transfer of the obligation may be effected only by surrender of the old instrument and either the reissuance by the issuer of the old instrument to the new holder or the issuance by the issuer of a new instrument to the new holder,


(ii) The right to the principal of, and stated interest on, the obligation may be transferred only through a book entry system maintained by the issuer (or its agent) (as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section), or


(iii) The obligation is registered as to both principal and any stated interest with the issuer (or its agent) and may be transferred through both of the methods described in subdivisions (i) and (ii).


(2) *Special rule for registration of a book entry obligation.* An obligation shall be considered transferable through a book entry system if the ownership of an interest in the obligation is required to be reflected in a book entry, whether or not physical securities are issued. A book entry is a record of ownership that identifies the owner of an interest in the obligation.


(d) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section shall apply to obligations issued after December 31, 1982, unless issued on an exercise of a warrant for the conversion of a convertible obligation if such warrant or obligation was offered or sold outside the United States without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 and was issued before August 10, 1982.


(e) *Special rules.* The following special rules apply to obligations issued after January 20, 1987, pursuant to a binding contract entered into after January 20, 1987.


(1) An obligation that is not in registered form under paragraph (c) of this section is considered to be in bearer form.


(2) An obligation is not considered to be in registered form as of a particular time if it can be transferred at that time or at any time until its maturity by any means not described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) An obligation that as of a particular time is not considered to be in registered form by virtue of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (e) and that, during a period beginning with a later time and ending with the maturity of the obligation, can be transferred only by a means described in paragraph (c) of this section, is considered to be in registered form at all times during such period.


(f) *Examples.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(g) *Cross-references.* See section 103A(j)(1) for the registration requirement of certain mortgage subsidy bonds issued after December 31, 1981, and § 6a.103A-1(a)(5) for the definition of registered form for such obligations issued after December 31, 1981, and on or before December 31, 1982. See also section 103(h) (requiring registration of certain energy bonds issued on or after October 18, 1979).



---

[N] [T.D. 7852, 47 FR 51361, Nov. 15, 1982, as amended by T.D. 8111, 51 FR 15463, Dec. 19, 1986]






