# § 905.602   Program requirements.

(a) *Local cooperation.* Except as provided under § 905.604(i) of this part for mixed-finance projects, the PHA must enter into a Cooperation Agreement with the applicable local governing body that includes sufficient authority to cover the public housing being developed under this subpart, or provide an opinion of counsel that the existing, amended, or supplementary Cooperation Agreement between the jurisdiction and the PHA includes the project or development.


(b) *New construction limitation.* These requirements apply to the development (including new construction and acquisition) of public housing. All proposed new development projects must meet both of the following requirements:


(1) *Limitation on the number of units.* A PHA may not use Capital Funds to pay for the development cost of public housing units if such development would result in a net increase in the number of public housing units that the PHA owned, assisted, or operated on October 1, 1999. Subject to approval by the Secretary, a PHA may develop public housing units in excess of the limitation if:


(i) The units are available and affordable to eligible low-income families and the CF formula does not provide additional funding for the specific purpose of constructing, modernizing, and operating such excess units; or


(ii) The units are part of a mixed-finance project or otherwise leverage significant additional investment, and the cost of the useful life of the projects is less than the estimated cost of providing tenant-based assistance under section 8(o) of the 1937 Act.


(2) *Limitations on cost.* A PHA may not construct public housing unless the cost of construction is less than the cost of acquisition or acquisition and rehabilitation of existing units, including the amount required to establish, as necessary, an upfront reserve for replacement accounts for major repairs. A PHA shall provide evidence of compliance with this subpart either by:


(i) Demonstrating through a cost comparison that the cost of new construction in the neighborhood where the PHA proposes to construct the housing is less than the cost of acquisition of existing housing, with or without rehabilitation, in the same neighborhood; or


(ii) Documenting that there is insufficient existing housing in the neighborhood to acquire.


(c) *Existing PHA-owned nonpublic housing properties.* Nonpublic housing properties may be used in the development of public housing units provided all requirements of the 1937 Act and the development requirements of this part are met.


(d) *Site and neighborhood standards.* Each proposed site to be newly acquired for a public housing project or for construction or rehabilitation of public housing must be reviewed and approved by the field office as meeting the following standards, as applicable:


(1) The site must be adequate in size, exposure, and contour to accommodate the number and type of units proposed. Adequate utilities (e.g., water, sewer, gas, and electricity) and streets shall be available to service the site.


(2) The site and neighborhood shall be suitable to facilitating and furthering full compliance with the applicable provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Executive Order 11063, and HUD regulations issued under these statutes.


(3) The site for new construction shall not be located in an area of minority concentration unless:


(i) There are already sufficient, comparable opportunities outside areas of minority concentration for housing minority families in the income range that is to be served by the proposed project; or


(ii) The project is necessary to meet overriding housing needs that cannot feasibly be met otherwise in that housing market area. “Overriding housing needs” shall not serve as the basis for determining that a site is acceptable if the only reason that these needs cannot otherwise feasibly be met is that, due to discrimination because of race, color, religion, creed, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, sites outside areas of minority concentration are unavailable.


(4) The site for new construction shall not be located in a racially mixed area if the project will cause a significant increase in the proportion of minority to nonminority residents in the area.


(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing, after demolition of public housing units a PHA may construct public housing units on the original public housing site or in the same neighborhood if the number of replacement public housing units is significantly fewer than the number of public housing units demolished. One of the following criteria must be satisfied:


(i) The number of public housing units being constructed is not more than 50 percent of the number of public housing units in the original development; or


(ii) In the case of replacing an occupied development, the number of public housing units being constructed is the number needed to house current residents who want to remain at the site, so long as the number of public housing units being constructed is significantly fewer than the number being demolished; or


(iii) The public housing units being constructed constitute no more than 25 units.


(6) The site shall promote greater choice of housing opportunities and avoid undue concentration of assisted persons in areas containing a high proportion of low-income persons.


(7) The site shall be free from adverse environmental conditions, natural or manmade, such as: Toxic or contaminated soils and substances; mudslide or other unstable soil conditions; flooding; septic tank backups or other sewage hazards; harmful air pollution or excessive smoke or dust; excessive noise or vibrations from vehicular traffic; insect, rodent, or vermin infestation; or fire hazards. The neighborhood shall not be seriously detrimental to family life. It shall not be filled with substandard dwellings nor shall other undesirable elements predominate, unless there is a concerted program in progress to remedy the undesirable conditions.


(8) The site shall be accessible to social, recreational, educational, commercial, and health facilities; health services; and other municipal facilities and services that are at least equivalent to those typically found in neighborhoods consisting largely of similar unassisted standard housing. The availability of public transportation must be considered.


(9) The site shall be accessible to a range of jobs for low-income workers and for other needs. The availability of public transportation must be considered, and travel time and cost via public transportation and private automobile must not be excessive. This requirement may be given less consideration for elderly housing.


(10) The project may not be built on a site that has occupants unless the relocation requirements at § 905.308(b)(9) of this part are met.


(11) The site shall not be in an area that HUD has identified as having special flood hazards and in which the sale of flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, unless the development is covered by flood insurance required by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 and meets all applicable HUD standards and local requirements.


(e) *Relocation.* All acquisition or rehabilitation activities carried out with public housing funds must comply with the provisions of § 905.308(b)(9).


(f) *Environmental requirements.* All activities under this part are subject to an environmental review by a responsible entity under HUD's environmental regulations at 24 CFR Part 58 and must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*) and the related laws and authorities listed at 24 CFR 58.5. HUD may make a finding in accordance with 24 CFR 58.11 and may perform the environmental review itself under the provisions of 24 CFR Part 50. In those cases where HUD performs the environmental review under 24 CFR Part 50, it will do so before approving a proposed project, and will comply with the requirements of NEPA and the related requirements at 24 CFR 50.4.




