# § 1.6038A-7   Noncompliance.

(a) *In general.* In the case of any failure described in § 1.6038A-5 or § 1.6038A-6, the rules of this § 1.6038A-7 apply to the reporting corporation. In such a case—


(1) The amount of the deduction allowed under subtitle A for any amount paid or incurred by the reporting corporation to the related party in connection with such transaction, and


(2) The cost to the reporting corporation of any property acquired in such transaction from the related party or transferred by such corporation in such transaction to the related party, may be determined by the District Director.


(b) *Determination of the amount.* The amount of the deduction or the cost to the reporting corporation shall be the amount determined by the District Director (in the District Director's sole discretion) from the District Director's own knowledge or from such information as the District Director may choose to obtain through testimony or otherwise. The District Director shall consider any information or materials that have been submitted by the reporting corporation or a foreign related party. The District Director, however, may disregard any information, documents, or records submitted by the reporting corporation or the related party if (in the District Director's sole discretion) the District Director deems that they are insufficiently probative of the relevant facts.


(c) *Separate application.* If the noncompliance penalty of this section applies with respect to transactions with a related party of the reporting corporation, it will not be applied with respect to any other related parties of the reporting corporation solely upon the basis of that failure. Thus, for example, if a reporting corporation engages in transactions with related party A and related party B, and the reporting corporation does not respond to a summons for records related to the transactions between the reporting corporation and related party A, the noncompliance penalty imposed as a result of such failure will not apply to the transactions between the reporting corporation and related party B. If a separate summons is issued for records relating to the transactions between the reporting corporation and related party B and the reporting corporation does not produce such records, the noncompliance penalty may be applied to those transactions.


(d) *Effective dates.* For effective dates for this section, see § 1.6038A-1(n).



---

[N] [T.D. 8353, 56 FR 28075, June 19, 1991]




