# § 165.150   New Haven Harbor, Quinnipiac River, Mill River.

(a) *Boundaries.* The following is a regulated navigation area: The waters surrounding the Tomlinson Bridge and Pearl Harbor Memorial Bridge (I-95 Bridge) located within a line extending from a point A at 41°17′50.35″ N, 072°54′34.37″ W (the southeast corner of the Magellan Pink Tanks Terminal dock) thence along a line 126°T to point B at 41°17′42.35″ N, 072°54′19.37″ W (the southwest corner of the Gulf facility) thence north along the shoreline to point C at 41°17′57.35″ N, 072°54′04.37″ W (the northwest corner of the R & H Terminal dock) thence along a line 303°T to point D at 41°18′05.35″ N, 072°54′21.37″ W (the west bank of the mouth of the Mill River) thence south along the shoreline to point of origin. All coordinates are North American Datum 1983.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) No person may operate a vessel or tow a barge in this Regulated Navigation Area in violation of these regulations.


(2) Applicability. The regulations apply to barges with a freeboard greater than ten feet and to any vessel towing or pushing these barges on outbound transits of the Tomlinson Bridge.


(3) Regulated barges may not transit the bridge—


(i) During the period from one hour to five hours after high water slack,


(ii) When the wind speed at the bridge is greater than twenty knots, and


(iii) With the barge being towed on a hawser, stern first.


(4) Regulated barges with a beam greater than fifty feet must be pushed ahead through the bridge.


(5) If the tug operator does not have a clear view over the barge when pushing ahead, the operator shall post a lookout on the barge with a means of communication with the operator.


(6) Regulated barges departing the Mill River may transit the bridge only between sunrise and sunset. Barges must be pushed ahead of the tug, bow first, with a second tug standing by to assist at the bow.


(7) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve any person from complying with:


(i) Applicable Navigation and Pilot Rules for Inland Waters;


(ii) Any other laws or regulations;


(iii) Any order or direction of the Captain of the Port.


(8) The Captain of the Port Sector Long Island Sound (COTP) may issue an authorization to deviate from any regulation in paragraph (b) of this section if the COTP determines that an alternate operation can be done safely.


(9) The COTP may temporarily close the RNA for any situation the COTP determines would create an imminent hazard to waterway users in the RNA. Entry into the RNA during temporary closure is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative. The COTP or designated representative may order the removal of any vessel or equipment within the RNA. To assure wide advance notice of each closure among affected mariners, the COTP may use means including, but not limited to, Broadcast Notice to Mariners and Local Notice to Mariners. The COTP will announce the dates and times of the closure and whether exceptions will be authorized for emergency or other specific vessel traffic.



---

[N] [CGD 79-034, 47 FR 29660, July 8, 1982, as amended by CGD 80-069, 47 FR 53368, Nov. 26, 1982. Redesignated by CGD 87-008b, 52 FR 25218, July 6, 1987, as amended by USCG-2012-0343, 77 FR 67565, Nov. 13, 2012]




