# § 414.1205   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, unless otherwise indicated—


*Accountable care organization* (ACO) has the same meaning given this term under § 425.20 of this chapter.


*Certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA)* has the same meaning given this term under section 1861(bb)(2) of the Act.


*Critical access hospital* has the same meaning given this term under § 400.202 of this chapter.


*Electronic health record* (EHR) has the same meaning given this term under § 414.92 of this chapter.


*Eligible professional* has the same meaning given this term under section 1848(k)(3)(B) of the Act.


*Federally Qualified Health Center* has the same meaning given this term under § 405.2401(b) of this chapter.


*Group of physicians (Group)* means a single Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with 2 or more eligible professionals, as identified by their individual National Provider Identifier (NPI), who have reassigned their Medicare billing rights to the TIN.


*Performance period* means the calendar year that will be used to assess the quality of care furnished compared to cost.


*Performance rate* mean the calculated rate for each quality or cost measure such as the percent of times that a particular clinical quality action was reported as being performed, or a particular outcome was attained, for the applicable persons to whom a measure applies as described in the denominator for the measure.


*Physician* has the same meaning given this term under section 1861(r) of the Act.


*Physician assistant (PA), nurse practitioner (NP), and clinical nurse specialist (CNS)* have the same meanings given these terms under section 1861(aa)(5) of the Act.


*Physician Fee Schedule* has the same meaning given this term under part 410 of this chapter.


*Physician Quality Reporting System* means the system established under section 1848(k) of the Act.


*Risk score* means the beneficiary risk score derived from the CMS Hierarchical Condition Categories (HCC) model.


*Solo practitioner* means a single Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) with one eligible professional who is identified by an individual National Provider Identifier (NPI) billing under the TIN.


*Taxpayer Identification Number* (TIN) has the same meaning given this term under § 425.20 of this chapter.


*Value-based payment modifier* means the percentage as determined under § 414.1270 by which amounts paid to a group or solo practitioner under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule established under section 1848 of the Act are adjusted based upon a comparison of the quality of care furnished to cost as determined by this subpart.



---

[N] [77 FR 69368, Nov. 16, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 68005, Nov. 13, 2014; 80 FR 71382, Nov. 16, 2015]




