# § 21.198   “Discontinued” status.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of *discontinued* status is to identify situations in which termination of all services and benefits received under Chapter 31 is necessary.


(b) *Placement in “discontinued”.* VA will discontinue the veteran's case and assign the case to *discontinued* status following assignment to *interrupted* status as provided in § 21.197 for reasons including but not limited to the following: 


(1) *Veteran declines to initiate or continue rehabilitation process.* If a veteran does not initiate or continue the rehabilitation process and does not furnish an acceptable reason for his or her failure to do so following assignment to *interrupted* status, the veteran's case will be discontinued and assigned to *discontinued* status. This includes: 


(i) A case in *applicant* status;


(ii) A case in *evaluation and planning* status; 


(iii) A case in *extended evaluation* status; 


(iv) A case in *rehabilitation to the point of employability* status; 


(v) A case in *independent living program* status; 


(vi) A case in *employment services* status; or


(vii) A case in *interrupted* status;


(2) *Unsatisfactory conduct and cooperation.* When a veteran's conduct or cooperation becomes unsatisfactory, services and assistance may be discontinued and assigned to *discontinued* status as determined under provisions of §§ 21.362 and 21.364.


(3) *Eligibility and entitlement.* Unless the veteran desires employment assistance, the veteran's case will be discontinued and assigned to *discontinued* status when:


(i) The veteran reaches the basic twelve-year termination date, and there is no basis for extension; or 


(ii) The veteran has used 48 months of entitlement under one or more VA programs, and there is no basis for extension of entitlement.


(4) *Medical and related problems.* A veteran's case will be discontinued and assigned to *discontinued* status when:


(i) The veteran will be unable to participate in a rehabilitation program because of a serious physical or emotional problem for an extended period; and


(ii) VA medical staff are unable to estimate an approximate date by which the veteran will be able to begin or return to the program.


(5) *Withdrawal.* Veteran voluntarily withdraws from the program.


(6) *Failure to progress.* The veteran's case will be discontinued and assigned to *discontinued* status if his or her failure to progress in a program is due to:


(i) Continuing lack of application by the veteran unrelated to any personal or other problems; or


(ii) Inability of the veteran to benefit from rehabilitation services despite the best efforts of VA and the veteran.


(7) *Special review of proposed discontinuance action.* The Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Officer shall review each case in which discontinuance is being considered for a veteran with a service-connected disability rated 50 percent or more disabling. The VR&E Officer may utilize existing resources to assist in the review, including referral to the Vocational Rehabilitation Panel (VRP).


(c) *Termination of “discontinued” status.* Except as noted in paragraph (c)(3) of this section assignment of the veteran's case to the same status from which the veteran was discontinued or to a different one requires that VA first find:


(1) The reason for the discontinuance has been removed; and


(2) VA has redetermined his or her eligibility and entitlement under Chapter 31.


(3) In addition to the criteria described in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section a veteran placed into *discontinued* status as a result of a finding of unsatisfactory conduct or cooperation under §§ 21.362 and 21.364 must also meet the requirements for reentrance into a rehabilitation program found in § 21.364.


(d) *Follow-up of a cases placed in “discontinued” status.* VA shall establish appropriate procedures to follow up on cases which have been placed in *discontinued* status, except in those cases reassigned from *applicant* status. The purpose of such followup is to determine if: 


(1) The reasons for discontinuance may have been removed, and reconsideration of eligibility and entitlement is possible; or


(2) The veteran is employed, and criteria for assignment to *rehabilitated* status are met.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 2518, Jan. 23, 1987; 53 FR 32620, Aug. 26, 1988; 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022]




