# § 630.201   Definitions.

(a) In section 6301(2)(iii) of title 5, United States Code, the term *temporary employee engaged in construction work at an hourly rate* means an employee hired on a temporary basis solely for the purpose of work on a specific construction project and paid on an hourly rate.


(b) In subparts B through G of this part:


*Accrued leave* means the leave earned by an employee during the current leave year that is unused at any given time in that year.


*Accumulated leave* means the unused leave remaining to the credit of an employee at the beginning of the leave year.


*Agency* means an Executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, and any other entity of the Federal Government that employs officers and employees to whom subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, applies.


*Committed relationship* means one in which the employee, and the domestic partner of the employee, are each other's sole domestic partner (and are not married to or domestic partners with anyone else); and share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's common welfare and financial obligations. This includes, but is not limited to, any relationship between two individuals of the same or opposite sex that is granted legal recognition by a State or by the District of Columbia as a marriage or analogous relationship (including, but not limited to, a civil union).


*Domestic partner* means an adult in a committed relationship with another adult, including both same-sex and opposite-sex relationships.


*Employee* means an employee to whom subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, applies.


*Family member* means an individual with any of the following relationships to the employee:


(1) Spouse, and parents thereof;


(2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof;


(3) Parents, and spouses thereof;


(4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof;


(5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof;


(6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in paragraphs (2) through (5) of this definition; and


(7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.


*Health care provider* has the meaning given that term in § 630.1202.


*Leave year* means the period beginning with the first day of the first complete pay period in a calendar year and ending with the day immediately before the first day of the first complete pay period in the following calendar year.


*Medical certificate* means a written statement signed by a registered practicing physician or other practitioner certifying to the incapacitation, examination, or treatment, or to the period of disability while the patient was receiving professional treatment.


*Parent* means—


(1) A biological, adoptive, step, or foster parent of the employee, or a person who was a foster parent of the employee when the employee was a minor;


(2) A person who is the legal guardian of the employee or was the legal guardian of the employee when the employee was a minor or required a legal guardian;


(3) A person who stands *in loco parentis* to the employee or stood *in loco parentis* to the employee when the employee was a minor or required someone to stand *in loco parentis;* or


(4) A parent, as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition, of an employee's spouse or domestic partner.


*Serious health condition* has the meaning given that term in § 630.1202. 


*Son or daughter* means—


(1) A biological, adopted, step, or foster son or daughter of the employee;


(2) A person who is a legal ward or was a legal ward of the employee when that individual was a minor or required a legal guardian;


(3) A person for whom the employee stands *in loco parentis* or stood *in loco parentis* when that individual was a minor or required someone to stand *in loco parentis;* or


(4) A son or daughter, as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition, of an employee's spouse or domestic partner.


*Uncommon tour of duty* means an established tour of duty that exceeds 80 hours of work in a biweekly pay period, provided the tour—


(1) Includes hours for which the employee is compensated by standby duty pay under 5 U.S.C. 5545(c)(1) and § 550.141 of this chapter;


(2) Is a regular tour of duty (as defined in § 550.1302 of this chapter) established for firefighters compensated under 5 U.S.C. 5545b and part 550, subpart M, of this chapter; or


(3) Is authorized for a category of employees by the Office of Personnel Management.


*United States* means the several States and the District of Columbia.



---

[N] [61 FR 64450, Dec. 5, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 64595, Nov. 23, 1998; 65 FR 37239, June 13, 2000; 71 FR 54570, Sept. 18, 2006; 75 FR 33495, June 14, 2010]




