# ยง 1924.115   Single Family Housing site evaluation.

(a) *Site review.* The site approval official will evaluate each site (developed or undeveloped) to determine acceptance for the program. Information on the site will be provided by the appraiser or site approval official on a form provided by RHS and available in any RHS field office.


(b) *Site access.* Each site must be contiguous to and have direct access from:


(1) A hard surfaced or all weather road which is developed in full compliance with public body requirements, is dedicated for public use, and is being maintained by a public body or a home owners association that has demonstrated its ability or can clearly demonstrate its ability to maintain the street; or


(2) An all weather extended driveway which can serve no more than two sites connecting to a hard surface or all weather street or road that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1); or


(3) A hard surfaced street in a condominium or townhouse complex which:


(i) Is owned in common by the members or a member association and is maintained by a member association that has demonstrated its ability or can clearly demonstrate its ability to maintain the street; and


(ii) Connects to a publicly owned and dedicated street or road.


(c) *Exceptions to street requirements.* A site not meeting the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section will be acceptable if:


(1) The applicant is a builder for a conditional commitment (a loan will not be approved until the site meets the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section), or the builder posts an irrevocable performance and payment bond (or similar acceptable assurance) that assures the site approval official that the site will be developed to meet the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section; or


(2) The site is recommended by the site approval official and approved by the state director. A request for state director approval must justify that it is in the best interest of both the government and the applicant to approve the site.


(d) *Site layout.* (1) Sites shall be surveyed and platted. Permanent markers shall be placed at all corners.


(2) Sites shall meet all requirements of state and local entities and RHS.


(e) *Covenants, conditions and restrictions.* Sites in subdivisions shall be protected by covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) to preserve the character, value, and amenities of the residential community and to avoid or mitigate potential environmental impacts unless, an exception is granted by RHS after considering the suitability of local ordinances, zoning, and other land use controls.


(1) CC&Rs shall be recorded in the public land records and specifically referenced in each deed.


(2) The intent of the CC&Rs is to assure the developers that the purchasers will use the land in conformance with the planned objectives for the community. In addition, the CC&Rs should assure the purchasers that the land covered by the CC&Rs will be used as planned and that other purchasers will use and maintain the land as planned to prevent changes in the character of the neighborhood that would adversely impact values or create a nuisance.




