# ยง 294.25   Mineral activities in Idaho Roadless Areas.

(a) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as restricting mineral leases, contracts, permits, and associated activities authorized prior to October 16, 2008.


(b) Nothing in this subpart shall affect mining activities conducted pursuant to the General Mining Law of 1872.


(c) *Wild Land Recreation, Special Areas of Historic or Tribal Significance, or Primitive.* (1) For mineral leases, contracts, permits, and other associated activities authorized after the effective date of this subpart the Forest Service will not recommend, authorize, or consent to road construction, road reconstruction, or surface occupancy associated with mineral leases in Idaho Roadless Areas designated as Wild Land Recreation, Special Areas of Historic or Tribal Significance, or Primitive themes.


(2) After October 16, 2008, the Forest Service will not authorize sale of common variety mineral materials in Idaho Roadless Areas designated as Wild Land Recreation, Special Areas of Historic or Tribal Significance, or Primitive themes.


(d) *Backcountry/Restoration.* (1) For mineral leases, contracts, permits, and other associated activities authorized after the effective date of this subpart, the Forest Service will not recommend, authorize, or consent to road construction or road reconstruction associated with mineral leases in Idaho Roadless Areas designated as Backcountry/Restoration. Surface use or occupancy without road construction or reconstruction is permissible for all mineral leasing unless prohibited in the applicable land management plan.


(2) After October 16, 2008, the Forest Service may authorize the use or sale of common variety mineral materials, and associated road construction or reconstruction to access these mineral materials, in Idaho Roadless Areas designated as Backcountry/Restoration only if the use of these mineral materials is incidental to an activity otherwise permissible in backcountry/restoration under this subpart.


(e) *General Forest, Rangeland, and Grassland.* (1) For mineral leases, contracts, permits, and other associated activities authorized after October 16, 2008, the Forest Service will not recommend, authorize, or consent to road construction or reconstruction associated with mineral leases in Idaho Roadless Areas designated as General Forest, Rangeland, and Grassland theme; except such road construction or reconstruction may be authorized by the responsible official in association with phosphate deposits as described in Figure 3-20 in section 3.15 Minerals and Energy in the Roadless Area Conservation; National Forest System Lands in Idaho Final Environmental Impact Statement. Surface use or occupancy without road construction or reconstruction is permissible for all mineral leasing unless prohibited in the land management plan components.


(2) After October 16, 2008, the Forest Service may authorize the use or sale of common variety mineral materials, and associated road construction or reconstruction to access these mineral materials, in Idaho Roadless Areas designated as General Forest, Rangeland, and Grassland only if the use of these mineral materials is incidental to an activity otherwise permissible in General Forest, Rangeland, and Grassland under this subpart.


(3) Road construction or reconstruction associated with mining activities permissible under this subsection may only be approved after evaluating other access options.


(4) Road construction or reconstruction associated with mining activities permissible under this subsection must be conducted in a manner that minimizes effects on surface resources and must be consistent with land management plan components as provided for in ยง 294.28(d). Roads constructed or reconstructed must be decommissioned upon completion of the project, or expiration of the lease, or permit, or other authorization, whichever is sooner. 




