# § 294.2   Navigation of aircraft within airspace reservation over the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, Superior National Forest, Minnesota.

(a) *Description of areas.* Sections 294.2(b) to 294.2(f), inclusive, apply to those areas of land and water in the Counties of Cook, Lake, and St. Louis, State of Minnesota, within the exterior boundaries of the Superior National Forest, which have heretofore been designated by the Secretary of Agriculture as the Superior Roadless Area, the Little Indian Sioux Roadless Area, and the Caribou Roadless Area, respectively, and to the airspace over said areas and below the altitude of 4,000 feet above sea level. Said areas are more particularly described in the Executive order setting apart said airspace as an airspace reservation (E.O. 10092, Dec. 17, 1949; 3 CFR 1949 Supp.). Copies of said Executive order may be obtained on request from the Forest Supervisor, Superior National Forest, Duluth, Minnesota (hereinafter called *Forest Supervisor*). 


(b) *Emergency landing and rescue operations.* The pilot of any aircraft landing within any of said areas for reasons of emergency or for conducting rescue operations, shall inform the Forest Supervisor within seven days after the termination of the emergency or the completion of the rescue operation as to the date, place, and duration of landing, and the type and registration number of the aircraft. 


(c) *Low flights.* Any person making a flight within said airspace reservation for reasons of safety or for conducting rescue operations shall inform the Forest Supervisor within seven days after the completion of the flight or the rescue operation as to the date, place, and duration of flight, and the type and registration number of the aircraft. 


(d) *Official flights.* The provisions of §§ 294.2(b) and 294.2(c) do not apply to flights made for conducting or assisting in the conduct of official business of the United States, of the State of Minnesota or of Cook, St. Louis, or Lake Counties, Minnesota.


(e) *Conformity with law.* Nothing in these regulations shall be construed as permitting the operation of aircraft contrary to the provisions of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938 (52 Stat. 973), as amended, or any rule, regulation or order issued thereunder.



---

[N] [38 FR 5859, Mar. 5, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 16232, Apr. 25, 1985; 66 FR 3272, Jan. 12, 2001] 




