# § 158.190   Appeals.

(a) Any person directly affected by an action taken under this part may request reconsideration by the Coast Guard officer responsible for that action. 


(b) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the person affected who is not satisfied with a ruling after having it reconsidered under paragraph (a) of this section may— 


(1) Appeal that ruling in writing within 30 days after the ruling to the Coast Guard District Commander of the district in which the action was taken; and 


(2) Supply supporting documentation and evidence that the appellant wishes to have considered. 


(c) The District Commander issues a ruling after reviewing the appeal submitted under paragraph (b) of this section. Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the person affected who is not satisfied with this ruling may— 


(1) Appeal that ruling in writing within 30 days after the ruling to the Commandant (CG-5P), Attn: Deputy for Operations Policy and Capabilities, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501; and 


(2) Supply supporting documentation and evidence that the appellant wishes to have considered. 


(d) After reviewing the appeal submitted under paragraph (c) of this section, the Assistant Commandant for Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection issues a ruling which is final agency action. 


(e) If the delay in presenting a written appeal has an adverse impact on the operations of the appellant, the appeal under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section— 


(1) May be presented orally; and 


(2) Must be submitted in writing within five days after the oral presentation— 


(i) With the basis for the appeal and a summary of the material presented orally; and 


(ii) To the same Coast Guard official who heard the oral presentation. 



---

[N] [CGD 85-010, 52 FR 7761, Mar. 12, 1987, as amended by CGD 96-026, 61 FR 33668, June 28, 1996; CGD 97-023, 62 FR 33364, June 19, 1997; USCG-2002-12471, 67 FR 41333, June 18, 2002; USCG-2010-0351, 75 FR 36286, June 25, 2010; USCG-2014-0410, 79 FR 38439, July 7, 2014]




