# § 1.9003   Definitions.

*Contraband Interdiction System.* Contraband Interdiction System is a system that transmits radio communication signals comprised of one or more stations used only in a correctional facility exclusively to prevent transmissions to or from contraband wireless devices within the boundaries of the facility and/or to obtain identifying information from such contraband wireless devices.


*Contraband wireless device.* A contraband wireless device is any wireless device, including the physical hardware or part of a device, such as a subscriber identification module (SIM), that is used within a correctional facility in violation of federal, state, or local law, or a correctional facility rule, regulation, or policy.


*Correctional facility.* A correctional facility is any facility operated or overseen by federal, state, or local authorities that houses or holds criminally charged or convicted inmates for any period of time, including privately owned and operated correctional facilities that operate through contracts with federal, state, or local jurisdictions.


*De facto transfer leasing arrangement.* A spectrum leasing arrangement in which a licensee retains *de jure* control of its license while transferring *de facto* control of the leased spectrum to a spectrum lessee, pursuant to the spectrum leasing rules set forth in this subpart.


*FCC Form 608.* FCC Form 608 is the form to be used by licensees and spectrum lessees that enter into spectrum leasing arrangements pursuant to the rules set forth in this subpart. Parties are required to submit this form electronically when entering into spectrum leasing arrangements under this subpart, except that licensees falling within the provisions of § 1.913(d), may file the form either electronically or manually.


*Long-term de facto transfer leasing arrangement.* A long-term *de facto* transfer leasing arrangement is a *de facto* transfer leasing arrangement that has an individual term, or series of combined terms, of more than one year.


*Private commons.* A “private commons” arrangement is an arrangement, distinct from a spectrum leasing arrangement but permitted in the same services for which spectrum leasing arrangements are allowed, in which a licensee or spectrum lessee makes certain spectrum usage rights under a particular license authorization available to a class of third-party users employing advanced communications technologies that involve peer-to-peer (device-to-device) communications and that do not involve use of the licensee's or spectrum lessee's end-to-end physical network infrastructure (e.g., base stations, mobile stations, or other related elements).


*Short-term de facto transfer leasing arrangement.* A short-term *de facto* transfer leasing arrangement is a *de facto* transfer leasing arrangement that has an individual or combined term of not longer than one year.


*Spectrum leasing application.* The application submitted to the Commission by a licensee and a spectrum lessee seeking approval of a *de facto* transfer leasing arrangement.


*Spectrum leasing arrangement.* An arrangement between a licensed entity and a third-party entity in which the licensee leases certain of its spectrum usage rights in the licensed spectrum to the third-party entity, the spectrum lessee, pursuant to the rules set forth in this subpart. The arrangement may involve the leasing of any amount of licensed spectrum, in any geographic area or site encompassed by the license, for any period of time during the term of the license authorization. Two different types of spectrum leasing arrangements, spectrum manager leasing arrangements and *de facto* transfer leasing arrangements, are permitted under this subpart.


*Spectrum leasing notification.* The required notification submitted by a licensee to the Commission regarding a spectrum manager leasing arrangement.


*Spectrum lessee.* Any third-party entity that leases, pursuant to the spectrum leasing rules set forth in this subpart, certain spectrum usage rights held by a licensee. This term includes reference to third-party entities that lease spectrum usage rights as spectrum sublessees under spectrum subleasing arrangements.


*Spectrum manager leasing arrangement.* A spectrum leasing arrangement in which a licensee retains both *de jure* control of its license and *de facto* control of the leased spectrum that it leases to a spectrum lessee, pursuant to the spectrum leasing rules set forth in this subpart.



---

[N] [68 FR 66277, Nov. 25, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 77550, Dec. 27, 2004; 82 FR 22759, May 18, 2017]


