# ยง 1000.690   How does BIA determine the funding amount to carry out inherent Federal functions?

(a) Between October 1st and December 31st of each fiscal year, each regional and central office shall develop a document that contains its inherent Federal function information and cost calculation for that office based either on an enacted budget or Continuing Resolution budgetary guidance, and promptly distribute that document to each Tribe/Consortium served by that office.


(b) The Secretary shall amend the document throughout the year if programs are added or changed in ways that affect the inherent Federal functions directly associated with a PSFA transferred, or proposed to be transferred, into the funding agreement of the Tribe/Consortium, and distribute that revised document to any Tribe/Consortium served by that office and seeking to transfer a PSFA into a funding agreement under the Act.


(c) Once final budget amounts are known and suballocated, the Secretary will provide an updated document within 90 days to each Tribe/Consortium.


(d) Inherent Federal function information must clearly identify the legal authority that specifically precludes delegation to a Tribe/Consortium.


(e) Cost calculations must be limited to the minimum amount of funds necessary to carry out specific inherent Federal functions necessary for that office to administer PSFAs transferred to the funding agreement.


(f) The development of the document in paragraph (a) of this section must be based on the following principles:


(1) Uniformity and consistency in the identification of inherent Federal functions and in the calculation of their associated costs;


(2) The determination of inherent Federal functions in each office is based only on those inherent Federal functions actually being performed at that office; and


(3) The Secretary shall consult with Tribes/Consortium on inherent Federal function determinations and associated cost calculations at various forums, including the Tribal Interior Budget Council (TIBC).


(g) In negotiating the amount of funds due a Tribe/Consortium in a funding agreement, the Secretary may withhold from transfer to the funding agreement only those funds to carry out inherent Federal functions associated with the PSFAs assumed in the funding agreement, unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the Tribe/Consortium in the funding agreement.


(h) Upon the request of a Tribe/Consortium, the Secretary must promptly provide a specific description of each inherent Federal function directly associated with a PSFA transferred, or proposed to be transferred, into the funding agreement of the Tribe/Consortium, along with the detailed basis for the Secretary's associated cost calculation.






