# ยง 45.13   Appeals.

(a) *In general.* This section describes the appeals process applicable to Initial Determinations under this part, which include Initial Determinations on Reconsideration. With the exception of Initial Determinations issued under ยง 45.12(a), in any case in which the claimant disagrees with an Initial Determination, the claimant has a right to file an administrative appeal. The claimant should explain why he or she disagrees with the Initial Determination, but may not submit additional information in support of the claim unless requested to do so by DoD. An appeal must be received within 90 calendar days of the date of receipt of the Initial Determination by the claimant or, if the claimant is represented, the claimant's representative, unless an extension of time is granted for good cause by the DoD Component that issued the Initial Determination. The date of receipt of the Initial Determination will be presumed to be seven calendar days after the date the Initial Determination was mailed or emailed, unless there is evidence to the contrary. If no timely appeal is received, DoD will issue a Final Determination.


(b) *Appeals Board.* Appeals will be decided by an Appeals Board administratively supported by the Office of the General Counsel, Defense Health Agency. Although there may be, in DoD's discretion, multiple offices that initially adjudicate claims under this part (such as offices in the Military Departments), there is a single DoD Appeals Board. The Appeals Board will consist of DoD attorneys designated by the Defense Health Agency from that agency and/or the Military Departments who are experienced in medical malpractice claims adjudication. Appeals Board members must not have had any previous role in the claims adjudication under appeal. The Appeals Board will consider cases in panels designated by the General Counsel of the Defense Health Agency of not fewer than three and no more than five Appeals Board members. Appeals are decided on a written record and decisions will be approved by a majority of the members. There is no adversarial proceeding and no hearing. There is no opposing party. The Appeals Board may obtain information or assessments from appropriate sources, including from the claimant, to assist in deciding the appeal. The Appeals Board is bound by the provisions of this part and will not consider challenges to them.


(c) *Burden of proof.* The claimant on appeal has the burden of proof by a preponderance of evidence that the claim is substantiated in the written record considered as a whole.


(d) *Appeals Board decisions.* (1) Every claimant will be provided a written Final Determination on the claimant's appeal. The Final Determination may adopt by reference the Initial Determination or revise the Initial Determination, as appropriate. If the Final Determination revises the Initial Determination, DoD will provide a meaningful explanation of the basis for the revisions.


(2) An Appeals Board decision is final and conclusive. 10 U.S.C. 2735.


(3) The Appeals Board may reverse the Initial Determination to grant or deny a claim and may adjust the settlement amount contained in the Initial Determination either upwards or downwards as appropriate.



---

[N] [86 FR 32208, June 17, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 52463, Aug. 26, 2022]




