# § 960.259   Family information and verification.

(a) *Family obligation to supply information.* (1) The family must supply any information that the PHA or HUD determines is necessary in administration of the public housing program, including submission of required evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status (as provided by part 5, subpart E of this title). “Information” includes any requested certification, release or other documentation. 


(2) The family must supply any information requested by the PHA or HUD for use in a regularly scheduled reexamination or an interim reexamination of family income and composition in accordance with HUD requirements. 


(3) For requirements concerning the following, see part 5, subpart B of this title: 


(i) Family verification and disclosure of social security numbers; 


(ii) Family execution and submission of consent forms for obtaining wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies (SWICAs). 


(4) Any information supplied by the family must be true and complete. 


(b) *Family release and consent.* (1) As a condition of admission to or continued assistance under the program, the PHA shall require the family head, and such other family members as the PHA designates, to execute a consent form (including any release and consent as required under § 5.230 of this title) authorizing any depository or private source of income, or any Federal, State or local agency, to furnish or release to the PHA or HUD such information as the PHA or HUD determines to be necessary. 


(2) The use or disclosure of information obtained from a family or from another source pursuant to this release and consent shall be limited to purposes directly connected with administration of the program. 




(c) *PHA responsibility for reexamination and verification.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the PHA must obtain and document in the family file third-party verification of the following factors, or must document in the file why third-party verification was not available:


(i) Reported family annual income; 


(ii) The value of assets; 


(iii) Expenses related to deductions from annual income; and 


(iv) Other factors that affect the determination of adjusted income or income-based rent. 


(2) For a family with net family assets (as the term is defined in § 5.603 of this title) equal to or less than $50,000, which amount will be adjusted annually by HUD in accordance with the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, a PHA may accept, for purposes of recertification of income, a family's declaration under § 5.618(b) of this title, except that the PHA must obtain third-party verification of all family assets every 3 years.









---

[N] [65 FR 16726, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12373, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 9671, Feb. 14, 2023]














