# ยง 983.101   Housing quality standards.

(a) *HQS applicability.* As defined in ยง 983.3, HQS refers to the minimum quality standards developed by HUD in accordance with 24 CFR 5.703 of this title for housing assisted under the PBV program, including any variations approved by HUD for the PHA under 24 CFR 5.705(a)(3).


(b) *Requirements for special housing types.* For special housing types assisted under the PBV program, HQS applies to the PBV program except as specified in 24 CFR part 982, subpart M. Provisions contained within 24 CFR part 982 that are inapplicable to the PBV program pursuant to ยง 983.2 are also inapplicable to special housing types under the PBV program.


(c) *Lead-based paint requirements.* The Lead-based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, H, and R, apply to the PBV program.






(d) *HQS enforcement.* Parts 982 and 983 of this chapter do not create any right of the family or any party, other than HUD or the PHA, to require enforcement of the HQS requirements or to assert any claim against HUD or the PHA for damages, injunction, or other relief for alleged failure to enforce the HQS.




(e) *Additional PHA quality and design requirements.* This section establishes the minimum federal housing quality standards for PBV housing. However, the PHA may elect to establish additional requirements for quality, architecture, or design of PBV housing.

 



---

[N] [70 FR 59913, Oct. 13, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 36167, June 25, 2014; 88 FR 30504, May 11, 2023; 89 FR 38315, May 7, 2024]










