# § 125.13   What restrictions apply to fees for representatives of applicants and participants in SBA's 8(a) BD, HUBZone, WOSB and VetCert programs?

(a) The compensation received by any packager, agent, or representative of a concern applying for 8(a) BD, HUBZone, WOSB/EDWOSB, or VOSB/SDVOSB certification in exchange for assisting the applicant in obtaining such certification must be reasonable in light of the service(s) performed by the packager, agent, or representative.


(b) The compensation received by any packager, agent, or representative of a certified 8(a) BD, HUBZone small business concern, WOSB/EDWOSB, or VOSB/SDVOSB in exchange for assisting the concern in obtaining any small business contracts, orders, BPAs, BAs, or BOAs must be reasonable in light of the service(s) performed by the packager, agent, or representative, and cannot be a fee that is a percentage of the gross value of the contract, order, BPA, BA or BOA.


(c) For good cause, SBA may initiate proceedings to suspend or revoke a packager's, agent's, or representative's privilege to assist applicants obtain SBA certification and assist certified small business concerns obtain contracts, orders, or any other assistance to support participation in the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, WOSB or VetCert programs. Good cause is defined in § 103.4 of this chapter.


(1) SBA may send a “show cause” letter requesting the agent or representative to demonstrate why the agent or representative should not be suspended or proposed for revocation, or may immediately send a written notice suspending or proposing revocation, depending upon the evidence in the administrative record. The notice will include a discussion of the relevant facts and the reason(s) why SBA believes that good cause exists.


(2) Unless SBA specifies a different time in the notice, the agent or representative must respond to the notice within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice with any facts or arguments showing why good cause does not exist. The agent or representative may request additional time to respond, which SBA may grant in its discretion.


(3) After considering the agent's or representative's response, SBA will issue a final determination, setting forth the reasons for this decision and, if a suspension continues to be effective or a revocation is implemented, the term of the suspension or revocation.


(d) The relevant SBA program office may refer a packager, agent, or other representative to SBA's Suspension and Debarment Official for possible Government-wide suspension or debarment where appropriate, including where it appears that the packager, agent, or representative assisted an applicant or certified small business concern to submit information to SBA that the packager, agent, or representative knew to be false or materially misleading.



---

[N] [89 FR 102495, Dec. 17, 2024]






