# § 165.780   Safety Zone; Marine Safety Unit Savannah Safety Zone for Heavy Weather and other Natural Disasters, Savannah Captain of the Port Zone, Savannah, GA.

(a) *Regulated areas.* The following areas are established as safety zones during the specified conditions:


(1) *Savannah, GA.* All waters within the Port of Savannah, GA, encompassed within following locations: starting at the demarcation line drawn across the seaward extremity of the Savannah River entrance, and encompassing all of the waters of the Savannah River, Savannah GA.


(2) *Brunswick, GA.* All waters starting at the demarcation line drawn across the seaward extremity of the Savannah River entrance, and encompassing all of the waters of the Brunswick River, Brunswick GA.


(3) All coordinates are North American Datum 1983.


(b) *Definition.* (1) The term “designated representative” means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, and Federal, state, and local officers designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port Savannah in the enforcement of the regulated area.


(2) *Hurricane Port Condition YANKEE.* Set when weather advisories indicate that sustained Gale Force winds from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 24 hours.


(3) *Hurricane Port Condition ZULU.* Set when weather advisories indicate that sustained Gale Force winds from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 12 hours.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) *Hurricane Port Condition YANKEE.* All commercial, oceangoing vessels and barges over 500 GT are prohibited from entering the regulated areas designated as being in Port Condition YANKEE; within 24 hours of anticipated landfall of gale force winds (39 mph) from tropical or hurricane force storm; or upon the Coast Guard setting Port Condition YANKEE for inbound ocean going commercial vessel traffic over 500 GT. Oceangoing commercial vessel traffic outbound will be authorized to transit through the regulated areas until Port Condition ZULU.


(2) *Hurricane Port Condition ZULU.* All commercial, oceangoing vessels and barges over 500 GT are prohibited from entering the regulated areas designated as being in Port Condition ZULU; within 12 hours of anticipated landfall of a tropical storm or hurricane; or upon the Coast Guard setting Port Condition ZULU, unless written permission is obtained from the Captain of the Port. All ship-to-shore cargo operations must cease six hours prior to setting Port Condition Zulu.


(3) *Emergency Waterway Restriction for Other Disasters.* Any natural or other disasters that are anticipated to affect the COTP Savannah AOR will result in the prohibition of commercial vessel traffic transiting or remaining in any of the two regulated areas predicted to be affected as designated by the COTP Savannah.


(4) Persons and vessels desiring to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area may contact the Captain of the Port Savannah via telephone at (912)-247-0073, or a designated representative via VHF radio on channel 16, to request authorization. If authorization to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area is granted by the Captain of the Port Savannah or a designated representative, all persons and vessels receiving such authorization must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Savannah or a designated representative.


(5) Coast Guard Marine Safety Unit Savannah will attempt to notify the maritime community of periods during which these safety zones will be in effect via Broadcast Notice to Mariners or by on-scene designated representatives.


(6) The Coast Guard will provide notice of the regulated area via Broadcast Notice to Mariners or by on-scene designated representatives.


(7) This regulation does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.



---

[N] [USCG-2014-1017, 80 FR 26447, May 8, 2015]




