# § 1780.33   Application requirements.

An initial application consists of the following:


(a) One copy of a completed SF 424.2;


(b) A copy of the State intergovernmental comments or one copy of the filed application for State intergovernmental review; and


(c) Two copies of the preliminary engineering report (PER) for the project.


(1) The PER may be submitted to the processing office prior to the rest of the application material if the applicant desires a preliminary review.


(2) The processing office will forward one copy of the PER with comments and recommendations to the State staff engineer for review upon receipt from the applicant.


(3) The State staff engineer will consult with the applicant's engineer as appropriate to resolve any questions concerning the PER. Written comments will be provided by the State staff engineer to the processing office to meet eligibility determination time lines.


(d) Written certification that other credit is not available.


(e) Supporting documentation necessary to make an eligibility determination such as financial statements, audits, organizational documents, or existing debt instruments. The processing office will advise applicants regarding the required documents. Applicants that are indebted to RUS will not need to submit documents already on file with the processing office.


(f) *Environmental review requirements.* The applicant must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(1) Upon receipt of the Environmental Report, the processing office shall forward one copy of the report with comments and recommendation to the State Environmental Coordinator for review.


(2) The State Environmental Coordinator will consult with the applicant as appropriate to resolve any environmental concerns. Written comments will be provided by the State Environmental Coordinator to the processing office to meet eligibility determination time lines.


(g) The applicant's Internal Revenue Service Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The TIN will be used by the Agency to assign a case number which will be the applicant's or transferee's TIN preceded by State and County Code numbers. Only one case number will be assigned to each applicant regardless of the number of loans or grants or number of separate facilities, unless an exception is authorized by the National Office.


(h) Other Forms and certifications. Applicants will be required to submit the following items to the processing office, upon notification from the processing office to proceed with further development of the full application:


(1) Form RD 442-7, “Operating Budget”;


(2) Form RD 1910-11, “Application Certification, Federal Collection Policies for Consumer or Commercial Debts”;


(3) Form RD 400-1, “Equal Opportunity Agreement”;


(4) Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement”;


(5) Form AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension and other Responsibility Matters”;


(6) Form AD-1049, Certification regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative I For Grantees Other Than Individuals;


(7) Certifications for Contracts, Grants, and Loans (Regarding Lobbying); and


(8) Certification regarding prohibited tying arrangements. Applicants that provide electric service must provide the Agency a certification that they will not require users of a water or waste facility financed under this part to accept electric service as a condition of receiving assistance.



---

[N] [62 FR 33478, June 19, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 68655, Dec. 11, 1998; 81 FR 11028, Mar. 2, 2016]




