# § 63.3546   How do I establish the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits during the performance test?

During performance tests required by § 63.3540 and described in §§ 63.3543, 63.3544, and 63.3545, you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.3492 unless you have received approval for alternative monitoring and operating limits under § 63.8(f) as specified in § 63.3492.


(a) *Thermal oxidizers.* If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. That average combustion temperature is the minimum operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.


(b) *Catalytic oxidizers.* If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section. 


(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.


(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. The average temperature difference is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.


(3) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During performance tests, you must monitor and record the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed during the performance test. That is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.


(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (*i.e,* conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures.


(ii) Monthly inspection of the oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures. 


(iii) Annual internal and monthly external visual inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found, you must take corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations and conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 63.3545. 


(c) *Regenerative oxidizers.* If your add-on control device is a regenerative oxidizer, establish operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) You must establish all applicable operating limits according to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. 


(2) You must submit a valve inspection plan that documents the steps taken to minimize the amount of leakage during the regenerative process. This plan can include, but is not limited to, routine inspection of key parameters of the valve operating system (*e.g.,* solenoid valve operation, air pressure, hydraulic pressure); visual inspection of the valves during internal inspections; and/or actual testing of the emission stream for leakage. 


(d) *Carbon adsorbers.* If your add-on control device is a carbon adsorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) During performance tests, you must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (*e.g.,* steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test.


(2) The operating limits for your carbon adsorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle, and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle. 


(e) *Condensers.* If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) During performance tests, monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs of the performance test.


(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum operating limit for your condenser.


(f) *Concentrators.* If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section. 


(1) During performance tests, monitor and record the inlet temperature to the desorption/reactivation zone of the concentrator at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.


(2) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature. This is the minimum operating limit for the desorption/reactivation zone inlet temperature.


(3) During each performance test, monitor and record an indicator(s) of performance for the desorption/reactivation fan operation at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test. The indicator can be speed in revolutions per minute (rpm), power in amps, static pressure, or flow rate.


(4) Establish a suitable range for the parameter(s) selected based on the system design specifications, historical data, and/or data obtained concurrent with an emissions performance test. This is the operation limit range for the desorption/reactivation fan operation. 


(5) During each performance test, monitor the rotational speed of the concentrator at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.


(6) For each performance test, use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average rotational speed. This is the minimum operating limit for the rotational speed of the concentrator. However, the indicator range for the rotational speed may be changed if an engineering evaluation is conducted and a determination made that the change in speed will not affect compliance with the emission limit.


(7) Develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for the concentrator(s) that you elect to monitor according to paragraph (f) of this section. The plan must include, at a minimum, annual sampling and analysis of the absorbent material (*i.e.,* adsorbent activity) following the manufacturer's recommended procedures. 


(g) *Emission capture systems.* For each capture device that is not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 63.3544(a), establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in Table 4 to this subpart. 


(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by § 63.3540 and described in §§ 63.3543 and 63.3544, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate at a location upstream of the control device, or the duct static pressure at a location upstream of the primary fan in each duct of each capture device or upstream of the fan that is common to multiple capture devices at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.


(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device or system of multiple capture devices. The average gas volumetric flow rate is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device or system of multiple capture devices. The average duct static pressure is the maximum operating limit for that specific capture device or system of multiple capture devices.



---

[N] [68 FR 64446, Nov. 13, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 1384, Jan. 6, 2006; 85 FR 10853, Feb. 25, 2020]




