# § 520.1638   Oxibendazole.

(a) *Specifications.* (1) Each gram of paste contains 227 milligrams (mg) (22.7 percent) oxibendazole.


(2) Each milliliter of suspension contains 100 mg (10 percent) oxibendazole.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Special considerations.* (1) See § 500.25 of this chapter.


(2) Suspension product described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be labeled: “Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.”


(d) *Conditions of use in horses*—(1) *Amount.* For uses other than for threadworms (*Strongyloides westeri*), 10 mg oxibendazole per kilogram (/kg) body weight; for threadworms (*Strongyloides westeri*), 15 mg/kg. Horses maintained on premises where reinfection is likely to occur should be re-treated in 6 to 8 weeks. Administer suspension product by stomach tube in 3 to 4 pints of warm water, or by top dressing or mixing into a portion of the normal grain ration.


(2) *Indications for use.* For removal and control of large strongyles (*Strongylus edentatus, S. equinus,**S. vulgaris*); small strongyles (genera *Cylicostephanus, Cylicocyclus,**Cyathostomum, Triodontophorus,**Cylicodontophorus,* and *Gyalocephalus*); large roundworms (*Parascaris equorum*); pinworms (*Oxyuris equi*) including various larval stages; and threadworms (*Strongyloides westeri*).


(3) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption.



---

[N] [78 FR 28825, May 20, 2014]




