# ยง 91.310   Housing market analysis.

(a) *General characteristics.* (1) Based on data available to the State, the plan must describe the significant characteristics of the State's housing markets (including such aspects as the supply, demand, and condition and cost of housing).


(2) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, the State must describe the broadband needs of housing in the State based on an analysis of data identified by the State. These needs include the need for broadband wiring and for connection to the broadband service in the household units, the need for increased competition by having more than one broadband Internet service provider serve the jurisdiction.


(3) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, the State must also describe the vulnerability of housing occupied by low- and moderate-income households to increased natural hazard risks due to climate change based on an analysis of data, findings, and methods identified by the State in its consolidated plan.


(b) *Facilities, housing, and services for homeless persons.* The plan must include a brief inventory of facilities and services that meet the needs of homeless persons within the state, particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth.


(1) The inventory of facilities and housing (*e.g.,* emergency shelter, transitional housing, and permanent supportive housing) must be presented in a form specified by HUD.


(2) The inventory of services must include both services targeted to homeless persons and mainstream services, such as health, mental health, and employment services to the extent those services are used to complement services targeted to homeless persons.


(c) *Special need facilities and services.* The plan must describe, to the extent information is available, the facilities and services that assist persons who are not homeless but who require supportive housing, and programs for ensuring that persons returning from mental and physical health institutions receive appropriate supportive housing.


(d) *Barriers to affordable housing.* The plan must explain whether the cost of housing or the incentives to develop, maintain, or improve affordable housing in the State are affected by its policies, including tax policies affecting land and other property, land use controls, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limits, and policies that affect the return on residential investment.



---

[N] [60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6967, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75971, Dec. 5, 2011; 81 FR 91012, Dec. 16, 2016]




