# ยง 113.39   Procedure to remove a surety from Treasury Department Circular 570.

If a port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Division officer is dissatisfied with a surety company because the company has neglected or refused to pay a valid demand made on the surety company's bond or otherwise has failed to honor an obligation on that bond, the port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Division personnel may take the following steps to recommend that the surety company be removed from Treasury Department Circular 570.


(a) *Report to Headquarters.* A port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Division officer will send the following evidence to CBP Headquarters, Attention: Executive Director, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade:


(1) A copy of the bond in issue;


(2) A copy of the entry or other evidence which shows that there was a default on the bond;


(3) A copy of all notices, demands or correspondence sent to the surety company requesting the honoring of the bond obligation;


(4) A copy of all correspondence from the surety company; and


(5) A written report of the facts known to the port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, or authorized Revenue Director personnel showing the unsatisfactory performance by the surety company of the bond obligation(s).


(b) *Review by Headquarters.* CBP Headquarters will review submitted evidence and determine whether further action against the surety company is warranted. If it is determined that further action is warranted, a report recommending appropriate action will be submitted to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary, Department of the Treasury, as required by ยง 223.18(a), Bureau of the Fiscal Service Regulations (31 CFR 223.18(a)). The port director, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer, and Director, Revenue Division will be informed in writing of Headquarters action regarding their request for removal of the surety.



---

[N] [T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; CBP Dec. 15-15, 80 FR 70166, Nov. 13, 2015]




