# § 32.39   Maryland.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose and duck on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:




(i) You must obtain, and possess while hunting, a refuge waterfowl hunting permit (printed and signed copy of permit from *Recreation.gov*).








(ii) Up to three additional hunters may accompany you on your reserved unit.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow incidental take of coyote during the prescribed State season while deer hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section apply.


(ii) Coyote may only be taken with firearms and archery equipment allowed during the respective deer seasons.


(iii) We prohibit the use of electronic predator calls.








(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer, sika deer, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The general hunt regulations for this paragraph (a)(3) are:


(A) You must obtain, and possess while hunting, a turkey or deer hunting permit (printed and signed copy of permit from *Recreation.gov*).


(B) We prohibit organized deer drives unless authorized by the refuge manager. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(C) We prohibit shooting a projectile from a firearm, muzzleloader, bow, or crossbow from, down, or across any road that is traveled by vehicular traffic.


(D) We prohibit the use of rimfire or centerfire rifles and all handguns, except those that fire straight wall cartridges as defined by State law that are legal for deer hunting.








(ii) We do not allow archery deer hunters to hunt within areas designated for the youth hunt on designated days.


(iii) We allow turkey hunt permit holders (printed and signed copy of permit from *Recreation.gov*) to have an assistant, who must remain within sight and normal voice contact and abide by the rules set forth in the refuge's turkey hunting brochure.




(iv) We allow youth deer and turkey hunters to hunt on designated areas on designated days (youth hunt) if they meet the criteria of a “youth hunter” as governed by State law and possess a turkey or deer hunting permit (printed and signed copy of permit from *Recreation.gov*).


(v) For the designated disabled hunt: 


(A) We require disabled hunters to have an America the Beautiful Access pass (OMB Control 1024-0252) in their possession while hunting in disabled areas.

 




(B) Disabled hunters may have an assistant, age 18 or older, who must remain within sight and normal voice contact while hunting. Assistants must possess a printed and signed copy of a permit from *Recreation.gov* and a valid government-issued photo identification.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and crabbing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing and crabbing only from April 1 through September 30 from legal sunrise to legal sunset in refuge waters, unless otherwise authorized by the refuge manager.


(ii) We allow fishing and crabbing by boat in the Big Blackwater and the Little Blackwater River.


(b) *Eastern Neck National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow incidental take of coyote during the prescribed State season while deer hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) Coyote may only be taken with firearms and archery equipment allowed during the respective deer seasons.


(iii) We prohibit the use of electronic predator calls.




(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) *General hunt regulations for this paragraph (b)(3).* (A) You must obtain, and possess while hunting, a deer or turkey hunting permit (printed and signed copy of permit from *Recreation.gov*).


(B) We prohibit shooting a projectile from a firearm, muzzleloader, bow, or crossbow from, down, or across any road that is traveled by vehicular traffic.


(C) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.










(ii) We allow youth deer hunters to hunt on designated areas on designated days (youth hunt) if they meet the criteria of a “youth hunter” as governed by State law and possess a printed and signed copy of a permit from *Recreation.gov.*

(iii) For the designated disabled hunt: 




(A) We require disabled hunters to have an America the Beautiful Access pass (OMB Control 1024-0252) in their possession while hunting in disabled areas.






(B) Disabled hunters may have an assistant who must be age 18 or older and remain within sight and normal voice contact. Assistants must possess a printed and signed copy of a permit from *Recreation.gov* and a valid government-issued photo identification.












(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and crabbing in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing and crabbing from designated shoreline areas located at the Ingleside Recreation Area from legal sunrise to legal sunset, April 1 through September 30.


(ii) We allow fishing from designated shoreline areas located at the Chester River end of Boxes Point and Duck Inn Trails from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(c) *Patuxent Research Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a National Wildlife Refuge System Hunt Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System), and a signed Statement of Hunter Ethics (FWS Form 3-2516).


(ii) We prohibit hunting and scouting on Sundays and Federal holidays. No hunt-related activities may take place unless the Hunting Control Station is open.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(iv) We prohibit wading in all impounded waters except for the placement and retrieval of decoys.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of gray squirrel, eastern cottontail rabbit, and woodchuck on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of turkey and white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) apply.


(ii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(iii) We prohibit shooting a projectile from a firearm, muzzleloader, bow, or crossbow from, down, or across any road that is traveled by vehicular traffic.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use or possession of lead fishing tackle.







---

[N] [85 FR 54116, Aug. 31, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 57130, Sept. 16, 2022]










