# ยง 1045.103   What exhaust emission standards must my outboard and personal watercraft engines meet?

(a) Duty-cycle emission standards. Starting in the 2010 model year, exhaust emissions from your outboard and personal watercraft engines may not exceed emission standards as follows:


(1) Measure emissions using the applicable steady-state test procedures described in subpart F of this part.


(2) The exhaust emission standards from the following table apply:


(3) For engines whose standard depends on maximum engine power, round the calculated HC + NO_X_ emission standard to the nearest 0.1 g/kW-hr; round the calculated CO emission standard to the nearest g/kW-hr. Determine maximum engine power for the engine family as described in ยง 1045.140.


(b) *Averaging, banking, and trading.* You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program described in subpart H of this part for demonstrating compliance with HC + NO_X_ emission standards. For CO emissions, you may generate or use emission credits for averaging as described in subpart H of this part, but such credits may not be banked or traded. To generate or use emission credits, you must specify a family emission limit for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the emission standards using emission credits and the engines within the family meet the family emission limit. The following FEL caps apply:


(1) For engines with maximum engine power at or below 4.3 kW, the maximum value of the family emission limit for HC + NO_X_ is 81.0 g/kW-hr. For all other engines, the maximum value of the family emission limit for HC + NO_X_ is defined by the following formula, with results rounded to the nearest 0.1 g/kW-hr:


(2) For engines with maximum engine power above 40 kW, the maximum value of the family emission limit for CO is 450 g/kW-hr. For all other engines, the maximum value is defined by the following formula, with results rounded to the nearest g/kW-hr:


(c) *Not-to-exceed emission standards.* Exhaust emissions may not exceed the not-to-exceed standards specified in ยง 1045.107.


(d) *Fuel types.* The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for engines using the fuel type on which the engines in the engine family are designed to operate. You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbons in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for engines powered by the following fuels:


(1) Alcohol-fueled engines: THCE emissions.


(2) Natural gas-fueled engines: NMHC emissions.


(3) Other engines: THC emissions.


(e) *Useful life.* Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section over the full useful life as follows:


(1) For outboard engines, the minimum useful life is 350 hours of engine operation or 10 years, whichever comes first.


(2) For personal watercraft engines, the minimum useful life is 350 hours of engine operation or 5 years, whichever comes first.


(3) You must specify a longer useful life in terms of hours for the engine family if the average service life of your vehicles is longer than the minimum value, as follows:


(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, your useful life (in hours) may not be less than either of the following:


(A) Your projected operating life from advertisements or other marketing materials for any engines in the engine family.


(B) Your basic mechanical warranty for any engines in the engine family.


(ii) Your useful life may be based on the average service life of vehicles in the engine family if you show that the average service life is less than the useful life required by paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, but more than the minimum useful life (350 hours of engine operation). In determining the actual average service life of vehicles in an engine family, we will consider all available information and analyses. Survey data is allowed but not required to make this showing.


(f) *Applicability for testing.* The duty-cycle emission standards in this subpart apply to all testing performed according to the procedures in ยง 1045.505, including certification, production-line, and in-use testing. The not-to-exceed standards apply for all testing performed according to the procedures of subpart F of this part.



---

[N] [73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23019, Apr. 30, 2010]




