# § 1.1502-11   Consolidated taxable income.

(a) *In general.* The consolidated taxable income (CTI) for a consolidated return year is determined by taking into account:


(1) The separate taxable income of each member of the group (*see* § 1.1502-12 for the computation of separate taxable income);


(2) Any consolidated net operating loss (CNOL) deduction (*see* § 1.1502-21 for the computation of the CNOL deduction);


(3) Any consolidated capital gain net income (*see* § 1.1502-22 for the computation of consolidated capital gain net income);


(4) Any consolidated section 1231 net loss (*see* § 1.1502-23 for the computation of consolidated section 1231 net loss);


(5) Any consolidated charitable contributions deduction (*see* § 1.1502-24 for the computation of the consolidated charitable contributions deduction); and


(6) Any consolidated dividends received deduction (*see* § 1.1502-26 for the computation of the consolidated dividends received deduction).


(b) *Elimination of circular stock basis adjustments when there is no excluded COD income*—(1) *In general.* If one member (P) disposes of the stock of another member (S), this paragraph (b) limits the use of S's deductions and losses in the year of disposition and the carryback of items to prior years. The purpose of the limitation is to prevent P's income or gain from the disposition of S's stock from increasing the absorption of S's deductions and losses, because the increased absorption would reduce P's basis (or increase its excess loss account) in S's stock under § 1.1502-32 and, in turn, increase P's income or gain. See paragraph (b)(3) of this section for the application of these principles to P's deduction or loss from the disposition of S's stock, and paragraph (b)(4) of this section for the application of these principles to multiple stock dispositions. This paragraph (b) applies only when no member realizes discharge of indebtedness income that is excluded from gross income under section 108(a) (excluded COD income) during the taxable year of the disposition. See paragraph (c) of this section for rules that apply when a member realizes excluded COD income during the taxable year of the disposition. See § 1.1502-19(c) for the definition of disposition.


(2) *Limitation on deductions and losses*—(i) *Determination of amount of limitation.* If P disposes of one or more shares of S's stock, the extent to which S's deductions and losses for the tax year of the disposition (and its deductions and losses carried over from prior years) may offset income and gain is subject to limitation. The amount of S's deductions and losses that may offset income and gain is determined by tentatively computing taxable income (or loss) for the year of disposition (and any prior years to which the deductions or losses may be carried) without taking into account P's income and gain from the disposition.


(ii) *Application of limitation.* S's deductions and losses offset income and gain only to the extent of the amount determined under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. To the extent S's deductions and losses in the year of disposition cannot offset income or gain because of the limitation under this paragraph (b), the items are carried to other years under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations as if they were the only items incurred by S in the year of disposition. For example, to the extent S incurs an operating loss in the year of disposition that is limited, the loss is treated as a separate net operating loss attributable to S arising in that year. The tentative computation does not affect the manner in which S's unlimited deductions and losses are absorbed or the manner in which deductions and losses of other members are absorbed. (If the amount of S's unlimited deductions and losses actually absorbed is less than the amount absorbed in the tentative computation, P's stock basis adjustments under § 1.1502-32 reflect only the amounts actually absorbed.)


(iii) *Examples.* For purposes of the examples in this paragraph (b), unless otherwise stated, P owns all of the only class of S's stock for the entire year, S owns no stock of lower-tier members, the tax year of all persons is the calendar year, all persons use the accrual method of accounting, the facts set forth the only corporate activity, all transactions are between unrelated persons, and tax liabilities are disregarded. The principles of this paragraph (b)(2) are illustrated by the following examples.


(A) *Example 1*. *Limitation on losses with respect to stock gain.*—


(*1*) P has a $500 basis in S's stock. For Year 1, P has ordinary income of $30 (determined without taking P's gain or loss from the disposition of S's stock into account) and S has an $80 ordinary loss. P sells S's stock for $520 at the close of Year 1.


(*2*) To determine the amount of the limitation on S's loss under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and the effect under § 1.1502-32(b) of the absorption of S's loss on P's basis in S's stock, P's gain or loss from the disposition of S's stock is not taken into account. The group is tentatively treated as having a consolidated net operating loss of $50 (P's $30 of income minus S's $80 loss). Thus, $50 of S's loss is limited under this paragraph (b).


(*3*) Because $30 of S's loss is absorbed in the determination of consolidated taxable income under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, P's basis in S's stock is reduced under § 1.1502-32(b) from $500 to $470 immediately before the disposition. Consequently, P recognizes a $50 gain from the sale of S's stock and the group has consolidated taxable income of $50 for Year 1 (P's $30 of ordinary income and $50 gain from the sale of S's stock, less the $30 of S's loss). In addition, S's limited loss of $50 is treated as a separate net operating loss attributable to S and, because S ceases to be a member, the loss is apportioned to S under § 1.1502-21 and carried to its first separate return year.




(B) *Example 2.**Carrybacks and carryovers.*—


(*1*) For Year 1, the P group has consolidated taxable income of $30, and a consolidated net capital loss of $100 ($50 attributable to P and $50 to S). At the beginning of Year 2, P has a $300 basis in S's stock. For Year 2, P has ordinary income of $30, and a $20 capital gain (determined without taking the $100 consolidated net capital loss carryover or P's gain or loss from the disposition of S's stock into account), and S has a $100 ordinary loss. P sells S's stock for $280 at the close of Year 2.


(*2*) To determine the amount of the limitation under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section on S's losses, and the effect of the absorption of S's losses on P's basis in S's stock under § 1.1502-32(b), P's gain or loss from the disposition of S's stock is not taken into account. For Year 2, the P group is tentatively treated as having a $70 consolidated net operating loss (S's $100 ordinary loss, less P's $30 of ordinary income). The P group is also treated as having no consolidated net capital gain in Year 2, because P's $20 capital gain is reduced by $20 of the consolidated net capital loss carryover from Year 1 under section 1212(a) (the absorption of which is attributed equally to P and S). In addition, of the $70 consolidated net operating loss, $30 is carried back to Year 1 and offsets P's ordinary income in that year, and $40 is carried forward. Consequently, $40 of S's operating loss from Year 2, and $40 of the consolidated net capital loss carryover from Year 1 attributable to S, are limited under this paragraph (b).


(*3*) Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the limitation under this paragraph (b) does not affect the absorption of any deductions and losses attributable to P, $60 of S's operating loss from Year 2, and $10 of the consolidated net capital loss from Year 1 attributable to S. Consequently, P's basis in S's stock is reduced under § 1.1502-32(b) by $70, from $300 to $230, and P recognizes a $50 gain from the sale of S's stock in Year 2. Thus, the P group is treated as having a $20 unlimited net operating loss that is carried back to Year 1:


(*4*) Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, S's $40 ordinary loss from Year 2 that is limited under this paragraph (b) is treated as a separate net operating loss arising in Year 2. Similarly, $40 of the consolidated net capital loss from Year 1 attributable to S is treated as a separate net capital loss carried over from Year 1. Because S ceases to be a member, the $40 net operating loss from Year 2 and the $40 consolidated net capital loss from Year 1 are allocated to S under §§ 1.1502-21 and 1.1502-22, respectively and are carried to S's first separate return year.




(C) *Example 3.**Allocation of basis adjustments.*—


(*1*) For Year 1, the P group has consolidated taxable income of $100. At the beginning of Year 2, P has a $40 basis in each of the 10 shares of S's stock. For Year 2, P has an $80 ordinary loss (determined without taking into account P's gain or loss from the disposition of S's stock) and S has an $80 ordinary loss. P sells 2 shares of S's stock for $85 each at the close of Year 2.


(*2*) Under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the amount of the limitation on S's loss is determined by tentatively treating the P group as having a $160 consolidated net operating loss for Year 2. Of this amount, $100 is carried back under section 172 and absorbed in Year 1 ($50 attributable to S and $50 attributable to P). Consequently, $30 of S's loss is limited under this paragraph (b).


(*3*) Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the limitation under this paragraph (b) does not affect the absorption of P's $80 ordinary loss or $50 of S's ordinary loss. Consequently, P's basis in each share of S's stock is reduced from $40 to $35 under § 1.1502-32(b), and P recognizes a $100 gain from the sale of the 2 shares. Thus, the P group is treated as having a $30 unlimited net operating loss:


(*4*) A portion of the $130 of unlimited operating losses for Year 2 is fully absorbed in that year, and a portion is carried back to Year 1. Thus, $61.50 of P's $80 loss ($100 multiplied by $80/$130) and $38.50 of S's $50 unlimited loss ($100 multiplied by $50/$130) are absorbed in Year 2. P's remaining $18.50 of loss and S's remaining $11.50 of loss are not subject to limitation and are carried back and absorbed in Year 1.


(*5*) Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, S's $30 of loss limited under this paragraph (b) is treated as a separate net operating loss.


(3) *Loss dispositions*—(i) *General rule.* The principles of paragraph (b)(2) of this section apply to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if P recognizes a deduction or loss from the disposition of S's stock.


(ii) *Example.* The principles of this paragraph (b)(3) are illustrated by the following example.


(4) *Multiple dispositions*—(i) *Stock of a member.* To the extent income, gain, deduction, or loss from a prior disposition of S's stock is deferred under any rule of law, the limitation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is determined by treating the year the deferred amount is taken into account as the year of the disposition.


(ii) *Stock of different members.* If S is a higher-tier corporation with respect to another member (T), and all of T's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss (including the absorption of T's deduction or loss) would be fully reflected in P's basis in S's stock under § 1.1502-32, the limitation under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section with respect to T's deductions and losses is determined without taking into account any income, gain, deduction, or loss from the disposition of the stock of S or T (or of the stock of members owned in the chain connecting S and T). However, this paragraph (b) does not otherwise limit the absorption of one member's deduction or loss with respect to the disposition of another member's stock.


(iii) *Examples.* The principles of this paragraph (b)(4) are illustrated by the following examples.


(5) *Effective date.* This paragraph (b) applies to stock dispositions occurring in consolidated return years beginning on or after January 1, 1995. For prior years, see § 1.1502-11(b) as contained in the 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 1994.




(c) *Elimination of circular stock basis adjustments when there is excluded COD income*—(1) *In general.* If one member (P) disposes of the stock of another member (S) in a year during which any member realizes excluded COD income, this paragraph (c) limits the use of S's deductions and losses in the year of disposition and the carryback of items to prior years, the amount of the attributes of certain members that can be reduced in respect of excluded COD income of certain other members, and the attributes that can be used to offset an excess loss account taken into account by reason of the application of § 1.1502-19(c)(1)(iii)(B). In addition to the purpose set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the purpose of these limitations is to prevent the reduction of tax attributes in respect of excluded COD income from affecting P's income, gain, or loss on the disposition of S stock (including a disposition of S stock that results from the application of § 1.1502-19(c)(1)(iii)(B)) and, in turn, affecting the attributes available for reduction pursuant to sections 108 and 1017 and § 1.1502-28. See § 1.1502-19(c) for the definition of disposition.


(2) *Computation of tax liability, reduction of attributes, and computation of limits on absorption and reduction of attributes.* If a member realizes excluded COD income in the taxable year during which P disposes of S stock, the steps used to compute tax liability, to effect the reduction of attributes, and to compute the limitations on the absorption and reduction of attributes are as follows. These steps also apply to determine whether and to what extent an excess loss account must be taken into account as a result of the application of § 1.1502-19(b)(1) and (c)(1)(iii)(B).


(i) *Limitation on deductions and losses to offset income or gain.* First, the determination of the extent to which S's deductions and losses for the tax year of the disposition (and its deductions and losses carried over from prior years) may offset income and gain is made pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.


(ii) *Tentative adjustment of stock basis.* Second, § 1.1502-32 is tentatively applied to adjust the basis of the S stock to reflect the amount of S's income and gain included, and unlimited deductions and losses that are absorbed, in the tentative computation of taxable income or loss for the year of the disposition (and any prior years) that is made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, but not to reflect the realization of excluded COD income and the reduction of attributes in respect thereof.


(iii) *Tentative computation of stock gain or loss.* Third, in the case of a disposition of S stock that does not result from the application of § 1.1502-19(c)(1)(iii)(B), P's income, gain, or loss from the disposition of S stock is computed. For this purpose, the result of the computation pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section is treated as the basis of such stock.


(iv) *Tentative computation of tax imposed.* Fourth, the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code for the year of disposition (and any prior years) is tentatively computed. For this purpose, in the case of a disposition of S stock that does not result from the application of § 1.1502-19(c)(1)(iii)(B), the tentative computation of tax imposed takes into account P's income, gain, or loss from the disposition of S stock computed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. The tentative computation of tax imposed is made without regard to whether all or a portion of an excess loss account in a share of S stock is required to be taken into account pursuant to § 1.1502-19(b)(1) and (c)(1)(iii)(B).


(v) *Tentative reduction of attributes.* Fifth, the rules of sections 108 and 1017 and § 1.1502-28 are tentatively applied to reduce the attributes remaining after the tentative computation of tax imposed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.


(vi) *Actual adjustment of stock basis.* Sixth, § 1.1502-32 is applied to reflect the amount of S's income and gain included, and unlimited deductions and losses that are absorbed, in the tentative computation of tax imposed for the year of the disposition (and any prior years) made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, and the excluded COD income applied to reduce attributes and the attributes tentatively reduced in respect of the excluded COD income pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.


(vii) *Actual computation of stock gain or loss.* Seventh, the group's actual gain or loss on the disposition of S stock (including a disposition that results from the application of § 1.1502-19(c)(1)(iii)(B)) is computed. The result of the computation pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section is treated as the basis of such stock.


(viii) *Actual computation of tax imposed.* Eighth, the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code for the year of the disposition (and any prior years) is computed. The actual tax imposed on the group for the year of the disposition is computed by applying the limitation computed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, and by including the gain or loss recognized on the disposition of S stock computed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(vii) of this section. However, attributes that were tentatively used in the computation of tax imposed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section and attributes that were tentatively reduced pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section cannot offset any excess loss account taken into account as a result of the application of § 1.1502-19(b)(1) and (c)(1)(iii)(B).


(ix) *Actual reduction of attributes.* Ninth, the rules of sections 108 and 1017 and § 1.1502-28 are actually applied to reduce the attributes remaining after the actual computation of tax imposed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(viii) of this section.


(A) *S or a lower-tier corporation realizes excluded COD income.* If S or a lower-tier corporation of S realizes excluded COD income, the aggregate amount of excluded COD income that is applied to reduce attributes attributable to members other than S and any lower-tier corporation of S pursuant to this paragraph (c)(2)(ix) shall not exceed the aggregate amount of excluded COD income that was tentatively applied to reduce attributes attributable to members other than S and any lower-tier corporation of S pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. The amount of the actual reduction of attributes attributable to S and any lower-tier corporation of S that may be reduced in respect of the excluded COD income of S or a lower-tier corporation of S shall not be so limited.


(B) *A member other than S or a lower-tier corporation realizes excluded COD income.* If a member other than S or a lower-tier corporation of S realizes excluded COD income, the aggregate amount of excluded COD income that is applied to reduce attributes (other than credits) attributable to S and any lower-tier corporation of S pursuant to this paragraph (c)(2)(ix) shall not exceed the aggregate amount of excluded COD income that was tentatively applied to reduce attributes (other than credits) attributable to S and any lower-tier corporation of S pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. The amount of the actual reduction of attributes attributable to any member other than S and any lower-tier corporation of S that may be reduced in respect of the excluded COD income of S or a lower-tier corporation of S shall not be so limited.


(3) *Special rules.* (i) If the reduction of attributes attributable to a member is prevented as a result of a limitation described in paragraph (c)(2)(ix)(B) of this section, the excluded COD income that would have otherwise been applied to reduce such attributes is applied to reduce the remaining attributes of the same type that are available for reduction under § 1.1502-28(a)(4), on a pro rata basis, prior to reducing attributes of a different type. The reduction of such remaining attributes, however, is subject to any applicable limitation described in paragraph (c)(2)(ix)(B) of this section.


(ii) To the extent S's deductions and losses in the year of disposition (or those of a lower-tier corporation of S) cannot offset income or gain because of the limitation under paragraph (b) of this section or this paragraph (c) and are not reduced pursuant to sections 108 and 1017 and § 1.1502-28, such items are carried to other years under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations as if they were the only items incurred by S (or a lower-tier corporation of S) in the year of disposition. For example, to the extent S incurs an operating loss in the year of disposition that is limited and is not reduced pursuant to section 108 and § 1.1502-28, the loss is treated as a separate net operating loss attributable to S arising in that year.


(4) *Definition of lower-tier corporation.* A corporation is a lower-tier corporation of S if all of its items of income, gain, deduction, and loss (including the absorption of deduction or loss and the reduction of attributes other than credits) would be fully reflected in P's basis in S's stock under § 1.1502-32.


(5) *Examples.* For purposes of the examples in this paragraph (c), unless otherwise stated, the tax year of all persons is the calendar year, all persons use the accrual method of accounting, the facts set forth the only corporate activity, all transactions are between unrelated persons, tax liabilities are disregarded, and no election under section 108(b)(5) is made. The principles of this paragraph (c) are illustrated by the following examples:


(6) *Additional rules for multiple dispositions.* [Reserved]


(7) *Effective date.* This paragraph (c) applies to dispositions of subsidiary stock that occur after March 22, 2005.




(d) *Disallowance of loss attributable to pre-1966 distributions.* No loss shall be allowed upon the sale or other disposition of stock, bonds, or other obligations of a member or former member to the extent that such loss is attributable to a distribution made in an affiliated year beginning before January 1, 1966, out of earnings and profits accumulated before the distributing corporation became a member.



---

[N] [T.D. 7246, 38 FR 759, Jan. 4, 1973] 


