# ยง 128.102   What definitions are important in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program?

*Applicant* means a firm applying for certification in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program.


*Certification database* means the database of certified VOSBs and SDVOSBs eligible to participate in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program.


*Contracting officer* has the meaning given such term in section 2101(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 2101(1)).


*Day-to-day operations* means the marketing, production, sales, and administrative functions of the firm.


*Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)* has the meaning given such term in section 4975(e)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 4975(e)(7)).


*Negative control* includes, but is not limited to, instances where a non-qualifying-veteran has the ability, under the concern's governing documents (*e.g.,* charter, by-laws, operating agreement, or shareholder's agreement), to prevent a quorum or otherwise block action by the board of directors or qualifying veteran owner(s).


*Non-veteran* means any individual who does not claim veteran status, or upon whose status an Applicant or Participant does not rely in qualifying for certification.


*Participant* means a small business that has been certified by SBA as eligible to participate in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program or verified by VA's Center for Verification and Evaluation prior to January 1, 2023, and appearing in the certification database.


*Permanent caregiver,* for purposes of this part, means the spouse, or an individual, 18 years of age or older, who is legally designated, in writing, to undertake responsibility for managing the well-being of the service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs' Veterans Benefits Administration, to include housing, health and safety. A permanent caregiver may, but does not need to, reside in the same household as the service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability. In the case of a service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability lacking legal capacity, the permanent caregiver shall be a parent, guardian, or person having legal custody. There may be no more than one permanent caregiver per service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability.


(1) A permanent caregiver may be appointed, in a number of ways, including:


(i) By a court of competent jurisdiction;


(ii) By the Department of Veterans Affairs, National Caregiver Support Program, as the Primary Family Caregiver of a Veteran participating in the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers (this designation is subject to the Veteran and the caregiver meeting other specific criteria as established by law and the Secretary and may be revoked if the eligibility criteria do not continue to be met); or


(iii) By a legal designation.


(2) Any appointment of a permanent caregiver must in all cases be accompanied by a written determination from the Department of Veterans Affairs that the veteran has a permanent and total service-connected disability as set forth in 38 CFR 3.340 for purposes of receiving disability compensation or a disability pension. The appointment must also delineate why the permanent caregiver is given the appointment, must include the consent of the veteran to the appointment and how the appointment would contribute to managing the veteran's well-being.


*Qualifying veteran* means a veteran upon which a VOSB's eligibility is based, or in the case of an SDVOSB, a service-disabled veteran (or in the case of a veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran) (as those terms are defined in this part) upon which a SDVOSB's eligibility is based.


*Service-connected* has the meaning given that term in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).




*Service-disabled veteran* means a veteran who is registered in the Beneficiary Identification and Records Locator Subsystem or successor system, maintained by Department of Veterans Affairs' Veterans Benefits Administration as a service-disabled veteran.


*Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Concern (SDVOSB)* means a small business concern that meets the requirements described in ยง 128.200(b).


*Service-disabled veteran with a permanent and severe disability* means a veteran with a service-connected disability that has been determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs, in writing, to have a permanent and total service-connected disability as set forth in 38 CFR 3.340 for purposes of receiving disability compensation or a disability pension.


*Small business concern (SBC)* means, a concern that, with its affiliates, meets the size standard corresponding to any North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code listed in its SAM profile, pursuant to part 121 of this chapter. At the time of contract offer, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be small within the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract.


*Surviving spouse* has the meaning given the term in 38 U.S.C. 101(3).


*System for Award Management (SAM)* (or any successor system) means a federal system available at *www.sam.gov* that consolidates various federal procurement systems (*e.g.,* Central Contractor Registration, Federal Agency Registration, Online Representations and Certifications Application, Excluded Parties List System) and the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance into one system.


*VA* means the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.


*Veteran* has the meaning given such term in 38 U.S.C. 101(2). A Reservist or member of the National Guard called to Federal active duty or disabled from a disease or injury incurred or aggravated in line of duty or while in training status also qualifies as a veteran.


*Veterans Affairs Acquisition Regulation (VAAR)* is the set of rules, located at 48 CFR chapter 8, that specifically govern requirements exclusive to VA prime and subcontracting actions.


*Veteran-Owned Small Business Concern (VOSB)* means a small business concern that meets the requirements described in ยง 128.200(a).



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 42592, July 3, 2023]




