# § 171.25   Additional requirements for the use of the IMDG Code.

(a) A hazardous material may be offered for transportation or transported to, from or within the United States by vessel, and by motor carrier and rail in accordance with the IMDG Code (IBR, see § 171.7), as authorized in § 171.22, provided all or part of the movement is by vessel. Such shipments must conform to the requirements in § 171.22, as applicable, and this section.




(b) Any person who offers for transportation or transports a hazardous material in accordance with the IMDG Code must conform to the following additional conditions and requirements:




(1) Unless specified otherwise in this subchapter, a shipment must conform to the requirements in part 176 of this subchapter. For transportation by rail or highway prior to or subsequent to transportation by vessel, a shipment must conform to the applicable requirements of parts 174 and 177 respectively, of this subchapter, and the motor vehicle or rail car must be placarded in accordance with subpart F of part 172 of this subchapter. When a hazardous material regulated by this subchapter for transportation by highway is transported by motor vehicle on a public highway or by rail under the provisions of subpart C of part 171, the segregation requirements of Part 7, Chapter 7.2 of the IMDG Code are authorized.




(2) For transportation by vessel, the stowage and segregation requirements in Part 7 of the IMDG Code may be substituted for the stowage and segregation requirements in part 176 of this subchapter. 




(3) The outside of each package containing lithium metal cells or batteries (UN3090) or lithium ion cells or batteries (UN3480) transported in accordance with special provision 188 of the IMDG Code must be appropriately marked “PRIMARY LITHIUM BATTERIES—FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT”, “LITHIUM METAL BATTERIES—FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT”, “LITHIUM ION BATTERIES—FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT”, or “LITHIUM BATTERIES—FORBIDDEN FOR TRANSPORT ABOARD PASSENGER AIRCRAFT”, or labeled with a CARGO AIRCRAFT ONLY label as specified in § 172.448 of this subchapter. The provisions of this paragraph also apply to packages of lithium cells or batteries packed with, or contained in, equipment that 

exceed 5 kg (11 pounds) net weight. When placed in an overpack, the selected marking or label must either be clearly visible through the overpack, or the marking or label must also be affixed on the outside of the overpack.




(4) Material consigned under UN3166 and UN3171 (e.g., Engines, internal combustion, etc., Vehicles, etc. and Battery-powered equipment) may be prepared in accordance with the IMDG Code or this subchapter.










(c) *Conditions and requirements for bulk packagings.* Except for IBCs and UN portable tanks used for the transportation of liquids or solids, bulk packagings must conform to the requirements of this subchapter. Additionally, the following requirements apply:




(1) UN portable tanks must conform to the requirements in Special Provisions TP37, TP38, TP44 and TP45 when applicable, and any applicable bulk special provisions assigned to the hazardous material in the Hazardous Materials Table in § 172.101 of this subchapter;


(2) IMO Type 5 portable tanks must conform to DOT Specification 51 or UN portable tank requirements, unless specifically authorized in this subchapter or approved by the Associate Administrator;






(3) Except as specified in this subpart, for a material poisonous (toxic) by inhalation, the T Codes specified in Column 13 of the Dangerous Goods List in the IMDG Code may be applied to the transportation of those materials in IM, IMO, and DOT Specification 51 portable tanks, when these portable tanks are authorized in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter;




(4) No person may offer an IM or UN portable tank containing liquid hazardous materials of Class 3, PG I or II, or PG III with a flash point less than 100 °F (38 °C); Division 5.1, PG I or II; or Division 6.1, PG I or II, for unloading while it remains on a transport vehicle with the motive power unit attached, unless it conforms to the requirements in § 177.834(o) of this subchapter; and




(5) No person may offer a UN fiber-reinforced plastic portable tank meeting the provisions of Chapter 6.10 of the IMDG Code (IBR, see § 171.7), except for transportation falling within the single port area criteria in paragraph (d) of this section.




(d) *Use of IMDG Code in port areas.* (1) Except for Division 1.1, 1.2, and Class 7 materials, a hazardous material being imported into or exported from the United States or passing through the United States in the course of being shipped between locations outside the United States may be offered and accepted for transportation and transported by motor vehicle within a single port area, including contiguous harbors, when packaged, marked, classed, labeled, stowed and segregated in accordance with the IMDG Code, offered and accepted in accordance with the requirements of subparts C and F of part 172 of this subchapter pertaining to shipping papers and placarding, and otherwise conforms to the applicable requirements of part 176 of this subchapter.


(2) The requirement in § 172.201(d) of this subchapter for an emergency telephone number does not apply to shipments made in accordance with the IMDG Code if the hazardous material is not offloaded from the vessel, or is offloaded between ocean vessels at a U.S. port facility without being transported by public highway.



---

[N] [72 FR 25172, May 3, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 44847, Aug. 9, 2007; 73 FR 57004, Oct. 1, 2008; 74 FR 2233, Jan. 14, 2009; 76 FR 3345, Jan. 19, 2011; 79 FR 46034, Aug. 6, 2014; 80 FR 1116, Jan. 8, 2015; 87 FR 78010, Dec. 21, 2022; 89 FR 25471, Apr. 10, 2024]




