# ยง 776.5   Review procedures.

Officials shall follow the decision-making process outlined in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, when a facility action may involve floodplain issues. Under certain circumstances, this process may be carried out with fewer steps if all objectives of the decision-making process can be achieved. A general principle underlying this process is that a postal facility action requiring construction in a floodplain may be considered only when there is no practicable alternative.


(a) *Analysis of alternatives.* If a postal facility action would involve construction in a floodplain, alternative actions shall be considered.


(b) *Early public notice.* If a facility action at the contending site(s) could require construction in a floodplain, public notice must be provided.


(c) *Floodplain location and information.* (1) Personnel shall determine whether construction would occur within a floodplain. The determination shall be made by reference to appropriate Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) floodplain maps (sometimes referred to as Floodplain Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM)), or Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) maps, or more detailed maps if available. If such maps are not available, floodplain location must be determined based on the best available information.


(2) Once the preferred site has been identified, potential floodplain impacts must be determined. As part of this determination process, specific floodplain information should be developed, which is to consider:


(i) Whether the proposed action will directly or indirectly support floodplain development;


(ii) Flood hazard and risk to lives and property;


(iii) Effects on natural and beneficial floodplain values, such as water quality maintenance, groundwater recharge, and agriculture; and


(iv) Possible measures to minimize harm to, or impact on, the floodplain.


(d) *Reevaluation.* After the above steps have been followed, if the determination is that there appears to be no practicable alternative to constructing in a floodplain, a further review of alternatives must be conducted by the facilities organization in conjunction with the operations organization requesting the construction of the facility. The further review of alternatives must be conducted by the operations organization for projects within the delegated authority of the Vice President, Area Operations.


(e) *Final public notice.* As a result of the reevaluation, if it is determined that there is no practicable alternative to constructing in a floodplain, public notice shall be provided as soon as possible for the proposed action. The notice should be publicized and should include:


(1) Identification of the project's location;


(2) Provision for a 30-day public commenting period before irrevocable action is taken by the Postal Service; and


(3) Name and complete address of a postal contact person responsible for providing further information on the decision to proceed with a facility action or construction project in a floodplain. Upon request, that person shall provide further information as follows:


(i) A description of why the proposed action must be located in a floodplain;


(ii) A listing of alternative actions considered in making the determination; and


(iii) A statement indicating whether the action conforms to applicable state and local floodplain protection standards.


(f) *Distribution.* The above public notice will be sent to appropriate officials, local newspapers, and other parties who express interest in the project.


(g) *NEPA coordination.* If either an Environmental Impact Statement or an Environmental Assessment is required under the Postal Service's National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) regulations, the above review procedures must be incorporated into and evaluated in that document.




