# § 1.642(c)-3   Adjustments and other special rules for determining unlimited charitable contributions deduction.

(a) *Income in respect of a decedent.* For purposes of §§ 1.642(c)-1 and 1.642(c)-2, an amount received by an estate or trust which is includible in its gross income under section 691(a)(1) as income in respect of a decedent shall be included in the gross income of the estate or trust. 


(b) *Determination of amounts deductible under section 642(c) and the character of such amounts*—(1) *Reduction of charitable contributions deduction by amounts not included in gross income.* If an estate, pooled income fund, or other trust pays, permanently sets aside, or uses any amount of its income for a purpose specified in section 642(c) (1), (2) or (3) and that amount includes any items of estate or trust income not entering into the gross income of the estate or trust, the deduction allowable under § 1.642(c)-1 or § 1.642(c)-2 is limited to the gross income so paid, permanently set aside, or used. In the case of a pooled income fund for which a deduction is allowable under paragraph (c) of § 1.642(c)-2 for amounts permanently set aside, only the gross income of the fund which is attributable to net long-term capital gain (as defined in section 1222(7)) shall be taken into account. 


(2) *Determination of the character of an amount deductible under section 642(c).* In determining whether the amounts of income so paid, permanently set aside, or used for a purpose specified in section 642(c)(1), (2), or (3) include particular items of income of an estate or trust, whether or not included in gross income, a provision in the governing instrument or in local law that specifically provides the source out of which amounts are to be paid, permanently set aside, or used for such a purpose controls for Federal tax purposes to the extent such provision has economic effect independent of income tax consequences. See § 1.652(b)-2(b). In the absence of such specific provisions in the governing instrument or in local law, the amount to which section 642(c) applies is deemed to consist of the same proportion of each class of the items of income of the estate or trust as the total of each class bears to the total of all classes. See § 1.643(a)-5(b) for the method of determining the allocable portion of exempt income and foreign income. This paragraph (b)(2) is illustrated by the following examples:


(3) *Other examples.* For examples showing the determination of the character of an amount deductible under § 1.642(c)-1 or § 1.642(c)-2, see examples 1 and 2 in § 1.662(b)-2 and paragraph (e) of the example in § 1.662(c)-4. 


(c) *Capital gains included in charitable contribution.* Where any amount of the income paid, permanently set aside, or used for a purpose specified in section 642(c) (1), (2), or (3), is attributable to net long-term capital gain (as defined in section 1222(7)), the amount of the deduction otherwise allowable under § 1.642(c)-1 or § 1.642(c)-2, must be adjusted for any deduction provided in section 1202 of 50 percent of the excess, if any, of the net long-term capital gain over the net short-term capital loss. For determination of the extent to which the contribution to which § 1.642(c)-1 or § 1.642(c)-2 applies is deemed to consist of net long-term capital gains, see paragraph (b) of this section. The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples: 


(d) *Disallowance of deduction for amounts allocable to unrelated business income.* In the case of a trust, the deduction otherwise allowable under § 1.642(c)-1 or § 1.642(c)-2 is disallowed to the extent of amounts allocable to the trust's unrelated business income. See section 681(a) and the regulations thereunder. 


(e) *Disallowance of deduction in certain cases.* For disallowance of certain deductions otherwise allowable under section 642(c) (1), (2), or (3), see sections 508(d) and 4948(c)(4). 


(f) *Information returns.* For rules applicable to the annual information return that must be filed by trusts claiming a deduction under section 642(c) for the taxable year, see section 6034 and the regulations thereunder. 


(g) *Payments resulting in state or local tax benefits*—(1) *In general.* If the trust or decedent's estate makes a payment of gross income for a purpose specified in section 170(c), and the trust or decedent's estate receives or expects to receive a state or local tax benefit in consideration for such payment, § 1.170A-1(h)(3) applies in determining the charitable contribution deduction under section 642(c).


(2) *Effective/applicability date.* Paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies to payments of gross income after August 27, 2018.



---

[N] [T.D. 7357, 40 FR 23741, June 2, 1975; 40 FR 24361, June 6, 1975, as amended by T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980; T.D. 9582, 77 FR 22484, Apr. 16, 2012; T.D. 9864, 84 FR 27530, June 13, 2019]




