# § 426.532   Discovery.

(a) *General rule.* If the Board orders discovery, the Board must establish a reasonable timeframe for discovery. 


(b) *Protective order*—(1) *Request for a protective order.* Any party receiving a discovery request may file a motion for a protective order before the date of production of the discovery. 


(2) *The Board granting of a protective order.* The Board may grant a motion for a protective order if it finds that the discovery sought—


(i) Is irrelevant or unduly repetitive; 


(ii) Is unduly costly or burdensome; or 


(iii) Will unduly delay the proceeding. 


(c) *Types of discovery available.* A party may obtain discovery via a request for the production of documents, and/or via the submission of up to 10 written interrogatory questions, relating to a specific NCD. 


(d) *Types of documents.* For the purpose of this section, the term documents includes relevant information, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained in this section will be interpreted to require the creation of a document. 


(e) *Types of discovery not available.* Requests for admissions, depositions, or any other forms of discovery, other than those permitted under paragraph (c) of this section, are not authorized. 


(f) *Privileged information or proprietary data.* The Board must not under any circumstances order the disclosure of privileged information or proprietary data filed under seal without the consent of the party who possesses the right to protection of the information. 


(g) *Notification.* The Board notifies all parties in writing when the discovery period will be closed. 




