# ยง 404.18   Schedule of fees.

(a) *Search and review.* Ex-Im Bank shall not charge for search and review.


(b) *Duplication.* Ex-Im Bank shall charge $.10 per page for paper copy duplication. Ex-Im Bank shall charge the actual or estimated cost of copies prepared by computer, such as tape or printouts, or for other methods of reproduction or duplication.


(c) *Minimum fee.* Ex-Im Bank shall waive final fees of $5.00 or less.


(d) *Fee waivers.* Ex-Im Bank may waive fees whenever it is determined to be in the public interest. Fees of less than $50.00 shall be waived in connection with any request by an employee, former employee or applicant for employment, related to a grievance or complaint of discrimination against Ex-Im Bank.


(e) *Special services charges.* Complying with requests for special services such as those listed in this paragraph is entirely at the discretion of Ex-Im Bank. Ex-Im Bank shall recover the full costs of providing such services to the extent that it elects to provide them.


(1) *Certifications.* Ex-Im Bank shall charge $25.00 to certify the authenticity of any Ex-Im Bank record or any copy of such record.


(2) *Special shipping.* Ex-Im Bank may ship by special means (e.g., express mail) if the requester so desires, provided that the requester has paid or has expressly undertaken to pay all costs of such special services. Ex-Im Bank shall not charge for ordinary packaging and mailing.



---

[N] [64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated at 87 FR 41034, July 11, 2022]




