# § 633.207   Construction labor and materials.

(a) Construction and materials shall be in accordance with the State highway department standard construction specifications approved for use on Federal-aid primary projects and special provisions and supplemental specifications amendatory thereto approved for use on the specific projects.


(b) The provisions of 23 U.S.C. 324 and of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 252; 42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-4) and the implementing regulations in 49 CFR part 21, including the provisions of § 21.5(c)(1), and paragraphs (2)(iii) and (2)(v) of appendix C thereof relative to employment practices, shall be applicable to all types of contracts listed in appendix A.


(c) The “Required Contract Provisions, Appalachian Development Highway System and Local Access Roads Construction Contracts,” Form PR-1316 (appendix B), shall be included in all construction contracts awarded under the Act.


(d) The required contract provisions set forth in Form PR-1317 (appendix C) shall be included in all types of contracts described in appendix A, other than construction contracts.


(e) In the design and construction of highways and roads under the Act, the State may give special preference to the use of mineral resource materials native to the Appalachian region. The provisions of § 635.409 of this chapter shall not apply to projects under the Act to the extent such provisions are inconsistent with sections 201(d) and (e) of the Act.



---

[N] [39 FR 35146, Sept. 30, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 49084, Oct. 21, 1975; 41 FR 36204, Aug. 27, 1976]




