# ยง 63.901   Definitions.

All terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given to them in the Act and in this section. If a term is defined in both this section and in another subpart that references the use of this subpart, then the definition in this subpart shall take precedence when implementing this subpart.


*Closure device* means a cap, hatch, lid, plug, seal, valve, or other type of fitting that, when the device is secured in the closed position, prevents or reduces air emissions to the atmosphere by blocking an opening in a fixed roof. Closure devices include devices that are detachable from the cover (e.g., a sampling port cap), manually operated (e.g., a hinged access lid or hatch), or automatically operated (e.g., a spring-loaded pressure relief valve).


*Fixed roof* means a cover that is mounted on a tank in a stationary position and does not move with fluctuations in the level of the liquid managed in the tank.


*No detectable organic emissions* means no escape of organics to the atmosphere as determined using the procedure specified in ยง 63.905(a) of this subpart.


*Regulated-material* means the material (e.g. waste, wastewater, off-site material) required to be managed in tanks using air emission controls in accordance with the standards specified in this subpart.


*Safety device* means a closure device such as a pressure relief valve, frangible disc, fusible plug, or any other type of device which functions to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation to equipment by venting gases or vapors during unsafe conditions resulting from an unplanned, accidental, or emergency event. For the purpose of this subpart, a safety device is not used for routine venting of gases or vapors from the vapor headspace underneath a cover such as during filling of the unit or to adjust the pressure in this vapor headspace in response to normal daily diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations. A safety device is designed to remain in a closed position during normal operations and open only when the internal pressure, or another relevant parameter, exceeds the device threshold setting applicable to the equipment as determined by the owner or operator based on manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, combustible, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials.


*Tank* means a stationary unit that is constructed primarily of nonearthen materials (such as wood, concrete, steel, fiberglass, or plastic) which provide structural support and is designed to hold an accumulation of liquids or other materials. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34184, July 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 38985, July 20, 1999]




