# § 69.203   Definitions.

As used in this subpart and in Coast Guard Form CG-5397 under § 69.205— 


*Overall breadth* means the horizontal distance taken at the widest part of the hull, excluding rub rails, from the outboard side of the skin (outside planking or plating) on one side of the hull to the outboard side of the skin on the other side of the hull.


*Overall depth* means the vertical distance taken at or near midships from a line drawn horizontally through the uppermost edges of the skin (outside planking or plating) at the sides of the hull (excluding the cap rail, trunks, cabins, and deckhouses) to the outboard face of the bottom skin of the hull, excluding the keel. For a vessel that is designed for sailing and has a keel faired to the hull, the keel is included in “overall depth” if the distance to the bottom skin of the hull cannot be determined reasonably. 


*Overall length* means the horizontal distance between the outboard side of the foremost part of the stem and the outboard side of the aftermost part of the stern, excluding rudders, outboard motor brackets, and other similar fittings and attachments. 


*Registered breadth* means— 


(a) For a single-hull vessel, the vessel's overall breadth; and 


(b) For a multi-hull vessel, the horizontal distance taken at the widest part of the complete vessel between the outboard side of the skin (outside planking or plating) on the outboardmost side of one of the outboardmost hulls to the outboard side of the skin on the outboardmost side of the other outboardmost hull, excluding rubrails. 


*Registered depth* means— 


(a) For a single-hull vessel, the vessel's overall depth; and 


(b) For a multi-hull vessel, the overall depth of the deepest hull. 


*Registered length* means— 


(a) For a single-hull vessel, the vessel's overall length; and 


(b) For a multi-hull vessel, the horizontal distance between the outboard side of the foremost part of the stem of the foremost hull and the outboard side of the aftermost part of the stern of the aftermost hull, excluding fittings or attachments. 


*Vessel designed for sailing* means a vessel which has the fine lines of a sailing craft and is capable of being propelled by sail, whether or not the vessel is equipped with an auxiliary motor, a decorative sail, or a sail designed only to steady the vessel. 



---

[N] [CGD 87-015b, 54 FR 37657, Sept. 12, 1989; 54 FR 40240, Sept. 29, 1989; USCG-1999-6216, 64 FR 53225, Oct. 1, 1999]




