# § 52.2285   Control of evaporative losses from the filling of gasoline storage vessels in the Houston and San Antonio areas.

(a) Definitions:


(1) *Gasoline* means any petroleum distillate having a Reid vapor pressure of 4 pounds or greater which is produced for use as a motor fuel and is commonly called gasoline.


(2) *Storage container* means any stationary vessel of more than 1,000 gallons (3,785 liters) nominal capacity. Stationary vessels include portable vessels placed temporarily at a location; e.g., tanks on skids.


(3) *Owner* means the owner of the gasoline storage container(s).


(4) *Operator* means the person who is directly responsible for the operation of the gasoline storage container(s), whether the person be a lessee or an agent of the owner.


(5) *Delivery Vessel* means tank trucks and tank trailers used for the delivery of gasoline.


(6) *Source* means both storage containers and delivery vessels.


(b) This section is applicable to the following counties in Texas: Harris, Galveston, Brazoria, Fort Bend, Waller, Montgomery, Liberty, Chambers, Matagorda, Bexar, Comal, and Guadalupe.


(c) No person shall transfer or permit the transfer of gasoline from any delivery vessel into any stationary storage container with a nominal capacity greater than 1,000 gallons (3,785 liters) unless such container is equipped with a submerged fill pipe and unless the displaced vapors from the storage container are processed by a system that prevents release to the atmosphere of no less than 90 percent by weight of total hydrocarbon compounds in said vapors.


(1) The vapor recovery system shall include one or more of the following:


(i) A vapor-tight return line from the storage container to the delivery vessel and a system that will ensure that the vapor return line is connected before gasoline can be transferred into the container.


(ii) Other equipment that prevents release to the atmosphere of no less than 90 percent by weight of the total hydrocarbon compounds in the displaced vapor provided that approval of the proposed design, installation, and operation is obtained from the Regional Administrator prior to start of construction.


(2) The vapor recovery system shall be so constructed that it will be compatible with a vapor recovery system, which may be installed later, to recover vapors displaced by the filling of motor vehicle tanks.


(3) The vapor-laden delivery vessel shall meet the following requirements:


(i) The delivery vessel must be so designed and maintained as to be vapor-tight at all times.


(ii) If any gasoline storage compartment of a vapor-laden delivery vessel is refilled in one of the counties listed in paragraph (b) of this section, it shall be refilled only at a facility which is equipped with a vapor recovery system, or the equivalent, which prevents release to the atmosphere of at least 90 percent by weight of the total hydrocarbon compounds in the vapor displaced from the delivery vessel during refilling.


(iii) Gasoline storage compartments of one thousand gallons or less in gasoline delivery vehicles presently in use on November 6, 1973 will not be required to be retrofitted with a vapor return system until January 1, 1977.


(iv) Facilities which have a daily throughput of 20,000 gallons of gasoline or less are required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977. Delivery vessels and storage vessels served exclusively by facilities required to have a vapor recovery system in operation no later than May 31, 1977, also are required to meet the provisions of this section no later than May 31, 1977.


(d) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply to the following:


(1) Storage containers used for the storage of gasoline *used on a farm for farming purposes,* as that expression is used in the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. section 6420.


(2) Any container having a nominal capacity less than 2,000 gallons (7,571 liters) installed prior to November 6, 1973.


(3) Transfers made to storage containers equipped with floating roofs or their equivalent.


(4) Any facility for loading and unloading of volatile organic compounds (including gasoline bulk terminals) in Bexar, Brazoria, Galveston and Harris Counties, any gasoline bulk plants in Harris County, and any filling of gasoline storage vessels (Stage I) for motor vehicle fuel dispensing facilities in Bexar, Brazoria, Galveston, and Harris Counties which is subject to Texas Air Control Board Regulation V subsections 115.111-115.113, 115.121-115.123, and 115.131-115.135, respectively.


(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the owner or operator of a source subject to paragraph (c) of this section shall comply with the increments contained in the following compliance schedule:


(1) Contracts for emission control systems or process modifications must be awarded or orders must be issued for the purchase of component parts to accomplish emission control or process modification not later than March 31, 1975.


(2) Initiation of onsite construction or installation of emission control equipment or process change must begin not later than July 1, 1975.


(3) On-site construction or installation of emission control equipment or process modification must be completed no later than June 30, 1976.


(4) Final compliance is to be achieved no later than August 31, 1976.


(5) Any owner or operator of sources subject to the compliance schedule in this paragraph shall certify in writing to the Regional Administrator whether or not the required increment of progress has been met. The certification shall be submitted within five days after the deadlines for each increment. The certification shall include the name(s) and street address(es) of the facility (facilities) for which the certification applies, and the date(s) the increment(s) of progress was (were) met—if met. The Regional Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.


(f) Paragraph (e) of this section shall not apply to the owner or operator of:


(1) A source which is presently in compliance with paragraph (c) of this section and which has certified such compliance to the Regional Administrator by January 1, 1974. The certification shall include the name(s) and street address(es) of the facility (facilities) for which the certification applies. The Regional Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.


(2) To a source for which a compliance schedule is adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator.


(3) To a source whose owner or operator receives approval from the Administrator by June 1, 1974, of a proposed alternative schedule. No such schedule may provide for compliance after August 31, 1976. If approval is promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this section for the affected source.


(g) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (e) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of §§ 51.261 and 51.262(a) of this chapter.


(h) After August 31, 1976 paragraph (c) of this section shall be applicable to every storage container (except those exempted in paragraph (d) of this section) located in the counties specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Every storage container installed after August 31, 1976 shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section from the time of installation. In the affected counties, storage containers which were installed, or converted to gasoline storage after November 6, 1973, but before August 31, 1976 shall comply with paragraph (c) of this section in accordance with the schedule established in paragraph (e) of this section.



---

[N] [42 FR 37380, July 21, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 50868, Nov. 10, 1982; 51 FR 40676, Nov. 7, 1986]




