# ยง 2887.12   How do I renew my grant?

(a) You must apply to BLM to renew the grant at least 120 calendar days before your grant expires. BLM will renew the grant if the pipeline is being operated and maintained in accordance with the grant, these regulations, and the Act. If your grant has expired or terminated, you must apply for a new grant under subpart 2884 of this part.


(b) The BLM may modify the terms and conditions of the grant at the time of renewal, and you must pay the cost recovery fees.




(c) The time and conditions for processing applications for rights-of-way, as described at ยง 2884.21 of this part, apply to applications for renewals.


(d) If you make a timely and sufficient application for a renewal of your existing grant or for a new grant in accordance with this section, the existing grant does not expire until we have issued a decision to approve or deny the application.


(e) If we deny your application, you may appeal the decision under ยง 2881.10.


(f) If you do not submit your application under paragraph (a) of this section at least 120 days prior to authorization expiration, it is considered delinquent; the BLM will not be subject to the customer service standards in this chapter, and it will be processed only as time and resources are available.




(g) The BLM will review your application and determine if you have complied with all of the provisions in this part and whether or not your authorized use will be renewed. The BLM will notify you within 30 days from acceptance of a complete application if it will take longer than 60 days to review your application.





---

[N] [70 FR 21078, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92230, Dec. 19, 2016; 89 FR 25976, Apr. 12, 2024]




