# ยง 24.104   Partitioning and disaggregation.

Nationwide, regional, and MTA licensees may apply to partition their authorized geographic service area or disaggregate their authorized spectrum at any time following grant of their geographic area authorizations. 


(a) *Application required.* Parties seeking approval for partitioning and/or disaggregation shall apply for partial assignment of a license pursuant to ยง 1.948 of this chapter. 


(b) *Partitioning.* In the case of partitioning, applicants and licensees must file FCC Form 603 pursuant to ยง 1.948 of this chapter and describe the partitioned service area on a schedule to the application. The partitioned service area shall be defined by up to 120 sets of geographic coordinates at points at every 3 degrees azimuth from a point within the partitioned service area along the partitioned service area boundary unless either an FCC-recognized service area is used (*e.g.*, MEA or EA) or county lines are followed. The geographical coordinates must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second latitude and longitude, and must be based upon the 1983 North American Datum (NAD83). In the case where FCC-recognized service areas or county lines are used, applicants need only list the specific area(s) through use of FCC designations or county names that constitute the partitioned area. 


(c) *Disaggregation.* Spectrum may be disaggregated in any amount. 


(d) *Combined partitioning and disaggregation.* Licensees may apply for partial assignment of authorizations that propose combinations of partitioning and disaggregation. 


(e) *License term.* The license term for a partitioned license area and for disaggregated spectrum shall be the remainder of the original licensee's license term as provided for in ยง 1.955 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [65 FR 35853, June 6, 2000, as amended at 82 FR 41547, Sept. 1, 2017]


