# § 3602.45   What final steps will BLM take before issuing me a contract?

(a) *Ability to perform.* BLM may require you to furnish information we find necessary to determine whether you are able to meet the obligations of the contract. 


(b) *Reasons for denying a contract.* We will deny you the contract, even if you made the highest bid, if— 


(1) We determine that you are unable to meet the obligations of the contract, 


(2) You are unwilling to accept the terms of the contract, or 


(3) BLM rejects all bids. 


(c) *Refund of deposit.* If BLM denies you a contract under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section, we will refund your deposit. 


(d) *Awarding a contract.* BLM will notify you of your contract award by presenting you with or sending you the contract. 


(e) *Accepting a contract.* If BLM awards you the contract, you must, within 60 days after receiving it, sign and return the contract, together with a performance bond and mining and reclamation plan when BLM requires them. BLM may extend this period an additional 30 days if you request it in writing within the first 60-day period. If you fail to sign and return the contract within the first 60-day period, or an approved 30-day extension period, you will forfeit the bid deposit. 


(f) *Awarding the contract to the second-highest bidder.* If BLM determines that you are unable to meet the obligations of the contract, or if you fail to sign and return the contract within the time period specified, BLM may offer and award the contract for the amount of the high bid to the person making the next highest complete bid. That person must be qualified and willing to accept the contract, and must redeposit the amount required under § 3602.44(b). 


(g) *Contract form.* BLM will make all sales on BLM standard contract forms approved by the Director, Bureau of Land Management. We will include as necessary additional provisions and stipulations in the contract to conform to the provisions of the competitive sale notice and to address environmental concerns or other site-specific issues. 




