# ยง 550.224   What information on support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany the EP?

The following information on the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use must accompany your EP:


(a) *General.* A description of the crew boats, supply boats, anchor handling vessels, tug boats, barges, ice management vessels, other vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use to support your exploration activities. The description of vessels and offshore vehicles must estimate the storage capacity of their fuel tanks and the frequency of their visits to your drilling unit.


(b) *Air emissions.* A table showing the source, composition, frequency, and duration of the air emissions likely to be generated by the support vessels, offshore vehicles, and aircraft you will use that will operate within 25 miles of your drilling unit.


(c) *Drilling fluids and chemical products transportation.* A description of the transportation method and quantities of drilling fluids and chemical products (see ยง 550.213(b) and (c)) you will transport from the onshore support facilities you will use to your drilling unit.


(d) *Solid and liquid wastes transportation.* A description of the transportation method and a brief description of the composition, quantities, and destination(s) of solid and liquid wastes (see ยง 550.217(a)) you will transport from your drilling unit.


(e) *Vicinity map.* A map showing the location of your proposed exploration activities relative to the shoreline. The map must depict the primary route(s) the support vessels and aircraft will use when traveling between the onshore support facilities you will use and your drilling unit.




