# § 49.4170   Delegation of authority of administration to the Tribe.

(a) *What is the purpose of this section?* The purpose of this section is to establish the process by which the Regional Administrator may delegate to the Ute Indian Tribe the authority to assist the EPA with administration of this U&O FIP. This section provides for administrative delegation and does not affect the eligibility criteria under § 49.6 for treatment in the same manner as a state.


(b) *How does the Ute Indian Tribe request delegation?* To be delegated authority to assist the EPA with administration of this U&O FIP, the authorized representative of the Ute Indian Tribe must submit a written request to the Regional Administrator that:


(1) Identifies the specific provisions for which delegation is requested;


(2) Includes a statement by the Ute Indian Tribe's legal counsel (or equivalent official) with the following information:


(i) A statement that the Ute Indian Tribe is an Indian tribe recognized by the Secretary of the Interior;


(ii) A descriptive statement that meets the requirements of § 49.7(a)(2) and demonstrates that the Ute Indian Tribe is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area;


(iii) A description of the laws of the Ute Indian Tribe that provide adequate authority to carry out the aspects of the rule for which delegation is requested; and


(3) Demonstrates that the Ute Indian Tribe has, or will have, adequate resources to carry out the aspects of the rule for which delegation is requested.


(c) *How is the delegation of administration accomplished?* (1) A Delegation of Authority Agreement setting forth the terms and conditions of the delegation and specifying the provisions of this rule that the Ute Indian Tribe will be authorized to implement on behalf of the EPA will be entered into by the Regional Administrator and the Ute Indian Tribe. The Agreement will become effective on the date that both the Regional Administrator and the authorized representative of the Ute Indian Tribe have signed the Agreement. Once the delegation becomes effective, the Ute Indian Tribe will be responsible, to the extent specified in the Agreement, for assisting the EPA with administration of the FIP and will act as the Regional Administrator as that term is used in these regulations. Any Delegation of Authority Agreement will clarify the circumstances in which the term “Regional Administrator” found throughout the FIP is to remain the EPA Regional Administrator and when it is intended to refer to the “Ute Indian Tribe,” instead.


(2) A Delegation of Authority Agreement may be modified, amended, or revoked, in part or in whole, by the Regional Administrator after consultation with the Ute Indian Tribe.


(d) *How will any Delegation of Authority Agreement be publicized?* The Agency will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ informing the public of any Delegation of Authority Agreement with the Ute Indian Tribe to assist the EPA with administration of all or a portion of the FIP and identifying such delegation in the FIP. The EPA will also publish an announcement of the Delegation of Authority Agreement in local newspapers.






