# § 2920.5-2   Application content.

(a) Applications for land use authorizations shall include a reference to the notice of realty action under which the application is filed and a description of the proposed land use in sufficient detail to enable the authorized officer to evaluate the feasibility of the proposed land use, the impacts, if any, on the environment, the public or other benefits from the land use, the approximate cost of the proposed land use, any threat to the public health and safety posed by the proposed use and whether the proposed use is, in the opinion of the applicant, in conformance with the Bureau of Land Management plans, programs and policies for the public lands covered by the proposed use. The description shall include, but not be limited to:


(1) Details of the proposed uses and activities;


(2) A description of all facilities for which authorization is sought, access needs and special types of easements that may be needed;


(3) A map of sufficient scale to allow all of the required information to be legible and a legal description of primary and alternative project locations; and


(4) A schedule for construction of any facilities.


(b) *Additional information:*

(1) After review of the project description, the authorized officer may require the applicant(s) to fund or to perform additional studies or submit additional environmental data, or both, so as to enable the Bureau of Land Management to prepare an environmental analysis in accordance with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*); and comply with the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 470); The Archeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 469 *et seq.*); Executive Order 11593, “Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment” of May 13, 1971 (36 FR 8921); “Procedures for the Protection of Historic and Cultural Properties” (36 CFR part 300); and other laws and regulations as applicable.


(2) An application for the use of public lands may require additional private, State, local or other Federal agency licenses, permits, easements, certificates or other approval documents. The authorized officer may require the applicant to furnish such documents, or proof of application for such documents, as part of the application.


(3) The authorized officer may require evidence that the applicant has, or prior to commencement of construction will have, the technical and financial capability to construct, operate, maintain and terminate the authorized land use. 


(c) The application shall include the name and legal mailing address of the applicant.


(d) *Business Associations.* If the applicant is other than an individual, the application shall include the name and address of an agent authorized to receive notice of actions pertaining to the application.


(e) *Federal departments and agencies.* Federal departments and agencies are not qualified to hold land use authorizations under this authority.


(f) If any of the information required in this section has already been submitted as part of a land use proposal submitted under § 2920.2 of this title, the application need only refer to that proposal by filing date, office and case number. The applicant shall certify that there have been no changes in any of the information.




