# ยง 98.13   Import permit.

(a) Ruminant and swine embryos and all test samples required by this subpart may be imported into the United States from regions where foot-and-mouth disease exists only if accompanied by import permits issued by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).


(b) An application for the import permits must be submitted to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, Strategy and Policy, 4700 River Road Unit 38, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1231. Application forms also may be obtained at this same address. The application for a permit to import embryos will also serve as the application for a permit to import test samples for those embryos; separate applications are not required. The application must include the following information:


(1) The name and address of the exporter;


(2) The name and address of the importer;


(3) The name and address of the place where the donor dam will be bred and where the embryo(s) will be collected;


(4) The species, breed, and number of embryos to be imported;


(5) The purpose of the importation;


(6) The port of embarkation;


(7) The mode of transportation;


(8) The route of travel;


(9) The port of entry in the United States;


(10) The proposed date of arrival in the United States; and


(11) The name and address of the person to whom the embryos will be delivered in the United States.


(c) Applications for a permit to import sheep and goat embryos and oocytes must include the flock identification number of the receiving flock and the premises or location identification number assigned in the APHIS National Scrapie Database; or, in the case of embryos or oocytes moving to a storage facility, the premises or location identification number must be included.



---

[N] [56 FR 55809, Oct. 30, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 67616, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 15183, Apr. 5, 1996; 62 FR 56025, Oct. 28, 1997; 83 FR 15494, Apr. 11, 2018; 86 FR 45629, Aug. 16, 2021; 86 FR 68864, Dec. 3, 2021]




