# ยง 73.1298   Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive ferric ammonium ferrocyanide is the blue pigment obtained by oxidizing under acidic conditions with sodium dichromate the acid digested precipitate resulting from mixing solutions of ferrous sulfate and sodium ferrocyanide in the presence of ammonium sulfate. The oxidized product is filtered, washed, and dried. The pigment consists principally of ferric ammonium ferrocyanide with smaller amounts of ferric ferrocyanide and ferric sodium ferrocyanide.


(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with ferric ammonium ferrocyanide may contain only those diluents listed in this subpart as safe and suitable for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.


(b) *Specifications.* Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free of impurities other than those named to the extent that the other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide may be safely used in amounts consistent with good manufacturing practice to color externally applied drugs, including those for use in the area of the eye.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* The label of the color additive and of any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therfore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.



---

[N] [42 FR 38562, July 29, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 28322, May 15, 1979]




