# ยง 215.13   Management evaluations and audits.

(a) Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State and school food authority/child care institution levels shall be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement and USDA's implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. 


(b) Each State agency shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations (including visits to schools and child-care institutions) of any operations of the State agency under the Program and shall provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits (including visits to schools and child-care institutions) of all operations of the State agency under the Program. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records of the receipt and expenditure of funds under the Program, upon a reasonable request by FNS or OIG. OIG shall also have the right to make audits of the records and operations of any school or child-care institution.


(c) In conducting management evaluations, reviews or audits for any fiscal year, the State agency, FNS, or OIG may disregard any overpayment if the total overpayment does not exceed $600 or, in the case of State agency claims in State administered Programs, it does not exceed the amount established under State law, regulations or procedure as a minimum amount for which claim will be made for State losses but not to exceed $600. However, no overpayment is to be disregarded where there is substantial evidence of violations of criminal law or civil fraud statutes.



---

[N] [Amdt. 14, 41 FR 31175, July 27, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 58925, Dec. 22, 1978; Amdt. 23, 47 FR 14135, Apr. 2, 1982; Amdt. 25, 47 FR 18564, Apr. 30, 1982; Amdt. 36, 54 FR 2990, Jan. 23, 1989; 57 FR 38586, Aug. 26, 1992; 59 FR 1894, Jan. 13, 1994; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999; 71 FR 39516, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66490, Sept. 28, 2016]




