# § 1.280H-1T   Limitation on certain amounts paid to employee-owners by personal service corporations electing alternative taxable years (temporary).

(a) *Introduction.* This section applies to any taxable year that a personal service corporation has a section 444 election in effect (an “applicable election year”). For purposes of this section, the term *personal service corporation* has the same meaning given such term in § 1.441-3(c). 


(b) *Limitation on certain deductions of personal service corporations*—(1) *In general.* If, for any applicable election year, a personal service corporation does not satisfy the minimum distribution requirement in paragraph (c) of this section, the deduction otherwise allowable under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code) for applicable amounts, as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, shall not exceed the maximum deductible amount, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(2) *Carryover of nondeductible amounts.* Any amount not allowed as a deduction in an applicable election year under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be allowed as a deduction in the succeeding taxable year.


(3) *Disallowance inapplicable for certain purposes.* The disallowance of deductions under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply for purposes of subchapter G of chapter 1 of the Code (relating to corporations used to avoid income tax on shareholders) nor for determining whether the compensation of employee-owners is reasonable. Thus, for example, in determining whether a personal service corporation is subject to the accumulated earnings tax imposed by section 531, deductions disallowed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section are treated as allowed in computing accumulated taxable income.


(4) *Definition of applicable amount*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of section 280H and the regulations thereunder, the term *applicable amount* means, with respect to a taxable year, any amount that is otherwise deductible by a personal service corporation in such year and includable at any time, directly or indirectly, in the gross income of a taxpayer that during such year is an employee-owner. Thus, an amount includable in the gross income of an employee-owner will be considered an applicable amount even though such employee owns no stock of the corporation on the date the employee includes the amount in income. See *Example 1* in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Special rule for certain indirect payments.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, amounts are indirectly includable in the gross income of an employee-owner of a personal service corporation that has made a section 444 election (an electing personal service corporation) if the amount is includable in the gross income of—


(A) The spouse (other than a spouse who is legally separated from the partner or shareholder under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance) or child (under age 14) of such employee-owner, or 


(B) A corporation more than 50 percent (measured by fair market value) of which is owned in the aggregate by employee-owners (and individuals related under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section to such employee-owners), of the electing personal service corporation, or 


(C) A partnership more than 50 percent of the profits and capital of which is owned by employee-owners (and individuals related under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section to such employee-owners) of the electing personal service corporation, or 


(D) A trust more than 50 percent of the beneficial ownership of which is owned in the aggregate by employee-owners (and individuals related under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section to any such employee-owners), of the electing personal service corporation.


(iii) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(4) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.


(c) *Minimum distribution requirement*—(1) *Determination of whether requirement satisfied*—(i) *In general.* A personal service corporation meets the minimum distribution requirement of this paragraph (c) for an applicable election year if, during the deferral period of such taxable year, the applicable amounts (determined without regard to paragraph (b)(2) of this section) for all employee-owners in the aggregate equal or exceed the lesser of—


(A) The amount determined under the “preceding year test” (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section), or


(B) The amount determined under the “3-year average test” (see paragraph (c)(3) of this section).


(ii) *Employee-owner defined.* For purposes of section 280H and the regulations thereunder, a person is an employee-owner of a corporation for a taxable year if—


(A) On any day of the corporation's taxable year, the person is an employee of the corporation or performs personal services for or on behalf of the corporation, even if the legal form of that person's relationship to the corporation is that of an independent contractor, and


(B) On any day of the corporation's taxable year, the person owns any outstanding stock of the corporation. 


(2) *Preceding year test*—(i) *In general.* The amount determined under the preceding year test is the product of—


(A) The applicable amounts during the taxable year preceding the applicable election year (the “preceding taxable year”), divided by the number of months (but not less than one) in the preceding taxable year, multiplied by


(B) The number of months in the deferral period of the applicable election year.


(ii) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be illustrated by the following example.


(3) *3-year average test*—(i) *In general.* The amount determined under the 3-year average test is the applicable percentage multiplied by the adjusted taxable income for the deferral period of the applicable election year.


(ii) *Applicable percentage.* The term *applicable percentage* means the percentage (not in excess of 95 percent) determined by dividing—


(A) The applicable amounts during the 3 taxable years of the corporation (or, if fewer, the taxable years the corporation has been in existence) immediately preceding the applicable election year, by 


(B) The adjusted taxable income of such corporation for such 3 taxable years (or, if fewer, the taxable years of existence).


(iii) *Adjusted taxable income*—(A) *In general.* The term *adjusted taxable income* means taxable income determined without regard to applicable amounts.


(B) *Determination of adjusted taxable income for the deferral period of the applicable election year.* Adjusted taxable income for the deferral period of the applicable election year equals the adjusted taxable income that would result if the personal service corporation filed an income tax return for the deferral period of the applicable election year under its normal method of accounting. However, a personal service corporation may make a reasonable estimate of such amount. 


(C) *NOL carryovers.* For purposes of determining adjusted taxable income for any period, any NOL carryover shall be reduced by the amount of such carryover that is attributable to the deduction of applicable amounts. The portion of the NOL carryover attributable to the deduction of applicable amounts is the difference between the NOL carryover computed with the deduction of such amounts and the NOL carryover computed without the deduction of such amounts. For purposes of determining the adjusted taxable income for the deferral period, an NOL carryover to the applicable election year, reduced as provided in this paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C), shall be allowed first against the income of the deferral period.


(D) *Examples.* The provisons of this paragraph (c)(3)(iii) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(d) *Maximum deductible amount*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of this section, the term *maximum deductible amount* means the sum of—


(i) The applicable amounts during the deferral period of the applicable election year, plus


(ii) An amount equal to the product of—


(A) The amount determined under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section divided by the number of months in the deferral period of the applicable election year, multiplied by 


(B) The number of months in the nondeferral period of the applicable election year. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term *nondeferral period* means the portion of the applicable election year that occurs after the portion of such year constituting the deferral period.


(2) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following example.


(e) *Special rules and definition*—(1) *Newly organized personal service corporations.* A personal service corporation is deemed to satisfy the preceding year test and the 3-year average test for the first year of the corporation's existence.


(2) *Existing corporations that become personal service corporations.* If an existing corporation becomes a personal service corporation and makes a section 444 election, the determination of whether the corporation satisfies the preceding year test and the 3-year average test is made by treating the corporation as though it were a personal service corporation for each of the 3 years preceding the applicable election year.


(3) *Disallowance of NOL carryback.* No net operating loss carryback shall be allowed to (or from) any applicable election year of a personal service corporation.


(4) *Deferral period.* For purposes of section 280H and the regulations thereunder, the term *deferral period* has the same meaning as under § 1.444-1T(b)(4).


(5) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (e) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(f) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section are effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.



---

[N] [T.D. 8205, 53 FR 19711, May 27, 1988]




