# ยง 98.513   Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) You must determine annual N_2_O process emissions from each caprolactam, glyoxal, and glyoxylic acid process line using the appropriate default N_2_O generation factor(s) from table 1 to this subpart, the site-specific N_2_O destruction factor(s) for each N_2_O abatement device, and site-specific production data according to paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(b) You must determine the total annual amount of product *i* (caprolactam, glyoxal, or glyoxylic acid) produced on each process line *t* (metric tons product), according to ยง 98.514(b).


(c) If process line *t* exhausts to any N_2_O abatement technology *j*, you must determine the destruction efficiency for each N_2_O abatement technology according to paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) Use the control device manufacturer's specified destruction efficiency.


(2) Estimate the destruction efficiency through process knowledge. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current vent stream conditions. You must document how process knowledge (if applicable) was used to determine the destruction efficiency.


(d) If process line *t* exhausts to any N_2_O abatement technology *j*, you must determine the abatement utilization factor for each N_2_O abatement technology according to paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) If the abatement technology *j* has no downtime during the year, use 1.


(2) If the abatement technology *j* was not operational while product *i* was being produced on process line *t*, calculate the abatement utilization factor according to equation 1 to this paragraph (d)(2).


(e) You must calculate N_2_O emissions for each product *i* from each process line *t* and each N_2_O control technology *j* according to equation 2 to this paragraph (e).


(f) You must determine the annual emissions combined from each process line at your facility using equation 3 to this paragraph (f):


