# § 363.205   How do I reinvest the proceeds of a maturing security held in TreasuryDirect ®?

(a) *Method for reinvesting a maturing security.* The only method of reinvesting a maturing marketable security in TreasuryDirect ® is through the automatic reinvestment option available in your TreasuryDirect account. Purchasing a security by directing that the proceeds of a maturing security be used to purchase a zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, and then scheduling the purchase of a new security using the redemption proceeds of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness, is not a reinvestment.


(b) *When a reinvestment can be scheduled, edited, or canceled.* You can schedule your reinvestment either at the time of purchase or after the security is issued into your TreasuryDirect account. You cannot schedule, edit, or cancel a reinvestment when the maturing security goes into a closed book period, or when a noncompetitive bid for the replacement security is no longer accepted, whichever comes first.


(c) *What securities can be reinvested.* Any marketable security can be reinvested.


(d) *Limits on scheduling reinvestments.* Reinvestments will be limited at any one time to 25 times for a 4-week bill, 7 times for a 13-week bill, 3 times for a 26-week bill, and once for all other marketable security types.


(e) *Canceling reinvestments.* If there is no security available for reinvestment with an issue date that coincides with the maturity date or call date, if invoked, of the maturing security, and with the same type and term, the scheduled reinvestment will be canceled and the proceeds of the maturing security will be returned to the customer.


(f) *Procedure if there are insufficient funds from the maturing security to pay the full purchase price of the replacement security.* If there are insufficient funds from the maturing security to pay the full purchase price of the replacement security, we will either debit your primary account at a financial institution or pay the additional funds using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.


(1) *Debit from primary account at financial institution.* If the maturing security is purchased on or after May 15, 2010, we will pay the additional funds by a debit from your primary account at a financial institution if the maturing security was purchased within TreasuryDirect by a debit from a financial institution account or if the maturing security was received through a transfer. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from your primary account at a financial institution, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.


(2) *Withdrawal of funds from zero-percent certificate of indebtedness.* If the maturing security is purchased on or after May 15, 2010, we will pay the additional funds using the redemption proceeds of your zero-percent certificate of indebtedness if the purchase of the maturing security was made using the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness. If the amount available from a redemption of the zero-percent certificate of indebtedness is insufficient to pay the additional amount, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.


(3) *Special rules if the maturing security was purchased prior to May 15, 2010.* If the maturing security was purchased within TreasuryDirect or received through a transfer prior to May 15, 2010, we will debit your primary account at a financial institution for the additional funds. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from your primary account at a financial institution, the reinvestment will be canceled and we will refund the proceeds of the maturing security.



---

[N] [75 FR 26090, May 11, 2010]




