# § 164.121   Expedited hearing.

(a) *Request.* (1) An expedited hearing shall be held whenever the Administrator has received from the registrant a timely request for such hearing in response to the Administrator's notice of intention to suspend.


(2) A request for an expedited hearing is timely if made in writing or by telegram and filed with the office of the hearing clerk within 5 days of the registrant's receipt of the notice of intention to suspend.


(3) At the time of filing a request for an expedited hearing, the registrant shall also file a document setting forth objections to the Administrator's notice of intention to suspend and its findings pertaining to the question of imminent hazard. Such objections shall conform to the requirements of § 164.21.


(b) *Presiding officer.* (1) An expedited hearing shall be conducted by a presiding officer appointed by the Administrator, and such officer need not be an Administrative Law Judge.


(2) The presiding officer shall not have the authority to make an initial decision on the merits but shall make a recommended decision only.


(c) *The issue.* The expedited hearing shall address only the issue of whether an imminent hazard exists.


(d) *Time of hearing.* The hearing shall commence within 5 days after the filing of the request with the office of the hearing clerk unless the registrant and respondent agree that it shall commence at a later time. As soon as possible, the presiding officer shall publish in the _Federal Register_ notice of such hearing.


(e) *Intervention.* Any person adversely affected by the Administrator's notice may move to intervene within 5 days after the receipt by the registrant of said notice or at any time prior to the conclusion of the presentation of the evidence, upon good cause found, except


(1) Leave to intervene will be granted only if the motion to intervene meets the standards of § 164.31 and, in addition, indicates that the movant would raise matters or introduce evidence pertinent to the issue of imminent hazard which would substantially assist in its resolution.


(2) A movant denied permission to intervene under this section but who otherwise meets the standards of § 164.31 and who is adversely affected may file proposed findings and conclusions and briefs in support thereof pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section. Any person filing under this subsection shall be deemed to have been a party to the proceeding, for all purposes of its further review.


(3) When an “emergency order” is issued pursuant to § 164.123, no person other than the respondent and the registrant shall participate in the hearing except that any person adversely affected may file proposed findings and conclusions and briefs in support thereof pursuant to paragraph (j) of this section. Any person filing under this subsection shall be deemed to have been a party to the proceeding for all purposes of its further review.


(f) *Appearances and consolidation.* The provisions of §§ 164.30 and 164.32 apply to an expedited hearing insofar as may be practicable.


(g) *Order of proceeding and burden of proof.* At the hearing, the proponent of suspension shall have the burden of going forward to present an affirmative case for the suspension. However, the ultimate burden of persuasion shall rest with the proponent of the registration.


(h) *Evidence.* The provisions of § 164.81, where applicable, apply to an expedited hearing.


(i) *Transcripts.* The presiding officer shall make provision for daily transcripts and otherwise comply with the provisions of § 164.82.


(j) *Proposed findings or conclusions; recommended decision.* (1) Within 4 days of the conclusion of the presentation of evidence, the parties may propose findings and conclusions to the Presiding Officer. Such proposed findings and conclusions shall be accompanied by a brief with supporting reasons.


(2) Within 8 days of the conclusion of the presentation of evidence, the Presiding Officer shall submit to the parties his proposed recommended findings and conclusions and a statement of the reasons on which they are based.


(3) Within 10 days of the conclusion of the presentation of evidence the Presiding Officer shall submit to the Environmental Appeals Board his recommended findings and conclusions, together with the record.


(4) Within 12 days of the conclusion of the presentation of evidence the parties shall submit to the Environmental Appeals Board their objections to the Presiding Officer's recommended findings and conclusions and written briefs in support thereof.



---

[N] [38 FR 19371, July 20, 1973, as amended at 57 FR 5344, Feb. 13, 1992]




