# ยง 102.28   Requests for amendment or correction of records.

(a) *How made and addressed.* Unless the record is not subject to amendment or correction as stated in paragraph (f) of this section, an individual may make a request for amendment or correction of an SBA record about himself or herself by writing directly to the office that maintains the record, following the procedures in ยง 102.24. The request should identify each particular record in question, state the amendment or correction sought, and state why the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. The requester may submit any documentation that he or she thinks would be helpful. If the requester believes that the same record is in more than one system of records, that should be stated and the request should be sent to each office that maintains a system of records containing the record.


(b) *Office responses.* Within ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of receiving a request for amendment or correction of records, an office shall send the requester a written acknowledgment of receipt, and the office shall notify the requester within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of receipt of the request whether it is granted or denied. If the Program/Support Office Head or designee grants the request in whole or in part, the amendment or correction must be made, and the requester advised of his or her right to obtain a copy of the corrected or amended record. If the office denies a request in whole or in part, it shall send the requester a letter signed by the Program/Support Office Head or designee that shall state:


(1) The reason(s) for the denial; and


(2) The procedure for appeal of the denial under paragraph (c) of this section, including the name and business address of the official who will act on your appeal.


(c) *Appeals.* An individual may appeal a denial of a request for amendment or correction to the FOI/PA Office in the same manner as a denial of a request for access to records (see ยง 102.27), and the same procedures shall be followed. If the appeal is denied, the requester shall be advised of his or her right to file a Statement of Disagreement as described in paragraph (d) of this section and of his or her right under the Privacy Act for court review of the decision.


(d) *Statement of Disagreement.* If an appeal under this section is denied in whole or in part, the requester has the right to file a Statement of Disagreement that states the reason(s) for disagreeing with the SBA's denial of his or her request for amendment or correction. A Statement of Disagreement must be concise, must clearly identify each part of any record that is disputed, and should be no longer than one typed page for each fact disputed. An individual's Statement of Disagreement must be sent to the office that maintains the record involved, which shall place it in the system of records in which the disputed record is maintained and shall mark the disputed record to indicate that a Statement of Disagreement has been filed and where in the system of records it may be found.


(e) *Notification of amendment/correction or disagreement.* Within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of the amendment or correction of a record, the office that maintains the record shall notify all persons, organizations, or agencies to which it previously disclosed the record, if an accounting of that disclosure was made, that the record has been amended or corrected. If an individual has filed a Statement of Disagreement, the office shall append a copy of it to the disputed record whenever the record is disclosed and may also append a concise statement of its reason(s) for denying the request to amend or correct the record.


(f) *Records not subject to amendment or correction.* The following records are not subject to amendment or correction:


(1) Transcripts of testimony given under oath or written statements made under oath;


(2) Transcripts of grand jury proceedings, judicial proceedings, or quasi-judicial proceedings, which are the official record of those proceedings;


(3) Pre-sentence records that originated with the courts; and


(4) Records in systems of records that have been exempted from amendment and correction under Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) or (*k*) by notice published in the _Federal Register._

