# ยง 410.1601   Transfer of an unaccompanied child within the ORR care provider facility network.

(a) *General requirements for transfers.* The care provider facility shall continuously assess unaccompanied children in their care to review whether the children's placements are appropriate. An unaccompanied child shall be placed in the least restrictive setting that is in the best interests of the child, subject to considerations regarding danger to self or the community and runaway risk. Care provider facilities shall follow ORR guidance, including guidance regarding placement considerations, when making transfer recommendations.


(1) If the care provider facility identifies an alternate placement for the unaccompanied child that would best meet the child's needs, the care provider facility shall make a transfer recommendation to ORR for approval within three business days of identifying the need for a transfer.


(2) The care provider facility shall ensure the unaccompanied child is medically cleared for transfer within three business days of ORR identifying the need for a transfer, unless otherwise waived by ORR. For an unaccompanied child with acute or chronic medical conditions, or seeking medical services requiring heightened ORR involvement, the appropriate care provider facility staff and ORR shall meet to review the transfer recommendation. If a child is not medically cleared for transfer within three business days, the care provider facility shall notify ORR, and ORR shall review and determine if the child is fit for travel. If ORR determines the child is not fit for travel, ORR shall notify the care provider facility of the denial and specify a timeframe for the care provider facility to re-evaluate the child for transfer.


(3) Within 48 hours prior to the unaccompanied child's physical transfer, the referring care provider facility shall notify all appropriate interested parties of the transfer, including the child's attorney of record or DOJ Accredited Representative, legal service provider, or child advocate, as applicable. However, such advance notice is not required in unusual and compelling circumstances, such as the following cases in which notices shall be provided within 24 hours following transfer:


(i) Where the safety of the unaccompanied child or others has been threatened;


(ii) Where the unaccompanied child has been determined to be a runaway risk consistent with ยง 410.1107; or


(iii) Where the interested party has waived such notice.


(4) The unaccompanied child shall be transferred with the child's possessions and legal papers, including, but not limited to:


(i) Personal belongings;


(ii) The transfer request and tracking form;


(iii) 30-day medication supply, if applicable;


(iv) All health records; and


(v) Original documents (including birth certificates).


(5) If the unaccompanied child's possessions exceed the amount permitted normally by the carrier in use, the care provider shall ship the possessions to a subsequent placement of the unaccompanied child in a timely manner.


(b) *Restrictive care provider facility placements and transfers.* When an unaccompanied child is placed in a restrictive setting (secure, heightened supervision, or residential treatment center), the care provider facility in which the child is placed and ORR shall review the placement at least every 30 days to determine whether a new level of care is appropriate for the child. If the care provider facility and ORR determine in the review that continued placement in a restrictive setting is appropriate, the care provider facility shall document the basis for its determination and, upon request, provide documentation of the review and rationale for continued placement to the child's attorney of record, legal service provider, and/or child advocate.


(c) *Group transfers.* At times, circumstances may require a care provider facility to transfer more than one unaccompanied child at a time (e.g., emergencies, natural disasters, program closures, and bed capacity constraints). For group transfers, the care provider facility shall follow ORR guidance and the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *Residential treatment center placements.* A care provider facility may request ORR to transfer an unaccompanied child in its care to a residential treatment center (RTC), pursuant to the requirements described at ยง 410.1105(c). The care provider facility shall review the placement of a child into an RTC every 30 days in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(e) *Emergency placement changes.* An unaccompanied child who is placed pursuant to subpart B of this part remains in the legal custody of ORR and may only be transferred or released by ORR. However, in the event of an emergency, a care provider facility may temporarily change the physical placement of an unaccompanied child prior to securing permission from ORR but shall notify ORR of the change of physical placement, as soon as possible, but in all cases within eight hours of transfer.






