# § 26.3   Filing.

(a) *Filing by electronic submission (e-filing) via the Department's electronic case management system*—(1) *Attorneys and lay representatives.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, beginning on April 12, 2021, attorneys and lay representatives must file all petitions, pleadings, exhibits, and other documents with the ARB via the Department's electronic case management system. Paper copies are not required unless requested by the ARB.


(2) *Good cause exception.* Attorneys and lay representatives may request an exemption to e-filing for good cause shown. Such a request must include a detailed explanation why e-filing or acceptance of e-service should not be required.


(3) *Self-represented persons.* Self-represented persons may use but are not required to use the Department's electronic case management system to file documents.


(4) *Filing—date of receipt.* Unless a different time is set by statute, regulation, executive order, or judge's order, a document is considered filed when received by the Clerk of the Appellate Boards. Documents filed through the Department's electronic case management system are considered received by the Clerk of the Appellate Boards as of the date and time recorded by the Department's electronic case management system.


(5) *Signing.* A filing made through a registered user's account on the Department's electronic case management system and authorized by that person, together with that person's name on a signature block, constitutes the person's signature.


(6) *Relief for Technical Failures.* A person who is adversely affected by a technical failure in connection with filing or receipt of an electronic document may seek appropriate relief from the ARB. If a technical malfunction or other issue prevents access to the Department's case management system for a protracted period, the ARB by special order may provide appropriate relief pending restoration of electronic access.


(b) *Alternate methods of filing.* Unless a different time is set by statute, regulation, executive order, or judge's order, a document filed using a method other than the Department's electronic case management system is considered filed when received by the Clerk of the Appellate Boards.






