# ยง 2.177   Action on court order under section 37.

(a) *Requesting USPTO action on an order.* If a Federal court has issued an order concerning a registration under section 37 of the Act, a party to the court action who is requesting that the USPTO take action on the order must make the request in writing and include the following:


(1) Submit a certified copy of the order to the Director, addressed to the Office of the General Counsel, as provided in ยง 104.2 of this chapter; and


(2) If the party is aware of proceedings concerning the involved registration that are pending or suspended before the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, file a copy of such order with the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board via ESTTA.


(b) *Time for submission.* A submission under paragraph (a) of this section should not be made until after the court proceeding has been finally determined. A court proceeding is not considered finally determined until an order or ruling that ends the litigation has been rendered and noticed, and the time for any appeal or other further review has expired with no further review sought.


(c) *Action after submission.* After the court proceeding has been finally determined, appropriate action on a court order submitted under this section will normally be taken by the Office without the necessity of any further submission by an interested party. In circumstances where the Director or the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, if the order under section 37 involves a registration over which the Board has jurisdiction, determines that it would be helpful to aid in understanding the scope or effect of the court's order, a show cause or other order may issue directing the registrant, and if appropriate, the opposing parties to the action from which the order arose, to respond and provide information or arguments regarding the order. The Director may also request clarification of the order from the court that issued the order.



---

[N] [86 FR 64332, Nov. 17, 2021]




