# § 20.161   Withdrawals under permit.

(a) *General.* The permit, Form 5150.9, issued under subpart D of this part, authorizes a person to withdraw specially denatured spirits from the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant or a dealer. 


(b) *Photocopying of permit, Form 5150.9.* (1) As provided in § 20.54, a permittee may make photocopies of its permit, or amended permit, for the exclusive purpose of furnishing proof of authorization to withdraw specially denatured spirits.


(2) A permittee need only furnish the photocopy of its permit, or amended permit, to a distilled spirits plant or dealer for the “initial order” from that distilled spirits plant or dealer.


(3) When a permittee makes photocopies of its permit, Form 5150.9, each copy must be signed, dated, and contain the word “COPY” across the face.


(4) A permittee is responsible for obtaining and, as applicable, destroying all photocopies of its permit from distilled spirits plants and dealers when: (i) An amended or corrected permit is issued which supersedes the copy on file, (ii) the permit is canceled by reason of requalification as a new permittee, (iii) the permit is revoked or suspended, or (iv) upon permanent discontinuance of dealing in or using specially denatured spirits.


(c) *Withdrawals.* (1) When a permittee places an initial order for specially denatured spirits the permittee will forward a signed copy of its permit, for retention by the distilled spirits plant or dealer, along with the purchase request.


(2) When the permittee places a subsequent order for specially denatured spirits, the purchase request, in addition to any other information, will contain the permit identification number along with a statement that the permittee possesses a valid permit to withdraw specially denatured spirits, a copy of which is on file with the supplier.


(3) Shipments will not be made by a proprietor of a distilled spirits plant or dealer until it is in possession of a signed copy of a valid permit, Form 5150.9, unless the appropriate TTB officer authorizes the shipment.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 9162, Mar. 6, 1985; 50 FR 20099, May 14, 1985, as amended by T.D. ATF-274, 53 FR 25156, July 5, 1988; T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5478, Feb. 1, 2011]




