# § 190.102   Procedure.

(a) *General.* Other provisions of this part relating to direct identification drawback (*see* subpart B of this part) will apply to claims for drawback filed under this subpart insofar as applicable to and not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart.


(b) *Manufacturing record.* The manufacturer of flavoring extracts or medicinal or toilet preparations on which drawback is claimed will record the products manufactured, the quantity of waste, if any, and a full description of the alcohol. These records must be available at all times for inspection by CBP officers.


(c) *Additional information required on the manufacturer's application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling.* The manufacturer's application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling, under § 190.8, must state the quantity of domestic tax-paid alcohol contained in each product on which drawback is claimed.


(d) *Variance in alcohol content*—(1) *Variance of more than 5 percent.* If the percentage of alcohol contained in an exported medicinal preparation, flavoring extract or toilet preparation varies by more than 5 percent from the percentage of alcohol in the total volume of the product as stated in a previously approved application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling, the manufacturer must apply for a new specific manufacturing drawback ruling pursuant to § 190.8. If the variation differs from a previously filed schedule, the manufacturer must file a new schedule incorporating the change.


(2) *Variance of 5 percent or less.* Variances of 5 percent or less of the volume of the product must be reported to the drawback office where the drawback entries are liquidated. In such cases, the drawback office may allow drawback without specific authorization from CBP Headquarters.


(e) *Time period for completing claims.* Drawback claims under this subpart must be completed within 3 years after the date of exportation of the articles upon which drawback is claimed.


(f) *Filing of drawback entries on duty-paid imported merchandise and tax-paid alcohol.* When the drawback claim covers duty-paid imported merchandise in addition to tax-paid alcohol, the claimant must file one set of entries for drawback of customs duty and another set for drawback of internal revenue tax.


(g) *Description of the alcohol.* The description of the alcohol that is the subject of the drawback entry may be obtained from the description on the package containing the tax-paid alcohol.




