# § 25.3   Basis for civil penalties and assessments.

(a) *Claims.* (1) Any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know— 


(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; 


(ii) Includes, or is supported by, any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; 


(iii) Includes, or is supported by, any written statement that— 


(A) Omits a material fact; 


(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and 


(C) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or 


(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each such claim made on or before October 23, 1996, and of not more than $5,500 for each such claim made after October 23, 1996. 


(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim. 


(3) A claim shall be considered made to the authority, recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority, recipient, or party. 


(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid. 


(5) If the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services) or a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of the section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim. 


(b) *Statements.* (1) Any person who makes a written statement that— 


(i) The person knows or has reason to know— 


(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or


(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and 


(ii) Contains, or is accompanied by, an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each such statement made on or before October 23, 1996, and of not more than $5,500 for each such statement made after October 23, 1996. 


(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement. 


(3) A statement shall be considered made to the authority when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority. 


(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section. 


(d) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty. 


(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provide services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.



---

[N] [55 FR 47854, Nov. 16, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 55094, Oct. 24, 1996]




