# § 183.25   Technical personnel examiners.

(a) A designated mechanic examiner (DME) (airframe and power plant) may—


(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, mechanic, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing mechanic certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and 


(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary mechanic certificates to qualified applicants. 


(b) A designated parachute rigger examiner (DPRE) may—


(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing parachute rigger certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and 


(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary parachute rigger certificates to qualified applicants. 


(c) A designated air traffic control tower operator examiner may—


(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, written and practical tests necessary for issuing control tower operator certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and


(2) In the discretion of the Associate Administrator for Aviation Safety issue temporary control tower operator certificates to qualified applicants.


(d) A designated flight engineer examiner (DFEE) may—


(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing flight engineer certificates under part 63 of this chapter; and 


(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary flight engineer certificates to qualified applicants. 


(e) A designated flight navigator examiner (DFNE) may—


(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing flight navigator certificates under part 63 of this chapter; and 


(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary flight navigator certificates to qualified applicants. 


(f) A designated aircraft dispatcher examiner (DADE) may—


(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, written and practical tests necessary for issuing aircraft dispatcher certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and 


(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary aircraft dispatcher certificates to qualified applicants. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 183-9, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989; Doc. No. FAA-2022-1355; Amdt. No. 183-18; 87 FR 75849, Dec. 9, 2022]




