# § 301.7514-1   Seals of office.

(a) *Establishment of seals*—(1) *Commissioner of Internal Revenue.* There is hereby established in and for the office of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue an official seal. The seal is described as follows, and illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield and side wreaths. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “Office of” and in the lower part the words “Commissioner of Internal Revenue.”


(2) *Establishment of uniform seal.* (i) In addition to the seals of office prescribed for those offices set forth in paragraphs (a)(3) through (8) of this section, a uniform seal for use by any office of internal revenue is established. The uniform seal is described as follows, and is illustrated in this paragraph (a)(2)(i). A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield with a dark background. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle forming the exterior of the seal shall appear words describing the specific office of internal revenue authorized to use the seal under this section. This paragraph (a)(2) is effective on October 27, 1995. The uniform seal is as follows:


(ii) The uniform seal may be used by any office of internal revenue set forth in paragraphs (a) (3) through (8) of this section, and any other office designated by the Commissioner to use a seal, including the following internal revenue offices resulting from a reorganization of the IRS that will be implemented beginning October 1, 1995:


(3) *District Directors of Internal Revenue.* (i) There is hereby established an official seal in and for each of the offices of District Director of Internal Revenue listed in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. The seal is described as follows, and one such seal is illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield and side wreaths. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “District Director of Internal Revenue” and in the lower part the location of the office for which the seal is established.


(ii) The offices of District Director of Internal Revenue for which seals are established in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph are as follows:


(iii) There is hereby established an official seal in and for each of the offices of district director of internal revenue listed in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section. The seal is described as follows, and one such seal is illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE” and in the lower part the location of the office for which the seal is established.


(iv) The offices of district director of internal revenue for which seals are established in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section are as follows:


(v) There is hereby established an official seal in and for the office of district director of internal revenue listed in paragraph (a)(2)(vi) of this section. The seal is described as follows, and illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear the Internal Revenue emblem. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE” and in the lower part the location of the office for which the seal is established.


(vi) The office of district director of internal revenue for which the seal is established in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section is as follows:


(4) *Assistant Commissioner (International).* There is hereby established in and for the office of the Assistant Commissioner (International) an official seal. The seal is described as follows, and illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield and side wreaths. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER (INTERNATIONAL)” and in the lower part “Washington, D.C. Internal Revenue Service”.


(5) *Regional Commissioners of Internal Revenue.* (i) There is hereby established an official seal in and for each of the offices of Regional Commissioner of Internal Revenue listed in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. The seal is described as follows, and one such seal is illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield and side wreaths. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “Regional Commissioner of Internal Revenue” and in the lower part the title of the region for which the seal is established. 


(ii) The offices of the Regional Commissioner of Internal Revenue for which seals are established in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph are as follows:


(6) *Directors of Internal Revenue Service Centers.* (i) There is hereby established an official seal in and for each of the offices of Director of Internal Revenue Service Center listed in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. The seal is described as follows, and one such seal is illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield and side wreaths. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “Director, Internal Revenue Service Center” and in the lower part the name of the region and the name of the principal city in or near which the service center is located.


(ii) The offices of Director of Internal Revenue Service Center for which seals are established in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph are as follows:


(7) *Director of Internal Revenue Computing Center.* There is hereby established in and for the office of the Director of the Internal Revenue Computing Center an official seal. The seal is described as follows, and illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “DIRECTOR, INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE” and in the lower part “Detroit Computing Center Detroit, Michigan”.


(8) *Director of Internal Revenue Compliance Center.* There is hereby established in and for the office of the Director of the Internal Revenue Compliance Center an official seal. The seal is described as follows, and illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield and side wreaths. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words “DIRECTOR, INTERNAL REVENUE COMPLIANCE CENTER” and in the lower part “Southwest Region Austin, Tex”.


(b) *Custody of seal.* Each seal established by this section shall be in the custody of the officer for whose office such seal is established.


(c) *Use of official seal.* Each seal of office established by this section may be affixed in lieu of the seal of the Treasury Department to any certificate or attestation required to be made by the officer for whose office such seal is established in authentication of originals and copies of books, records, papers, writings, and documents of the Internal Revenue Service in the custody of such officer, for all purposes, including the purposes of 28 U.S.C. 1733 (b), Rule 44 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and Rule 27 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, except that—


(1) No such seal shall be affixed to material to be published in the _Federal Register,_ and


(2) The seal of the office of a District Director of Internal Revenue or the Director of International Operations shall not be affixed to the certification of copies of books, records, papers, writings, or documents in his custody in any case in which, pursuant to Executive order, Treasury decision, or part 601 of this chapter (Statement of Procedural Rules), such copies may be furnished to applicants only by the Commissioner.


(d) *Judicial notice.* In accordance with the provisions of section 7514, judicial notice shall be taken of the seals established under this section.



---

[N] [32 FR 15241, Nov. 3, 1967, as amended by T.D. 6933, 32 FR 15483, Nov. 7, 1967; T.D. 6974, 33 FR 14779, Oct. 3, 1968; T.D. 7147, 36 FR 20510, Oct. 23, 1971; T.D. 8414, 57 FR 15015, Apr. 24, 1992; T.D. 8625, 60 FR 54945, Oct. 27, 1995]




