# ยง 1210.12   Discovery.

Except as noted in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, 5 CFR 1201.71 through 1201.75 apply to appeals filed under this part.


(a) *Initial disclosures.* The parties must make the following initial disclosures prior to the initial status conference.


(1) *Agency.* The agency must provide:


(i) A copy of all documents in the possession, custody or control of the agency that the agency may use in support of its claims or defenses; and,


(ii) The name and, if known, address, telephone number and email address for each individual likely to have discoverable information that the agency may use in support of its claims or defenses.


(2) *Appellant.* The appellant must provide:


(i) A copy of all documents in the possession, custody or control of the appellant that the appellant may use in support of his or her claims or defenses; and,


(ii) The name and, if known, address, telephone number and email address for each individual likely to have discoverable information that the appellant may use in support of his or her claims or defenses.


(b) *Time limits.* The time limits set forth in ยง 1201.73 of this chapter shall not apply to an appeal under this part. The following time limits apply to appeals under this part:


(1) Discovery requests must be served on the opposing party prior to the initial status conference.


(2) Responses to discovery requests must be served on the opposing party no later than 3 days after the initial status conference.


(3) Discovery motions, including motions to compel, must be filed no later than 5 days after the initial status conference.


(c) *Methods of discovery.* Parties may use one or more of the following methods of discovery provided under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure:


(1) Written interrogatories;


(2) Requests for production of documents or things for inspection or copying;


(3) Requests for admissions.


(d) *Limits on discovery requests.* Absent approval by the administrative judge, discovery is limited as follows:


(1) Interrogatories may not exceed 10 in number, including all discrete subparts;


(2) The parties may not take depositions; and


(3) The parties may engage in only one round of discovery.


(e) *Administrative judge's discretion to alter discovery procedures.* An administrative judge may alter discovery procedures in order to provide for the expedited review of an appeal filed under this part.




