# § 425.670   Adjustments to mitigate the impact of significant, anomalous, and highly suspect billing activity on Shared Savings Program financial calculations involving calendar year 2023.

(a) *General.* This section describes adjustments CMS makes to Shared Savings Program calculations to mitigate the impact of significant, anomalous, and highly suspect billing activity occurring in calendar year 2023.


(b) *Significant, anomalous, and highly suspect billing activity for a HCPCS or CPT code impacting Shared Savings Program calculations.* CMS has determined that the billing of the following HCPCS codes represents significant, anomalous, and highly suspect billing activity for calendar year 2023 that warrants adjustment—


(1) A4352 (Intermittent urinary catheter; Coude (curved) tip, with or without coating (Teflon, silicone, silicone elastomeric, or hydrophilic, etc.), each); and


(2) A4353 (Intermittent urinary catheter, with insertion supplies).


(c) *Applicability of adjustments to performance year and benchmark year calculations.* Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, CMS adjusts the following Shared Savings Program calculations, as applicable, to exclude all Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service payment amounts on DMEPOS claims (claim types 72 and 82) associated with a HCPCS code specified in paragraph (b) of this section for the period specified in paragraph (d) of this section:


(1) Calculation of Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service expenditures for an ACO's assigned beneficiaries for all purposes including the following: Establishing, adjusting, updating, and resetting the ACO's historical benchmark and determining performance year expenditures.


(2) Calculation of fee-for-service expenditures for assignable beneficiaries as used in determining county-level fee-for-service expenditures and national Medicare fee-for-service expenditures, including the following calculations:


(i) Determining average county fee-for-service expenditures based on expenditures for the assignable population of beneficiaries in each county in the ACO's regional service area according to §§ 425.601(c) and 425.654(a) for purposes of calculating the ACO's regional fee-for-service expenditures.


(ii) Determining the 99th percentile of national Medicare fee-for-service expenditures for assignable beneficiaries for purposes of the following:


(A) Truncating assigned beneficiary expenditures used in calculating benchmark expenditures under § 425.652(a)(4), and performance year expenditures under §§ 425.605(a)(3) and 425.610(a)(4).


(B) Truncating expenditures for assignable beneficiaries in each county for purposes of determining county fee-for-service expenditures according to §§ 425.601(c)(3) and 425.654(a)(3).


(C) Truncating expenditures for assignable beneficiaries for purposes of determining truncated national per capita fee-for service expenditures for purposes of calculating the ACPT according to § 425.660(b)(3).


(iii) Determining truncated national per capita fee-for-service Medicare expenditures for assignable beneficiaries for purposes of calculating the ACPT according to § 425.660(b)(3).


(iv) Determining national per capita expenditures for Parts A and B services under the original Medicare fee-for-service program for assignable beneficiaries for purposes of capping the regional adjustment to the ACO's historical benchmark according to § 425.656(c)(3) and capping the prior savings adjustment according to § 425.658(c)(1)(ii).


(v) Determining national growth rates that are used as part of the blended growth rates used to trend forward BY1 and BY2 expenditures to BY3 according to § 425.652(a)(5)(ii) and as part of the blended growth rates used to update the benchmark according to §§ 425.601(b)(2) and 425.652(b)(2)(i).


(3) Calculation of Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service revenue of ACO participants for purposes of calculating the ACO's loss recoupment limit under the BASIC track as specified in § 425.605(d).


(4) Calculation of total Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service revenue of ACO participants and total Medicare Parts A and B fee-for-service expenditures for the ACO's assigned beneficiaries for purposes of identifying whether an ACO is a high revenue ACO or low revenue ACO, as defined under § 425.20, and determining an ACO's eligibility to receive advance investment payments according to § 425.630.


(5) Calculation or recalculation of the amount of the ACO's repayment mechanism arrangement according to § 425.204(f)(4).


(d) *Period of adjustment.* CMS adjusts the Shared Savings Program calculations specified in paragraph (c) of this section for significant, anomalous, and highly suspect billing activity identified pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section for calendar year 2023, when calendar year 2023 is either a performance year or a benchmark year.


(e) *Adjustments for growth rates used in calculating the ACPT.* In addition to adjustments described in paragraph (c) of this section, CMS makes adjustments for payments associated with a HCPCS code specified in paragraph (b) of this section for BY3 in projecting per capita growth in Parts A and B fee-for-service expenditures, according to § 425.660(b)(1), for purposes of calculating the ACPT for agreement periods beginning on January 1, 2024.



---

[N] [89 FR 79171, Sept. 27, 2024]








