# § 3560.55   Applicant eligibility requirements.

Applicants for off-farm labor housing loans and grants should also refer to § 3560.555, and applicants for on-farm labor housing loans should refer to § 3560.605.


(a) *General.* To be eligible for Agency assistance, applicants must meet the following requirements:


(1) Be a U. S. citizen or qualified alien(s); a corporation; a state or local public Agency; an Indian tribe as defined in § 3560.11; or a limited liability company (LLC), nonprofit organization, consumer cooperative, trust, partnership, or limited partnership in which the principals are U.S. citizens or qualified aliens;


(2) Be unable to obtain similar credit elsewhere at rates that would allow for rents within the payment ability of eligible residents;


(3) Possess the legal and financial capacity to carry out the obligations required for the loan or grant;


(4) Be able to maintain, manage, and operate the housing for its intended purpose and in accordance with all Agency requirements;


(5) With the exception of applicants who are a nonprofit organization, housing cooperative or public body, be able to provide the borrower contribution from their own resources (this contribution must be in the form of cash, or land, or a combination thereof);


(6) Have or be able to obtain a minimum of 2 percent of the total development costs for use as initial operating capital (for nonprofit organizations, cooperatives, or public bodies, this amount may be financed through Agency funds); and


(7) Not be suspended, debarred, or excluded based on the “List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs.” The list is available to Federal agencies from the U.S. Government Printing Office. Non-federal parties should contact the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, (202) 512-1800.


(8) Not delinquent on Federal debt or a Federal judgment debtor, with the exception of those debtors described in § 3560.55 (b).


(b) *Additional requirement for applicants with prior debt.* If an applicant or the managing general partner of a borrower, as well as any affiliated entity having a 10 percent or more ownership interest, has a prior or existing Agency debt, the following additional requirements must be met.


(1) The applicant must be in compliance with any existing loan or grant agreements and with all legal and regulatory requirements or must have an Agency-approved workout agreement and be in compliance with the provisions of the workout agreement. The Agency may require that applicants with monetary or non-monetary deficiencies be in compliance with an Agency-approved workout agreement for a minimum of 6 consecutive months before becoming eligible for further assistance.


(2) The applicant must be in compliance with the Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable civil rights laws.


(c) *Additional requirements for nonprofit organizations.* In addition to the eligibility requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, nonprofit organizations must meet the following criteria:


(1) The applicant must have received a tax-exempt ruling from the IRS designating the applicant as a 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) organization.


(2) The applicant must have in its charter the provision of affordable housing.


(3) No part of the applicant's earnings may benefit any of its members, founders, or contributors.


(4) The applicant must be legally organized under state and local law.


(5) In the case of off-farm labor housing loans and grants, nonprofit organizations must be “broad-based” nonprofit organizations (refer to § 3560.555(a)(1)).


(d) *Additional requirements for limited partnerships.* In addition to the applicant eligibility requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, limited partnership loan applicants must meet the following criteria:


(1) The general partners must be able to meet the borrower contribution requirements if the partnership is not able to do so at the time of loan request.


(2) The general partners must maintain a minimum 5 percent financial interest in the residuals or refinancing proceeds in accordance with the partnership organizational documents.


(3) The partnership must agree that new general partners can be brought into the organization only with the prior written consent of the Agency.


(e) *Additional requirements for Limited Liability Companies (LLCs).* In addition to the applicant eligibility requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, LLC loan applicants must meet the following criteria:


(1) One member who holds at least a 5 percent financial interest in the LLC must be designated the authorized agent to act on the LLC's behalf to bind the LLC and carry out the management functions of the LLC.


(2) No new members may be brought into the organization without prior consent of the Agency.


(3) The members must commit to meet the equity contribution requirements if the LLC is not able to do so at the time of loan request. 




