# § 1.168(i)-3   Treatment of excess deferred income tax reserve upon disposition of deregulated public utility property.

(a) *Scope*—(1) *In general.* This section provides rules for the application of section 203(e) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Public Law 99-514 (100 Stat. 2146) to a taxpayer with respect to public utility property (within the meaning of section 168(i)(10)) that ceases, whether by disposition, deregulation, or otherwise, to be public utility property with respect to the taxpayer and that is not described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section (deregulated public utility property).


(2) *Exceptions.* This section does not apply to the following property:


(i) Property that ceases to be public utility property with respect to the taxpayer on account of an ordinary retirement within the meaning of § 1.167(a)-11(d)(3)(ii).


(ii) Property transferred by the taxpayer if after the transfer the property is public utility property of the transferee and the taxpayer's excess tax reserve with respect to the property (within the meaning of section 203(e) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986) is treated as an excess tax reserve of the transferee with respect to the property.


(b) *Amount of reduction.* If public utility property of a taxpayer becomes deregulated public utility property to which this section applies, the reduction in the taxpayer's excess tax reserve permitted under section 203(e) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 is equal to the amount by which the reserve could be reduced under that provision if all such property had remained public utility property of the taxpayer and the taxpayer had continued use of its normalization method of accounting with respect to such property.


(c) *Cross reference.* See § 1.46-6(k) for rules relating to the treatment of accumulated deferred investment tax credits when utilities dispose of regulated public utility property.


(d) *Effective/applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, this section applies to public utility property that becomes deregulated public utility property after December 21, 2005.


(2) *Property that becomes public utility property of the transferee.* This section does not apply to property that becomes deregulated public utility property with respect to a taxpayer on account of a transfer on or before March 20, 2008 if after the transfer the property is public utility property of the transferee.


(3) *Application of regulation project (REG-104385-01).* A reduction in the taxpayer's excess deferred income tax reserve will be treated as ratable if it is consistent with the proposed rules in regulation project (REG-104385-01) (68 FR 10190) March 4, 2003, and occurs during the period beginning on March 5, 2003, and ending on the earlier of—


(i) The last date on which the utility's rates are determined under the rate order in effect on December 21, 2005; or


(ii) December 21, 2007.



---

[N] [T.D. 9387, 73 FR 14937, Mar. 20, 2008]




