# § 404.1022   American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

(a) *Work in American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.* Work in American Samoa, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for a private employer is covered as employment the same as in the 50 States. Work done by a resident of the Republic of the Philippines working in Guam on a temporary basis as a nonimmigrant alien admitted to Guam under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act is excluded from coverage regardless of the employer.


(b) *Work for American Samoa or a political subdivision or wholly owned instrumentality of American Samoa.* Work as an officer or employee (including a member of the legislature) of the government of American Samoa, its political subdivisions, or any wholly owned instrumentality of any one or more of these, is covered as employment (unless the work is covered by a retirement system established by a law of the United States). The officer or employee is not considered as an employee of the United States, an agency of the United States, or an instrumentality of the United States, for purposes of title II of the Act. We consider any pay for this work to have been paid by the government of American Samoa, or the political subdivision or the wholly owned instrumentality of American Samoa.


(c) *Work for Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), or a political subdivision or wholly owned instrumentality of Guam or the CNMI.* Work as an officer or employee (including a member of the legislature) of the government of the CNMI, its political subdivisions, or any wholly owned instrumentality of any one or more of these, is covered as employment beginning October 1, 2012. Work as an officer or employee (including a member of the legislature) of the government of Guam, its political subdivisions, or any wholly owned instrumentality of any one or more of these, is excluded from coverage as employment. However, the exclusion does not apply to employees classified as temporary or intermittent unless the work is—


(1) Covered by a retirement system established by a law of Guam or the CNMI;


(2) Done by an elected official;


(3) Done by a member of the legislature; or


(4) Done in a hospital or penal institution by a patient or inmate of the hospital or penal institution.


(d) *Medicare qualified government employment.* If your work is not covered under Social Security, it may be covered as Medicare qualified government employment (see § 404.1018b(c) of this subpart).



---

[N] [45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 59914, Dec. 17, 1992; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004; 79 FR 33684, June 12, 2014]




