# ยง 127.300   How is a concern certified as an EDWOSB or WOSB?

(a) *WOSB certification.* (1) A concern may apply to SBA for WOSB certification. There is no cost to apply to SBA for certification. SBA will consider the information provided by the concern in order to determine whether the concern qualifies. SBA, in its discretion, may rely solely upon the information submitted to establish eligibility, may request additional information, or may verify the information before making a determination. SBA may draw an adverse inference and deny the certification where the concern fails to cooperate with SBA or submit information requested by SBA.


(2) A concern may submit evidence to SBA that it is a women-owned and controlled small business that is an SBA-certified participant in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program.


(3) A concern may submit evidence that it has been certified as a WOSB by an approved Third-Party Certifier in accordance with this subpart.


(b) *EDWOSB certification.* (1) A concern may apply to SBA for EDWOSB certification. There is no cost to apply to SBA for certification. SBA will consider the information provided by the concern in order to determine whether the concern qualifies. SBA, in its discretion, may rely solely upon the information submitted to establish eligibility, may request additional information, or may verify the information before making a determination. SBA may draw an adverse inference and deny the certification where the concern fails to cooperate with SBA or submit information requested by SBA.


(2) A concern that is a certified participant in the 8(a) BD Program and owned and controlled by one or more women qualifies as an EDWOSB.


(3) A concern may submit evidence to SBA that it is an economically disadvantaged women-owned and controlled small business that is a certified participant in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program.


(4) A concern may submit evidence that it has been certified as an EDWOSB by a Third-Party Certifier under this subpart.


(c) If SBA determines that the concern is a qualified WOSB or EDWOSB, it will issue a letter of certification and designate the concern as a certified WOSB or EDWOSB on the Dynamic Small Business Search (DSBS) system, SAM, or successor system.



---

[N] [85 FR 27660, May 11, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 96093, Dec. 4, 2024]




