# ยง 12.1   Federal Register.

(a) The _Federal Register,_ issued under the authority of the Administrative Committee, is officially maintained online and is available on at least one Government Publishing Office website.


(b) Requests for subscriptions to the _Federal Register_ may be made as follows:


(1) Requests from a Member of Congress or any other office of the United States for a specific issue or a subscription may be submitted via a Government Publishing Office website or by email to an email address provided on that website.


(2) Official subscription requests:


(i) May be made in the current year for that year or for the upcoming year;


(ii) Will expire at the end of each calendar year; and


(iii) Will not automatically continue into a new calendar year.


(c) Notifications regarding procedures for requesting official copies of specific issues or print subscriptions are available:


(1) On a Government Publishing Office website dedicated to official subscriptions;


(2) On *www.federalregister.gov;* and


(3) In the front matter of the Federal Register, which is the text that precedes the main text of the daily issue of the _Federal Register_.








(d) Requisitions for quantity overruns of specific issues to be paid for by the agency are available as follows:


(1) To meet its needs for special distribution of the _Federal Register_ in substantial quantity, any agency may request an overrun of a specific issue.


(2) An advance printing and binding requisition on Standard Form 1 must be submitted by the agency directly to the Government Printing Office, to be received not later than 12 noon on the working day before publication.


(e) Requisitions for quantity overruns of separate part issues to be paid for by the agency are available as follows:


(1) Whenever it is determined by the Director of the Federal Register to be in the public interest, one or more documents may be published as a separate part (e.g., part II, part III) of the _Federal Register._

(2) Advance arrangements for this service must be made with the Office of the Federal Register.


(3) Any agency may request an overrun of such a separate part by submitting an advance printing and binding requisition on Standard Form 1 directly to the Government Printing Office, to be received not later than 12 noon on the working day before the publication date.


(f) An agency may order limited quantities of extra copies of a specific issue of the _Federal Register_ for official use, from the Superintendent of Documents, to be paid for by that agency.


(g) Copies of the Federal Register Index and LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected) are included with each _Federal Register_ official distribution.





---

[N] [54 FR 9678, Mar. 7, 1989, as amended at 87 FR 26268, May 4, 2022]






