# ยง 37.54   Notification of abnormal radiographic findings.

(a) *Significant abnormal findings other than pneumoconiosis.* The first physician to interpret the radiograph must communicate findings of, or findings suggesting, abnormality of cardiac shape or size, tuberculosis, lung cancer, or any other significant abnormal findings other than pneumoconiosis to the miner indicated on the Miner Identification Document or to the miner's designated physician. A notice of the communication must be submitted to NIOSH. When significant abnormal findings are reported, NIOSH will also notify the miner to contact his or her physician.


(b) *Significant changes or progression of disease.* When NIOSH has more than one radiograph of a miner in its files and the most recent examination was found by the first physician to interpret the radiograph or subsequently by NIOSH B Readers to show an abnormality of cardiac shape or size, tuberculosis, cancer, complicated pneumoconiosis, and any other significant abnormal findings, NIOSH will arrange for a licensed physician to compare the most recent image to older images and NIOSH will inform the miner of any significant changes or progression of disease or other findings.


(c) *Notice of eligibility for part 90 transfer option.* All final determinations of radiographic classifications providing evidence for development of pneumoconiosis will be reported to the miner or to the miner's designated physician by NIOSH. In addition, NIOSH will coordinate with MSHA to assure that such miners are notified of eligibility to transfer to a less dusty area, in accordance with section 203 of the Act (*see* 30 CFR part 90 and ยง 37.102).


(d) *Prompt dispatch of findings.* NIOSH will make every reasonable effort to process the findings described in paragraph (c) of this section within 60 days of receipt of the information described in ยง 37.60 in a complete and acceptable form.


(1) NIOSH will coordinate with MSHA to provide notice of eligibility for the part 90 transfer option within the same time frame.


(2) The results of an examination may not be processed by NIOSH if the examination was made within 6 months of the date of a previous acceptable examination.



---

[N] [81 FR 73285, Oct. 24, 2016]




