# § 1210.401   District conventions.

(a) Except for the initial district convention in each district, which will be called and opened by a representative of the Secretary, the Board shall call and open all district conventions. 


(b) District conventions are to be held to nominate producers and handlers as candidates for membership on the National Watermelon Promotion Board. Each district, as defined in § 1210.501, is entitled to two producer and two handler members on the Board. 


(c) There shall be two individuals nominated for each vacant position. In multi-State districts, no one State shall have nominees for more than three of the four district positions on the Board. 


(d) All producers and handlers within each district may participate in that district's convention: *Provided,* That they meet the eligibility provisions set forth in § 1210.402 of this subpart. 


(e) The convention chairperson shall be elected as provided in § 1210.403(b) of this subpart. 


(f) The Board member nomination process shall be conducted by the chairperson in conformance with the provisions of § 1210.321 of the Plan and § 1210.403 of this subpart. At the conclusion of the district convention for the initial term of office, the chairperson will provide the Secretary with: 


(1) The identification of that district's two nominees for each producer and handler position on the Board, and


(2) A typed copy of the district convention's minutes.



---

[N] [54 FR 38205, Sept. 15, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 3355, Jan. 8, 1993; 59 FR 18948, Apr. 21, 1994; 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]




