# § 1.338-9   International aspects of section 338.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides guidance regarding international aspects of section 338. As provided in § 1.338-2(c)(18), a foreign corporation, a DISC, or a corporation for which a section 936 election has been made is considered a target affiliate for all purposes of section 338. In addition, stock described in section 338(h)(6)(B)(ii) held by a target affiliate is not excluded from the operation of section 338. 


(b) *Application of section 338 to foreign targets*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of subtitle A, the deemed sale tax consequences, as defined in § 1.338-2(c)(7), of a foreign target for which a section 338 election is made (FT), and the corresponding earnings and profits, are taken into account in determining the taxation of FT and FT's direct and indirect shareholders. See, however, section 338(h)(16). For example, the income and earnings and profits of FT are determined, for purposes of sections 551, 951, 1248, and 1293, by taking into account the deemed sale tax sentence consequences. 


(2) *Ownership of FT stock on the acquisition date.* A person who transfers FT stock to the purchasing corporation on FT's acquisition date is considered to own the transferred stock at the close of FT's acquisition date. See, e.g., § 1.951-1(f) (relating to determination of holding period for purposes of sections 951 through 964). If on the acquisition date the purchasing corporation owns a block of FT stock that was acquired before FT's acquisition date, the purchasing corporation is considered to own such block of stock at the close of the acquisition date. 


(3) *Carryover FT stock*—(i) *Definition.* FT stock is carryover FT stock if—


(A) FT was a controlled foreign corporation within the meaning of section 957 (taking into account section 953(c)) at any time during the portion of the 12-month acquisition period that ends on the acquisition date; and 


(B) Such stock is owned as of the beginning of the day after FT's acquisition date by a person other than a purchasing corporation, or by a purchasing corporation if the stock is nonrecently purchased and is not subject to a gain recognition election under § 1.338-5(d). 


(ii) *Carryover of earnings and profits.* The earnings and profits of old FT (and associated foreign taxes) attributable to the carryover FT stock (adjusted to reflect deemed sale tax sentence consequences) carry over to new FT solely for purposes of—


(A) Characterizing an actual distribution with respect to a share of carryover FT stock as a dividend; 


(B) Characterizing gain on a post-acquisition date transfer of a share of carryover FT stock as a dividend under section 1248 (if such section is otherwise applicable); 


(C) Characterizing an investment of earnings in United States property as income under sections 951(a)(1)(B) and 956 (if such sections are otherwise applicable); and 


(D) Determining foreign taxes deemed paid under sections 902 and 960 with respect to the amount treated as a dividend or income by virtue of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii) (subject to the operation of section 338(h)(16)). 


(iii) *Cap on carryover of earnings and profits.* The amount of earnings and profits of old FT taken into account with respect to a share of carryover FT stock is limited to the amount that would have been included in gross income of the owner of such stock as a dividend under section 1248 if—


(A) The shareholder transferred that share to the purchasing corporation on FT's acquisition date for a consideration equal to the fair market value of that share on that date; or 


(B) In the case of nonrecently purchased FT stock treated as carryover FT stock, a gain recognition election under section 338(b)(3)(A) applied to that share. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a shareholder that is a controlled foreign corporation is considered to be a United States person, and the principle of section 1248(c)(2)(D)(ii) (concerning a United States person's indirect ownership of stock in a foreign corporation) applies in determining the correct holding period. 


(iv) *Post-acquisition date distribution of old FT earnings and profits.* A post-acquisition date distribution with respect to a share of carryover FT stock is considered to be derived first from earnings and profits derived after FT's acquisition date and then from earnings and profits derived on or before FT's acquisition date. 


(v) *Old FT earnings and profits unaffected by post-acquisition date deficits.* The carryover amount for a share of carryover FT stock is not reduced by deficits in earnings and profits incurred by new FT. This rule applies for purposes of determining the amount of foreign taxes deemed paid regardless of the fact that there are no accumulated earnings and profits. For example, a distribution by new FT with respect to a share of carryover FT stock is treated as a dividend by the distributee to the extent of the carryover amount for that share notwithstanding that new FT has no earnings and profits. 


(vi) *Character of FT stock as carryover FT stock eliminated upon disposition.* A share of FT stock is not considered carryover FT stock after it is disposed of provided that all gain realized on the transfer is recognized at the time of the transfer, or that, if less than all of the realized gain is recognized, the recognized amount equals or exceeds the remaining carryover amount for that share. 


(4) *Passive foreign investment company stock.* Stock that is owned as of the beginning of the day after FT's acquisition date by a person other than a purchasing corporation, or by a purchasing corporation if the FT stock is nonrecently purchased stock not subject to a gain recognition election under § 1.338-5(d), is treated as passive foreign investment company stock to the extent provided in section 1297(b)(1). 


(c) *Dividend treatment under section 1248(e).* The principles of this paragraph (b) apply to shareholders of a domestic corporation subject to section 1248(e). 


(d) *Allocation of foreign income taxes*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, if a section 338 election is made for target (whether foreign or domestic), and target's taxable year under foreign law (if any) does not close at the end of the acquisition date, foreign income tax as defined in § 1.901-2(a)) (other than a withholding tax as defined in section 901(k)(1)(B)) paid or accrued by new target with respect to such foreign taxable year is allocated between old target and new target. If there is more than one section 338 election with respect to target during target's foreign taxable year, foreign income tax paid or accrued with respect to that foreign taxable year is allocated among all old targets and new targets. The allocation is made based on the respective portions of the taxable income (as determined under foreign law) for the foreign taxable year that are attributable under the principles of § 1.1502-76(b) to the period of existence of each old target and new target during the foreign taxable year.


(2) *Foreign income taxes imposed on partnerships and disregarded entities.* If a section 338 election is made for target and target holds an interest in a disregarded entity (as described in § 301.7701-2(c)(2)(i) of this chapter) or partnership, the rules of § 1.901-2(f)(4) and (5) apply to determine the person who is considered for Federal income tax purposes to pay foreign income tax imposed at the entity level on the income of the disregarded entity or partnership.


(3) *Disallowance of foreign tax credits under section 901(m).* For rules that may apply to disallow foreign tax credits by reason of a section 338 election, see section 901(m) and §§ 1.901(m)-1 through 1.901(m)-8.


(4) *Applicability date.* This paragraph (d) applies to foreign income taxes paid or accrued in taxable years beginning on or after December 28, 2021.


(e) *Operation of section 338(h)(16).* [Reserved]


(f) *Examples.* (1) Except as otherwise provided, all corporations use the calendar year as the taxable year, have no earnings and profits (or deficit) accumulated for any taxable year, and have only one class of outstanding stock. 


(2) This section may be illustrated by the following examples: 



---

[N] [T.D. 8515, 59 FR 2978, Jan. 20, 1994. Redesignated by T.D. 8858, 65 FR 1246, Jan. 7, 2000, as amended by T.D. 8940, 66 FR 9929, Feb. 13, 2001; 66 FR 17466, Mar. 30, 2001; T.D. 9959, 87 FR 324, Jan. 4, 2022; 87 FR 45019, July 27, 2022] 




