# § 1944.671   Equal opportunity requirements and outreach efforts.

The policies and regulations contained in subpart E of part 1901 of this chapter apply to grantees under this subpart.


(a) *Fair housing.* The Fair Housing Act prohibits any person or entity whose business includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to discriminate against any person in making loans, grants, or other financial assistance for a unit or dwelling, or which will be secured by a unit or dwelling, because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, familial status, or handicap/disability. Prohibited practices under this section include:


(1) Failing to provide any person in connection with a residential real estate-related transaction, information regarding the availability of loans, grants, or other financial assistance, or providing information that is inaccurate or different from that provided others; and


(2) The term *residential and real estate-related transaction* includes the making or purchasing of loans, grants, or other financial assistance for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or rehabilitating a unit or dwelling, as well as for replacement housing for individual homeowners.


(b) *Outreach.* In addition, the HPG grantee is required to address an outreach effort in their program. The amount of outreach should sufficiently reach the entire service area. As a measure of compliance, the percentages of the individuals served by the HPG grantee should be in proportion to the percentages of the population of the service area by race/national origin. If the percentages are not proportional, then adequate justification is to be made. Exhibit E-1 of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office) will be used to monitor these requirements. (Further explanation and guidance of exhibit E-1 can be found in exhibit E-2 of this subpart which is available in any Rural Development office). A separate file will be maintained by the grantee that will include the following outreach activities:


(1) Community contacts to community organizations, community leaders, including minority leaders, by name, race, and date contacted;


(2) Copies of all advertising in local newspapers, and through other media. Any advertising must reach the entire service area. Rural Development encourages the use of minority-owned radio stations and other types of media, if available, in the service area. The grantee's file shall also include the name of the media used, and the percentage of its patronage by race/national origin; and


(3) Copies of any other advertising or other printed material, including the application form used. The application form shall include the nondiscrimination slogan: “This is an equal opportunity program. Discrimination is prohibited by Federal Law.”


(c) *Additional requirements.* In order to meet the Fair Housing requirements and the nondiscrimination requirements of Title VI of the Civil rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, the HPG grantee will need to adhere to the recommendations of exhibit H of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office).



---

[N] [58 FR 21894, Apr. 26, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 26210, May 13, 1997]




