# § 63.1012   Compressor standards.

(a) *Compliance schedule.* The owner or operator shall comply with this section no later than the compliance dates specified in the referencing subpart.


(b) *Seal system standard.* Each compressor shall be equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of process fluid to the atmosphere, except as provided in § 63.1002(b) and paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. Each compressor seal system shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section.


(1) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is greater than the compressor stuffing box pressure at all times (except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction); or


(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid system degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that meets the requirements of § 63.1015; or


(3) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid directly into a process stream.


(c) *Barrier fluid system.* The barrier fluid shall not be in light liquid service. Each barrier fluid system shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both. Each sensor shall be observed daily or shall be equipped with an alarm unless the compressor is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.


(d) *Failure criterion and leak detection.* (1) The owner or operator shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both. If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both based on the criterion, a leak is detected and shall be repaired pursuant to § 63.1005, as applicable.


(2) The owner or operator shall keep records of the design criteria and an explanation of the design criteria; and any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.


(e) *Routed to a process or fuel gas system or equipped with a closed vent system and control device.* A compressor is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section if it is equipped with a system to capture and transport leakage from the compressor drive shaft seal to a process or a fuel gas system or to a closed vent system that captures and transports leakage from the compressor to a control device meeting the requirements of § 63.1015.


(f) *Alternative compressor standard.* (1) Any compressor that is designated as described in § 63.1003(e) as operating with no detectable emissions shall operate at all times with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million. A compressor so designated is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section if the compressor is demonstrated initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator to be operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million as measured by the method specified in § 63.1004(c). A compressor may not be designated or operated having an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million as described in § 63.1003(e) if the compressor has a maximum instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million.


(2) The owner or operator shall record the dates and results of each compliance test including the background level measured and the maximum instrument reading measured during each compliance test.


(g) *Reciprocating compressor exemption.* Any existing reciprocating compressor in a process unit or affected facility that becomes an affected facility under provisions of 40 CFR 60.14 or 60.15 is exempt from paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section provided the owner or operator demonstrates that recasting the distance piece or replacing the compressor are the only options available to bring the compressor into compliance with the provisions of the above exempted paragraphs of this section.



---

[N] [64 FR 34886, June 29, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 63706, Nov. 22, 1999]




