# ยง 30.500   What special statutory definitions apply to survivors under EEOICPA?

(a) For the purposes of paying compensation to survivors under both Parts B and E of EEOICPA, OWCP will use the following definitions:


(1) *Surviving spouse* means the wife or husband of a deceased covered Part B employee or deceased covered Part E employee who was married to that individual for the 365 consecutive days immediately prior to the death of that individual.


(2) *Child* of a deceased covered Part B employee or deceased covered Part E employee means only a biological child, a stepchild or an adopted child of that individual.


(b) For the purposes of paying compensation to survivors only under Part B of EEOICPA, OWCP will use the following additional definitions:


(1) *Parent* includes fathers and mothers of a deceased covered Part B employee through adoption.


(2) *Grandchild* means a child of a child of a deceased covered Part B employee.


(3) *Grandparent* means a parent of a parent of a deceased covered Part B employee.


(c) For the purposes of paying compensation to survivors under Part E of EEOICPA, OWCP will use the following additional definitions:


(1) *Covered child* means a child that is, as of the date of the deceased covered Part E employee's death, either under the age of 18 years, or under the age of 23 years and a full-time student who was continuously enrolled in one or more educational institutions since attaining the age of 18 years, or any age and incapable of self-support. A child's marital status or dependency on the covered employee for support is irrelevant to his or her eligibility for benefits as a covered child under Part E.


(2) *Incapable of self-support* means that the child must have been physically and/or mentally incapable of self-support at the time of the covered employee's death.



---

[N] [71 FR 78534, Dec. 29, 2006, as amended at 84 FR 3052, Feb. 8, 2019]






