# § 28.3   Boundaries: The Community Development District; The Dune District; The Seashore District.

(a) *Generally.* The boundaries of the Seashore are described in the Act, as amended, and are delineated on the official boundary maps OGP-OOO2, dated June 1964, and amended by OGP-OOO4, dated May 1978. The maps are available for inspection at the Seashore headquarters. There are three districts: The Community Development District, the Seashore District, and the Dune District.


(b) *The Community Development District.* (1) The seventeen communities which comprise the Community Development District are set out below with their respective west/east boundaries.


(i) Lighthouse Shores—Kismet Park


(ii) Seabay Beach


(iii) Saltaire


(iv) Fair Harbor


(v) Dunewood


(vi) Lonelyville


(vii) Atlantique


(viii) Robbins Rest


(ix) Fire Island Summer Club—Corneille Estates


(x) Ocean Beach


(xi) Seaview


(xii) Ocean Bay Park


(xiii) Point O'Woods


(xiv) Cherry Grove


(xv) Fire Island Pines


(xvi) Water Island


(xvii) Davis Park


(2) The northern boundary of the communities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the mean high water line on the south shore of the Great South Bay.


(3) The southern boundary of the communities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the mean high water line on the south shore of Fire Island.


(c) *The Seashore District.* The Seashore District is comprised of all portions of the lands and waters within the boundary of the Seashore which are not included in the Community Development District with the exception of the headquarters facilities at Patchogue and the William Floyd Estate at Mastic.


(d) *The Dune District.* The Dune District extends from the mean high water line to 40 feet landward of the primary natural high dune crest, as defined on Fire Island National Seashore Map #OGP-0004 and on Suffolk County Property Maps, section numbers 491-498 (Islip), 002 (Ocean Beach), 002-004 (Saltaire), and 985.70-987 (Brookhaven), as mapped in November 1976 or as subsequently remapped. Map overlays of the Dune District are available for inspection in the Office of the Superintendent of the Seashore. The Dune District overlaps portions of the Community Development District and the Seashore District.




