# § 29.512   Reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.

(a) *Right to reconsideration of overpayment determinations.* Individuals who receive a demand letter and who wish to contest the existence or amount of the overpayment may ask the Benefits Administrator to reconsider the determination. 


(b) *Requests for waiver or compromise.* Individuals who wish to seek waiver or compromise of the overpayment may file such requests with the Department under § 29.514. An individual may file a request for reconsideration in addition to a request for waiver or compromise. 


(c) *Form and timing of requests for reconsideration.* (1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing and must state the basis for the request. Individuals requesting reconsideration will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position and should, to the extent possible, include such information and documentation in their request. 


(2) A request for reconsideration must be received by the Benefits Administrator within 60 calendar days of the date of the demand letter. The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason. 


(3) When a request for reconsideration covered by this subpart is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death. 


(d) *Reconsideration decisions.* (1) The Benefits Administrator's decision on a request for reconsideration will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information. 


(2) A reconsideration decision by the Benefits Administrator must— 


(i) Be in writing; 


(ii) Provide notice of the extent of the individual's liability for the overpayment, if any; 


(iii) If the individual is determined to be liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, reaffirm or modify the conditions for the collection of the overpayment previously proposed in the demand letter; 


(iv) Provide notice of the right to appeal the Benefits Administrator's decision to the Department, the address to which such an appeal must be submitted, and the time limits applicable to such an appeal; and 


(v) State that a timely appeal of the Benefits Administrator's decision to the Department will suspend action to collect the debt. 


(e) *Appeal of reconsideration decisions.* The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.513.




