# § 301.6652-2   Failure by exempt organizations and certain nonexempt organizations to file certain returns or to comply with section 6104(d) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.

(a) *Exempt organization or trust.* In the case of a failure to file a return required by—


(1) Section 6033, relating to returns by exempt organizations, trusts described in section 4947(a)(1) and nonexempt private foundations,


(2) Section 6034, relating to returns by certain trusts, or


(3) Section 6043(b), relating to returns regarding the liquidation, dissolution, termination, or substantial contraction of an exempt organization,


(b) *Managers.* If an exempt organization or trust fails to file under section 6652(d)(1), the Commissioner may, by written demand, request that such organization or trust file the delinquent return within 90 days after the date of mailing of such demand, or within such additional period as the Commissioner shall determine is reasonable under the circumstances. If such organization or trust does not so file on or before the date specified in such demand, there shall be paid by the person or persons responsible for such failure to file $10 for each day after such date during which such failure continues, unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause. However, the total amount imposed under this paragraph on all persons responsible for such failure with regard to any one return shall not exceed $5,000.


(c) *Public inspection of private foundations' annual returns*—(1) *In general.* In the case of a failure to comply with the requirements of section 6104(d), relating to public inspection of private foundations' annual returns, within the time and in the manner prescribed for complying with section 6104(d), unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause, there shall be paid by the person or persons responsible for failing to comply with section 6104(d) $10 for each day during which such failure continues. However, the total amount imposed under this subparagraph on all persons responsible for any such failure with regard to any one annual return shall not exceed $5,000.


(2) *Amount imposed.* The amount imposed under section 6652(d)(3) is $10 per day for a failure to comply with section 6104(d). For example, assume that an annual return must be filed by private foundation X on or before May 15, 1982, for the calendar year 1981. The foundation without reasonable cause does not comply with section 6104(d) by publishing notice of the availability of the annual return until July 30, 1982. In this case, the person failing to comply with section 6104(d) within the prescribed time is required to pay $760 for complying with section 6104(d) 76 days late.


(3) *Cross reference.* For the penalty for willful failure to comply with section 6104(d), see § 301.6685-1.


(d) *Special rules.* For purposes of section 6652(d) and this section—


(1) *Person.* The term “person” means any officer, director, trustee, employee, member, or other individual whose duty it is to perform the act in respect of which the violation occurs.


(2) *Liability.* If more than one person (as defined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (d)) is liable for a failure to file or to comply with section 6652(d) (2) or (3), all such persons shall be jointly and severally liable with respect to such failure.


(e) *Manner of payment.* The amount imposed under section 6652(d) and this section on any exempt organization, trust, or person (as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) shall be paid in the same manner as tax upon the issuance of a notice and demand therefor.


(f) *Showing of reasonable cause.* No amount imposed by section 6652(d) shall apply with respect to a failure to file or comply under this section if it is established to the satisfaction of the district director or director of the internal revenue service center that such failure was due to reasonable cause. An affirmative showing of reasonable cause must be made in the form of a written statement containing a declaration by the appropriate person (as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section), or in his absence, by any officer, director, or trustee of the organization, that the statement is made under the penalties of perjury, setting forth all the facts alleged as reasonable cause.


(g) *Group returns.* If a central organization is authorized to file a group return on behalf of two or more of its local organizations for the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (d) of § 1.6033-2 (Income Tax Regulations), the responsibility for timely filing of such a return is placed upon the central organization for purposes of this section. Consequently, the amount imposed by section 6652(d)(1) for failure to file the group return shall be paid by the central organization and the amount imposed by section 6652(d)(2) for failure to file the group return within the time prescribed by the Commissioner shall be paid by the person or persons responsible for filing the group return.


(h) *Effective date.* This section shall apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.



---

[N] [T.D. 7127, 36 FR 11503, June 15, 1971, as amended by T.D. 8026, 50 FR 20758, May 20, 1985] 




