# ยง 1211.620   Hearings.

(a) *Opportunity for hearing.* Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by ยง 1211.615(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either: 


(1) Fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of such notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of the designated agency official that the matter be scheduled for hearing; or 


(2) Advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated place and time. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under 20 U.S.C. 1682 and ยง 1211.615(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as may be filed as the record. 


(b) *Time and place of hearing.* Hearings shall be held at the offices of the agency in Washington, DC, at a time fixed by the designated agency official unless the official determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of the agency requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before a hearing officer designated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 556(b). 


(c) *Right to counsel.* In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the agency shall have the right to be represented by counsel. 


(d) *Procedures, evidence, and record.* (1) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (sections 5 through 8 of the Administrative Procedure Act), and in accordance with such rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both the agency and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the hearing officer at the outset of or during the hearing. Any person (other than a Government employee considered to be on official business) who, having been invited or requested to appear and testify as a witness on the Government's behalf, attends at a time and place scheduled for a hearing provided for by these Title IX regulations, may be reimbursed for his or her travel and actual expenses of attendance in an amount not to exceed the amount payable under the standardized travel regulations to a Government employee traveling on official business. 


(2) Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to these Title IX regulations, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where reasonably necessary by the hearing officer. The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record and written findings shall be made. 


(e) *Consolidated or joint hearings.* In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with these Title IX regulations with respect to two or more programs to which these Title IX regulations apply, or noncompliance with these Title IX regulations and the regulations of one or more other Federal departments or agencies issued under Title IX, the designated agency official may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of rules of procedures not inconsistent with these Title IX regulations. Final decisions in such cases, insofar as these Title IX regulations are concerned, shall be made in accordance with ยง 1211.625. 



---

[N] [65 FR 52887, Aug. 30, 2000] 




