# § 279.55   Analysis plan.

Owners or operators of used oil processing and re-refining facilities must develop and follow a written analysis plan describing the procedures that will be used to comply with the analysis requirements of § 279.53 and, if applicable, § 279.72. The owner or operator must keep the plan at the facility.


(a) *Rebuttable presumption for used oil in § 279.53.* At a minimum, the plan must specify the following:


(1) Whether sample analyses or knowledge of the halogen content of the used oil will be used to make this determination.


(2) If sample analyses are used to make this determination:


(i) The sampling method used to obtain representative samples to be analyzed. A representative sample may be obtained using either:


(A) One of the sampling methods in appendix I of part 261 of this chapter; or 


(B) A method shown to be equivalent under §§ 260.20 and 260.21 of this chapter;


(ii) The frequency of sampling to be performed, and whether the analysis will be performed on-site or off-site; and 


(iii) The methods used to analyze used oil for the parameters specified in § 279.53; and 


(3) The type of information that will be used to determine the halogen content of the used oil.


(b) *On-specification used oil fuel in § 279.72.* At a minimum, the plan must specify the following if § 279.72 is applicable:


(1) Whether sample analyses or other information will be used to make this determination;


(2) If sample analyses are used to make this determination:


(i) The sampling method used to obtain representative samples to be analyzed. A representative sample may be obtained using either:


(A) One of the sampling methods in appendix I of part 261 of this chapter; or


(B) A method shown to be equivalent under §§ 260.20 and 260.21 of this chapter;


(ii) Whether used oil will be sampled and analyzed prior to or after any processing/re-refining;


(iii) The frequency of sampling to be performed, and whether the analysis will be performed on-site or off-site; and


(iv) The methods used to analyze used oil for the parameters specified in § 279.72; and


(3) The type of information that will be used to make the on-specification used oil fuel determination.



---

[N] [57 FR 41612, Sept. 10, 1992, as amended at 71 FR 40280, July 14, 2006]




