# § 900.103   Terms and abbreviations.

(a) For the purposes of this part, the definitions in the CEQ Regulations, 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, are adopted and supplemented as set out in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. In the event of a conflict the CEQ Regulations apply.


(1) *Action.* Action and Federal action as defined in 40 CFR 1508.18, include projects, programs, plans, or policies, subject to the Commission's control and responsibility.


(2) *Applicant.* The federal, state, local government or non-governmental partner or organization applying to the Commission for financial assistance or other approval. An applicant may also be a partner organization in receipt of award funds.


(3) *Approving Official.* The Denali Commission staff member designated by the Federal Co-Chair or his/her designee to fulfill the responsibilities defined in § 900.106, including overseeing development of and approval of the NEPA document.


(4) *Commission proposal (or proposal).* A proposal, as defined at 40 CFR 1508.23, is a Commission proposal whether initiated by the Commission, another federal agency, or an applicant.


(5) *Federal Co-Chair.* One of the seven members of the Commission, appointed by the Secretary of Commerce, as defined in the Denali Commission Act of 1998, 42 U.S.C. 3121, Public Law 105-277.


(b) The following abbreviations are used throughout this part:


(1) CATEX—Categorical exclusions;


(2) CEQ—Council on Environmental Quality;


(3) EA—Environmental assessment;


(4) EIS—Environmental impact statement;


(5) FONSI—Finding of no significant impact;


(6) NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended;


(7) NOI—Notice of intent; and


(8) ROD—Record of decision.




