# § 173.115   Alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase (α-ALDC) enzyme preparation derived from a recombinant Bacillus subtilis.

The food additive alpha-acetolactate decarboxylase (α-ALDC) enzyme preparation, may be safely used in accordance with the following conditions: 


(a) The food additive is the enzyme preparation derived from a modified *Bacillus subtilis* strain that contains the gene coding for α-ALDC from *Bacillus brevis.*

(b)(1) The manufacturer produces the additive from a pure culture fermentation of a strain of *Bacillus subtilis* that is nonpathogenic and nontoxigenic in man or other animals. 


(2) The manufacturer may stabilize the enzyme preparation with glutaraldehyde or with other suitable approved food additives or generally recognized as safe substances. 


(3) The enzyme preparation must meet the general and additional requirements for enzyme preparations in the *Food Chemicals Codex,* 4th ed., 1996, pp. 133-134, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20055, or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) The additive is used in an amount not in excess of the minimum required to produce its intended effect as a processing aid in the production of alcoholic malt beverages and distilled liquors.



---

[N] [66 FR 27022, May 16, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 17722, Mar. 24, 2023]




