# ยง 51.61   Annexations.

(a) *Coverage.* Annexations and deannexations, even of uninhabited land, are subject to section 5 preclearance to the extent that they alter or are calculated to alter the composition of a jurisdiction's electorate. *See, e.g., City of Pleasant Grove* v. *United States,* 479 U.S. 462 (1987). In analyzing annexations and deannexations under section 5, the Attorney General considers the purpose and effect of the annexations and deannexations only as they pertain to voting.


(b) *Section 5 review.* It is the practice of the Attorney General to review all of a jurisdiction's unprecleared annexations and deannexations together. *See City of Pleasant Grove* v. *United States,* C.A. No. 80-2589 (D.D.C. Oct. 7, 1981).


(c) *Relevant factors.* In making determinations with respect to annexations, the Attorney General, in addition to the factors described above, will consider the following factors (among others):


(1) The extent to which a jurisdiction's annexations reflect the purpose or have the effect of excluding minorities while including other similarly situated persons.


(2) The extent to which the annexations reduce a jurisdiction's minority population percentage, either at the time of the submission or, in view of the intended use, for the reasonably foreseeable future.


(3) Whether the electoral system to be used in the jurisdiction fails fairly to reflect minority voting strength as it exists in the post-annexation jurisdiction. See *City of Richmond* v. *United States,* 422 U.S. 358, 367-72 (1975).



---

[N] [52 FR 490, Jan. 6, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987, as amended by Order No. 3262-2011, 76 FR 21249, Apr. 15, 2011]




