# ยง 10.82   Proposed findings and conclusions; briefs.

In any proceeding involving a hearing or an opportunity for hearing, the parties may file written proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. Briefs may be filed in support of proposed findings and conclusions either as part of the same document or in a separate document. Any proposed finding or conclusion not briefed may be regarded as waived.


(a) *Proposed findings and briefs; time for filing.* Where the parties file proposed findings and briefs, the following schedule shall apply, unless otherwise determined by the Administrative Law Judge:


(1) *Initial submission.* Proposed findings, conclusions and an initial brief shall be served and filed by the Division of Enforcement and intervenors on the side of the Division of Enforcement within 45 days of the close of the hearing;


(2) *Answering submission.* Proposed findings, conclusions, and an answering brief shall be served and filed by the respondents and intervenors on the side of the respondents within 30 days after service of the initial findings, conclusions and briefs upon the respondents;


(3) *Reply.* A reply brief may be filed by the Division of Enforcement and intervenors on the side of the Division of Enforcement within 15 days after filing of the answering submission;


(4) *Submissions by limited participants.* Submissions by a person admitted as a limited participant pursuant to ยง 10.34 of these rules, are permitted under such terms as determined by the Administrative Law Judge.


(b) *Alternative procedures for submissions.* In his discretion the Administrative Law Judge may lengthen or shorten the periods for the filing of submissions, may direct simultaneous filings, may direct that respondents make the first filing, or may otherwise modify the procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section for purposes of a particular proceeding.


(c) *Briefs.* (1) The initial brief should include:


(i) A short, clear and concise statement of the case;


(ii) Specification of the questions to be resolved; and


(iii) The argument, presenting clearly the points of fact and law relied upon in support of the position taken on each question.


(2) The answering brief shall generally follow the same style as prescribed for the initial brief but may omit a statement of the case if the party does not dispute the statement of the case contained in the initial brief;


(3) Reply briefs should be limited to rebuttal of matters in the prior briefs.


(d) *Content and form of proposed findings and conclusions.* (1) The findings of fact shall be confined to the material issues of fact presented on the record, with exact citations to the transcripts of record and exhibits in support of each proposed finding.


(2) The proposed findings and conclusions of the party filing initially shall be set forth in consecutively numbered paragraphs and all counter-statement of proposed findings and conclusions shall, in addition to any other matter, indicate which paragraphs of initial proposals are not disputed.




