# ยง 1690.107   Definitions.

(a) *Affected agency* means any agency whose programs, policies, procedures, authority or other statutory mandates (including coverage of groups of employers, unions, State and local governments or other organizations mandated by statute or Executive Order) indicate that the agency may have an interest in the proposed issuance. 


(b) *Agencies* means those Executive and independent agencies, agency components, regulatory commissions, and advisory bodies having equal employment opportunity program responsibilities or authority other than equal employment opportunity responsibilities for their own Federal employees. 


(c) *Consultation* means the exchange of advice and opinions on a subject occurring among the EEOC and affected agencies before formal submission of the issuance. 


(d) *Formal submission* means the transmittal of a written, publication-ready document by the issuing agency to the EEOC and other affected agencies for at least 15 working days from date of receipt. The formal submission shall take place before the publication of any issuance as a final document. 


(e) *Internal or administrative documents,* pursuant to 1-304 of the Order, may include, but are not limited to, forms for internal audit and recordkeeping; forms for performance and program evaluation; internal directives dealing with program accountability; routine intra-agency budget forms; intra-agency agreements; correspondence which does not transmit significant new policy interpretations or program standards having an impact upon other Federal agencies; tables of organization; and other documents setting forth administrative procedures for the conduct of programs. Internal or administrative documents do not include compliance manuals, training materials, publications or any other internal documents setting forth procedures for the resolution of complaints, standards of review or proof, or any other policies, standards or directives having implications for non-Federal employees. 


(f) *Issuance* refers to any rule, regulation, guideline, order, policy directive, procedural directive, legislative proposal, publication, or data collection or recordkeeping instrument. It also includes agency documents as described above, or revisions of such documents, developed pursuant to court order. *Issuance* does not include orders issued to specific parties as a result of adjudicatory-type processes. 


(g) *Order* means Executive Order 12067 (Providing for Coordination of Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Programs).


(h) *Public announcement* means the publication of a document in final form in the _Federal Register_ or any other promulgation for general agency or public reference.


(i) *Significant issuance* means any issuance which the public must be afforded an opportunity to comment upon. In determining whether an issuance is significant, the EEOC shall apply the following criteria:


(1) The type and number of individuals, businesses, organizations, employers, labor unions, or State and local governments affected;


(2) The compliance and reporting requirements likely to be involved;


(3) The impact on the identification and elimination of discrimination in employment;


(4) The relationship of the proposed issuance to those of other programs and agencies.



---

[N] [45 FR 68361, Oct. 14, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 71799, Oct. 30, 1980] 




