# ยง 1500.14   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


(a) *Action Official (AO)* is the EPA official who authors the Agency Decision to the Affected Entity regarding a pre-award or post-award matter.


(b) *Affected Entity* is an entity that applies for and/or receives Federal financial assistance from EPA including but not limited to: State and local governments, Indian Tribes, Intertribal Consortia, Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Non-profit Organizations, and Individuals.


(c) *Agency Decision* is the agency's initial pre-award or post-award assistance agreement determination that may be disputed in accordance with this subpart. The Agency Decision is sent by the Action Official (AO) to the Affected Entity electronically and informs them of their dispute rights and identifies the Dispute Decision Official (DDO). An Agency Decision based on audit findings serves as EPA's *Management decision* as defined in 2 CFR part 200.1.


(d) *Dispute* is a disagreement by an Affected Entity with a specific Agency Decision submitted to the DDO in accordance with this subpart.


(e) *Dispute Decision Official (DDO)* is the designated agency official responsible for issuing a decision resolving a Dispute.


(1) The DDO for a Headquarters Dispute is the Director of the Grants and Interagency Agreement Management Division in the Office of Grants and Debarment or designee. To provide for a fair and impartial review, the AO for the challenged Agency Decision may not serve as the Headquarters DDO.


(2) The DDO for a Regional Assistance Agreement Dispute is the Regional Administrator or the official designated by the Regional Administrator to issue the written decision resolving the Dispute. To provide for a fair and impartial review, the AO for the challenged Agency Decision may not serve as the Regional DDO.



---

[N] [79 FR 76050, Dec. 19, 2014. Redesignated at 85 FR 61573, Sept. 30, 2020; 85 FR 61574, Sept. 30, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 30397, May 19, 2022]




