# § 22.948   Geographic partitioning and spectrum disaggregation; spectrum leasing.

Cellular licensees may apply to partition any portion of their licensed Cellular Geographic Service Area (CGSA) or to disaggregate their licensed spectrum at any time following the grant of their authorization(s). Parties seeking approval for partitioning and disaggregation shall request from the FCC an authorization for partial assignment of a license pursuant to § 1.948 of this chapter. See also paragraph (d) of this section regarding spectrum leasing.


(a) *Partitioning, disaggregation, or combined partitioning and disaggregation.* Applicants must file FCC Form 603 (“Assignment of Authorization and Transfer of Control”) pursuant to § 1.948 of this chapter, as well as GIS map files and a reduced-size PDF map pursuant to § 22.953 for both the assignor and assignee.


(b) *Field strength limit.* For purposes of partitioning and disaggregation, Cellular systems must be designed so as to comply with § 22.983.


(c) *License term.* The license term for a partitioned license area and for disaggregated spectrum will be the remainder of the original license term.


(d) *Spectrum leasing.* Cellular spectrum leasing is subject to all applicable provisions of subpart X of part 1 of this chapter as well as the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, except that applicants must file FCC Form 608 (“Application or Notification for Spectrum Leasing Arrangement or Private Commons Arrangement”), not FCC Form 603.



---

[N] [79 FR 72152, Dec. 5, 2014]




