# § 5.11   Hearings and other meetings.

(a) *Hearing requests.* Prior to the end of the comment period, any person may submit to the appropriate OCC office a written request for a hearing on a filing. The request must describe the nature of the issues or facts to be presented and the reasons why written submissions would be insufficient to make an adequate presentation of those issues or facts to the OCC. A person requesting a hearing must simultaneously submit a copy of the request to the filer.


(b) *Action on a hearing request.* The OCC may grant or deny a request for a hearing and may limit the issues to those it deems relevant or material. The OCC generally grants a hearing request only if the OCC determines that written submissions would be insufficient or that a hearing would otherwise benefit the decision-making process. The OCC also may order a hearing if it concludes that a hearing would be in the public interest.


(c) *Denial of a hearing request.* If the OCC denies a hearing request, it will notify the person requesting the hearing of the reason for the denial.


(d) *OCC procedures prior to the hearing*—(1) *Notice of hearing.* The OCC issues a Notice of Hearing if it grants a request for a hearing or orders a hearing because it is in the public interest. The OCC sends a copy of the Notice of Hearing to the filer, to the person requesting the hearing, and anyone else requesting a copy. The Notice of Hearing states the subject and date of the filing, the time and place of the hearing, and the issues to be addressed. The OCC may limit the issues considered at a hearing to those it determines are relevant or material.


(2) *Presiding officer.* The OCC appoints a presiding officer to conduct the hearing. The presiding officer is responsible for all procedural questions not governed by this section.


(e) *Participation in the hearing.* Any person who wishes to appear (participant) must notify the appropriate OCC licensing office of their intent to participate in the hearing within 10 days from the date the OCC issues the Notice of Hearing. At least five days before the hearing, each participant must submit to the appropriate OCC licensing office, the filer, and any other person the OCC requires, the names of witnesses and one copy of each exhibit the participant intends to present.


(f) *Hearing transcripts.* The OCC arranges for a hearing transcript. The person requesting the hearing may be required to bear the cost of one copy of the transcript for their use.


(g) *Conduct of the hearing*—(1) *Presentations.* Subject to the rulings of the presiding officer, the filer and participants may make opening statements and present witnesses, material, and data.


(2) *Information submitted.* A person presenting documentary material must furnish one copy to the OCC and one copy to the filer and each participant.


(3) *Laws not applicable to hearings.* The Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551 *et seq.*), the Federal Rules of Evidence (28 U.S.C. appendix), the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. Rule 1 *et seq.*), and the OCC's Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 19) do not apply to hearings under this section.


(h) *Closing the hearing record.* At the filer's or participant's request, the OCC may keep the hearing record open for up to 14 days following the OCC's receipt of the transcript. The OCC resumes processing the filing after the record closes.


(i) *Other meetings*—(1) *Public meetings.* The OCC may arrange for a public meeting in connection with a filing, either upon receipt during the comment period of a written request for such a meeting or upon the OCC's own initiative, if the OCC finds that written submissions are insufficient to address facts or issues raised in the filing or otherwise determines that a meeting will benefit the decision-making process. Public meetings will be arranged and presided over by a presiding officer.


(2) *Private meetings.* The OCC may arrange a meeting with a filer or other interested parties to clarify and narrow the issues and to facilitate the resolution of the issues.


(3) *Issues at meetings.* The OCC may limit the issues considered at a meeting to those it determines are relevant or material.


(4) *Meeting format.* The OCC may conduct a meeting in the format that it determines is appropriate, including a telephone conference, a face-to-face meeting, or a more formal meeting.



---

[N] [80 FR 28414, May 18, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 80436, Dec. 11, 2020]




