# ยง 3560.70   Supplemental requirements for manufactured housing.

(a) *Design requirements.* Manufactured housing must meet the requirements of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A applicable to manufactured housing.


(b) *Eligible properties.* The manufactured housing must include two or more housing units. The applicant will become the first owner purchasing the manufactured homes for purposes other than resale. The following exceptions may be made to this provision:


(1) A housing proposal may include the purchase of the real property with existing manufactured housing which will be redeveloped with the placement of new manufactured homes.


(2) A housing proposal may include the rehabilitation of existing manufactured housing only if the units to be rehabilitated are currently financed by the Agency. The proposal will include the results of the applicant's consultation with the manufacturer to determine if the proposed rehabilitation work will affect the structural integrity of the unit and, if so, the statement will include an explanation as to how.


(c) *Terms.* The maximum loan amount will be determined in accordance with the requirements of ยง 3560.63. The amortization period and term of loans for manufactured housing will not exceed the lesser of the economic life of the housing being financed or 30 years.


(d) *Security.* A mortgage or deed of trust will be taken on the entire property purchased or improved with the loan. The encumbered property must be covered under a standard real estate title insurance policy or attorney's title opinion that identifies the housing as real property and insures or indemnifies against any loss if the manufactured home is determined not to be part of the real property. The property must be taxed as real estate by the jurisdiction where the housing is located if such taxation is permitted under applicable law when the loan is closed.


(e) *Special warranty requirements.* The general contractor or dealer-contractor, as applicable, must provide a warranty in accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A.


(1) The warranty must establish that the manufactured homes, foundations, positioning and anchoring of the units to their permanent foundations, and all contracted improvements, are constructed in conformity with applicable approved plans and specifications.


(2) The warranty must include provisions that the manufactured homes sustained no hidden damage during transportation and, for double-wide units, that the sections were properly joined and sealed.


(3) The general contractor or dealer contractor must warrant that the manufacturer's warranty is in addition to and does not diminish or limit all other warranties, rights, and remedies that the borrower or lender may have.


(4) The seller of the manufactured homes must deliver to the borrower the manufacturer's warranty with an additional copy for RHS. The warranty must identify the units by serial number. 




