# § 200.306   Cost sharing.

(a) Voluntary committed cost sharing is not expected under Federal research grants. The Federal agency may not use voluntary committed cost sharing as a factor during the merit review of applications or proposals for Federal research grants unless authorized by Federal statutes or agency regulations and specified in the notice of funding opportunity. Federal agencies are also discouraged from using voluntary committed cost sharing as a factor during the merit review of applications for other Federal financial assistance programs. If voluntary committed cost sharing is used for this purpose for other programs, the notice of funding opportunity must specify how an applicant's proposed cost sharing will be considered. See §§ 200.414, 200.204, and Appendix I.


(b) For all Federal awards, the Federal agency or pass-through entity must accept any cost sharing funds (including cash and third-party in-kind contributions, and also including funds committed by the recipient, subrecipient, or third parties) as part of the recipient's or subrecipient's contributions to a program when the funds:


(1) Are verifiable in the recipient's or subrecipient's records;


(2) Are not included as contributions for any other Federal award;


(3) Are necessary and reasonable for achieving the objectives of the Federal award;


(4) Are allowable under subpart E;


(5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another Federal award, except where the program's Federal authorizing statute specifically provides that Federal funds made available for the program can be applied to cost sharing requirements of other Federal programs;


(6) Are provided for in the approved budget when required by the Federal agency; and


(7) Conform to other applicable provisions of this part.


(c) Unrecovered indirect costs, including indirect costs on cost sharing, may be included as part of cost sharing with the prior approval of the Federal agency or pass-through entity. Unrecovered indirect cost means the difference between the amount charged to the Federal award and the amount which could have been charged to the Federal award under the recipient's or subrecipient's approved indirect cost rate.


(d) Values for recipient or subrecipient contributions of services and property must be established in accordance with the cost principles in subpart E. When a Federal agency or pass-through entity authorizes the recipient or subrecipient to donate buildings or land for construction/facilities acquisition projects or long-term use, the value of the donated property for cost sharing must be the lesser of paragraph (d)(1) or (2) below.


(1) The value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the recipient's or subrecipient's accounting records at the time of donation.


(2) The current fair market value. However, when there is sufficient justification, the Federal agency or pass-through may approve using the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the value described in paragraph (d)(1) at the time of donation.


(e) Volunteer services furnished by third-party professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other labor may be counted as cost sharing if the service is necessary for the program. Rates for third-party volunteer services must be consistent with those paid for similar work by the recipient or subrecipient. When the required skills are not found in the recipient's or subrecipient's workforce, rates must be consistent with those paid for similar work in the labor market where the recipient or subrecipient competes for the services involved. In either case, fringe benefits that are allowable, allocable, and reasonable may be included in the valuation.


(f) When a third-party organization furnishes the services of an employee, these services must be valued at the employee's regular rate of pay plus an amount of fringe benefits that is reasonable, necessary, allocable, and otherwise allowable, and indirect costs at either the third-party organization's approved federally-negotiated indirect cost rate or, a rate in accordance with § 200.414(d) provided these services employ the same skill(s) for which the employee is normally paid. Where donated services are treated as indirect costs, indirect cost rates will separate the value of the donated services so that reimbursement for the donated services will not be made.


(g) Donated property from third parties may include items such as equipment, office supplies, laboratory supplies, or workshop and classroom supplies. The assessed value of donated property included as cost sharing must not exceed the property's fair market value at the time of the donation.


(h) The method used for determining the value of donated equipment, buildings, and land for which title passes to the recipient or subrecipient may differ according to the following:


(1) If the purpose of the Federal award is to assist the recipient or subrecipient in acquiring equipment, buildings, or land, the aggregate value of the donated property may be claimed as cost sharing.


(2) If the purpose of the Federal award is to support activities that require the use of equipment, buildings, or land, only depreciation charges for equipment and buildings may be made. However, the fair market value of equipment or other capital assets and fair rental charges for land may be allowed if provided in the terms and conditions of the Federal award. See § 200.420.


(i) The value of donated property must be determined in accordance with the accounting policies of the recipient or subrecipient with the following qualifications:


(1) The value of donated land and buildings must not exceed its fair market value at the time of donation to the recipient or subrecipient as established by an independent appraiser (for example, certified real property appraiser or General Services Administration representative) and certified by a responsible official of the recipient or subrecipient as required by the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) except as provided in the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24, “Uniform Relocation Assistance And Real Property Acquisition For Federal And Federally-Assisted Programs.”


(2) The value of donated equipment must not exceed the fair market value at the time of donation.


(3) The value of donated space must not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately-owned building in the same locality.


(4) The value of loaned equipment must not exceed its fair rental value.


(j) The fair market value of third-party in-kind contributions must be documented and, to the extent feasible, supported by the same methods used internally by the recipient or subrecipient.


(k) For institutions of higher education (IHE), voluntary uncommitted cost sharing should be treated differently from mandatory or voluntary committed cost sharing. Voluntary uncommitted cost sharing should not be included in the organized research base for computing the indirect cost rate or reflected in any allocation of indirect costs. Voluntary uncommitted cost sharing includes faculty-donated additional time above that agreed to as part of the award. See OMB memorandum M-01-06, dated January 5, 2001, Clarification of OMB A-21 Treatment of Voluntary Uncommitted Cost Sharing and Tuition Remission Costs.






