# § 239.14   Charter amendments.

(a) *General.* In order to adopt a charter amendment, a mutual holding company must comply with the following requirements:


(1) *Board of directors approval.* The board of directors of the mutual holding company must adopt a resolution proposing the charter amendment that states the text of such amendment;


(2) *Form of filing*—

(i) *Application requirement.* If the proposed charter amendment would render more difficult or discourage a merger, proxy contest, the assumption of control by a mutual account holder of the mutual holding company, or the removal of incumbent management; or involve a significant issue of law or policy; then, the mutual holding shall submit the charter amendment to the appropriate Reserve Bank for approval. Applications submitted under this paragraph are subject to the processing procedures at § 238.14 of this chapter.


(ii) *Notice requirement.* If the proposed charter amendment does not implicate paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and is permissible under all applicable laws, rules and regulations, the mutual holding company shall submit the proposed amendment to the appropriate Reserve Bank at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the proposed charter amendment.


(b) *Approval.* Any charter amendment filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall automatically be approved 30 days from the date of filing of such amendment with the appropriate Reserve Bank, provided that the mutual holding company follows the requirements of its charter in adopting such amendment, unless the Reserve Bank or the Board notifies the mutual holding company prior to the expiration of such 30-day period that such amendment is rejected or is deemed to be filed under the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (a) of this section to the contrary, the following charter amendments, including the adoption of the Federal mutual holding company charter as set forth in appendix A, shall be effective and deemed approved at the time of adoption, if adopted without change and filed with Board, within 30 days after adoption, provided the mutual holding company follows the requirements of its charter in adopting such amendments.


(1) *Title change.* (i) Subject to § 239.13 and this paragraph (b), a mutual holding company may amend its charter by substituting a new corporate title in section 1 of its charter.


(ii) Prior to changing its corporate title, a mutual holding company must file with the Board a written notice indicating the intended change. The Board shall provide to the mutual holding company a timely written acknowledgment stating when the notice was received. If, within 30 days of receipt of notice, the Board does not notify the mutual holding company of its objection to the corporate title change on the grounds that the title misrepresents the nature of the institution or the services it offers, the mutual holding company may change its title by amending its charter in accordance with § 239.14(b) or § 239.22 and the amendment provisions of its charter.


(2) *Maximum number of votes.* A mutual holding company may amend section 5 of its charter by substituting the maximum number of votes per member to any number from 1 to 1000.


(c) *Reissuance of charter.* A mutual holding company that has amended its charter may apply to have its charter, including the amendments, reissued by the Board. Such request for reissuance should be filed with the appropriate Reserve Bank.




