# § 93.303   Ports designated for the importation of horses.

(a) *Air and ocean ports.* The following ports have APHIS inspection and quarantine facilities necessary for quarantine stations and all horses shall be entered into the United States through the following station(s), except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, §§ 93.308(a), (b) and (c) and 93.317: Newburgh, New York.


(b) *Canadian border ports.* Land border ports designated for the entry of horses from Canada may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.* Changes to the list of approved ports will be announced through notices published in the _Federal Register_.


(c) *Mexican border ports.* Land border ports designated for the entry of horses from Mexico may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.* Changes to the list of approved ports will be announced through notices published in the _Federal Register_.


(d) *Limited ports.* Certain ports are designated as having inspection facilities for the entry of horses and horse products such as horse test specimens which do not appear to require restraint and holding inspection facilities. These ports may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.* Changes to the list of approved ports will be announced through notices published in the _Federal Register_.


(e) *Ports for horses to be quarantined at privately owned quarantine facilities.* Horses, except horses from or which have transited any region in which African horsesickness is declared to exist, 
1 may be entered into the United States at any port specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or at any other port designated as an international port or airport by the U.S. Customs Service and quarantined at privately owned quarantine facilities provided that applicable provisions of §§ 93.301(c), 93.304(a), 93.306, 93.308(a), (b) and (c), and 93.314 are met. These ports may be found on the APHIS website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/importexport/animal-import-and-export/equine.*

(f) *Designation of other ports.* The Secretary of the Treasury has approved the designation as quarantine stations of the ports specified in this section. In special cases other ports may be designated as quarantine stations under this section by the Administrator, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury.



---

[N] [55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 62 FR 56012, Oct. 28, 1997]


