# ยง 792.46   What will the NCUA do with my request?

(a) *Factors the NCUA will consider.* The NCUA may consider various factors in reviewing a request for nonpublic records or testimony of NCUA employees, including: 


(1) Whether disclosure would assist or hinder the NCUA in performing its statutory duties or use NCUA resources unreasonably, including whether responding to the request will interfere with NCUA employees' ability to do their work. 


(2) Whether disclosure is necessary to prevent the perpetration of a fraud or other injustice in the matter or if you can get the records or testimony you want from sources other than the NCUA. 


(3) Whether the request is unduly burdensome. 


(4) Whether disclosure would violate a statute, executive order, or regulation, for example, the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. 


(5) Whether disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive or privileged information, trade secrets or similar, confidential commercial or financial information, or would otherwise be inappropriate for release and, if so, whether a confidentiality agreement or protective order as provided in ยง 792.48(a) can adequately limit the disclosure. 


(6) Whether the disclosure would interfere with law enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, or hamper NCUA research or investigatory activities. 


(7) Whether the disclosure could result in NCUA appearing to favor one litigant over another. 


(8) Any other factors the NCUA determines to be relevant to the interests of the NCUA. 


(b) *Review of your request.* The NCUA will process your request in the order it is received. The NCUA will try to respond to your request within 45 days, but this may vary depending on the scope of your request. 


(c) *Final determination.* The General Counsel makes the final determination on requests for nonpublic records or NCUA employee testimony. All final determinations are in the sole discretion of the General Counsel. The General Counsel will notify you and the court or other authority of the final determination of your request. In considering your request, the General Counsel may contact you to inform you of the requirements of this subpart, ask that the request or subpoena be modified or withdrawn, or may try to resolve the request or subpoena informally without issuing a final determination. You may seek judicial review of the final determination under the Administrative Procedure Act. 5 U.S.C. 702. 




