# § 865.103   Definition of terms.

(a) *Applicant.* A former member of the Armed Forces who has been dismissed or discharged administratively in accordance with Military Department regulations or by sentence of a court-martial (other than a general court-martial) and under statutory regulatory provisions whose application is accepted by the DRB concerned or whose case is heard on the DRB's own motion. If the former member is deceased or incompetent, the term “applicant” includes the surviving spouse, next-of-kin, or legal representative who is acting on behalf of the former member. When the term “applicant” is used in this subpart, it includes the applicant's counsel or representative, except that the counsel or representative may not submit an application for review, waive the applicant's right to be present at a hearing, or terminate a review without providing the DRB an appropriate power of attorney or other written consent of the former member.


(b) *Complainant.* A former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) who submits a complaint in accordance with § 865.121 of this subpart with respect to the decisional document issued in the former member's own case; or a former member of the Armed Forces (or the former member's counsel) who submits a complaint stating that correction of the decisional document will assist the former member in preparing for an administrative or judicial proceeding in which the former member's own discharge will be at issue.


(c) *Counsel or representative.* An individual or agency designated by the applicant who agrees to represent the applicant in a case before the DRB. It includes, but is not limited to: a lawyer who is a member of the bar of a federal court or of the highest court of a state; an accredited representative designated by an organization recognized by the Administrator of Veterans Affairs; a representative from a state agency concerned with veterans affairs; and representatives from private organizations or local government agencies.


(d) *Discharge.* A general term used in this subpart that includes dismissal and separation or release from active or inactive military status, and actions that accomplish a complete severance of all military status. This term also includes the assignment of a reason for such discharge and characterization of service.


(e) *Discharge review.* The process by which the reason for separation, the procedures followed in accomplishing separation, and characterization of service are evaluated. This includes determinations made under the provisions of title 38 U.S.C. 3103(e)(2).


(f) *Discharge Review Board (DRB).* An administrative board constituted by the Secretary of the Air Force and vested with discretionary authority to review discharges and dismissals under the provisions of title 10 U.S.C. 1553.


(g) *Regional Discharge Review Board.* A DRB that conducts discharge reviews in a location outside the National Capital Region (NCR).


(h) *DRB President.* The senior line officer of any DRB convened for the purpose of conducting discharge reviews.


(i) *Hearing.* A review involving an appearance before the DRB by the applicant or on the applicant's behalf by a counsel or representative.


(j) *Record review.* A review of the application, available service records, and additional documents (if any) submitted by the applicant.


(k) *National Capital Region (NCR).* The District of Columbia; Prince Georges and Montgomery Counties in Maryland; Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William Counties in Virginia; and all cities and towns included within the outer boundaries of the foregoing counties.


(l) *Director, Air Force Personnel Council.* The person designated by the Secretary of the Air Force who is responsible for the supervision of the Discharge Review function.




