# § 96.86   Withdrawal from NO

(a) *Requesting withdrawal.* To withdraw from the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program, the NO_X_ authorized account representative of a NO_X_ Budget opt-in source shall submit to the permitting authority a request to withdraw effective as of a specified date prior to May 1 or after September 30. The submission shall be made no later than 90 days prior to the requested effective date of withdrawal.


(b) *Conditions for withdrawal.* Before a NO_X_ Budget opt-in source covered by a request under paragraph (a) of this section may withdraw from the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program and the NO_X_ Budget opt-in permit may be terminated under paragraph (e) of this section, the following conditions must be met:


(1) For the control period immediately before the withdrawal is to be effective, the NO_X_ authorized account representative must submit or must have submitted to the permitting authority an annual compliance certification report in accordance with § 96.30.


(2) If the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source has excess emissions for the control period immediately before the withdrawal is to be effective, the Administrator will deduct or has deducted from the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source's compliance account, or the overdraft account of the NO_X_ Budget source where the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source is located, the full amount required under § 96.54(d) for the control period.


(3) After the requirements for withdrawal under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are met, the Administrator will deduct from the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source's compliance account, or the overdraft account of the NO_X_ Budget source where the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source is located, NO_X_ allowances equal in number to and allocated for the same or a prior control period as any NO_X_ allowances allocated to that source under § 96.88 for any control period for which the withdrawal is to be effective. The Administrator will close the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source's compliance account and will establish, and transfer any remaining allowances to, a new general account for the owners and operators of the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source. The NO_X_ authorized account representative for the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source shall become the NO_X_ authorized account representative for the general account.


(c) A NO_X_ Budget opt-in source that withdraws from the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program shall comply with all requirements under the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program concerning all years for which such NO_X_ Budget opt-in source was a NO_X_ Budget opt-in source, even if such requirements arise or must be complied with after the withdrawal takes effect.


(d) *Notification.* (1) After the requirements for withdrawal under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are met (including deduction of the full amount of NO_X_ allowances required), the permitting authority will issue a notification to the NO_X_ authorized account representative of the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source of the acceptance of the withdrawal of the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source as of a specified effective date that is after such requirements have been met and that is prior to May 1 or after September 30.


(2) If the requirements for withdrawal under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not met, the permitting authority will issue a notification to the NO_X_ authorized account representative of the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source that the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source's request to withdraw is denied. If the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source's request to withdraw is denied, the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source shall remain subject to the requirements for a NO_X_ Budget opt-in source.


(e) *Permit amendment.* After the permitting authority issues a notification under paragraph (d)(1) of this section that the requirements for withdrawal have been met, the permitting authority will revise the NO_X_ Budget permit covering the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source to terminate the NO_X_ Budget opt-in permit as of the effective date specified under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. A NO_X_ Budget opt-in source shall continue to be a NO_X_ Budget opt-in source until the effective date of the termination.


(f) *Reapplication upon failure to meet conditions of withdrawal.* If the permitting authority denies the NO_X_ Budget opt-in source's request to withdraw, the NO_X_ authorized account representative may submit another request to withdraw in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(g) *Ability to return to the NO*_X_ Budget Trading Program. Once a NO_X_ Budget opt-in source withdraws from the NO_X_ Budget Trading Program and its NO_X_ Budget opt-in permit is terminated under this section, the NO_X_ authority account representative may not submit another application for a NO_X_ Budget opt-in permit under § 96.83 for the unit prior to the date that is 4 years after the date on which the terminated NO_X_ Budget opt-in permit became effective.




