# § 414.930   Compendia for determination of medically-accepted indications for off-label uses of drugs and biologicals in an anti-cancer chemotherapeutic regimen.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


*Compendium* means a comprehensive listing of FDA-approved drugs and biologicals or a comprehensive listing of a specific subset of drugs and biologicals in a specialty compendium, for example a compendium of anti-cancer treatment. A compendium—


(i) Includes a summary of the pharmacologic characteristics of each drug or biological and may include information on dosage, as well as recommended or endorsed uses in specific diseases.


(ii) Is indexed by drug or biological.


(iii) Has a publicly transparent process for evaluating therapies and for identifying potential conflicts of interests.


*Publicly transparent process for evaluating therapies* means that the process provides that the following information from an internal or external request for inclusion of a therapy in a compendium are available to the public for a period of not less than 5 years, which includes availability on the compendium's Web site for a period of not less than 3 years, coincident with the compendium's publication of the related recommendation:


(i) The internal or external request for listing of a therapy recommendation including criteria used to evaluate the request.


(ii) A listing of all the evidentiary materials reviewed or considered by the compendium pursuant to the request.


(iii) A listing of all individuals who have substantively participated in the review or disposition of the request.


(iv) Minutes and voting records of meetings for the review and disposition of the request.


*Publicly transparent process for identifying potential conflicts of interests* means that process provides that the following information is identified and made timely available in response to a public request for a period of not less than 5 years, coincident with the compendium's publication of the related recommendation:


(i) Direct or indirect financial relationships that exist between individuals or the spouse or minor child of individuals who have substantively participated in the development or disposition of compendia recommendations and the manufacturer or seller of the drug or biological being reviewed by the compendium. This may include, for example, compensation arrangements such as salary, grant, contract, or collaboration agreements between individuals or the spouse or minor child of individuals who have substantively participated in the review and disposition of the request and the manufacturer or seller of the drug or biological being reviewed by the compendium.


(ii) Ownership or investment interests between individuals or the spouse or minor child of individuals who have substantively participated in the development or disposition of compendia recommendations and the manufacturer or seller of the drug or biological being reviewed by the compendium.


(b) *Process for listing compendia for determining medically-accepted uses of drugs and biologicals in anti-cancer treatment.* (1) The CMS process—


(i) Receives formal written requests for changes to the list of compendia during a 30 day window beginning January 15 each year.


(ii) Publishes a listing of the timely, complete requests by March 15th and solicits public comment on the requests for 30 days. The listing identifies the requestor and the requested action.


(iii) Considers a compendium's attainment of the MedCAC (Medicare Evidence Development and Coverage Advisory Committee, previously known as the MCAC—Medicare Coverage Advisory Committee) recommended desirable characteristics of compendia (including explicit listing and recommendations) in reviewing requests. CMS may consider additional reasonable factors.


(iv) Considers a compendium's grading of evidence used in making recommendations regarding off-label uses and the process by which the compendium grades the evidence.


(v) Considers whether the publication that is the subject of the request meets the definition of a compendium in this section.


(vi) Publishes its decision no later than 90 days after the close of the public comment period.


(2) *Exception.* In addition to the annual process outlined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, CMS may internally generate a request for changes to the list of compendia at any time.


(c) *Written request for review.* (1) CMS will review a complete, written request that is submitted in writing, electronically or via hard copy (no duplicate submissions) and includes the following:


(i) The full name and contact information of the requestor.


(ii) The full identification of the compendium that is the subject of the request, including name, publisher, edition if applicable, date of publication, and any other information needed for the accurate and precise identification of the specific compendium.


(iii) A complete written copy of the compendium that is the subject of the request.


(iv) The specific action that is requested of CMS.


(v) Materials that the requestor must submit for CMS review in support of the requested action.


(vi) A single compendium as its subject.


(d) CMS may at its discretion combine and consider multiple requests that refer to the same compendium.


(e) For the purposes of this section, publication by CMS may be accomplished by posting on the CMS Web site.



---

[N] [72 FR 66404, Nov. 27, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 62013, Nov. 25, 2009]










