# ยง 242.119   Training.

(a) Each railroad shall adopt and comply with a program that meets the requirements of this section. When any person including, but not limited to, each railroad, railroad officer, supervisor, and employee violates any requirement of a program which complies with the requirements of this section, that person shall be considered to have violated the requirements of this section.


(b) After the pertinent date specified in ยง 242.105(d) or (e), each railroad, prior to the initial issuance of a certificate to any person as a conductor, shall determine that the person has, in accordance with the requirements of this section, the knowledge to safely perform as a conductor in each type of service that the person will be permitted to perform.


(c) In making this determination, a railroad shall have written documentation showing that:


(1) The person completed a training program that complies with paragraph (d) of this section;


(2) The person demonstrated his or her knowledge by achieving a passing grade under the testing and evaluation procedures of that training program; and


(3) The person demonstrated that he or she is qualified on the physical characteristics of the railroad, or its pertinent segments, over which that person will perform service.


(d) A railroad that elects to train a previously untrained person to be a conductor shall develop an initial training program which, at a minimum, includes the following:


(1) Determine how training must be structured, developed, and delivered, including an appropriate combination of classroom, simulator, computer-based, correspondence, on-the-job training, or other formal training. The curriculum shall be designed to impart knowledge of, and ability to comply with applicable Federal railroad safety laws, regulations, and orders, as well as any relevant railroad rules and procedures promulgated to implement those applicable Federal railroad safety laws, regulations, and orders. This training shall document a person's knowledge of, and ability to comply with, Federal railroad safety laws, regulations, and orders, as well as railroad rules and procedures.


(2) The on-the-job portion of the training program shall consist of the following three key components:


(i) A brief statement describing the tasks and related steps the employee learning the job shall be able to perform;


(ii) A statement of the conditions (*e.g.,* prerequisites, tools, equipment, documentation, briefings, demonstrations, and practice) necessary for learning transfer; and


(iii) A statement of the standards by which proficiency is measured through a combination of task/step accuracy, completeness, and repetition.


(3) Prior to beginning the initial safety-related tasks associated with on-the-job exercises, employers shall make any relevant information or materials, such as operating rules, safety rules, or other rules available to employees involved for referencing.


(4) The tasks and related steps associated with on-the-job exercises for a particular type of conductor service (*e.g.,* passenger conductor) shall be maintained together in one manual, checklist, or similar document. This reference shall be made available to all employees involved in those on-the-job exercises.


(5) When new safety-related railroad laws, regulations, orders, technologies, procedures, or equipment are introduced into the workplace, the railroad must review its training program and modify its training plan accordingly.


(e) Prior to a previously untrained person being certified as a conductor, a railroad shall require the person to:


(1) Successfully complete the formal initial training program developed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section and any associated examinations covering the skills and knowledge the person will need to possess in order to perform the tasks necessary to be a conductor; and


(2) Demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the railroad with input from a qualified instructor, on-the-job proficiency by successfully completing the tasks necessary to be a conductor. However, a person may perform such tasks under the direct onsite supervision of a person, who has the necessary operating experience, as part of the on-the-job training process prior to completing such training and passing the field evaluation; and


(3) Demonstrate knowledge of the physical characteristics of any assigned territory by successfully completing a test created by a person qualified on the physical characteristics of the territory.


(f) If a railroad uses a written test for purposes of paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the railroad must provide the person(s) being tested with an opportunity to consult with a supervisory employee, who possesses territorial qualifications for the territory, to explain a question.


(g) A person may acquire familiarity with the physical characteristics of a territory through the following methods:


(1) The methods used by a railroad for familiarizing its conductors with new territory while starting up a new railroad;


(2) The methods used by a railroad for starting operations over newly acquired rail lines; or


(3) The methods used by a railroad for reopening of a long unused route.


(h) The methods listed in paragraph (g) of this section shall be described in the railroad's conductor qualification program required under this part and submitted according to the procedures described in Appendix B to this part.


(i) If ownership of a railroad is being transferred from one company to another, the conductor(s) of the acquiring company may receive familiarization training from the selling company prior to the acquiring railroad commencing operation.


(j) A railroad shall designate in its program required by this section the time period in which a conductor must be absent from a territory or yard, before requalification on physical characteristics is required.


(k) A railroad's program shall include the procedures used to qualify or requalify a person on the physical characteristics.


(l) A railroad shall provide for the continuing education of certified conductors to ensure that each conductor maintains the necessary knowledge concerning railroad safety and operating rules and compliance with all applicable Federal regulations, including, but not limited to, hazardous materials, passenger train emergency preparedness, brake system safety standards, pre-departure inspection procedures, and passenger equipment safety standards, and physical characteristics of a territory.




