# § 120.425   What are the minimum elements that SBA will require before consenting to a securitization?

A securitizer must comply with the following three conditions:


(a) Capital Requirement—All securitizers must be considered to be “well capitalized” by their regulator. SBA will consider a depository institution to be in compliance with this section if it meets the definition of “well capitalized” used by its bank regulator. SBA's capital requirement does not change the requirements that banks already meet. For nondepository institutions, SBA, as the regulator, will consider a non-depository institution to be “well capitalized” if it maintains a minimum unencumbered paid in capital and paid in surplus equal to at least 10 percent of its assets, excluding the guaranteed portion of 7(a) loans. The capital charge applies to the remaining balance outstanding on the unguaranteed portion of the securitizer's 7(a) loans in its portfolio and in any securitization pools. Each nondepository institution must submit annual audited financial statements demonstrating that it has met SBA's capital requirement.


(b) Subordinated Tranche—A securitizer or its wholly owned subsidiary must retain a tranche of the securities issued in the securitization (subordinated tranche) equal to the greater of two times the securitizer's Loss Rate or 2 percent of the principal balance outstanding at the time of securitization of the unguaranteed portion of the loans in the securitization. This tranche must be subordinate to all other securities issued in the securitization including other subordinated tranches. The securitizer or its wholly owned subsidiary may not sell, pledge, transfer, assign, sell participations in, or otherwise convey the subordinated tranche during the first 6 years after the closing date of the securitization. The securities evidencing the subordinated tranche must bear a legend stating that the securities may not be sold until 6 years after the issue date. SBA's Securitization Committee may modify the formula for determining the tranche size for a securitizer creating a securitization from a pool of loans located in a region affected by a severe economic downturn if the Securitization Committee concludes that enforcing this section might exacerbate the adverse economic conditions in the region. SBA will work with the securitizer to verify the accuracy of the data used to make the Loss Rate calculation.


(c) PLP Privilege Suspension.


(1) *Suspension:* If a securitizer's Currency Rate declines, SBA may suspend the securitizer's PLP unilateral loan approval privileges (PLP approval privileges) if the decline from the securitizer's ICR is more than the Benchmark Number as published in the _Federal Register_ from time to time and the securitizer's Currency Rate Percentage is less than its ICRP. The securitizer will first be placed on probation for one quarter. If, at the end of the probationary quarter the securitizer has not met either of the following conditions in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section, SBA will suspend the securitizer's PLP approval privileges and will not approve additional securitization requests from that securitizer. SBA will provide written notice at least 10 days prior to the effective date of suspension. The suspension will last a minimum of 3 months. During the suspension period, the securitizer must use Certified Lender or Regular Procedures to process 7(a) loan applications. The prohibition will end if, at the end of the probationary quarter: (i) the securitizer has improved its Currency Rate to above its ICR less the Benchmark Number; or (ii) its Currency Rate Percentage is either the same or greater than its ICRP.


(2) *Reinstatement:* The suspension will remain in effect until the securitizer meets either the condition in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section. If the securitizer meets either condition by the end of the 3-month period, notifies SBA with acceptable documentation, and SBA agrees, SBA will reinstate the securitizer. If the securitizer cannot meet either condition, the suspension will remain in effect. The securitizer may then petition the Lender Oversight Committee (Committee) for reinstatement. The Committee will review the reinstatement petition and determine if the securitizer's PLP approval privilege and securitization status should be reinstated. The Committee may consider the economic conditions in the securitizer's market area, the securitizer's efforts to improve its Currency Rate, and the quality of the securitizer's 7(a) loan packages and servicing. The Committee will consider only one petition by a securitizer per quarter.


(3) *The Benchmark Number.* SBA will monitor the Benchmark Number. If economic conditions or policy considerations warrant, SBA may modify the Benchmark Number to protect the safety and soundness of the 7(a) program.


(4) *Data.* SBA will calculate Currency Rate and Currency Rate Percentages quarterly from financial information that securitizers provide. SBA will work with a securitizer to verify the accuracy of the data used to make the Currency Rate calculation.



---

[N] [64 FR 6508, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 49481, Aug. 14, 2000; 73 FR 75511, Dec. 11, 2008]




