# ยง 719.4   Violations and sanctions under the Act not subject to proceedings under the CWCR.

(a) *Criminal penalties for development or use of a chemical weapon.* Any person who violates 18 U.S.C. 229 shall be fined, or imprisoned for any term of years, or both. Any person who violates 18 U.S.C. 229 and by whose action the death of another person is the result shall be punished by death or imprisoned for life.


(b) *Civil penalty for development or use of a chemical weapon.* The Attorney General may bring a civil action in the appropriate United States district court against any person who violates 18 U.S.C. 229 and, upon proof of such violation by a preponderance of the evidence, such person shall be subject to pay a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $100,000 for each such violation.


(c) *Criminal forfeiture.* (1) Any person convicted under section 229A(a) of Title 18 of the United States Code shall forfeit to the United States irrespective of any provision of State law:


(i) Any property, real or personal, owned, possessed, or used by a person involved in the offense;


(ii) Any property constituting, or derived from, and proceeds the person obtained, directly or indirectly, as the result of such violation; and


(iii) Any of the property used in any manner or part, to commit, or to facilitate the commission of, such violation.


(2) In lieu of a fine otherwise authorized by section 229A(a) of Title 18 of the United States Code, a defendant who derived profits or other proceeds from an offense may be fined not more than twice the gross profits or other proceeds.


(d) *Injunction.* (1) The United States may, in a civil action, obtain an injunction against:


(i) The conduct prohibited under section 229 or 229C of Title 18 of the United States Code; or


(ii) The preparation or solicitation to engage in conduct prohibited under section 229 or 229D of Title 18 of the United States Code.


(2) In addition, the United States may, in a civil action, restrain any violation of section 306 or 405 of the Act, or compel the taking of any action required by or under the Act or the Convention.




