# § 324.63   Disclosures by FDIC-supervised institutions described in § 324.61.

(a) Except as provided in § 324.62, an FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.61 must make the disclosures described in Tables 1 through 10 of this section. The FDIC-supervised institution must make these disclosures publicly available for each of the last three years (that is, twelve quarters) or such shorter period beginning on January 1, 2015.


(b) An FDIC-supervised institution must publicly disclose each quarter the following:


(1) Common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, tier 2 capital, tier 1 and total capital ratios, including the regulatory capital elements and all the regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate the numerator of such ratios;


(2) Total risk-weighted assets, including the different regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate total risk-weighted assets;


(3) Regulatory capital ratios during any transition periods, including a description of all the regulatory capital elements and all regulatory adjustments and deductions needed to calculate the numerator and denominator of each capital ratio during any transition period; and


(4) A reconciliation of regulatory capital elements as they relate to its balance sheet in any audited consolidated financial statements.


(c) *General qualitative disclosure requirement.* For each separate risk area described in Tables 5 through 10, the FDIC-supervised institution must describe its risk management objectives and policies, including: strategies and processes; the structure and organization of the relevant risk management function; the scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems; policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants.


(d) A Category III FDIC-supervised institution that is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 324.172(d) is subject to the supplementary leverage ratio disclosure requirement at § 324.173(a)(2).


(e) A Category III FDIC-supervised institution that is required to calculate a countercyclical capital buffer pursuant to § 324.11 is subject to the disclosure requirement at Table 4 to § 324.173, “Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital Buffers,” and not to the disclosure requirement at Table 4 to this section, “Capital Conservation Buffer.”



---

[N] [78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62417, Oct. 22, 2013; 79 FR 20760, Apr. 14, 2014; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 35278, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 59279, Nov. 1, 2019]




