# § 250.18   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Inventory and distribution of donated foods.* The distributing agency must submit to FNS reports relating to the inventory and distribution of donated foods in this paragraph (a) or in other regulations applicable to specific programs. Such reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeframes established for each respective form. For donated foods received in FDPIR, the distributing agency must submit form FNS-152, *Monthly Distribution of Donated Foods to Family Units.* For donated foods received in TEFAP, NSLP, or other child nutrition programs, the distributing agency must submit form FNS-155, the *Inventory Management Register.*

(b) *Processor performance.* Processors must submit performance reports and other supporting documentation, as required by the distributing agency or by FNS, in accordance with § 250.37(a), to ensure compliance with requirements in this part.


(c) *Disasters and situations of distress.* The distributing agency must submit to FNS a report of the types and amounts of donated foods used from distributing or recipient agency storage facilities in disasters and situations of distress, and a request for replacement of such foods, using electronic form FNS-292A, *Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,* in accordance with §§ 250.69 and 250.70. The report must be submitted within 45 days of the termination of such assistance.


(d) *Other information.* The distributing agency must submit other information, as requested by FNS, in order to ensure compliance with requirements in this part. For example, FNS may require the distributing agency to submit information with respect to its assessment of the distribution charge, or to justify the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of its distribution system, in accordance with § 250.13(c) and (d).



---

[N] [81 FR 23100, Apr. 19, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 18927, May 1, 2018]




