# § 43.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior. 


(b) *Educational institution* means any institution operated under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs either directly or by contract, including, but not limited to, schools or dormitories from which Indian students attend public schools. 


(c) *Eligible student* means a student who has become 18 years of age or is attending an institution of post-secondary education. When a student becomes an *eligible student,* the permission required of and the rights given to the parents of the student shall thereafter only be required of and given to the student. 


(d) *Parent* means a natural parent, an adoptive parent, the legal guardian, or a legal custodian of a student. (Where the natural parents are unavailable, a required written parental consent may be obtained from the person who has assumed custody of the student.) For purposes of the Education of All Handicapped Children Act, the term *parent* also includes a *surrogate* as referred to in 20 U.S.C. 1415(b)(1)(B). 


(e) *Student records* means those records, files, documents, and other materials which contain information directly related to a student and which are maintained by an educational institution, or by a person acting for that institution. The term does not include: 


(1) Records of any educational personnel which are in the sole possession of the maker and which are not accessible or revealed to any other person except a substitute. 


(2) Records made and maintained in the normal course of business which relate exclusively to persons who are employed in an educational institution but do not attend that institution. 


(3) Directory information as given in § 43.20. 


(4) Records on a student who is 18 years of age or older, or is attending an institution of post-secondary education, which are made or maintained by a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other recognized professional or paraprofessional acting in his professional or paraprofessional capacity, or assisting in that capacity, and which are made, maintained, or used only in connection with the provision of treatment to the student, and are not available to anyone other than persons providing such treatment, except that such records can be personally reviewed by a physician or other appropriate professional of the student's choice. 




