# § 142.13   When entry summary must be filed at time of entry.

(a) *Authority of CBP.* The CBP may require that the entry summary documentation be filed and that estimated duties, if any, be deposited at the time of entry before the merchandise is released if the importer: 


(1) Has failed repeatedly to file timely entry summary documentation without justification, 


(2) Has not taken prompt action to settle a claim for liquidated damages issued under § 142.15 for failure to file entry summary documentation timely, or a claim for liquidated damages issued under the basic importation and entry bond for failure to deposit estimated duties, taxes and charges timely, as provided in such bond. “Prompt action” means that the importer, within the time specified in a claim for liquidated damages, shall petition for relief or pay the amount claimed and, in appropriate cases, file the entry summary documentation and deposit estimated duties, if any, or 


(3) Has repeatedly delivered entry summary documentation, which is incomplete or which contains erroneous information. 


(4) Is substantially or habitually delinquent in the payment of Customs bills. See § 142.14.


(b) *Special classes of merchandise*—(1) *Quota-class merchandise.* Quota-class merchandise shall not be released upon delivery of entry documentation before presentation of:


(i) An entry summary for consumption with estimated duties attached; or


(ii) A withdrawal for consumption with estimated duties attached; or


(iii) An entry summary for consumption, without the estimated duties attached, if the entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date have been successfully received by Customs via the Automated Broker Interface. (See part 132 and § 24.25 of this chapter.)


(2) *Other classes of merchandise.* Entry summary documentation, with estimated duties attached, or a withdrawal for consumption with estimated duties attached, or an entry summary for consumption, without the estimated duties attached if the entry/entry summary information and a valid scheduled statement date have previously been transmitted to Customs via the Automated Broker Interface (see § 24.25 of this chapter) shall be filed at the time of entry before release of any other merchandise of a class designated by Customs Headquarters.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Brokers; restriction.* A broker shall not circumvent an action taken under this section by applying for release of the importer's merchandise in the broker's name and under the broker's bond. 



---

[N] [T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46821, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989; T.D. 93-37, 58 FR 30984, May 28, 1993; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995; CBP 

Dec. No. 16-26, 81 FR 93020, Dec. 20, 2016]




