# ยง 10.14   Fabricated components subject to the exemption.

(a) *Fabricated components, the product of the United States.* Except as provided in ยง 10.15, the exemption provided under subheading 9802.00.80, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202), applies to fabricated components, the product of the United States. The components must be in condition ready for assembly without further fabrication at the time of their exportation from the United States to qualify for the exemption. Components will not lose their entitlement to the exemption by being subjected to operations incidental to the assembly either before, during, or after their assembly with other components. Materials undefined in final dimensions and shapes, which are cut into specific shapes or patterns abroad are not considered fabricated components.


(b) *Substantial transformation of foreign-made articles or materials.* Foreign-made articles or materials may become products of the United States if they undergo a process of manufacture in the United States which results in their substantial transformation. Substantial transformation occurs when, as a result of manufacturing processes, a new and different article emerges, having a distinctive name, character, or use, which is different from that originally possessed by the article or material before being subject to the manufacturing process. The mere finishing or modification of a partially or nearly complete foreign product in the United States will not result in the substantial transformation of such product and it remains the product of a foreign country.



---

[N] [T.D. 75-230, 40 FR 43022, Sept. 18, 1975, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51247, Dec. 21, 1988]




