# § 1065.257   H

(a) *Component requirements.* We recommend that you use an analyzer that meets the specifications in § 1065.205. Note that your system must meet the linearity verification in § 1065.307 with a humidity generator meeting the requirements of § 1065.750(a)(6).


(b) *Measurement principles.* Use appropriate analytical procedures for interpretation of infrared spectra. For example, EPA Test Method 320 (see § 1065.266(b)) and ASTM D6348 (incorporated by reference, see § 1065.1010) are considered valid methods for spectral interpretation. You must use heated analyzers that maintain all surfaces that are exposed to emissions at a temperature of (110 to 202) °C.


(c) *Instrument types.* You may use any of the following analyzers to measure H_2_O:


(1) Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) analyzer.


(2) Laser infrared analyzer. Examples of laser infrared analyzers are pulsed-mode high-resolution narrow band mid-infrared analyzers and modulated continuous wave high-resolution narrow band near or mid-infrared analyzers.


(d) *Interference verification.* Certain compounds can interfere with FTIR and laser infrared analyzers by causing a response similar to water. Perform interference verification for the following interference species:


(1) Perform CO_2_ interference verification for FTIR analyzers using the procedures of § 1065.357. Use good engineering judgment to determine other interference species for FTIR analyzers when performing interference verification. Consider at least CO, NO, C_2_H_4_, and C_7_H_8_. Perform interference verifications using the procedures of § 1065.357, replacing occurances of CO_2_ with each targeted interference species. Determine interference species under this paragraph (d)(1) that are appropriate for each H_2_O infrared absorption band, or you may identify the interference species based on the instrument manufacturer's recommendations.


(2) Perform interference verification for laser infrared analyzers using the procedures of § 1065.375. Use good engineering judgment to determine interference species for laser infrared analyzers. Note that interference species are dependent on the H_2_O infrared absorption band chosen by the instrument manufacturer. For each analyzer determine the H_2_O infrared absorption band. Determine interference species under this paragraph (d)(2) that are appropriate for each H_2_O infrared absorption band, or you may identify the interference species based on the instrument manufacturer's recommendations.





---

[N] [89 FR 29795, Apr. 22, 2024]






