# ยง 5.54   Types of authorizations available.

The Commission issues the following types of experimental authorizations:


(a)(1) *Conventional experimental radio license.* This type of license is issued for a specific research or experimentation project (or a series of closely-related research or experimentation projects), a product development trial, or a market trial. Widely divergent and unrelated experiments must be conducted under separate licenses.


(2) *Special temporary authorization.* When an experimental program is expected to last no more than six months, its operation is considered to be temporary and the special temporary authorization procedure outlined in ยง 5.61 must be used.


(b) *Broadcast experimental radio license.* This type of license is issued for the purpose of research and experimentation for the development and advancement of new broadcast technology, equipment, systems or services. This is limited to stations intended for reception and use by the general public.


(c) *Program experimental radio license.* This type of license is issued to qualified institutions and to conduct an ongoing program of research and experimentation under a single experimental authorization subject to the requirements of subpart E of this part. Program experimental radio licenses are available to colleges, universities, research laboratories, manufacturers of radio frequency equipment, manufacturers that integrate radio frequency equipment into their end products, and medical research institutions.


(d) *Medical testing experimental radio license.* This type of license is issued to hospitals and health care institutions that demonstrate expertise in testing and operation of experimental medical devices that use wireless telecommunications technology or communications functions in clinical trials for diagnosis, treatment, or patient monitoring.


(e) *Compliance testing experimental radio license.* This type of license will be issued to laboratories recognized by the FCC under subpart J of part 2 of this chapter to perform:


(1) Testing of radio frequency devices, and


(2) Testing of radio frequency equipment in an Open Area Test Site.


(f) *Spectrum Horizons experimental radio license.* This type of license is issued for the purpose of testing and marketing devices on frequencies above 95 GHz, where there are no existing service rules.


(g) An experimental license is not required when operation of a radiofrequency device is fully contained within an anechoic chamber or a Faraday cage.



---

[N] [78 FR 25162, Apr. 29, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 25690, June 4, 2019]




