# § 351.507   Equity.

(a) *Benefit*—(1) *In general.* In the case of a government-provided equity infusion, a benefit exists to the extent that the investment decision is inconsistent with the usual investment practice of private investors, including the practice regarding the provision of risk capital, in the country in which the equity infusion is made. *See* section 771(5)(E)(i) of the Act.


(2) *Private investor prices available*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the Secretary will consider an equity infusion as being inconsistent with usual investment practice (*see* paragraph (a)(1) of this section) if the price paid by the government for newly issued shares is greater than the price paid by private investors for the same (or similar form of) newly issued shares.


(ii) *Timing of private investor prices.* In selecting a private investor price under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the Secretary will rely on sales of newly issued shares made reasonably concurrently with the newly issued shares purchased by the government.


(iii) *Significant private sector participation required.* The Secretary will not use private investor prices under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section if the Secretary concludes that private investor purchases of newly issued shares are not significant.


(iv) *Adjustments for “similar” form of equity.* Where the Secretary uses private investor prices for a form of shares that is similar to the newly issued shares purchased by the government (*see* paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section), the Secretary, where appropriate, will adjust the prices to reflect the differences in the forms of shares.


(3) *Actual private investor prices unavailable*—(i) *In general.* If actual private investor prices are not available under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Secretary will determine whether the firm funded by the government-provided equity was equityworthy or unequityworthy at the time of the equity infusion (*see* paragraph (a)(4) of this section). If the Secretary determines that the firm was equityworthy, the Secretary will apply paragraph (a)(5) of this section to determine whether the equity infusion was inconsistent with the usual investment practice of private investors. A determination by the Secretary that the firm was unequityworthy will constitute a determination that the equity infusion was inconsistent with usual investment practice of private investors, and the Secretary will apply paragraph (a)(6) of this section to measure the benefit attributable to the equity infusion.


(4) *Equityworthiness*—(i) *In general.* The Secretary will consider a firm to have been equityworthy if the Secretary determines that, from the perspective of a reasonable private investor examining the firm at the time the government-provided equity infusion was made, the firm showed an ability to generate a reasonable rate of return within a reasonable period of time. The Secretary may, in appropriate circumstances, focus its equityworthiness analysis on a project rather than the company as a whole. In making the equityworthiness determination, the Secretary may examine the following factors, among others:


(A) Objective analyses of the future financial prospects of the recipient firm or the project as indicated by, *inter alia,* market studies, economic forecasts, and project or loan appraisals prepared prior to the government-provided equity infusion in question;


(B) Current and past indicators of the recipient firm's financial health calculated from the firm's statements and accounts, adjusted, if appropriate, to conform to generally accepted accounting principles;


(C) Rates of return on equity in the three years prior to the government equity infusion; and


(D) Equity investment in the firm by private investors.


(ii) *Significance of a pre-infusion objective analysis.* For purposes of making an equityworthiness determination, the Secretary will request and normally require from the respondents the information and analysis completed prior to the infusion, upon which the government based its decision to provide the equity infusion (*see,* paragraph (a)(4)(i)(A) of this section). Absent the existence or provision of an objective analysis, containing information typically examined by potential private investors considering an equity investment, the Secretary will normally determine that the equity infusion received provides a countervailable benefit within the meaning of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The Secretary will not necessarily make such a determination if the absence of an objective analysis is consistent with the actions of reasonable private investors in the country in question.


(iii) *Significance of prior subsidies.* In determining whether a firm was equityworthy, the Secretary will ignore current and prior subsidies received by the firm.


(5) *Benefit where firm is equityworthy.* If the Secretary determines that the firm or project was equityworthy (*see* paragraph (a)(4) of this section), the Secretary will examine the terms and the nature of the equity purchased to determine whether the investment was otherwise inconsistent with the usual investment practice of private investors. If the Secretary determines that the investment was inconsistent with usual private investment practice, the Secretary will determine the amount of the benefit conferred on a case-by-case basis.


(6) *Benefit where firm is unequityworthy.* If the Secretary determines that the firm or project was unequityworthy (*see* paragraph (a)(4) of this section), a benefit to the firm exists in the amount of the equity infusion.


(7) *Allegations.* The Secretary will not investigate an equity infusion in a firm absent a specific allegation by the petitioner which is supported by information establishing a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that the firm received an equity infusion that provides a countervailable benefit within the meaning of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Time of receipt of benefit.* In the case of a government-provided equity infusion, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit to have been received on the date on which the firm received the equity infusion.


(c) *Outside investor standard.* Any analysis made under paragraph (a) of this section will be based upon the standard of a new outside private investor. The Secretary normally will consider whether an outside private investor, under its usual investment practice, would make an equity investment in the firm, and not whether a private investor who has already invested in the firm would continue to invest in the firm.


(d) *Allocation of benefit to a particular time period.* The benefit conferred by an equity infusion shall be allocated over a period of 12 years or the same time period as a non-recurring subsidy under § 351.524(d), whichever is longer.



---

[N] [63 FR 65407, Nov. 25, 1998, as amended at 89 FR 20841, Mar. 25, 2024]








