# ยง 117.547   Bush River.

The draw of the Amtrak Bridge, mile 6.8 at Perryman, shall operate as follows:


(a) Shall open twice a day from May 1 through October 31, on Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays that fall on a Friday or a Monday, when a proper request has been received.


(b) Request for an opening is given to the Amtrak Assistant Division Engineer at 410-642-1588 and or email at *BridgeOpeningRequest@Amtrak.com* by an authorized representative of the Bush River Yacht Club no later than noon on the Friday just preceding the day of opening or, if that Friday is a Federal holiday, no later than noon on the preceding Thursday.


(c) Amtrak determines the times for openings and shall schedule the times:


(1) During daylight hours, six to ten hours apart; and


(2) One opening before noon and one after noon.


(3) In emergent situations after notification is given to the numbers indicated in paragraph (b) of this section it can take up to six hours for the bridge to open.


(d) Amtrak shall notify a representative of the Bush River Yacht Club of the times of all openings for the weekend (or extended weekend) in question no later than 6 p.m., on the Friday just preceding the weekend or, if that Friday is a Federal holiday, no later than 6 p.m., on the preceding Thursday.


(e) Each opening shall be of sufficient duration to pass waiting vessels.


(f) At all other times the draw need not open for the passage of vessels.



---

[N] [USCG-2013-0972, 79 FR 30728, May 29, 2014]




