# § 206.5   What definitions apply to these programs?

(a) *Definitions in EDGAR.* The following terms used in this part are defined in 34 CFR 77.1(c) (EDGAR, Definitions):


(b) *Definitions in the grants administration regulations.* The following terms used in this part are defined in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted in 2 CFR part 3474:


(c) *Program definitions.* The following additional definitions apply specifically to HEP and CAMP:


(1) *Act* means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended.


(2) *Agricultural activity* means:


(i) Any activity directly related to the production of crops, dairy products, poultry, or livestock;


(ii) Any activity directly related to the cultivation or harvesting of trees; or


(iii) Any activity directly related to fish farms.


(3) *Farmwork* means any agricultural activity, performed for either wages or personal subsistence, on a farm, ranch, or similar establishment.


(4) *Full-time,* with respect to an individual, means a student who is carrying a full-time academic workload, as defined in 34 CFR part 690 (regulations for the Pell Grant Program).


(5) *Immediate family member* means one or more of the following:


(i) A spouse.


(ii) A parent, step-parent, adoptive parent, foster parent, or anyone with guardianship.


(iii) Any person who—


(A) Claims the individual as a dependent on a Federal income tax return for either of the previous two years, or


(B) Resides in the same household as the individual, supports that individual financially, and is a relative of that individual.


(6) *Institution of higher education* means an educational institution that:


(i) Is in a State;


(ii) Is authorized by that State to provide a program of education beyond secondary school;


(iii) Is a public or nonprofit institution;


(iv) Admits as a regular student only a person who:


(A) Has a secondary school diploma;


(B) Has the recognized equivalent of a secondary school diploma; or


(C) Is beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in that State and has the ability to benefit from the training offered by the institution;


(v) Provides:


(A) An educational program for which it awards a bachelor's degree; or


(B) At least a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree;


(vi)(A) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association;


(B) Has satisfactorily assured the Secretary that it will meet the accreditation standards of a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association within a reasonable time considering the resources available to the institution, the period of time, if any, it has operated, and its effort to meet accreditation standards; or


(C) Has its credits accepted on transfer by at least three accredited institutions on the same basis as those institutions accept transfer credits from fully accredited institutions.


(7) *Migrant farmworker* means a seasonal farmworker—as defined in paragraph (c)(8) of this section—whose employment required travel that precluded the farmworker from returning to his or her domicile (permanent place of residence) within the same day.


(8) *Seasonal farmworker* means a person whose primary employment was in farmwork on a temporary or seasonal basis (that is, not a constant year-round activity) for a period of at least 75 days within the past 24 months.


(d) *Other definitions.* For purposes of determining program eligibility under § 206.3(a)(2), the definitions in 34 CFR 200.81 (Title I—Migrant Education Program) and 20 CFR 633.104 (Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor—Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker Programs) apply. 



---

[N] [46 FR 35075, July 6, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 24920, July 1, 1987; 57 FR 60407, Dec. 18, 1992; 75 FR 65770, Oct. 26, 2010; 79 FR 76095, Dec. 19, 2014] 




