# § 990.70   State and Tribal hemp reporting requirements.

(a) *State and Tribal hemp producer report.* Each State and Indian Tribe with a plan approved under this part shall submit to USDA, by the first of each month, a report providing the contact information and the status of the license or other authorization issued for each producer covered under the applicable State and Tribal plans. If the first of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, the report is due by the first business day following the due date. The report shall be submitted using a digital format compatible with USDA's information sharing systems, whenever possible. The report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (a).


(1)(i) For each new producer who is an individual and is licensed or authorized under the State or Tribal plan, the report shall include the full name of the individual, license or authorization identifier, Employee Identification Number (“EIN”) of the business entity, business address, telephone number, and email address (if available).


(ii) For each new producer that is an entity and is licensed or authorized under the State or Tribal plan, the report shall include full name of the entity, the principal business location address, license or authorization identifier, and the full name, title, and email address (if available) of each employee for whom the entity is required to submit a criminal history report.


(iii) For each producer that was included in a previous report and whose reported information has changed, the report shall include the previously reported information and the new information.


(2) The status of each producer's license or authorization.


(3) The period covered by the report.


(4) Indication that there were no changes during the current reporting cycle, if applicable.


(b) *State and Tribal hemp disposal or remediation report.* If a producer has produced cannabis exceeding the acceptable hemp THC level, the cannabis must be disposed of or remediated. States and Tribes with plans approved under this part shall submit to USDA, by the first of each month, a report notifying USDA of any occurrence of non-conforming plants or plant material and providing a disposal or remediation record of those plants and materials. This report would include information regarding name and contact information for each producer subject to a disposal or remediation during the reporting period, and date disposal or remediation was completed. If the first of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the due date. The report shall contain the information described in this paragraph (b).


(1) Name and address of the producer.


(2) Producer license or authorization identifier.


(3) Location information, such as lot number, location type, and geospatial location or other location descriptor for the production area subject to disposal or remediation.


(4) Disposal or remediation completion date.


(5) Total acreage.


(c) *Annual report.* Each State or Indian Tribe with a plan approved under this part shall submit an annual report to USDA. The report form shall be submitted by December 15 of each year and contain the information described in this paragraph (c).


(1) Total planted acreage.


(2) Total harvested acreage.


(3) Total acreage disposed and remediated.


(d) *Test results report.* Each producer must ensure that the laboratory that conducts the test of the sample(s) from its lots reports the test results to USDA. Informal testing conducted throughout the growing season for purposes of monitoring THC concentration do not need to be reported to USDA. The test results report shall contain:


(1) Producer's license or authorization identifier.


(2) Name of producer.


(3) Business address of producer.


(4) Lot identification number for the sample.


(5) Name of laboratory and, no later than December 31, 2022, the DEA registration number of laboratory for testing.


(6) Date of test and report.


(7) Identification of a pre-harvest or post-harvest retest.


(8) Test result.




