# § 431.192   Definitions.

The following definitions apply for purposes of this subpart:


*Autotransformer* means a transformer that:


(1) Has one physical winding that consists of a series winding part and a common winding part;


(2) Has no isolation between its primary and secondary circuits; and


(3) During step-down operation, has a primary voltage that is equal to the total of the series and common winding voltages, and a secondary voltage that is equal to the common winding voltage.


*Auxiliary device* means a localized component of a distribution transformer that is a circuit breaker, switch, fuse, or surge/lightning arrester.


*Basic model* means a group of models of distribution transformers manufactured by a single manufacturer, that have the same insulation type (*i.e.,* liquid-immersed or dry-type), have the same number of phases (*i.e.,* single or three), have the same standard kVA rating, and do not have any differentiating electrical, physical or functional features that affect energy consumption. Differences in voltage and differences in basic impulse insulation level (BIL) rating are examples of differentiating electrical features that affect energy consumption.




*Distribution transformer* means a transformer that—


(1) Has an input line voltage of 34.5 kV or less;


(2) Has an output line voltage of 600 V or less;


(3) Is rated for operation at a frequency of 60 Hz; and


(4) Has a capacity of 10 kVA to 5000 kVA for liquid-immersed units and 15 kVA to 5000 kVA for dry-type units; but


(5) The term “distribution transformer” does not include a transformer that is an—


(i) Autotransformer;


(ii) Drive (isolation) transformer;


(iii) Grounding transformer;


(iv) Machine-tool (control) transformer;


(v) Nonventilated transformer;


(vi) Rectifier transformer;


(vii) Regulating transformer;


(viii) Sealed transformer;


(ix) Special-impedance transformer;


(x) Testing transformer;


(xi) Transformer with tap range of 20 percent or more;


(xii) Uninterruptible power supply transformer; or


(xiii) Welding transformer.






*Drive (isolation) transformer* means a transformer that:


(1) Isolates an electric motor from the line;


(2) Accommodates the added loads of drive-created harmonics;


(3) Is designed to withstand the additional mechanical stresses resulting from an alternating current adjustable frequency motor drive or a direct current motor drive; and


(4) Has a rated output voltage that is neither “208Y/120” nor “480Y/277”.






*Efficiency* means the ratio of the useful power output to the total power input.


*Excitation current* or *no-load current* means the current that flows in any winding used to excite the transformer when all other windings are open-circuited.


*Grounding transformer* means a three-phase transformer intended primarily to provide a neutral point for system-grounding purposes, either by means of:


(1) A grounded wye primary winding and a delta secondary winding; or


(2) A transformer with its primary winding in a zig-zag winding arrangement, and with no secondary winding.


*Liquid-immersed distribution transformer* means a distribution transformer in which the core and coil assembly is immersed in an insulating liquid.


*Load loss* means, for a distribution transformer, those losses incident to a specified load carried by the transformer, including losses in the windings as well as stray losses in the conducting parts of the transformer. 


*Low-voltage dry-type distribution transformer* means a distribution transformer that has an input voltage of 600 volts or less and has the core and coil assembly immersed in a gaseous or dry-compound insulating medium.


*Machine-tool (control) transformer* means a transformer that is equipped with a fuse or other over-current protection device, and is generally used for the operation of a solenoid, contactor, relay, portable tool, or localized lighting.


*Medium-voltage dry-type distribution transformer* means a distribution transformer in which the core and coil assembly is immersed in a gaseous or dry-compound insulating medium, and which has a rated primary voltage between 601 V and 34.5 kV.


*Mining distribution transformer* means a medium-voltage dry-type distribution transformer that is built only for installation in an underground mine or surface mine, inside equipment for use in an underground mine or surface mine, on-board equipment for use in an underground mine or surface mine, or for equipment used for digging, drilling, or tunneling underground or above ground, and that has a nameplate which identifies the transformer as being for this use only.


*No-load loss* means those losses that are incident to the excitation of the transformer.




*Nonventilated transformer* means a dry-type transformer constructed so as to prevent external air circulation through the coils of the transformer while operating at zero gauge pressure.




*Per-unit load* means the fraction of rated load.


*Phase angle* means the angle between two phasors, where the two phasors represent progressions of periodic waves of either:


(1) Two voltages;


(2) Two currents; or


(3) A voltage and a current of an alternating current circuit.


*Phase angle correction* means the adjustment (correction) of measurement data to negate the effects of phase angle error.


*Phase angle error* means incorrect displacement of the phase angle, introduced by the components of the test equipment.


*Rectifier transformer* means a transformer that operates at the fundamental frequency of an alternating-current system and that is designed to have one or more output windings connected to a rectifier.


*Reference temperature* means the temperature at which the transformer losses are determined, and to which such losses are corrected if testing is done at a different point. (Reference temperature values are specified in the test method in appendix A to this subpart.)


*Regulating transformer* means a transformer that varies the voltage, the phase angle, or both voltage and phase angle, of an output circuit and compensates for fluctuation of load and input voltage, phase angle or both voltage and phase angle.


*Sealed transformer* means a dry-type transformer designed to remain hermetically sealed under specified conditions of temperature and pressure.






*Special-impedance transformer* means a transformer built to operate at an impedance outside of the normal impedance range for that transformer's kVA rating. The normal impedance range for each kVA rating for liquid-immersed and dry-type transformers is shown in Tables 1 and 2, respectively.




*Submersible distribution transformer* means a liquid-immersed distribution transformer, so constructed as to be operable when fully or partially submerged in water including the following features—


(1) Has sealed-tank construction; and


(2) Has the tank, cover, and all external appurtenances made of corrosion-resistant material or with appropriate corrosion resistant surface treatment to induce the components surface to be corrosion resistant.




*Temperature correction* means the mathematical correction(s) of measurement data, obtained when a transformer is tested at a temperature that is different from the reference temperature, to the value(s) that would have been obtained if the transformer had been tested at the reference temperature.


*Terminal* means a conducting element of a distribution transformer providing electrical connection to an external conductor that is not part of the transformer.


*Test current* means the current of the electrical power supplied to the transformer under test.


*Test frequency* means the frequency of the electrical power supplied to the transformer under test.


*Test voltage* means the voltage of the electrical power supplied to the transformer under test.


*Testing transformer* means a transformer used in a circuit to produce a specific voltage or current for the purpose of testing electrical equipment.


*Total loss* means the sum of the no-load loss and the load loss for a transformer. 


*Transformer* means a device consisting of 2 or more coils of insulated wire that transfers alternating current by electromagnetic induction from 1 coil to another to change the original voltage or current value.




*Transformer with tap range of 20 percent or more* means a transformer with multiple voltage taps, each capable of operating at full, rated capacity (kVA), whose range, defined as the difference between the highest voltage tap and the lowest voltage tap, is 20 percent or more of the highest voltage tap.




*Uninterruptible power supply transformer* means a transformer that is used within an uninterruptible power system, which in turn supplies power to loads that are sensitive to power failure, power sages, over voltage, switching transients, line notice, and other power quality factors. It does not include distribution transformers at the input, output, or by-pass of an uninterruptible power system.






*Waveform correction* means the adjustment(s) (mathematical correction(s)) of measurement data obtained with a test voltage that is non-sinusoidal, to a value(s) that would have been obtained with a sinusoidal voltage.


*Welding transformer* means a transformer designed for use in arc welding equipment or resistance welding equipment.



---

[N] [70 FR 60416, Oct. 18, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 24995, Apr. 27, 2006; 71 FR 60662, Oct. 16, 2006; 72 FR 58239, Oct. 12, 2007; 78 FR 23433, Apr. 18, 2013; 86 FR 51252, Sept. 14, 2021; 89 FR 30039, Apr. 22, 2024; 90 FR 6795, Jan. 21, 2025]




