# ยง 530.205   Mandatory denial or revocation.

The Administrator shall deny or revoke a certificate in accordance with the following standards and for the period specified in the standards:


(a) *Serious wage violations.* Upon a finding by the Administrator of a serious wage violation, a certificate shall be denied (including refusal to renew) or revoked for one year. A serious wage violation is defined as minimum wage or overtime pay violations of the Act totalling $10,000 or more with respect to homeworkers; or minimum wage violations where 10 percent or more of a certificate holder's homeworkers (but in all cases at least two homeworkers) failed to receive at least 80 percent of the minimum wage for all hours worked for 6 or more weeks in any 3 month period; or minimum wage or overtime pay violations affecting more than half of the homeworkers of the certificate holder for 6 or more weeks in any 3 month period. All other wage violations are deemed non-serious wage violations for purposes of this section.


(b) *Repeated wage violations.* For repeated wage violations found by the Administrator, a certificate shall be denied or revoked for one to three years, depending on the seriousness and frequency of the violations.


(c) *Child labor violations.* Upon a finding by the Administrator of a violation of the child labor provisions of section 12 of the Fair Labor Standards Act and the regulations at part 570 of this title, a certificate shall be denied or revoked for one year. Upon a second finding by the Administrator of such a violation, the certificate shall be denied or revoked for three years.


(d) *Failure to pay back wages or civil money penalties judged owing.* Upon the failure of a certificate holder to pay within 60 days back wages or civil money penalties finally judged by a court, administrative law judge or other appropriate authority, as the case may be, to be owed by the certificate holder, or agreed to be paid by the certificate holder, or within such longer period as may be specified in the final order or agreement, a certificate shall be denied or revoked for up to one year or for such period as such obligation shall remain unpaid if longer than one year.


(e) *Failure to cooperate in an investigation.* Where the Administrator finds obstruction of or other failure to cooperate in a Wage and Hour investigation by a certificate holder which impedes the investigation, the certificate shall be denied or revoked for a period of one to three years, depending on the circumstances. For purposes of this regulation, cooperation includes providing records upon request to Wage and Hour compliance officers, identifying homeworkers of the certificate holder, and encouraging homeworkers to make themselves available in connection with an investigation.


(f) *Serious recordkeeping violations.* Upon a finding by the Administrator that a certificate holder has engaged in a serious recordkeeping violation, the certificate may be revoked for up to one year. Upon a second finding by the Administrator of a serious recordkeeping violation, a certificate shall be denied or revoked for one to three years. A serious recordkeeping violation is defined as one where, either through errors in or omissions of required information, the name and current address of homeworkers and the data which is necessary for the accurate determination of hours worked by or wages paid to homeworkers or data necessary for the computation of wages owed to homeworkers is unavailable with respect to 10 percent or more of the homeworkers.


(g) *Deliberate misstatement in an application for a certificate or in other documents.* Upon a finding by the Administrator of a deliberate misstatement of a material fact in an application for a certificate, in payroll records, or in any other information submitted to the Wage and Hour Division or maintained by the employer pursuant to these regulations, the certificate shall be denied or revoked for one to three years.


(h) *Discrimination against a homeworker.* Upon a finding by the Administrator that a certificate holder has discharged or otherwise discriminated against a homeworker with respect to the homeworker's compensation or terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because the homeworker engaged in protected activity, the certificate shall be denied or revoked for three years. Protected activity is defined as: (1) Any complaint of a violation of the Act to the employer, the Department or other appropriate authority, or (2) any action which furthers the enforcement of or compliance with the Act, such as giving information to a Wage and Hour compliance officer.




