# ยง 400.45   Complaints related to public utility and uniform treatment.

(a) *In general.* A zone participant may submit to the Executive Secretary a complaint regarding conditions or treatment that the complaining party believes are inconsistent with the public utility and uniform treatment requirements of the FTZ Act and these regulations. Complaints may be made on a confidential basis, if necessary. Grantees (and persons undertaking zone-related functions on behalf of grantees, where applicable) shall not enter into or enforce provisions of agreements or contracts with zone participants that would require zone participants to disclose to other parties, including the grantee (or person undertaking a zone-related function(s) on behalf of a grantee, where applicable), any confidential communication with the Board under this section.


(b) *Objections to rates and charges.* A zone participant showing good cause may object to any rate or charge related to the zone on the basis that it is not fair and reasonable by submitting to the Executive Secretary a complaint in writing with supporting information. If necessary, such a complaint may be made on a confidential basis pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. The Executive Secretary shall review the complaint and issue a report and decision, which shall be final unless appealed to the Board within 30 days. The Board or the Executive Secretary may otherwise initiate a review for cause. The primary factor considered in reviewing fairness and reasonableness is the cost of the specific services rendered. Where those costs incorporate charges to the grantee by one or more parties undertaking functions on behalf of the grantee, the Board may consider the costs incurred by those parties or evidence regarding market rates for the undertaking of those functions. The Board may rely on best estimates, as necessary. The Board will also give consideration to any extra costs incurred relative to non-zone operations, including return on investment and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.



---

[N] [77 FR 12139, Feb. 28, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 8530, Feb. 8, 2024]




