# § 25.300   Retention and preservation of records.

(a) *Place of maintenance.* Records required by this part will be prepared and kept by the brewer at the brewery where the operation or transaction occurs and will be available for inspection by any appropriate TTB officer during business hours.


(b) *Reproduction of original records.* Whenever any record, because of its condition, becomes unsuitable for its intended or continued use, the brewer shall reproduce the record by a process under § 25.301. The reproduced record will be treated and considered for all purposes as though it were the original record, and all provisions of law applicable to the original are applicable to the reproduction.


(c) *Retention of records.* Records required by this part will be preserved for a period of not less than three years from the date thereof or the date of the last entry required to be made thereon, whichever is later. The appropriate TTB officer may require records to be kept for an additional period not exceeding three years in any case where such retention is deemed necessary or advisable for the protection of the revenue.


(d) *Data Processing.* (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, record data maintained on data processing equipment may be kept at a location other than the brewery if the original transaction (source) records required by §§ 25.292-25.298 are kept available for inspection at the brewery.


(2) Data which has been accumulated on cards, tapes, discs, or other accepted record media will be retrievable within five business days.


(3) The applicable data processing program will be made available for examination if requested by an appropriate TTB officer.


