# § 1.6038B-1   Reporting of certain transfers to foreign corporations.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section sets forth information reporting requirements under section 6038B concerning certain transfers of property to foreign corporations. Paragraph (b) of this section provides general rules explaining when and how to carry out the reporting required under section 6038B with respect to the transfers to foreign corporations. Paragraph (c) of this section and § 1.6038B-1T(d) specify the information that is required to be reported with respect to certain transfers of property that are described in section 6038B(a)(1)(A) and 367(d), respectively. Section 1.6038B-1(e) describes the filing requirements for property transfers described in section 367(e). Paragraph (f) of this section sets forth the consequences of a failure to comply with the requirements of section 6038B and this section. For effective dates, see paragraph (g) of this section. For rules regarding transfers to foreign partnerships, see section 6038B(a)(1)(B) and any regulations thereunder.


(b) *Time and manner of reporting*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Reporting procedure.* Except for stock or securities qualifying under the special reporting rule of § 1.6038B-1(b)(2), and certain exchanges described in section 354 or 356 (listed below), any U.S. person that makes a transfer described in section 6038B(a)(1)(A), 367(d) or (e), is required to report pursuant to section 6038B and the rules of § 1.6038B-1 and must attach the required information to Form 926, “Return by a U.S. Transferor of Property to a Foreign Corporation.” In addition, if the U.S. person files a statement under § 1.367(a)-3(d)(2)(vi)(C), a gain recognition agreement under § 1.367(a)-8, or a liquidation document under § 1.367(e)-2(b), such person must comply in all material respects with the requirements of such section pursuant to the terms of the statement, gain recognition agreement, or liquidation document, as applicable, in order to satisfy a reporting obligation under section 6038B. For special rules regarding cash transfers made in tax years beginning after February 5, 1999, see paragraphs (b)(3) and (g) of this section. For purposes of determining a U.S. transferor that is subject to section 6038B, the rules of §§ 1.367(a)-1(c) and 1.367(a)-3(d) shall apply with respect to a transfer described in section 367(a), and the rules of § 1.367(a)-1(c) shall apply with respect to a transfer described in section 367(d). Additionally, if in an exchange described in section 354 or 356, a U.S. person exchanges stock or securities of a foreign corporation in a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(E), or a U.S. person exchanges stock or securities of a domestic or foreign corporation pursuant to an asset reorganization described in section 368(a)(1) (involving a transfer of assets under section 361) that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), then the U.S. person exchanging stock or securities is not required to report under section 6038B. Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary on Form 926, the form and attachments must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of the transferor's income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of the transfer (as defined in § 1.6038B-1T(b)(4)). For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2003, any attachment to Form 926 required under the rules of this section is filed subject to the transferor's declaration under penalties of perjury on Form 926 that the information submitted is true, correct and complete to the best of the transferor's knowledge and belief. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, Form 926 and any attachments shall be verified by signing the income tax return with which the form and attachments are filed.


(ii) *Reporting by corporate transferor.* For transfers by corporations in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2003, Form 926 must be signed by an authorized officer of the corporation if the transferor is not a member of an affiliated group under section 1504(a)(1) that files a consolidated Federal income tax return and by an authorized officer of the common parent corporation if the transferor is a member of such an affiliated group. For transfers by corporations in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, Form 926 shall be verified by signing the income tax return to which the form is attached.


(iii) *Transfers of jointly-owned property.* If two or more persons transfer jointly-owned property to a foreign corporation in a transfer with respect to which a notice is required under this section, then each person must report with respect to the particular interest transferred, specifying the nature and extent of the interest. However, a husband and wife who jointly file a single Federal income tax return may file a single Form 926 with their tax return.


(2) *Exceptions and special rules for transfers of stock or securities under section 367(a)*—(i) *Transfers on or after July 20, 1998.* A U.S. person that transfers stock or securities on or after July 20, 1998 in a transaction described in section 6038B(a)(1)(A) will be considered to have satisfied the reporting requirement under section 6038B and paragraph (b)(1) of this section if either—


(A) The U.S. transferor owned less than 5 percent of both the total voting power and the total value of the transferee foreign corporation immediately after the transfer (taking into account the attribution rules of section 318 as modified by section 958(b)), and either:


(*1*) The U.S. transferor qualified for nonrecognition treatment with respect to the transfer (i.e., the transfer was not taxable under §§ 1.367(a)-3(b) or (c)); or


(*2*) The U.S. transferor is a tax-exempt entity and the income was not unrelated business income; or


(*3*) The transfer was taxable to the U.S. transferor under § 1.367(a)-3(c), and such person properly reported the income from the transfer on its timely-filed (including extensions) Federal income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of the transfer; or


(*4*) The transfer is considered to be to a foreign corporation solely by reason of § 1.83-6(d)(1) and the fair market value of the property transferred did not exceed $100,000; or


(B) The U.S. transferor owned 5 percent or more of the total voting power or the total value of the transferee foreign corporation immediately after the transfer (taking into account the attribution rules of section 318 as modified by section 958(b)) and either:


(*1*) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, the U.S. transferor (or one or more successors) filed an initial gain recognition agreement under § 1.367(a)-8, and filed Form 926 in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section; or


(*2*) The transferor is a tax-exempt entity and the income was not unrelated business income; or


(*3*) The transferor properly reported the income from the transfer on its timely-filed (including extensions) Federal income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of the transfer; or


(*4*) The transfer is considered to be to a foreign corporation solely by reason of § 1.83-6(d)(1) and the fair market value of the property transferred did not exceed $100,000.


(ii) *Transfers before July 20, 1998.* With respect to transfers occurring after December 16, 1987, and prior to July 20, 1998, a U.S. transferor that transferred U.S. or foreign stock or securities in a transfer described in section 367(a) is not subject to section 6038B if such person is described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.


(iii) *Timely filed initial gain recognition agreement.* Paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(*1*) of this section will not apply unless the initial gain recognition agreement is timely filed as determined under § 1.367(a)-8(d)(1), but for purposes of this section, determined without regard to § 1.367(a)-8(p). However, see paragraph (f)(3) of this section for certain relief that may be available.


(iv) *Satisfaction of section 6038B reporting if a gain recognition agreement is timely filed.* If the U.S. transferor is described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B)(*1*) of this section and is not otherwise required to file a Form 926 with respect to a transfer of assets other than the stock or securities to the transferee foreign corporation, the requirements of this section are satisfied with respect to the transfer of the stock or securities by completing Part I and Part II of Form 926, noting on the Form 926 that a gain recognition agreement is being filed pursuant to § 1.367(a)-8; reporting on the Form 926 the fair market value, adjusted tax basis, and gain recognized with respect to the transferred stock or securities; submitting on the Form 926 any other information that Form 926, its accompanying instructions, or other applicable guidance require to be submitted with respect to the transfer of the stock or securities; and attaching a signed copy of the Form 926 to its timely filed U.S. income tax return (including extensions) for the year of the transfer. If the U.S. transferor is required to file Form 926 with respect to a transfer of assets in addition to the stock or securities, the requirements of this section are satisfied with respect to the transfer of the stock or securities by noting on the Form 926 that a gain recognition agreement is being filed pursuant to § 1.367(a)-8; reporting on the Form 926 the fair market value, adjusted tax basis, and gain recognized with respect to the transferred stock or securities; and submitting on the Form 926 any other information that Form 926, its accompanying instructions, or other applicable guidance require to be submitted with respect to the transfer of the stock or securities.


(3) *Special rule for transfers of cash.* A U.S. person that transfers cash to a foreign corporation in a transfer described in section 6038B(a)(1)(A) must report the transfer if—


(i) Immediately after the transfer such person holds directly, indirectly, or by attribution (determined under the rules of section 318(a), as modified by section 6038(e)(2)) at least 10 percent of the total voting power or the total value of the foreign corporation; or


(ii) The amount of cash transferred by such person or any related person (determined under section 267(b)(1) through (3) and (10) through (12)) to such foreign corporation during the 12-month period ending on the date of the transfer exceeds $100,000.


(4) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(b)(4).


(c) *Information required with respect to transfers described in section 6038B(a)(1)(A).* A United States person that transfers property to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 6038B(a)(1)(A) (including cash transferred in taxable years beginning after February 5, 1999, and other unappreciated property) must provide the following information, in paragraphs labeled to correspond with the number or letter set forth in this paragraph (c) and § 1.6038B-1T(c)(1) through (5). If a particular item is not applicable to the subject transfer, the taxpayer must list its heading and state that it is not applicable. For special rules applicable to transfers of stock or securities, see paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(1) through (4) introductory text [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(c)(1) through (4) introductory text.


(i) *Active business property.* Describe any transferred property that qualifies under § 1.367(a)-2(a)(2). Provide here a general description of the business conducted (or to be conducted) by the transferee, including the location of the business, the number of its employees, the nature of the business, and copies of the most recently prepared balance sheet and profit and loss statement. Property listed within this category may be identified by general type. For example, upon the transfer of the assets of a manufacturing operation, a reasonable description of the property to be used in the business might include the categories of office equipment and supplies, computers and related equipment, motor vehicles, and several major categories of manufacturing equipment. However, any property that is includible in both paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (iii) of this section (property subject to depreciation recapture under § 1.367(a)-4(a)) must be identified in the manner required in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section. If property is considered to be transferred for use in the active conduct of a trade or business under a special rule in paragraph (e), (f), or (g) of § 1.367(a)-2, specify the applicable rule and provide information supporting the application of the rule.


(ii) *Stock or securities.* Describe any transferred stock or securities, including the class or type, amount, and characteristics of the transferred stock or securities, as well as the name, address, place of incorporation, and general description of the corporation issuing the stock or securities.


(iii) *Depreciated property.* Describe any property that is subject to depreciation recapture under § 1.367(a)-4(a). Property within this category must be separately identified to the same extent as was required for purposes of the previously claimed depreciation deduction. Specify with respect to each such asset the relevant recapture provision, the number of months that such property was in use within the United States, the total number of months the property was in use, the fair market value of the property, a schedule of the depreciation deduction taken with respect to the property, and a calculation of the amount of depreciation required to be recaptured.


(iv) *Property not transferred for use in the active conduct of a trade or business.* Describe any property that is eligible property, as defined in § 1.367(a)-2(b) taking into account the application of § 1.367(a)-2(c), that was transferred to the foreign corporation but not for use in the active conduct of a trade or business outside the United States (and was therefore not listed under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section).


(v) *Property transferred under compulsion.* If property qualifies for the exception of § 1.367(a)-2(a)(2) under the rules of paragraph (h) of that section, provide information supporting the claimed application of such exception.


(vi) *Certain ineligible property.* Describe any property that is described in § 1.367(a)-2(c) and that therefore cannot qualify under § 1.367(a)-2(a)(2) regardless of its use in the active conduct of a trade or business outside of the United States. The description must be divided into the relevant categories, as follows:


(A) *Inventory, etc.* Property described in § 1.367(a)-2(c)(1);


(B) *Installment obligations, etc.* Property described in § 1.367(a)-2(c)(2);


(C) *Foreign currency, etc.* Property described in § 1.367(a)-2(c)(3); and


(D) *Leased property.* Property described in § 1.367(a)-2(c)(4).


(vii) *Other property that is ineligible property.* Describe any property, other than property described in § 1.367(a)-2(c), that cannot qualify under § 1.367(a)-2(a)(2) regardless of its use in the active conduct of a trade or business outside of the United States and that is not subject to the rules of section 367(d) under § 1.367(a)-1(b)(5) (treatment of certain property as subject to section 367(d)). Each item of property must be separately identified.


(viii) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(c)(4)(viii).


(5) *Transfer of foreign branch with previously deducted losses.* If the property transferred is property of a foreign branch with previously deducted losses subject to §§ 1.367(a)-6 and -6T, provide the following information:


(i) through (iv) [Reserved]. For further information, see § 1.6038B-1T(c)(5)(i) through (iv).


(6) *Transfers subject to section 367(a)(5)*—(i) *In general.* This paragraph (c)(6) applies to a domestic corporation (U.S. transferor) that transfers section 367(a) property (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(f)(10)) to a foreign corporation in a section 361 exchange (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(f)(8)) and to which the provisions of § 1.367(a)-7(c) apply. Paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section establishes the time and manner for the U.S. transferor to elect to apply the provisions of § 1.367(a)-7(c). Paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section establishes the manner for the U.S. transferor to satisfy the requirement of § 1.367(a)-7(c)(4).


(ii) *Election.* The U.S. transferor elects to apply the provisions of § 1.367(a)-7(c) by including a statement entitled, “ELECTION TO APPLY EXCEPTION UNDER § 1.367(a)-7(c),” with its timely filed return (within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-7(f)(12)) for the taxable year during which the reorganization occurs and that includes the information described in paragraphs (c)(6)(ii)(A), (c)(6)(ii)(B), (c)(6)(ii)(C), (c)(6)(ii)(D), (c)(6)(ii)(E), (c)(6)(ii)(F), (c)(6)(ii)(G), and (c)(6)(ii)(H) of this section. See § 1.367(a)-7(c)(5)(ii) for the statement required to be filed by a control group member (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(f)(1)) or final distributee (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(d)).


(A) The name and taxpayer identification number (if any) of each control group member and final distributee (if any), the foreign acquiring corporation, and in the case of a triangular reorganization (within the meaning of § 1.358-6(b)(2)) the corporation that controls the foreign acquiring corporation, and the ownership interest percentage (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(f)(7)) in the U.S. transferor of each control group member.


(B) A calculation of the gain recognized (if any) by the U.S. transferor under § 1.367(a)-7(c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii), and the basis adjustments (if any) required to be made by each control group member under § 1.367(a)-7(c)(3).


(C) The date on which the U.S. transferor and each control group member or final distributee entered into the written agreement described in § 1.367(a)-7(c)(5)(iv).


(D) The amount of any deductible liability (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(2)).


(E) The fair market value (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(3)) of property transferred to the foreign acquiring corporation in the section 361 exchange.


(F) The inside basis (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(4)).


(G) The inside gain (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(5)).


(H) The section 367(a) percentage (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(9)).


(iii) *Agreement to amend U.S. transferor's tax return.* The U.S. transferor complies with the requirement of § 1.367(a)-7(c)(4)(i) by attaching a statement to its timely filed return (within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-7(f)(12)) for the taxable year in which the reorganization occurs, entitled “STATEMENT UNDER § 1.367(a)-7(c)(4) FOR TRANSFERS OF ASSETS TO A FOREIGN CORPORATION IN A SECTION 361 EXCHANGE.” The statement must certify that if a significant amount of the section 367(a) property received by the foreign acquiring corporation from the U.S. transferor in the section 361 exchange is disposed of, directly or indirectly, in one or more related transactions described in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(B) of this section occurring within the sixty (60) month period that begins on the date of distribution or transfer (within the meaning of § 1.381(b)-1(b)), then the exception provided in § 1.367(a)-7(c) will not apply to the section 361 exchange. Accordingly, the U.S. transferor will recognize the gain realized but not recognized in the section 361 exchange, computed as if the exception provided in § 1.367(a)-7(c) had never applied. A U.S. income tax return (or amended U.S. income tax return, as the case may be) for the year in which the reorganization occurred reporting the gain must be filed. If the section 361 exchange occurs in connection with a triangular reorganization (within the meaning of § 1.358-6(b)(2)) and the corporation that controls the foreign acquiring corporation is foreign, an indirect disposition of the section 367(a) property includes the disposition by such controlling foreign corporation of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation.


(A) *Disposition of a significant amount*—(*1*) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(6)(iii)(A)(*2*) and (c)(6)(iii)(A)(*3*) of this section, for purposes of this paragraph (c)(6)(iii), a disposition of a significant amount occurs if, in one or more related transactions, the foreign acquiring corporation disposes of an amount of the section 367(a) property received from the U.S. transferor in the section 361 exchange that is greater than 40 percent of the fair market value of all of the section 367(a) property transferred in the section 361 exchange.


(*2*) *Exception for certain nonrecognition exchanges.* Section 367(a) property that is subsequently transferred (retransferred property) pursuant to a nonrecognition provision is not treated as disposed of for purposes of paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section, provided such transfer satisfies, and is treated in a manner consistent with the principles underlying § 1.367(a)-8(k). Thus, for example, if section 367(a) property is subsequently transferred to a foreign corporation in exchange solely for stock in a transaction described in section 351, such retransferred property is not treated as disposed of for purposes of paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section; in such a case, however, a subsequent disposition of either the retransferred property by the transferee foreign corporation, or of the stock of the transferee foreign corporation received in exchange for the retransferred property, is subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section.


(*3*) *Exception for dispositions occurring in the ordinary course of business.* Dispositions of section 367(a) property described in section 1221(a)(2) occurring in the ordinary course of business of the foreign acquiring corporation are not treated as disposed of for purposes of paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section.


(B) *Gain recognition transaction*—(*1*) *General rule.* A transaction is described in this paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(B) if the transaction is entered into with a principal purpose of avoiding the U.S. tax that would have been imposed on the U.S. transferor on the disposition of the property transferred to the foreign acquiring corporation in the section 361 exchange. A disposition may have a principal purpose of tax avoidance even if the tax avoidance purpose is outweighed by other purposes when taken together.


(*2*) *Presumptive tax avoidance.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(B), the principal purpose of the foreign acquiring corporation's disposition of a significant amount of the section 367(a) property within the two-year period that begins on the date of distribution or transfer (within the meaning of § 1.381(b)-1(b)) (whether in a recognition or nonrecognition transaction) will be presumed to be the avoidance of the U.S. tax that would have been imposed on the U.S. transferor on the disposition of the property transferred to the foreign acquiring corporation in the section 361 exchange. However, this presumption will not apply if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Director of Field Operations, Large Business & International (or any successor to the roles and responsibilities of such person (Director) that the avoidance of U.S. tax was not a principal purpose of the disposition.


(*3*) *Interest.* If additional tax is required to be paid as a result of a transaction described in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(B) of this section, then interest must be paid on that amount at rates determined under section 6621 with respect to the period between the date prescribed for filing the U.S. transferor's income tax return for the year in which the reorganization occurs and the date on which the additional tax for that year is paid.


(d) *Transfers subject to section 367(d)*—(1) *Initial transfer.* For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(d)(1) introductory text through (d)(1)(iii).


(i) through (iii) [Reserved]


(iv) *Intangible property transferred.* Provide a description of the intangible property transferred, including its adjusted basis. Generally, each item of intangible property must be separately identified, including intangible property described in § 1.367(d)-1(g)(2)(i). Identify all property that is subject to the rules of section 367(d) under § 1.367(a)-1(b)(5) (treatment of certain property as subject to section 367(d)). Describe any property for which the income required to be taken into account under section 367(d) and the regulations thereunder will be recognized over a 20-year period pursuant to § 1.367(d)-1(c)(3)(ii). Estimate the anticipated income or cost reductions attributable to the intangible property's use beyond the 20-year period.


(v)-(vi) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(d)(1)(v) through (1)(vi).


(vii) *Coordination with loss rules.* List any intangible property subject to section 367(d) the transfer of which also gives rise to the recognition of gain under section 904(f)(3) or §§ 1.367(a)-6 or -6T. Provide a calculation of the gain required to be recognized with respect to such property, in accordance with the provisions of § 1.367(d)-1(g)(3).


(viii) *Other intangibles.* For further guidance, see § 1.6038B-1T(d)(1)(viii).


(2) *Subsequent transfers.* For additional, *see* § 1.6038B-1T(d)(2) introductory text through (d)(2)(ii).


(i) through (ii) [Reserved]


(iii) *Subsequent transfer.* Except for a subsequent transfer described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section, provide the following information concerning the subsequent transfer:


(A) For further guidance, *see* § 1.6038B-1T(d)(2)(iii)(A) through (C).


(B) through (C) [Reserved]


(iv) *Subsequent transfer of intangible property to a qualified domestic person.* Provide the following information concerning a subsequent transfer of intangible property described in § 1.367(d)-1(f)(4)(i):


(A) A statement providing that § 1.367(d)-1(f)(4)(i)(B) applies to the subsequent transfer;


(B) A general description of the subsequent transfer and any wider transaction of which it forms a part, including the U.S. transferor's former adjusted basis in the intangible property and the transferee foreign corporation's adjusted basis in the intangible property (as determined immediately before the subsequent transfer), the amount and computation of any gain recognized by the U.S. transferor under § 1.367(d)-1(f)(4)(i)(A), and a description of whether the intangible property was, or is expected to be, subsequently transferred to one or more other persons (as described in § 1.367(d)-1(f)(4)(v));


(C) A description of the intangible property;


(D) A copy of the Form 926 with respect to the original transfer of the intangible property and any attachments identifying the intangible property as within the scope of section 367(d);


(E) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the qualified domestic person that receives the intangible property, including a statement describing the relationship between the U.S. transferor and the qualified domestic person, and, if applicable, such information regarding any other persons described in § 1.367(d)-1(f)(4)(v); and


(F) Any other information as may be prescribed by the Commissioner in publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(e) *Transfers subject to section 367(e)*—(1) *In general.* If a domestic corporation (distributing corporation) makes a distribution described in section 367(e)(1) or section 367(e)(2), the distributing corporation must comply with the reporting requirements of this paragraph (e). Unless otherwise provided in this section, a distributing corporation making a distribution described in sections 367(e)(1) or 367(e)(2) must file a Form 926, “Return by a U.S. Transferor of Property to a Foreign Corporation (under section 367),” as amended and modified by this section.


(2) *Reporting requirements for section 367(e)(1) distributions of domestic controlled corporations.* A domestic distributing corporation making a distribution of the stock or securities of a domestic corporation under section 355 is not required to file a Form 926, as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and shall have no other reporting requirements under section 6038B.


(3) *Reporting requirements for section 367(e)(1) distributions of foreign controlled corporations.* If the distributing corporation makes a section 355 distribution of the stock or securities of a foreign controlled corporation to distributee shareholders who are not qualified U.S. persons, as defined in § 1.367(e)-1(b)(1), then the distributing corporation shall complete Part 1 of the Form 926 and attach a signed copy of such form to its U.S. income tax return for the year of the distribution. The distributing corporation shall also attach to its U.S. income tax return for the year of distribution a statement signed under the penalties of perjury entitled, “Addendum to Form 926.” The addendum shall contain a brief description of the transaction, state the number of shares distributed to distributees who are not qualified U.S. persons (applying the rules contained in § 1.367(e)-1(d)), and state the basis and fair market value of the distributed stock or securities (including a list stating the amounts that were distributed to distributees who were not qualified U.S. persons and distributees who were qualified U.S. persons).


(4) *Reporting rules for section 367(e)(2) distributions by domestic liquidating corporations*—(i) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, if the distributing corporation makes a distribution of property in complete liquidation under section 332 to a foreign distributee corporation that meets the stock ownership requirements of section 332(b) with respect to the stock of the distributing corporation, then the distributing corporation must complete a Form 926 and attach a signed copy of such form to its timely filed U.S. income tax return (including extensions) for the taxable years that include one or more liquidating distributions. The property description contained in Part III of the Form 926 must contain a description, including the adjusted tax basis and fair market value, of all property distributed by the distributing corporation (regardless of whether the distribution of the property qualifies for nonrecognition treatment). The description must also identify the items of property for which nonrecognition treatment is claimed under § 1.367(e)-2(b)(2)(ii) or (iii), as applicable.


(ii) *Special rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section, if the distributing corporation distributes items of property that will be used by the foreign distributee corporation in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and the distributing corporation does not recognize gain or loss on such distribution under § 1.367(e)-2(b)(2)(i) with respect to such property, then the distributing corporation may satisfy the requirements of this section by completing Part I and Part II of Form 926, noting in Part III that the information required by Form 926 is contained in a statement required by § 1.367(e)-2(b)(2)(i)(C)(*2*), and attaching a signed copy of Form 926 to its timely filed U.S. income tax return (including extensions) for each taxable year that includes one or more distributions in liquidation. In addition, if the distributing corporation distributes stock of a domestic subsidiary corporation and does not recognize gain or loss on such distribution under § 1.367(e)-2(b)(2)(iii) with respect to such stock, then the distributing corporation may satisfy the requirements of this section by completing Part I and Part II of Form 926, noting in Part III that the information required by Form 926 is contained in a statement required by § 1.367(e)-2(b)(2)(iii)(D), and attaching a signed copy of Form 926 to its timely filed U.S. income tax return (including extensions) for the taxable years that include one or more distributions of domestic subsidiary stock.


(iii) *Properly filed statement.* Paragraph (e)(4)(ii) will not apply if there is a failure to file an initial liquidation document as determined under § 1.367(e)-2(e)(3)(i), but for purposes of this section, determined without regard to § 1.367(e)-2(f). However, see paragraph (f)(3) of this section for certain relief that may be available.


(f) *Failure to comply with reporting requirements*—(1) *Consequences of failure.* If a U.S. person is required to file a notice (or otherwise comply) under paragraph (b) of this section and fails to comply with the applicable requirements of section 6038B and this section, then with respect to the particular property as to which there was a failure to comply—


(i) The U.S. person shall pay a penalty under section 6038B(b)(1) equal to 10 percent of the fair market value of the transferred property at the time of the exchange, but in no event shall the penalty exceed $100,000 unless the failure with respect to such exchange was due to intentional disregard (described under paragraph (g)(4) of this section); and


(ii) The period of limitations on assessment of tax upon the transfer of that property does not expire before the date which is 3 years after the date on which the Secretary is furnished the information required to be reported under this section. See section 6501(c)(8) and any regulations thereunder.


(2) *Failure to comply.* A failure to comply with the requirements of section 6038B is—


(i) The failure to report at the proper time and in the proper manner any material information required to be reported under the rules of this section; or


(ii) The provision of false or inaccurate information in purported compliance with the requirements of this section. Thus, a transferor that timely files Form 926 with the attachments required under the rules of this section shall, nevertheless, have failed to comply if, for example, the transferor reports therein that property will be used in the active conduct of a trade or business outside of the United States, but in fact the property continues to be used in a trade or business within the United States.


(iii) With respect to an initial gain recognition agreement filed under § 1.367(a)-8, a failure to comply as determined under § 1.367(a)-8(j)(8), but for purposes of this section, determined without regard to the application of § 1.367(a)-8(p).


(iv) With respect to an initial liquidation document filed under § 1.367(e)-2(b)(2), a failure to comply as determined under § 1.367(e)-2(e)(4)(i), but for purposes of this section, determined without regard to the application of § 1.367(e)-2(f).


(3) *Reasonable cause for failure to comply*—(i) *Request for relief.* If the U.S. transferor fails to comply with any requirement of section 6038B and this section, the failure shall be deemed not to have occurred if the U.S. transferor is able to demonstrate that the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect using the procedure set forth in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section. Whether the failure to timely comply was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect will be determined by the Director of Field Operations, Cross Border Activities Practice Area of Large Business & International (Director) based on all the facts and circumstances.


(ii) *Procedures for establishing that a failure to timely comply was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect*—(A) *Time of submission.* A U.S. transferor's statement that the failure to timely comply was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect will be considered only if, promptly after the U.S. transferor becomes aware of the failure, an amended return is filed for the taxable year to which the failure relates that includes the information that should have been included with the original return for such taxable year or that otherwise complies with the rules of this section, and that includes a written statement explaining the reasons for the failure to timely comply.


(B) *Notice requirement.* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, the U.S. transferor must comply with the notice requirements of this paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B). If any taxable year of the U.S. transferor is under examination when the amended return is filed, a copy of the amended return and any information required to be included with such return must be delivered to the Internal Revenue Service personnel conducting the examination. If no taxable year of the U.S. transferor is under examination when the amended return is filed, a copy of the amended return and any information required to be included with such return must be delivered to the Director.


(4) *Definition of intentional disregard.* If the transferor fails to qualify for the exception under paragraph (f)(3) of this section and if the taxpayer knew of the rule or regulation that was disregarded, the failure will be considered an intentional disregard of section 6038B, and the monetary penalty under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section will not be limited to $100,000. See § 1.6662-3(b)(2).


(g) *Effective/applicability dates.* (1) This section applies to transfers occurring on or after July 20, 1998, except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(7) of this section, and except for transfers of cash made in tax years beginning on or before February 5, 1999 (which are not required to be reported under section 6038B), and transfers described in paragraph (e) of this section (which applies to transfers that are subject to §§ 1.367(e)-1(f) and 1.367(e)-2(e)). See § 1.6038B-1T for transfers occurring prior to July 20, 1998. See also § 1.6038B-1T(e) in effect prior to August 9, 1999 (as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1999), for transfers described in section 367(e) that are not subject to §§ 1.367(e)-1(f) and 1.367(e)-2(e).


(2) The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section as they apply to section 368(a)(1)(A) reorganizations (including reorganizations described in section 368(a)(2)(D) or (E)) apply to transfers occurring on or after January 23, 2006.


(3) The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that provide an exception from reporting under section 6038B for transfers of stock or securities in a section 354 or 356 exchange, pursuant to a section 368(a)(1)(G) reorganization that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), apply to transfers occurring on or after January 23, 2006.


(4) The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that provide an exception from reporting under section 6038B for transfers of stock in a section 354 or 356 exchange, pursuant to a section 368(a)(1)(E) reorganization or an asset reorganization under section 368(a)(1) that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), apply to transfers occurring on or after January 23, 2006. The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that provide an exception from reporting under section 6038B for transfers of securities in a section 354 or 356 exchange, pursuant to a section 368(a)(1)(E) reorganization or an asset reorganization under section 368(a)(1) that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), apply only to transfers occurring after January 5, 2005 (although taxpayers may apply such provision to transfers of securities occurring on or after July 20, 1998 and on or before January 5, 2005 if done consistently to all transactions). See § 1.6038-1T(b)(i), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2005, for transfers occurring prior to the effective dates described in paragraphs (g)(2) through (4) of this section.


(5) Paragraphs (c)(6) and (f)(3) of this section apply to transfers occurring on or after April 18, 2013. For guidance with respect to paragraphs (c)(6) and (f)(3) of this section before April 18, 2013, see 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2012.


(6) The second sentence of paragraph (b)(1)(i) and paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(B)(*1*), (b)(2)(iii), (b)(2)(iv), (c), (e)(4), (f)(2)(iii), and (f)(2)(iv) of this section will apply to transfers for which documents are required to be filed on or after November 19, 2014, as well as to transfers that are the subject of requests for relief submitted on or after November 19, 2014. The second sentence of paragraph (b)(1)(i) and paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(B)(*1*), (b)(2)(iii), (b)(2)(iv), (c), and (f)(2)(iii) of this section will also apply to any transfer that is the subject of a request for relief submitted pursuant to § 1.367(a)-8(r)(3).


(7) Paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (vii), (c)(5), and (d)(1)(iv) and (vii) of this section apply to transfers occurring on or after September 14, 2015, and to transfers occurring before September 14, 2015, resulting from entity classification elections made under § 301.7701-3 that are filed on or after September 14, 2015. For guidance with respect to paragraphs (c)(4), (c)(5), and (d)(1) of this section before this section is applicable, see §§ 1.6038B-1 and 1.6038B-1T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.


(8) Paragraphs (d)(2)(iii) introductory text and (d)(2)(iv) of this section apply to transfers occurring on or after October 10, 2024.



---

[N] [T.D. 8770, 63 FR 33568, June 19, 1998] 


