# § 3286.205   Prerequisites for installation license.

(a) *Required experience.* (1) In order to obtain an installation license to perform manufactured home installations under the HUD-administered installation program, an individual must meet at least one of the following minimum experience requirements:


(i) 1,800 hours of experience installing manufactured homes;


(ii) 3,600 hours of experience in the construction of manufactured homes;


(iii) 3,600 hours of experience as a building construction supervisor;


(iv) 1,800 hours as an active manufactured home installation inspector;


(v) Completion of one year of a college program in a construction-related field; or


(vi) Any combination of experience or education from paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(v) of this section that totals 3,600 hours.


(2) An installer who is certified or licensed to perform manufactured home installations in a state with a qualifying installation program may be exempted by the Secretary from complying with these experience requirements, if the Secretary determines that the state requirements are substantially equal to the HUD experience requirements.


(b) *Required training*—(1) *Initial applicant.* An applicant for an installation license must complete 12 hours of training, at least 4 hours of which must consist of training on the federal installation standards in part 3285 of this chapter and the installation program regulations in this part. An installer who is licensed to perform installations in a state with a qualified installation program may postpone the training requirements of this section until October 20, 2009.


(2) *Renewal applicant.* In order to qualify for renewal of an installation license, the licensed installer must complete 8 hours of continuing education during the 3-year license period, including in any particular subject area that may be required by HUD to be covered in order to assure adequate understanding of installation requirements.


(3) The training required under this paragraph (b) must be conducted by trainers who meet the requirements of subpart D of this part and must meet the curriculum requirements established in § 3286.308 or § 3286.309, as applicable.


(c) *Testing.* An applicant for an installation license must have successfully received a passing grade of 70 percent on a HUD-administered or HUD-approved examination covering the Manufactured Home Installation Program and the federal installation standards in part 3285.


(d) *Surety bond or insurance.* An applicant for an installation license must provide evidence of and must maintain, when available in the state of installation, a surety bond or insurance that will cover the cost of repairing all damage to the home and its supports caused by the installer during the installation up to and including replacement of the home. HUD may require the licensed installer to provide proof of the surety bond or insurance at any time. The licensed installer must notify HUD of any changes or cancellations with the surety bond or insurance coverage.




