# § 53.141   Exceptions to the requirement for registration.

(a) *State and local governments.* (1) A State or local government purchasing articles direct from the manufacturer for its exclusive use may, but is not required to, register as provided in § 53.140. To establish the right to sell articles tax free to a State or local government that is not registered, the manufacturer must obtain from an authorized official of the State or local government and retain in the manufacturer's possession either a properly executed exemption certificate, or a purchase order that contains the same information required to be furnished in an exemption certificate. See § 53.135(c) for the information necessary to substantiate a tax-free sale under such circumstances.


(2) Each State requesting registration will be assigned one Certificate of Registry. The registration number shown on this certificate may be used by all agencies, boards, and commissions of the State that are authorized by the State to make purchases for the exclusive use of the State. However, the registration number assigned to a State may not be used by any political subdivision of that State, such as a county or municipality. Each political subdivision of a State desiring to obtain a Certificate of Registry must obtain a separate registration number.


(b) *Sales or resales to foreign purchasers for export.* Persons whose principal place of business is not within the United States may, but are not required to, register in order to purchase articles tax free for export. To establish the right to sell articles tax free for export to a purchaser who is not registered and who is located in a foreign country or a possession of the United States, the manufacturer must obtain the evidence required by § 53.133(b).


(c) *United States.* The registration requirements of the regulations in this part do not apply to purchases and sales by the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities. The evidence required in support of such tax-free purchases and sales is a notation on the purchase order or other document furnished to the seller clearly indicating that the article or articles are being purchased tax free as authorized by chapter 32 of the Code.


(d) *Supplies for vessels and aircraft.* An article subject to an excise tax imposed by chapter 32 of the Code may be sold tax free by the manufacturer under the provisions of § 53.134 for use by the purchaser as supplies for a vessel or aircraft if both the manufacturer and the purchaser are registered under the provisions of § 53.140. The article also may be sold tax free for such use even though neither the manufacturer nor the purchaser is so registered if the provisions of paragraph (d) of § 53.134 are satisfied.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-308, 56 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1991, as amended by T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31084, July 9, 1991]




