# § 336.3   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


(a) *Company* means any corporation, firm, partnership, society, joint venture, business trust, association or similar organization, or any other trust unless by its terms it must terminate within twenty-five years or not later than twenty-one years and ten months after the death of individuals living on the effective date of the trust, or any other organization or institution, but shall not include any corporation the majority of the shares of which are owned by the United States, any state, or the District of Columbia.


(b) *Control* means the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of any class of the voting stock of a company, the ability to direct in any manner the election of a majority of a company's directors or trustees, or the ability to exercise a controlling influence over the company's management and policies. For purposes of this definition, a general partner of a limited partnership is presumed to be in control of that partnership. For purposes of this part, an entity or individual shall be presumed to have control of a company if the entity or individual directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with one or more entities or individuals, or through one or more subsidiaries, owns or controls 25 percent or more of its equity, or otherwise controls or has power to control its management or policies.


(c) *Default on a material obligation* means a loan or advance from an insured depository institution which is or was delinquent for 90 or more days as to payment of principal or interest, or any combination thereof.


(d) *Employee* means any officer or employee, including a liquidation graded or temporary employee, providing service to or on behalf of the FDIC who has been appointed to a position under an authority contained in title 5 of the U.S. Code. This definition excludes those individuals designated by title 5 of the U.S. Code as officials in the Federal Executive Schedule.


(e) *Federal banking agency* means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or their predecessors or successors.


(f) *Federal deposit insurance fund* means the Deposit Insurance Fund, the former Bank Insurance Fund, the former Savings Association Insurance Fund, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) Resolution Trust, or the funds formerly maintained by the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), or their successors, for the benefit of insured depositors.


(g) *FDIC* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in its receivership and corporate capacities.


(h) *Insured depository institution* means any bank or savings association the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC.


(i) *Pattern or practice of defalcation regarding obligations* means:


(1) A history of financial irresponsibility with regard to debts owed to insured depository institutions which are in default in excess of $50,000 in the aggregate. Examples of such financial irresponsibility include, without limitation:


(i) Failure to pay a debt or debts totalling more than $50,000 secured by an uninsured property which is destroyed; or 


(ii) Abuse of credit cards or incurring excessive debt well beyond the individual's ability to repay resulting in default(s) in excess of $50,000 in the aggregate.


(2) Wrongful refusal to fulfill duties and obligations to insured depository institutions. Examples of such wrongful refusal to fulfill duties and obligations include, without limitation:


(i) Any use of false financial statements;


(ii) Misrepresentation as to the individual's ability to repay debts;


(iii) Concealing assets from the insured depository institution;


(iv) Any instance of fraud, embezzlement or similar misconduct in connection with an obligation to the insured depository institution; and


(v) Any conduct described in any civil or criminal judgment against an individual for breach of any obligation, contractual or otherwise, or any duty of loyalty or care that the individual owed to an insured depository institution.


(3) Defaults shall not be considered a pattern or practice of defalcation where the defaults are caused by catastrophic events beyond the control of the employee such as death, disability, illness or loss of financial support.


(j) *Substantial loss to federal deposit insurance funds*—(1) *Substantial loss to federal deposit insurance funds* means:


(i) A loan or advance from an insured depository institution, which is now owed to the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors, or any federal deposit insurance fund, that is delinquent for ninety (90) or more days as to payment of principal, interest, or a combination thereof and on which there remains a legal obligation to pay an amount in excess of $50,000; or 


(ii) A final judgment in excess of $50,000 in favor of any federal deposit insurance fund, the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC, or their successors regardless of whether it becomes forgiven in whole or in part in a bankruptcy proceeding.


(2) For purposes of computing the $50,000 ceiling in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, all delinquent judgments, loans, or advances currently owed to the FDIC, RTC, FSLIC or their successors, or any federal deposit insurance fund, shall be aggregated. In no event shall delinquent loans or advances from different insured depository institutions be separately considered.



---

[N] [61 FR 28728, June 6, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 20526, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 42183, July 21, 2014]




