# § 512.217   Identification of individual practitioners.

(a) *General.* Upon the start of each PY, CMS creates and provides to each RO participant that is a PGP or a freestanding radiation therapy center an individual practitioner list identifying by NPI each individual practitioner associated with the RO participant. For RO participants that begin participation in the RO Model after the start of a PY, but at least 30 days prior to the last QP determination date as specified at § 414.1325 of this chapter, CMS creates and provides an individual practitioner list to that RO participant.


(b) *Review of individual practitioner list.* Up until the last QP determination date as specified at § 414.1325 of this chapter, the RO participant must review the individual practitioner list, correct any inaccuracies in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and certify the list (as corrected, if applicable) in a form and manner specified by CMS and in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The RO participant may correct any inaccuracies in its individual practitioner list until the last QP determination date as specified at § 414.1325 of this chapter. Any Dual participant, Professional participant, or Technical participant that is a freestanding radiation therapy center and joins the RO Model after the start of a PY must review and certify its individual practitioner list by the last QP determination date as specified at § 414.1325 of this chapter.


(c) *List certification.* (1) Up until the last QP determination date as specified at § 414.1325 of this chapter, an individual with the authority to legally bind the RO participant must certify the accuracy, completeness, and truthfulness of the individual practitioner list to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief.


(2) All Medicare-enrolled individual practitioners that have reassigned their right to receive Medicare payment for provision of RT services to the TIN of the RO participant must be included on the RO participant's individual practitioner list and each individual practitioner must agree to comply with the requirements of the RO Model before the RO participant certifies the individual practitioner list.


(3) If the RO participant does not certify the individual practitioner list in PY2 through PY5:


(i) Eligible clinicians in the RO Model will not be considered participants in a MIPS APM for purposes of MIPS reporting and scoring rules;


(ii) Eligible clinicians in the RO Model will not have Qualifying APM Participant (“QP”) determinations made based on their participation in the RO Model; and


(d) *Changes to the individual practitioner list*—(1) *Additions.* (i) An RO participant must notify CMS of an addition to its individual practitioner list when an eligible clinician reassigns his or her rights to receive payment from Medicare to the RO participant. The notice must be submitted in the form and manner specified by CMS up until the last QP determination date as specified at § 414.1325 of this chapter.


(ii) If the RO participant timely submits notice to CMS, then the addition of an individual practitioner to the RO participant's individual practitioner list is effective on the date specified in the notice furnished to CMS, but no earlier than 30 days before the date of the notice. If the RO participant fails to submit timely notice to CMS, then the addition of an individual practitioner to the individual practitioner list is effective on the date of the notice.


(2) *Removals.* (i) An RO participant must notify CMS when an individual on the RO participant's individual practitioner list ceases to be an individual practitioner up until the last QP determination date as specified at § 414.1325 of this chapter. The notice must be submitted in the form and manner specified by CMS.


(ii) The removal of an individual practitioner from the RO participant's individual practitioner list is effective on the date specified in the notice furnished to CMS. If the RO participant fails to submit a timely notice of the removal, then the removal is effective on the date that the individual ceases to be an individual practitioner.


(e) *Update to Medicare enrollment information.* The RO participant must ensure that all changes to enrollment information for an RO participant and its individual practitioners, including changes to reassignment of the right to receive Medicare payment, are reported to CMS consistent with § 424.516 of this chapter.



---

[N] [85 FR 61362, Sept. 29, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 86304, Dec. 29, 2020; 86 FR 63995, Nov. 16, 2021]


