# § 667.200   What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of WIA title I funds?

(a) *Uniform fiscal and administrative requirements.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) through (6) of this section, State, local, and Indian tribal government organizations that receive grants or cooperative agreements under WIA title I must follow the common rule “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments” which is codified at 29 CFR part 97. 


(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) through (7) of this section, institutions of higher education, hospitals, other non-profit organizations, and commercial organizations must the follow the common rule implementing OMB Circular A-110 which is codified at 2 CFR part 215 and 29 CFR part 95. 


(3) In addition to the requirements at 29 CFR 95.48 or 29 CFR 97.36(i) (as appropriate), all procurement contracts and other transactions between Local Boards and units of State or local governments must be conducted only on a cost reimbursement basis. No provision for profit is allowed. (WIA sec. 184(a)(3)(B).) 


(4) In addition to the requirements at 29 CFR 95.42 or 29 CFR 97.36(b)(3) (as appropriate), which address codes of conduct and conflict of interest issues related to employees: 


(i) A State Board member or a Local Board member or a Youth Council member must neither cast a vote on, nor participate in any decision-making capacity, on the provision of services by such member (or any organization which that member directly represents), nor on any matter which would provide any direct financial benefit to that member or a member of his immediate family. 


(ii) Neither membership on the State Board, the Local Board, the Youth Council nor the receipt of WIA funds to provide training and related services, by itself, violates these conflict of interest provisions. 


(5) The addition method, described at 29 CFR 95.24 or 29 CFR 97.25(g)(2) (as appropriate), must be used for the all program income earned under WIA title I grants. When the cost of generating program income has been charged to the program, the gross amount earned must be added to the WIA program. However, the cost of generating program income must be subtracted from the amount earned to establish the net amount of program income available for use under the grants when these costs have not been charged to the WIA program. 


(6) Any excess of revenue over costs incurred for services provided by a governmental or non-profit entity must be included in program income. (WIA sec. 195(7)(A) and (B).) 


(7) Interest income earned on funds received under WIA title I must be included in program income. (WIA sec. 195(7)(B)(iii).) 


(8) On a fee-for-service basis, employers may use local area services, facilities, or equipment funded under title I of WIA to provide employment and training activities to incumbent workers: 


(i) When the services, facilities, or equipment are not being used by eligible participants; 


(ii) If their use does not affect the ability of eligible participants to use the services, facilities, or equipment; and 


(iii) If the income generated from such fees is used to carry out programs authorized under this title. 


(b) *Audit requirements.* (1) All governmental and non-profit organizations must follow the audit requirements of OMB Circular A-133. These requirements are found at 29 CFR 97.26 for governmental organizations and at 29 CFR 95.26 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations. 


(2)(i) We are responsible for audits of commercial organizations which are direct recipients of Federal financial assistance under WIA title I. 


(ii) Commercial organizations which are subrecipients under WIA title I and which expend more than the minimum level specified in OMB Circular A-133 ($300,000 ($500,000 for years ending after December 21, 2003)) must have either an organization-wide audit conducted in accordance with A-133 or a program specific financial and compliance audit. 


(c) *Allowable costs/cost principles.* All recipients and subrecipients must follow the Federal allowable cost principles that apply to their kind of organizations. The DOL regulations at 29 CFR 95.27 and 29 CFR 97.22 identify the Federal principles for determining allowable costs which each kind of recipient and subrecipient must follow. The applicable Federal principles for each kind of recipient are described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section; all recipients must comply with paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) of this section. For those selected items of cost requiring prior approval, the authority to grant or deny approval is delegated to the Governor for programs funded under sections 127 or 132 of the Act. 


(1) Allowable costs for State, local, and Indian tribal government organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-87, “Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.” 


(2) Allowable costs for non-profit organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-122, “Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.” 


(3) Allowable costs for institutions of higher education must be determined under OMB Circular A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.” 


(4) Allowable costs for hospitals must be determined in accordance under appendix E of 45 CFR part 74, “Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals.” 


(5) Allowable costs for commercial organizations and those non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C to OMB Circular A-122 must be determined under the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), at 48 CFR part 31. 


(6) For all types of entities, legal expenses for the prosecution of claims against the Federal Government, including appeals to an Administrative Law Judge, are unallowable. 


(d) *Government-wide debarment and suspension, and government-wide drug-free workplace requirements.* All WIA title I grant recipients and subrecipients must comply with the government-wide requirements for debarment and suspension, and the government-wide requirements for a drug-free workplace, codified at 29 CFR part 98. 


(e) *Restrictions on lobbying.* All WIA title I grant recipients and subrecipients must comply with the restrictions on lobbying which are codified in the DOL regulations at 29 CFR part 93. 


(f) *Nondiscrimination.* All WIA title I recipients, as the term is defined in 29 CFR 37.4, must comply with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIA section 188 and its implementing regulations found at 29 CFR part 37. Information on the handling of discrimination complaints by participants and other interested parties may be found in 29 CFR 37.70 through 37.80, and in § 667.600(g). 


(g) *Nepotism.* (1) No individual may be placed in a WIA employment activity if a member of that person's immediate family is directly supervised by or directly supervises that individual. 


(2) To the extent that an applicable State or local legal requirement regarding nepotism is more restrictive than this provision, such State or local requirement must be followed. 



---

[N] [65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35523, June 21, 2006]




