# § 60.2967   When must I submit a title V permit application for my new unit?

(a) If your new unit subject to this subpart is not subject to an earlier permit application deadline, a complete title V permit application must be submitted on or before one of the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section. (See section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i) and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)


(1) For a unit that commenced operation as a new source as of December 16, 2005, then a complete title V permit application must be submitted not later than December 18, 2006.


(2) For a unit that does not commence operation as a new source until after December 16, 2005, then a complete title V permit application must be submitted not later than 12 months after the date the unit commences operation as a new source.


(b) If your new unit subject to this subpart is subject to title V as a result of some triggering requirement(s) other than this subpart (for example, a unit subject to this subpart may be a major source or part of a major source), then your unit may be required to apply for a title V permit prior to the deadlines specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If more than one requirement triggers a source's obligation to apply for a title V permit, the 12-month timeframe for filing a title V permit application is triggered by the requirement that first causes the source to be subject to title V. (See section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b), 40 CFR 70.5(a)(1)(i), 40 CFR 71.3(a) and (b), and 40 CFR 71.5(a)(1)(i).)


(c) A “complete” title V permit application is one that has been determined or deemed complete by the relevant permitting authority under section 503(d) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(2) or 40 CFR 71.5(a)(2). You must submit a complete permit application by the relevant application deadline in order to operate after this date in compliance with Federal law. (See sections 503(d) and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act and 40 CFR 70.7(b) and 40 CFR 71.7(b).)


(d) If you own or operate an air curtain incinerator that burns only wood waste; clean lumber; yard waste; or a mixture of wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste and that is subject only to the requirements in §§ 60.2970 through 60.2973, you are exempt from the obligation to obtain a title V operating permit, provided that your air curtain incinerator is not otherwise required to obtain a title V operating permit. 



---

[N] [89 FR 89931, Nov. 14, 2024]






