# § 384.4   Terms for making payment of royalty fees and statements of account.

(a) *Payment to the Collective.* A Licensee shall make the royalty payments due under § 384.3 to the Collective.


(b) *Designation of the Collective.* (1) Until such time as a new designation is made, SoundExchange, Inc., is designated as the Collective to receive statements of account and royalty payments from Licensees due under § 384.3 and to distribute such royalty payments to each Copyright Owner, or their designated agents, entitled to receive royalties under 17 U.S.C. 112(e).


(2) If SoundExchange, Inc. should dissolve or cease to be governed by a board consisting of equal numbers of representatives of Copyright Owners and Performers, then it shall be replaced by a successor Collective upon the fulfillment of the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(i) By a majority vote of the nine Copyright Owner representatives and the nine Performer representatives on the SoundExchange board as of the last day preceding the condition precedent in this paragraph (b)(2), such representatives shall file a petition with the Copyright Royalty Judges designating a successor to collect and distribute royalty payments to Copyright Owners entitled to receive royalties under 17 U.S.C. 112(e) that have themselves authorized the Collective.


(ii) The Copyright Royalty Judges shall publish in the _Federal Register_ within 30 days of receipt of a petition filed under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section an order designating the Collective named in such petition.


(c) *Monthly payments.* A Licensee shall make any payments due under § 384.3(a) on a monthly basis on or before the 45th day after the end of each month for that month. All monthly payments shall be rounded to the nearest cent.


(d) *Minimum payments.* A Licensee shall make any minimum payment due under § 384.3(b) by January 31 of the applicable calendar year, except that payment by a Licensee that has not previously made Ephemeral Recordings pursuant to the license under 17 U.S.C. 112(e) shall be due by the 45th day after the end of the month in which the Licensee commences to do so.


(e) *Late payments.* A Licensee shall pay a late fee of 1.0% per month, or the highest lawful rate, whichever is lower, if either or both a required payment or statement of account for a required payment is received by the Collective after the due date. Late fees shall accrue from the due date until both the payment and statement of account are received by the Collective.


(f) *Use of account numbers.* If the Collective notifies a Licensee of an account number to be used to identify its royalty payments for a particular Business Establishment Service offering, the Licensee must include that account number on its check or check stub for any payment for that Business Establishment Service offering made by check, in the identifying information for any payment for that Business Establishment Service offering made by electronic transfer, in its statements of account for that Business Establishment Service offering under paragraph (g) of this section, and in the transmittal of its Reports of Use for that Business Establishment Service offering under § 370.4 of this chapter.


(g) *Statements of account.* For any part of the License Period during which a Licensee operates a Business Establishment Service, at the time when a minimum payment is due under paragraph (d) of this section, and by 45 days after the end of each month during the period, the Licensee shall deliver to the Collective a statement of account containing the information set forth in this paragraph (g) on a form prepared, and made available to Licensees, by the Collective. In the case of a minimum payment, or if a payment is owed for such month, the statement of account shall accompany the payment. A statement of account shall contain only the following information:


(1) Such information as is necessary to calculate the accompanying royalty payment, or if no payment is owed for the month, to calculate any portion of the minimum fee recouped during the month;


(2) The name, address, business title, telephone number, facsimile number (if any), electronic mail address and other contact information of the person to be contacted for information or questions concerning the content of the statement of account;


(3) The account number assigned to the Licensee by the Collective for the relevant Business Establishment Service offering (if the Licensee has been notified of such account number by the Collective);


(4) The signature of:


(i) The owner of the Licensee or a duly authorized agent of the owner, if the Licensee is not a partnership or corporation;


(ii) A partner or delegee, if the Licensee is a partnership; or


(iii) An officer of the corporation, if the Licensee is a corporation;


(5) The printed or typewritten name of the person signing the statement of account;


(6) The date of signature;


(7) If the Licensee is a partnership or corporation, the title or official position held in the partnership or corporation by the person signing the statement of account;


(8) A certification of the capacity of the person signing; and


(9) A statement to the following effect:




(h) *International Standard Recording Codes.* Notwithstanding § 370.4(d)(2)(v) of this chapter, the Licensee must use International Standard Recording Codes (ISRCs) in its Reports of Use, where available and feasible.








(i) *Distribution of royalties.* (1) However, in any case in which a Licensee has not provided a compliant Report of Use, whether for the License Period or otherwise, and the board of directors of the Collective determines that further efforts to seek the missing Report of Use from the Licensee would not be warranted, the Collective may determine that it will distribute the royalties associated with the Licensee's missing Report of Use on the basis of a proxy data set approved by the board of directors of the Collective.




(2) If the Collective is unable to locate a Copyright Owner entitled to a distribution of royalties under paragraph (i)(1) of this section within 3 years from the date of payment by a Licensee, such royalties shall be handled in accordance with § 384.8.


(j) *Retention of records.* Books and records of a Licensee and of the Collective relating to payments of and distributions of royalties shall be kept for a period of not less than the prior 3 calendar years.



---

[N] [73 FR 16199, Mar. 27, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 66277, Nov. 5, 2013; 89 FR 268, Jan. 3, 2024]




