# § 655.16   Filing of the job order at the SWA.

(a) *Submission of the job order.* (1) The employer must submit the job order to the SWA serving the area of intended employment at the same time it submits the *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* and a copy of the job order to the NPC in accordance with § 655.15. If the job opportunity is located in more than one State within the same area of intended employment, the employer may submit the job order to any one of the SWAs having jurisdiction over the anticipated worksites, but must identify the receiving SWA on the copy of the job order submitted to the NPC with its *Application for Temporary Employment Certification.* The employer must inform the SWA that the job order is being placed in connection with a concurrently submitted *Application for Temporary Employment Certification* for H-2B workers.


(2) In addition to complying with State-specific requirements governing job orders, the job order submitted to the SWA must satisfy the requirements set forth in § 655.18.


(b) *SWA review of the job order.* The SWA must review the job order and ensure that it complies with criteria set forth in § 655.18. If the SWA determines that the job order does not comply with the applicable criteria, the SWA must inform the CO at the NPC of the noted deficiencies within 6 business days of receipt of the job order.


(c) *Intrastate and interstate clearance.* Upon receipt of the Notice of Acceptance, as described in § 655.33, the SWA must promptly place the job order in intrastate clearance, and in interstate clearance by providing a copy of the job order to other states as directed by the CO.


(d) *Duration of job order posting and SWA referral of U.S. workers.* Upon receipt of the Notice of Acceptance, any SWA in receipt of the employer's job order must keep the job order on its active file until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.40(c), and must refer to the employer in a manner consistent with § 655.47 all qualified U.S. workers who apply for the job opportunity or on whose behalf a job application is made.


(e) *Amendments to a job order.* The employer may amend the job order at any time before the CO makes a final determination, in accordance with procedures set forth in § 655.35.




