# ยง 242.55   Labor standards.

(a) Projects financed under this part (except under 24 CFR 242.91) must comply with the prevailing wage rates determined under the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 3141 *et seq.*), and U.S. Department of Labor regulations in 29 CFR parts 1, 3, and 5 for compliance with labor standards laws, in accordance with section 212 of the Act, provided that supplemental loans under section 241 of the Act made in connection with loans insured under this part are subject to labor standards requirements in the same manner and to the same extent as mortgages insured under section 242 of the National Housing Act.


(b) The requirements stated in 24 CFR part 70 governing HUD waiver of Davis-Bacon prevailing wage rates for volunteers apply to hospitals with mortgages insured under this part.


(c) Each laborer or mechanic employed on any facility covered by a mortgage insured under this part (except under 24 CFR 242.91), but including a supplemental loan under section 241 of the Act made in connection with a loan insured under this part) shall receive compensation at a rate not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked in any workweek in excess of 8 hours in any workday or 40 hours in the workweek.


(d) Project commitments, contracts, and agreements, as determined by HUD, and construction contracts and subcontracts, shall include terms, conditions, and standards for compliance with applicable requirements set forth in 29 CFR parts 1, 3, and 5 and section 212 of the Act.


(e) No advance under a loan or mortgage that is subject to the requirements of section 212 shall be eligible for insurance unless there is filed with the application for the advance a certificate as required by HUD certifying that the laborers and mechanics employed in construction of the project have been paid not less than the wage rates required under section 212.



---

[N] [72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 8344, Feb. 5, 2013]




