# ยง 16.204   Public notice.

(a) *Requirements.* Every open meeting and meeting closed pursuant to ยง 16.203 shall be preceded by a public announcement posted before the main entrance to the Chairman's Office at the Commission's headquarters, 5550 Friendship Boulevard, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815-7286, and, in the case of a meeting held elsewhere, in a prominent place at the location in which the meeting will be held. Such announcement shall be transmitted to the _Federal Register_ for publication and, in addition, may be issued through the Department of Justice, Office of Public Affairs, as a press release, or by such other means as the Commission shall deem reasonable and appropriate. The announcement shall furnish:


(1) A brief description of the subject matter to be discussed;


(2) The date, place, and approximate time of the meeting;


(3) Whether the meeting will be open or closed to public observation; and 


(4) The name and telephone number of the official designated to respond to requests for information concerning the meeting. See ยง 16.205(d) for the notice requirement applicable to meetings closed pursuant to that section.


(b) *Time of notice.* The announcement required by this section shall be released to the public at least one week prior to the meeting announced therein except where a majority of the members of the Commission determines by a recorded vote that Commission business requires earlier consideration. In the event of such a determination, the announcement shall be made at the earliest practicable time.


(c) *Amendments to notice.* The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the announcement only if the Commission publicly announces such change at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of a meeting, or determination of the Commission to open or close a meeting, or portion of a meeting, to the public may be changed following the announcement only if:


(1) A majority of the entire membership of the Commission determines by a recorded vote that Commission business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible, and


(2) The Commission publicly announces such change and the vote of each member upon such change at the earliest practicable time: *Provided,* That individual items which have been announced for Commission consideration at a closed meeting may be deleted without notice. 



---

[N] [42 FR 14713, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended by Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52357, Oct. 27, 1981]




