# ยง 902.13   Frequency of PHAS assessments.

The frequency of a PHA's PHAS assessments is determined by the size of the PHA's Low-Rent program and its PHAS designation. HUD may, due to unforeseen circumstances or other cause as determined by HUD, extend the time between assessments by direct notice to the PHA and relevant resident organization or resident management entity, and any other general notice that HUD deems appropriate.


(a) *Small PHAs.* HUD will assess and score the performance of a PHA with fewer than 250 public housing units, as follows:


(1) A small PHA that is a high performer may receive a PHAS assessment every 3 years;


(2) A small PHA that is a standard or substandard performer may receive a PHAS assessment every other year; and


(3) All other small PHAs may receive a PHAS assessment every year, including a PHA that is designated as troubled or Capital Fund-troubled in accordance with ยง 902.75.


(b) *Frequency of scoring for PHAs with 250 units or more.* (1) All PHAs, other than stated in paragraph (a) of this section, may be assessed on an annual basis.


(2) The physical condition score for each project will determine the frequency of inspections of each project in accordance with the inspection cycle laid out in 24 CFR 5.705(c). The PHAS physical condition indicator score for an assessment period shall be calculated by taking the unit-weighted average of the most recent physical condition score for each project, except that, starting July 1, 2023, no new physical condition indicator will be issued for a PHA until every project under the PHA has been inspected on or after July 1, 2023.




(3) If a PHA is designated as a troubled performer, all projects will receive a physical condition inspection regardless of the individual project physical condition score.


(4) In the baseline year, every PHA will receive an overall PHAS score and in all four of the PHAS indicators: Physical condition; financial condition; management operations; and Capital Fund program. This will allow a baseline for the physical condition inspections and the 3-2-1 inspection schedule, as well as a baseline year for the small deregulated PHAs.


(c) *Financial submissions.* HUD shall not issue a PHAS score for the unaudited and audited financial information in the years that a PHA is not being assessed under PHAS. Although HUD shall not issue a PHAS score under such circumstances, a PHA shall comply with the requirements for submission of annual unaudited and audited financial statements in accordance with subpart C of this part and 24 CFR 5.801.



---

[N] [76 FR 10149, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 30500, May 11, 2023]










