# § 1065.925   PEMS preparation for field testing.

Take the following steps to prepare PEMS for field testing:


(a) Verify that ambient conditions at the start of the test are within the limits specified in the standard-setting part. Continue to monitor these values to determine if ambient conditions exceed the limits during the test.


(b) Install a PEMS and any accessories needed to conduct a field test.


(c) Power the PEMS and allow pressures, temperatures, and flows to stabilize to their operating set points.


(d) Bypass or purge any gaseous sampling PEMS instruments with ambient air until sampling begins to prevent system contamination from excessive cold-start emissions.


(e) Conduct calibrations and verifications.


(f) Operate any PEMS dilution systems at their expected flow rates using a bypass.


(g) If you use a gravimetric balance to determine whether an engine meets an applicable PM standard, follow the procedures for PM sample preconditioning and tare weighing as described in § 1065.590. Operate the PM-sampling system at its expected flow rates using a bypass.


(h) Verify the amount of contamination in the PEMS HC sampling system before the start of the field test as follows:


(1) Select the HC analyzer range for measuring the maximum concentration expected at the HC standard.


(2) Zero the HC analyzers using a zero gas or ambient air introduced at the analyzer port. When zeroing a FID, use the FID's burner air that would be used for in-use measurements (generally either ambient air or a portable source of burner air).


(3) Span the HC analyzer using span gas introduced at the analyzer port.


(4) Overflow zero or ambient air at the HC probe inlet or into a tee near the probe outlet. 


(5) Measure the HC concentration in the sampling system:


(i) For continuous sampling, record the mean HC concentration as overflow zero air flows.


(ii) For batch sampling, fill the sample medium and record its mean concentration.


(6) Record this value as the initial HC concentration, *x*_THCinit_, and use it to correct measured values as described in § 1065.660.


(7) If the initial HC concentration exceeds the greater of the following values, determine the source of the contamination and take corrective action, such as purging the system or replacing contaminated portions:


(i) 2% of the flow-weighted mean concentration expected at the standard or measured during testing.


(ii) 2 µmol/mol.


(8) If corrective action does not resolve the deficiency, you may use a contaminated HC system if it does not prevent you from demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission standards.



---

[N] [70 FR 40516, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 37345, June 30, 2008; 73 FR 59342, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 68467, Nov. 8, 2010; 76 FR 57467, Sept. 15, 2011]




