# § 485.540   Condition of participation: Medical records.

(a) *Standard: Records system.* (1) The REH must maintain a medical records system in accordance with written policies and procedures.


(2) The records must be legible, complete, accurately documented, readily accessible, and systematically organized.


(3) A designated member of the professional staff is responsible for maintaining the records and for ensuring that they are completely and accurately documented, readily accessible, and systematically organized.


(4) For each patient receiving health care services, the REH must maintain a record that includes, as applicable—


(i) Identification and social data, evidence of properly executed informed consent forms, pertinent medical history, assessment of the health status and health care needs of the patient, and a brief summary of the episode, disposition, and instructions to the patient;


(ii) Reports of physical examinations, diagnostic and laboratory test results, including clinical laboratory services, and consultative findings;


(iii) All orders of doctors of medicine or osteopathy or other practitioners, reports of treatments and medications, nursing notes and documentation of complications, and other pertinent information necessary to monitor the patient's progress, such as temperature graphics, progress notes describing the patient's response to treatment; and


(iv) Dated signatures of the doctor of medicine or osteopathy or other health care professional.


(b) *Standard: Protection of record information.* (1) The REH must maintain the confidentiality of record information and provides safeguards against loss, destruction, or unauthorized use.


(2) The REH must have written policies and procedures that govern the use and removal of records from the REH and the conditions for the release of information.


(3) The patient's written consent is required for release of information not required by law.


(c) *Standard: Retention of records.* The records must be retained for at least 5 years from date of last entry, and longer if required by state statute, or if the records may be needed in any pending proceeding.


(d) *Standard: Electronic notifications.* If the REH utilizes an electronic medical records system or other electronic administrative system, which is conformant with the content exchange standard at 45 CFR 170.205(d)(2), then the REH must demonstrate that—


(1) The system's notification capacity is fully operational and the REH uses it in accordance with all state and Federal statutes and regulations applicable to the REH's exchange of patient health information.


(2) The system sends notifications that must include at least patient name, treating practitioner name, and sending institution name.


(3) To the extent permissible under applicable Federal and state law and regulations, and not inconsistent with the patient's expressed privacy preferences, the system sends notifications directly, or through an intermediary that facilitates exchange of health information, at the time of the patient's registration in the REH's emergency department.


(4) To the extent permissible under applicable Federal and state law and regulations, and not inconsistent with the patient's expressed privacy preferences, the system sends notifications directly, or through an intermediary that facilitates exchange of health information, either immediately prior to, or at the time the patient's discharge or transfer from the REH's emergency department.


(5) The REH has made a reasonable effort to ensure that the system sends the notifications to all applicable post-acute care services providers and suppliers, as well as to any of the following practitioners and entities, which need to receive notification of the patient's status for treatment, care coordination, or quality improvement purposes:


(i) The patient's established primary care practitioner;


(ii) The patient's established primary care practice group or entity; or


(iii) Other practitioner, or other practice group or entity, identified by the patient as the practitioner, or practice group or entity, primarily responsible for their care.






