# § 1.414(l)-1   Mergers and consolidations of plans or transfers of plan assets.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Scope of the regulations.* Sections 401(a)(12) and 414(l) apply only to plans to which section 411 applies without regard to section 411(e)(2). Thus, for example, these sections do not apply to a governmental plan within the meaning of section 414(d); a church plan, within the meaning of section 414(e), for which there has not been made the election under section 410(d) to have the participation, vesting, funding, etc. requirements apply; or a plan which at no time after September 2, 1974, provided for employer contributions.


(2) *General rule.* Under section 414(l),


(i) A trust which forms a part of a plan will not constitute a qualified trust under section 401, and 


(ii) A plan will not be treated as being qualified under section 403 (a) and 405 (a), unless, in the case of a merger or consolidation (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), or a transfer of assets or liabilities (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section), the following condition is satisfied. This condition requires that each participant receive benefits on a termination basis (as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) from the plan immediately after the merger, consolidation or transfer which are equal to or greater than the benefits the participant would receive on a termination basis immediately before the merger, consolidation, or transfer.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Single plan.* A plan is a “single plan” if and only if, on an ongoing basis, all of the plan assets are available to pay benefits to employees who are covered by the plan and their beneficiaries. For purposes of the preceding sentence, all the assets of a plan will not fail to be available to provide all the benefits of a plan merely because the plan is funded in part or in whole with allocated insurance instruments. A plan will not fail to be a single plan merely because of the following:


(i) The plan has several distinct benefit structures which apply either to the same or different participants,


(ii) The plan has several plan documents,


(iii) Several employers, whether or not affiliated, contribute to the plan,


(iv) The assets of the plan are invested in several trusts or annuity contracts, or


(v) Separate accounting is maintained for purposes of cost allocation but not for purposes of providing benefits under the plan.


(2) *Merger or consolidation.* The terms “merger” or “consolidation” means the combining of two or more plans into a single plan. A merger or consolidation will not occur merely because one or more corporations undergo a reorganization (whether or not taxable). Furthermore, a merger or consolidation will not occur if two plans are not combined into a single plan, such as by using one trust which limits the availability of assets of one plan to provide benefits to participants and beneficiaries of only that plan.


(3) *Transfer of assets or liabilities.* A “transfer of assets or liabilities” occurs when there is a diminution of assets or liabilities with respect to one plan and the acquisition of these assets or the assumption of these liabilities by another plan. For example, the shifting of assets or liabilities pursuant to a reciprocity agreement between two plans in which one plan assumes liabilities of another plan is a transfer of assets or liabilities. However, the shifting of assets between several funding media used for a single plan (such as between trusts, between annuity contracts, or between trusts and annuity contracts) is not a transfer of assets or liabilities.


(4) *Spinoff.* The term “spinoff” means the splitting of a single plan into two or more plans.


(5) *Benefits on a termination basis.* (i) The term “benefits on a termination basis” means the benefits that would be provided exclusively by the plan assets pursuant to section 4044 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and the regulations thereunder if the plan terminated. Thus, the term does not include benefits that are guaranteed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, but not provided by the plan assets.


(ii) For purposes of determining the benefits on a termination basis, the allocation of assets to various priority categories under section 4044 of ERISA must be made on the basis of reasonable actuarial assumptions. The assumptions used by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation as of the date of the merger or spinoff are deemed reasonable for this purpose. 


(iii) If a change in the benefit structure of a plan in conjunction with a merger, consolidation, or transfer of assets or liabilities alters the benefits on a termination basis, the change should be designated, at the time the merger, consolidation, or transfer occurs, to be effective either immediately before or immediately after that occurrence. In the event that no designation is made, the change in the benefit structure will be deemed to occur immediately after the merger, consolidation, or transfer of assets or liabilities.


(6) *Lower funded plan.* (i) The term “lower funded plan” generally means the plan which, immediately prior to the merger, would have its assets exhausted in a higher priority category than the other plan.


(ii) Where two plans, immediately prior to the merger, would have their assets exhausted in the same priority category of section 4044 of ERISA in the event of termination, the lower funded plan is the one in which the assets would satisfy a lesser proportion of the liability allocated to that priority category.


(7) *Priority category.* The term “priority category” means the category of benefits described in each paragraph of section 4044(a) of ERISA. References to higher or highest priority categories refer to those priority categories which receive the first allocation of asserts, i.e. the lowest paragraph numbers in section 4044(a).


(8) *Separate accounting of assets.* The term “separate accounting of assets” means the maintenance of an asset account with respect to a given group of participants which is:


(i) Credited with contributions made to the plan on behalf of the participants and with its allocable share of investment income, if any, and


(ii) Charged with benefits paid to the participants, and with its allocable share of investment losses or expenses.


(9) *Present value of accrued benefit.* For purposes of this section, the present value of an accrued benefit must be determined on the basis of reasonable actuarial assumptions. For this purpose, the assumptions used by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation as of the date of the merger or spinoff are deemed reasonable.


(10) *Valuation of plan assets.* In determining the value of a plan's assets, the standards set forth in regulations prescribed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (29 CFR Part 2611) shall be applied.


(11) *Date of merger or spinoff.* The actual date of a merger or spinoff shall be determined on the basis of the facts and circumstances of the particular situation. For purposes of this determination, the following factors, none of which is necessarily controlling, are relevant:


(i) The date on which the affected employees stop accruing benefits under one plan and begin coverage and benefit accruals under another plan.


(ii) The date as of which the amount of assets to be eventually transferred is calculated.


(iii) If the merger or spinoff agreement provides that interest is to accrue from a certain date to the date of actual transfer, the date from which such interest will accrue.


(c) *Application of section 414(l)*—(1) *Two or more plans.* (i) Section 414(l) does not apply unless more than a single plan is involved. It also does not apply unless at least a single plan assumes liabilities from another plan or obtains assets from another plan (as in a merger or spinoff). For purposes of section 414(l), a transfer of assets or liabilities will not be deemed to occur merely because a defined contribution plan is amended to become a defined benefit plan. This rule will apply even if, under the facts and circumstances of a particular case, a termination of the defined contribution plan will be considered to have occurred for purposes of other provisions of the Code. 


(ii) The requirements of this subparagraph may be illustrated as follows:


(2) *Multiemployer plans.* Except to the extent provided by regulations of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, section 114(l) does not apply to any transaction to the extent that participants either before or after that transaction are covered under a multiemployer plan within the meaning of section 414(f). Until these regulations are issued, section 414(l) does not apply to any of the following situations:


(i) A multiemployer plan is split into two or more plans, one or more of which are not multiemployer plans, or (ii) A single employer plan is merged into a multiemployer plan.


(d) *Merger of defined contribution plans.* In the case of a merger of two or more defined contribution plans, the requirements of section 414(l) will be satisfied if all of the following conditions are met:


(1) The sum of the account balances in each plan equals the fair market value (determined as of the date of the merger) of the entire plan assets.


(2) The assets of each plan are combined to form the assets of the plan as merged. 


(3) Immediately after the merger, each participant in the plan as merged has an account balance equal to the sum of the account balances the participant had in the plans immediately prior to merger.


(e) *Merger of defined benefit plans*—(1) *General rule.* Section 414(l) compares the benefits on a termination basis before and after the merger. If the sum of the assets of all plans is not less than the sum of the present values of the accrued benefit (whether or not vested) of all plans, the requirements of section 414(l) will be satisfied merely by combining the assets and preserving each participant's accrued benefits. This is so because all the accrued benefits of the plan as merged are provided on a termination basis by the plan as merged. However, if the sum of the assets of all plans is less than the sum of the present values of the accrued benefits (whether or not vested) in all plans, the accrued benefits in the plan as merged are not provided on a termination basis.


(2) *Special schedule of benefits.* Generally, for some participants, the benefits provided on a termination basis for the plan as merged would be different from the benefits provided on a termination basis in the plans prior to merger if the assets were merely combined and if each participant retained his accrued benefit. Some participants would, therefore, receive greater benefits on a termination basis as a result of the merger and some other participants would receive smaller benefits. Accordingly, the requirements of section 414(l) would not be satisfied unless the distribution on termination were modified in some manner to prevent any participant from receiving smaller benefits on a termination basis as a result of the merger. This is accomplished through modifying the application of section 4044 of ERISA by inserting a special schedule of benefits.


(f) *Operational rules for the special schedule.* The application of section 4044 of ERISA as modified by the schedule of benefits is accomplished by the following steps:


(1) Section 4044 is applied in the plan as merged through the priority categories fully satisfied by the assets of the lower funded plan immediately prior to the merger.


(2) The assets in the plan as merged are then allocated to the next priority category as a percentage of the value of the benefits that would otherwise be allocated to that priority category. That percentage is the ratio of (i) the assets allocated to the first priority category not fully satisfied by the lower funded plan immediately prior to the merger to (ii) the assets that would have been allocated had that priority category been fully satisfied.


(3) A schedule of benefits is formed listing participants and scheduled accrued benefits. The scheduled accrued benefit is the excess of the benefits provided on a termination basis with respect to any participant from the plans immediately prior to the merger, over the benefits provided on a termination basis in subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph immediately after the merger. After allocating the assets in accordance with subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the assets are allocated to the schedule of benefits as follows:


(i) First the assets are allocated to the scheduled benefits to the extent that the participant would have benefits provided in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph if there were no scheduled benefits.


(ii) Then the assets are allocated to the scheduled benefits to the extent that the participant would have benefits provided pursuant to subparagraph (5) of this paragraph if there were no scheduled benefits.


(4) The assets are then allocated to those benefits in the priority category described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph with respect to which assets were not allocated. This allocation is made to the extent that these benefits are not associated with benefits in the schedule. 


(5) Finally, the assets are allocated in accordance with section 4044 with respect to priority categories lower than the priority category described in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph. This allocation is made to the extent that these benefits are not associated with benefits in the schedule. 


(g) *Successive mergers*—(1) *In general.* In the case of a current merger of a defined benefit plan with another defined benefit plan which as a result of a previous merger has a special schedule, the rules of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section apply as if the schedule were considered a category described in section 4044 of ERISA. Thus, a second schedule may be formed as a result of the current merger. The second schedule will be inserted in the priority category of section 4044 described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section as of the date of the current merger. This priority category may be higher, lower, or within the schedule of benefits existing on account of a previous merger. If this priority schedule is inserted within a schedule of benefits, a new single schedule of benefits replacing the old schedule of benefits would in effect be created. 


(2) *Allocation of assets.* Assets in the new schedule of benefits are allocated as follows: 


(i) First to the benefits remaining in the old schedule to the extent that there are assets immediately prior to the second merger to satisfy the original benefits, 


(ii) Then to the benefits provided on a termination basis from the plans immediately prior to the second merger to the extent that they are not provided before the schedule after the second merger or in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, 


(iii) Then to benefits remaining in the original schedule not included in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph. 


(h) *De minimis rule for merger of defined benefit plan*—(1) *In general.* In the case of a merger of a defined benefit plan (“smaller plan”) whose liabilities (*i.e.,* the present value of accrued benefits, whether or not vested) are less than 3 percent of the assets of another defined benefit plan (“larger plan”) as of at least one day in the larger plan's plan year in which the merger of the two plans occurs, section 414(l) will be deemed to be satisfied if the following condition is met. The condition requires that a special schedule of benefits (consisting of all the benefits that would be provided by the smaller plan on a termination basis just prior to the merger) be payable in a priority category higher than the highest priority category in section 4044 of ERISA. Assets will be allocated to that schedule in accordance with the allocation of assets to scheduled benefits in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(2) *Application to a series of mergers.* In the case of a series of such mergers in a given plan year of the larger plan, the rule described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph will apply only if the sum of the liabilities (whether or not vested) assumed by the larger plan are less than 3 percent of the assets of the larger plan as of at least one day in the plan year of the larger plan in which the mergers occurred.


(3) *Application to a merger occurring over more than one plan year.* In the case of a merger of a smaller plan or a portion thereof with a larger plan designed to occur in steps over more than one plan year of the larger plan, the entire transaction will be deemed to occur in the plan year of the larger plan which contains the first of these steps.


(4) *Liabilities of the smaller plan.* For purposes of subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph, mergers satisfying paragraphs (e), (f) or (g) of this section will be ignored in determining the sum of the liabilities assumed by the larger plan. 


(i) *Data maintenance*—(1) *Alternative to the special schedule.* In the case of a merger which would require the creation of a special schedule in order to satisfy section 414(l), the schedule need not be created at the time of the merger if data sufficient to create the schedule is maintained. The schedule would only have to be created in the event of a subsequent plan termination or a subsequent spinoff. In that case the schedule must be determined as of the date of the merger. 


(2) *Required data.* The data that must be maintained depends on the plan, and care should be taken to ensure that all necessary data is maintained. Furthermore, in order to take advantage of the data maintenance alternative provided in this paragraph, an enrolled actuary must certify to the plan administrator that each element of data necessary to determine the schedule as of the date of the merger is maintained. This certification must be based either upon the enrolled actuary's independent examination of the data, or upon his reliance, which under the circumstances of the particular situation must be reasonable, upon a written statement of the plan administrator concerning what data is actually being maintained. 


(j) *Five year rule*—(1) *Limitation on the required use of the special schedule.* A plan will not fail to satisfy the requirements of section 414(l) merely because the effects of the special schedule created pursuant to paragraphs (e)(2) or (h) of this section are ignored 5 years after the date of a merger. Furthermore, the date maintained pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section need not be maintained for more than 5 years after the merger, if the plan does not have a spinoff or a termination within 5 years.


(2) *Illustration.* If Plans A and B merge to form Plan AB and if Plan AB merges with Plan C 3 years later to form Plan ABC and if Plan ABC terminates 4 years later, the data relating to the merger of Plans A and B need not be maintained for more than 5 years after the merger of Plans A and B. In addition, after 5 years have elapsed after the merger of Plans A and B, the effect of any special schedule created by the merger of Plans A and B on the schedule created by the merger of Plans AB and C may be ignored in determining the later schedule.


(k) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(l) *Merger of defined benefit and defined contribution plan.* In the case of a merger of a defined benefit plan with a defined contribution plan, one of the plans before the merger should be converted into the other type of plan (*i.e.,* the defined benefit converted into a defined contribution or the defined contribution converted into a defined benefit) and either paragraph (d) or paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section, whichever is appropriate, should be applied. 


(m) *Spinoff of a defined contribution plan.* In the case of a spinoff of a defined contribution plan, the requirements of section 414(l) will be satisfied if after the spinoff—


(1) The sum of the account balances for each of the participants in the resulting plans equals the account balance of the participant in the plan before the spinoff, and


(2) The assets in each of the plans immediately after the spinoff equals the sum of the account balances for all participants in that plan.


(n) *Spinoff of a defined benefit plan*—(1) *General rule.* In the case of a spinoff of a defined benefit plan, the requirements of section 414(l) will be satisfied if—


(i) All of the accrued benefits of each participant are allocated to only one of the spun off plans, and 


(ii) The value of the assets allocated to each of the spun off plans is not less than the sum of the present value of the benefits on a termination basis in the plan before the spin off for all participants in that spun off plan.


(2) *De minimis rule.* In the case of a spin off the requirements of section 414(l) will be deemed to be satisfied if the value of the assets spun off—


(i) Equals the present value of the accrued benefits spun off (whether or not vested), and


(ii) In conjunction with other assets spun off during the plan year in which the spinoff occurs in accordance with this subparagraph, is less than 3 percent of the assets as of at least one day in that year.


(3) *Special temporary rule.* In the case of a defined benefit plan maintained for different groups of employees, which is a single plan (as defined in paragraph (b)(l) of this section) and under which there has been separate accounting of assets for each group, a spinoff of the plan on or before July 1, 1978, into a separate plan for each group will be deemed to satisfy section 414 (l) if—


(i) All the liabilities with respect to each group of employees are allocated to a separate plan for that group of employees, and


(ii) The assets that are separately accounted for with respect to each group of employees are allocated to the separate plan for that group of employees.


(o) *Transfers of assets or liabilities.* Any transfer of assets or liabilities will for purposes of section 414 (l) be considered as a combination of separate mergers and spinoffs using the rules of paragraphs (d), (e) through (j), (l), (m), or (n) of this section, whichever is appropriate. Thus, for example, if in accordance with the transfer of one or more employees, a block of assets and liabilities are transferred from Plan A to Plan B, each of which is a defined benefit plan, the transaction will be considered as a spinoff from Plan A and a merger of one of the spinoff plans with Plan B. The spinoff and merger described in the previous sentence would be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (n) and (e) through (j) of this section respectively.



---

[N] [T.D. 7638, 44 FR 48195, Aug. 17, 1979]




