# § 145.12   Entry of merchandise.

(a) *Formal entries*—(1) *Discretionary.* CBP may require formal entry of any mail shipment regardless of value if it is necessary to protect the revenue. 


(2) *Required.* Formal entry at the customhouse will be required for every importation in the mails which exceeds $2,500 in value, except for special classes of merchandise which can be released without entry (see subpart D of this part), and except as provided in subparts B and C of part 143 and § 10.1 of this chapter. 


(3) *Separate shipments.* Separate shipments not exceeding $2,500 in value, if mailed abroad at different times (as shown by the declaration or other mailing indicia), cannot be combined for the purpose of requiring formal entry, even though they reach CBP at the same time and are covered by a single order or contract in excess of $2,500, unless there was a splitting of shipments in order to avoid the payment of customs duty. 


(4) *Notice of formal entry requirement.* When a formal entry is required, the addressee will be notified of the arrival of the shipment and of the place at which entry is to be made. If the shipment is addressed to a point which is not a CBP port or customs station, the port of entry specified in the notice will be the port nearest the destination of the shipment. When a formal entry is filed, it must contain all the statistical information as provided in § 141.61(e) of this chapter. 


(b) *Mail and informal entries*—(1) *Preparation of entry form.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, CBP officers will prepare and attach a mail entry (CBP Form 3419 or 3419A) for each shipment not exceeding $2,500 in value which is to be delivered by the Postal Service, and return the shipment to the Postal Service for delivery and collection of duty. If the addressee has arranged to pick up such a shipment at the CBP office where it is being processed, the CBP officer will prepare an informal entry (CBP Form 368 or 368A (serially numbered), or an entry summary, CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent and collect the duty in accordance with subpart C of part 143 of this chapter. 


(2) *Rates of duty.* Merchandise released under a mail or informal entry will be dutiable at the rates of duty in effect when the preparation of the entry is completed by a CBP employee, ready for transmittal with the merchandise to the addressee. 


(c) *Dutiable shipments not over $2,500 for Government agencies.* When a dutiable shipment not exceeding $2,500 in value is addressed to a U.S. Government department or agency, the port director may release the merchandise prior to the payment of duties under an entry on CBP Form 368 or 368A (serially numbered) or CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent upon the receipt of a stipulation in the form set forth in § 141.102(d) of this chapter. If the stipulation does not accompany the shipment, the port director will notify the Government department or agency of the arrival of the shipment and request the stipulation. Upon receipt of the completed stipulation and preparation of the entry form, the port director will stamp all mail articles in the shipment to show that they have received customs treatment and will return the shipment to the Postal Service for delivery, unless the addressee has arranged to pick up the shipment at the CBP office where it is being processed. The proper Government department or agency will be billed later for any duties and taxes due. 


(d) *Release without entry.* Certain types of merchandise may be passed free of duty without issuing an entry (see subpart D of this part). 


(e) *Unaccompanied shipments*—(1) *Mail entry to be attached.* If the requirements of § 148.115(a) of this chapter are met, CBP officers will prepare and attach a mail entry, CBP Form 3419 or 3419A, for each shipment for which entry is claimed under subheading 9816.00.40, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), which is to be delivered by the Postal Service, and return the shipment to the Postal Service for delivery and collection of duty. If the addressee has arranged to pick up the shipment at the CBP office where it is being processed, the CBP officer will prepare an informal entry, CBP Form 368 or 368A (serially numbered), or entry summary, CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent and collect the duty in accordance with subpart C of part 143 of this chapter if the requirements of § 148.115(a) of this chapter are met.


(2) *Disposition of CBP Form 255.* The Declaration of Unaccompanied Articles, CBP Form 255, affixed to the shipment must be removed by the CBP officer and retained for customs purposes. If a mail entry, CBP Form 3419 or 3419A, has been prepared, the mail entry number will be noted on the CBP Form 255. 



---

[N] [T.D. 73-135, 38 FR 13369, May 21, 1973]


