# ยง 370.12   What happens if an error is made in a credit entry, or if a duplicate credit entry is made?

If we make an erroneous credit entry under this part, we will make a corrected credit entry to your account. We will then take action to recover the erroneous credit entry, or any duplicate credit entry, as follows:


(a) *Return of amount of erroneous or duplicate credit entry by financial institution.* We will send a notice to the financial institution to which the erroneous or duplicate credit entry was sent. When it receives this notice, the financial institution must immediately return to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank an amount equal to the credit entry. If the institution is unable to do this, the institution must immediately notify us, and provide any information that it has about the matter. We reserve the right to request the return of a partial amount of an erroneous or duplicate credit entry.


(b) *Collection of amount of unreturned erroneous or duplicate credit entry.* Where the erroneous or duplicate credit entry has not been returned, we will undertake any other actions that are appropriate. To the extent permitted by law, the collection action may include deducting the amount owed from future credit entries made to the deposit account to which the erroneous or duplicate credit entry was made.


(c) *Authorization of Debit to collect unreturned dulicate or erroneous credit entry.* If a financial institution has not responded within 60 calendar days of the notice, its acceptance of the credit entry will be considered an authorization for a debit in the amount of the entry. The debit will be made from the account maintained or utilized by the financial institution at the Federal Reserve Bank to which the entry was made. An institution designated by a financial institution to receive payment on its behalf, in permitting the usage, is deemed to have authorized a debit. The debit will be made from its account maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank to which the entry was made. The institution to which the credit entry has been directed is deemed to have agreed to provide information and assistance to recover any erroneous or duplicate entry. You are also deemed to have agreed to provide information and assistance, and to take any action provided by law to recover an erroneous or duplicate credit entry.




