# § 14.54   Unavailability of Service officers.

(a) *Designated ports.* All wildlife arriving at a designated port must be cleared by a Service officer prior to Customs clearance and release. When importers or their agents expect live or perishable shipments of wildlife or wildlife products or request inspection at the time of arrival, they must notify the Service at least 48 hours prior to the estimated time of arrival. However, where a Service officer is not available within a reasonable time, Customs Officers may clear live or perishable wildlife subject to post-clearance inspection and investigation by the Service.


(b) *Border and special ports.* Wildlife lawfully imported at Canadian or Mexican border ports under § 14.16, or into Alaska, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, under § 14.19, may, if a Service officer is not available within a reasonable time, be cleared by Customs officers, subject to post-clearance inspection and investigation by the Service.


(c) *Permit imports.* Wildlife imported at a nondesignated port in accordance with the terms of a valid permit issued under subpart C of this part, may, if a Service officer is not available within a reasonable time, be cleared by Customs officers, subject to post-clearance inspection and investigation by the Service.


(d) *Personal baggage and household effects.* Wildlife lawfully imported at any port of entry under § 14.15, may, if a Service officer is not available within a reasonable time, be cleared by Customs officers, subject to post-clearance inspection and investigation by the Service.


(e) *Personally owned pet birds.* Personally owned pet birds lawfully imported at a port of entry under § 14.17, may, if a Service officer is not available within a reasonable time, be cleared by Customs officers, subject to post-clearance inspection and investigation by the Service.


(f) *Exports.* Exporters or their agents must notify the Service and make the shipment available for inspection at least 48 hours prior to the estimated time of exportation of any wildlife.



---

[N] [45 FR 56673, Aug. 25, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 31869, June 21, 1996]




