# § 36.4206   Underwriting standards, occupancy, and non-discrimination requirements.

(a) Except for refinancing loans pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1)(F), no loan shall be guaranteed unless the terms of repayment bear a proper relationship to the veteran's present and anticipated income and expenses, and the veteran is a satisfactory credit risk, as determined by use of the standards in § 36.4337 of this part.


(b) Use of the standards in § 36.4337 of this part for underwriting manufactured home loans will be waived only in extraordinary circumstances.


(c) The lender responsibilities contained in § 36.4337 of this part and the certification required and penalties to be assessed under § 36.4337A of this part against lenders making false certifications also apply to lenders originating VA guaranteed manufactured home loans under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 3712.


(d) No loan shall be guaranteed pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3712(a)(1) unless:


(1) The veteran certifies, in such form as the Secretary shall prescribe, that he or she will personally occupy the property as his or her home or, if the veteran is on active duty status as a member of the Armed Forces and is for that reason unable to occupy the property, the veteran's spouse must certify that he or she will personally occupy the property as his or her home. For the purposes of this section, the words *personally occupy the property as his or her home* mean that the veteran as of the date of his or her certification actually lives in the property personally as his or her residence or actually intends upon completion of the loan and acquisition of the manufactured home to move into the home personally within a reasonable time and to utilize the home as his or her residence.


(2) The veteran certifies, in such form as the Secretary shall prescribe that:


(i) Neither the veteran, nor anyone authorized to act for the veteran, will refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny the dwelling or property covered by this loan to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;


(ii) The veteran recognizes that any restrictive covenant on the property relating to race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin is illegal and void and any such covenant is specifically disclaimed; and


(iii) The veteran understands that civil action for preventive relief may be brought by the Attorney General of the United States in any appropriate U.S. district court against any person responsible for a violation of the applicable law.



---

[N] [46 FR 43670, Aug. 31, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 9855, Mar. 8, 1991; 58 FR 37859, July 14, 1993]




