# § 4.73   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


*Bank holding company* means any company that controls a bank (as provided in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 *et seq.*)).


*Consultant.* For purposes of this subpart, a consultant for a national bank, savings association, bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or other company shall include only an individual who works directly on matters for, or on behalf of, such bank, savings association, bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or other company.


*Control* has the meaning given in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)) or in section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a), as applicable under the circumstances. For purposes of this subpart, a foreign bank shall be deemed to control any branch or agency of the foreign bank.


*Depository institution* has the meaning given in section 3 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)). For purposes of this subpart, a depository institution includes an uninsured branch or agency of a foreign bank, if such branch or agency is located in any State.


*Federal Reserve* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Banks.


*Foreign bank* means any foreign bank or company described in section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)).


*Insured depository institution* has the meaning given in section 3 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2)).


*National bank* means a national banking association or a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank.


*Savings association* has the meaning given in section 3 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(1)).


*Savings and loan holding company* means any company that controls a savings association or any other company that is a savings and loan holding company (as provided in section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a)).


*Senior examiner.* For purposes of this subpart, an officer or employee of the OCC is considered to be the “senior examiner” for a particular national bank or savings association if—


(1) The officer or employee has been authorized by the OCC to conduct examinations on behalf of the OCC;


(2) The officer or employee has been assigned continuing, broad, and lead responsibility for examining the national bank or savings association; and


(3) The officer's or employee's responsibilities for examining the national bank or savings association—


(i) Represent a substantial portion of the officer's or employee's assigned responsibilities; and


(ii) Require the officer or employee to interact routinely with officers or employees of the national bank or savings association, or its affiliates.”



---

[N] [70 FR 69637, Nov. 17, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 43563, July 21, 2011]




