# Sec. 19-5   Air transport traffic and capacity elements.

(a) Within each of the service classifications prescribed in section 19-4, data shall be reported as applicable to specified air transport traffic and capacity elements. 


(b) These reported items are as follows: 


(c) These reported items are further described as follows:


(1) *Reporting period date.* The year and month or quarter to which the reported data are applicable.


(2) *Carrier, Carrier entity code.* Each foreign air carrier shall report its name and code (assigned by DOT). Each U.S. air carrier shall report its name and entity code (a five digit code assigned by DOT that identifies both the carrier and its entity) for its particular operations. The Office of Airline Information (OAI) will assign or confirm codes upon request; OAI's address is in the Appendix to section 25 of this part and the Appendix to § 217.10 of this chapter.


(3) *Service class code.* The service class codes are prescribed in section 19-4 of this part. In general, classes are divided into two broad categories, either K (scheduled) or V (nonscheduled), where K = F + G for all carriers and V = L + N + P + R for U.S. air carriers and comprises L + P and Q for foreign air carriers. Refer to section 19-4 for the more information on service class codes F, G, L, N, P, R and Q.


(4) *Record type code.* This code indicates whether the data pertain to nonstop segment (record type S) or on-flight market (record type M).


(5) *Aircraft type code.* This code represents the aircraft types, as described in the Appendix to section 25 of this part.


(6) *Origin, Destination airport code(s).* These codes represent the industry designators described in the Appendix to section 25 of this part. A common private industry source of these industry designator codes is the *Official Airline Guides* (OAG). OAI will assign codes upon request if not listed in the OAG.


(7) *110 Revenue passengers enplaned.* The total number of revenue passengers enplaned at the origin point of a flight, boarding the flight for the first time; an unduplicated count of passengers in a market. Under the T-100 system of reporting, these enplaned passengers are the sum of the passengers in the individual on-flight markets. Report only the total revenue passengers enplaned in item 110. For all air carriers and all entities, item 110 revenue passengers enplaned is reported on Form 41 Schedule T-100 in column C-1, as follows:


(8) *130 Revenue passengers transported.* The total number of revenue passengers transported over single flight stage, including those already on board the aircraft from a previous flight stage. Report only the total revenue passengers transported in item 130. For all air carriers and all entities, item 130 revenue passengers transported is reported on Form 41 Schedule T-100 in Column B-7, as follows:


(9) *140 Revenue passenger-miles.* Computed by multiplying the interairport distance of each flight stage by the number of passengers transported on that flight stage.


(10) *210 Revenue cargo tons enplaned.* The total number of cargo tons enplaned. This data element is a sum of the individual on-flight market figures for each of the following categories: 217 Freight and 219 mail. This element represents an unduplicated count of the revenue traffic in a market.


(11) *230 Revenue tons transported.* The number of tons of revenue traffic transported. This element is the sum of the following elements: 231 Passengers transported-total, 237 Freight, and 239 Mail.


(12) *240 Revenue ton-miles—total.* Ton-miles are computed by multiplying the revenue aircraft miles flown (410) on each flight stage by the number of tons transported on that stage. This element is the sum of 241 through 249.


(13) *241 Revenue ton-miles—passenger.* Equals the number of passengers times 200, times interairport distance, divided by 2000. A standard weight of 200 pounds per passenger, including baggage, is used for all operations and service classes.


(14) *247 Revenue ton-miles—freight.* Equals the volume of freight in whole tons times the interairport distance.


(15) *249 Revenue ton-miles—mail.* Equals the volume of mail in whole tons times the interairport distance.


(16) *270 Available capacity-payload.* The available capacity is collected in pounds. This figure shall reflect the payload or total available capacity for passengers, mail and freight applicable to the aircraft with which each flight stage is performed.


(17) *280 Available ton-miles.* The aircraft miles flown on each flight stage multiplied by the available capacity on the aircraft in tons.


(18) *310 Available seats.* The number of seats available for sale. This figure reflects the actual number of seats available, excluding those blocked for safety or operational reasons. Report the total available seats in item 310. For all air carriers and all entities, item 310 available seats, total is reported on Form 41 Schedule T-100 in column B-4, as follows.


(19) *320 Available seat-miles.* The aircraft miles flown on each flight stage multiplied by the seat capacity available for sale.


(20) *410 Revenue aircraft miles flown.* Revenue aircraft miles flown are computed in accordance with the airport pairs between which service is actually performed; miles are generated from the data for scheduled aircraft departures (Code 520) times the interairport distances (Code 501).


(21) *430 Revenue aircraft miles scheduled.* The number of revenue aircraft miles scheduled. All such data shall be maintained in conformity with the airport pairs between which service is scheduled, whether or not in accordance with actual performance.


(22) *501 Interairport distance.* The great circle distance, in official statute miles as prescribed in part 247 of this chapter, between airports served by each flight stage. Official interairport mileage may be obtained from the Office of Airline Information at the address included in section 25 of this part.


(23) Revenue aircraft departures performed. The number of revenue aircraft departures performed.


(24) *520 Revenue aircraft departures scheduled.* The number of revenue aircraft departures scheduled, whether or not actually performed.


(25) *610 Revenue aircraft hours (airborne).* The elapsed time, computed from the moment the aircraft leaves the ground until its next landing.


(26) *630 Aircraft hours (ramp-to-ramp).* The elapsed time, computed from the moment the aircraft first moves under its own power from the boarding ramp at one airport to the time it comes to rest at the ramp for the next point of landing. This data element is also referred to as “block” and block-to-block aircraft hours.


(27) *650 Total aircraft hours (airborne).* The elapsed time, computed from the moment the aircraft leaves the ground until it touches down at the next landing. This includes flight training, testing, and ferry flights.


(28) *810 Aircraft days assigned to service—carrier's equipment.* The number of days that aircraft owned or acquired through rental or lease (but not interchange) are in the possession of the reporting air carrier and are available for service on the reporting carrier's routes plus the number of days such aircraft are in service on routes of others under interchange agreements. Includes days in overhaul, or temporarily out of service due to schedule cancellations. Excludes days that newly acquired aircraft are on hand, but not available for productive use, days rented or leased to others (for other than interchange) and days in possession but formally withdrawn from air transportation service.


(29) *820 Aircraft days assigned to service—carrier's routes.* The same as “aircraft days assigned to service—carrier's equipment,” but excluding the number of days that the reporting carrier's owned or rented equipment are in the possession of others under interchange agreements and including the number of days aircraft of others are in the possession of the reporting air carrier under interchange agreements.


(30) *921 Aircraft fuels issued (gallons).* The amount of aircraft fuels issued, in U.S. gallons, during the reporting period for both revenue and nonrevenue flights.



---

[N] [53 FR 46305, Nov. 16, 1988, as amended by Amdt. 241-58, 54 FR 7184, Feb. 17, 1989; 60 FR 66723, Dec. 26, 1995; 62 FR 6718, Feb. 13, 1997; 67 FR 49224, July 30, 2002]




