# ยง 73.683   Presumptive determination of field strength at individual locations.

(a) See ยง 73.619(c). For purposes of the cross-reference from ยง 90.307(b), the Grade B contour is defined as the F(50,50) contour at 64 dBu.


(b) - (c) [Reserved]


(d) For purposes of determining the eligibility of individual households for satellite retransmission of distant network signals under the copyright law provisions of 17 U.S.C. 119(d)(10)(A), field strength shall be determined by the Individual Location Longley-Rice (ILLR) propagation prediction model. Such eligibility determinations shall consider only the signals of network stations located in the subscriber's Designated Market Area. Guidance for use of the ILLR model in predicting the field strength of television signals for such determinations is provided in OET Bulletin No. 73. For availability of OET Bulletin No. 73, contact FCC (see ยง 73.8000 for contact information).






(e) If a location was predicted to be unserved by a local network station using a version of the ILLR model specified in OET Bulletin No. 72 or OET Bulletin No. 73, as appropriate, and the satellite subscriber at that location is receiving a distant signal affiliated with the same network from its satellite provider, the satellite subscriber shall remain eligible for receiving the distant signal from its satellite provider if that location is subsequently predicted to be served by the local station due to either a change in the ILLR model or a change in the station's operations that change its coverage.


(f) A satellite carrier is exempt from the verification requirements of 47 U.S.C. 339(c)(4)(A) with respect to a test requested by a satellite subscriber to whom the retransmission of the signals of local broadcast stations is available under 47 U.S.C. 338 from such carrier. The definitions of satellite carrier, subscriber, and local market contained in 47 CFR 76.66(a) apply to this paragraph (f).



---

[N] [44 FR 36039, June 20, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 35990, Aug. 18, 1982; 50 FR 23699, June 5, 1985; 50 FR 32416, Aug. 12, 1985; 65 FR 36641, June 9, 2000; 70 FR 21670, Apr. 27, 2005; 75 FR 80363, Dec. 22, 2010; 85 FR 64408, Oct. 13, 2020; 88 FR 21446, Apr. 10, 2023; 89 FR 7252, Feb. 1, 2024]








