# § 721.1050   Benzenamine, 2,5-dibutoxy-4-(4-morpholinyl)-, sulfate.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenamine, 2,5-dibutoxy-4-(4-morpholinyl), sulfate (PMN P-90-1809; CAS number 130169-66-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i) and (g)(5). 


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), unless the substance is released to the Passaic Valley Sewerage Commission publicly-owned treatment works (NPDES Number NJ0021016) which discharges to the New York Bay.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 44061, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




