# ยง 63.1654   Operational and work practice standards.

(a) *Fugitive dust sources.* (1) Each owner or operator of an affected ferromanganese and silicomanganese production facility must prepare, and at all times operate according to, a fugitive dust control plan that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place to control fugitive dust emissions from the individual fugitive dust sources at the facility.


(2) The owner or operator must submit a copy of the fugitive dust control plan to the designated permitting authority on or before the applicable compliance date for the affected source as specified in ยง 63.1650(e). The requirement for the owner or operator to operate the facility according to a written fugitive dust control plan must be incorporated in the operating permit for the facility that is issued by the designated permitting authority under part 70 of this chapter.


(3) The owner or operator may use existing manuals that describe the measures in place to control fugitive dust sources required as part of a State implementation plan or other federally enforceable requirement for particulate matter to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Baghouses equipped with bag leak detection systems.* The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed submerged arc furnace must install and continuously operate a bag leak detection system if the furnace's primary and/or tapping emissions are ducted to a negative pressure baghouse or to a positive pressure baghouse equipped with a stack. The owner or operator must maintain and operate each baghouse such that the following conditions are met:


(1) The alarm on the system does not sound for more than 5 percent of the total operating time in a 6-month reporting period.


(2) A record is made of the date and time of each alarm and procedures to determine the cause of the alarm are initiated within 1 hour of the alarm according to the plan for corrective action required under ยง 63.1657(a)(7).




