# § 520.35   Afoxolaner, moxidectin, and pyrantel.

(a) *Specifications.* Each chewable tablet contains:


(1) 9.375 milligrams (mg) afoxolaner, 45 micrograms (mcg) moxidectin, and 18.75 mg pyrantel (as pamoate salt);


(2) 18.75 mg afoxolaner, 90 mcg moxidectin, and 37.5 mg pyrantel (as pamoate salt);


(3) 37.5 mg afoxolaner, 180 mcg moxidectin, and 75 mg pyrantel (as pamoate salt);


(4) 75 mg afoxolaner, 360 mcg moxidectin, and 150 mg pyrantel (as pamoate salt); or


(5) 150 mg afoxolaner, 720 mcg moxidectin, and 300 mg pyrantel (as pamoate salt).


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 000010 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Amount.* Administer orally once a month at the minimum dose of 1.14 mg/lb (2.5 mg/kg) afoxolaner, 5.45 mcg/lb (12 mcg/kg) moxidectin, and 2.27 mg/lb (5.0 mg/kg) pyrantel. For heartworm disease prevention, give once monthly for at least 6 months after last exposure to mosquitoes.


(2) *Indications for use.* For the prevention of heartworm disease caused by *Dirofilaria immitis* and for the treatment and control of adult hookworm (*Ancylostoma caninum, Ancylostoma braziliense,* and *Uncinaria stenocephala*) and roundworm (*Toxocara canis* and *Toxascaris leonina*) infections. Kills adult fleas and is indicated for the treatment and prevention of flea infestations (*Ctenocephalides felis*) and the treatment and control of *Ixodes scapularis* (black-legged tick), *Rhipicephalus sanguineus* (brown dog tick), *Dermacentor variabilis* (American dog tick), *Amblyomma americanum* (lone star tick), and *Haemaphysalis longicornis* (longhorned tick) infestations for 1 month in dogs and puppies 8 weeks of age and older, weighing 4 pounds of body weight or greater.


(3) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [88 FR 84699, Dec. 6, 2023, as amended at 90 FR 6799, Jan. 21, 2025]






