# § 170.15   CMMC Level 1 self-assessment and affirmation requirements.

(a) *Level 1 self-assessment.* To comply with CMMC Level 1 self-assessment requirements, the OSA must meet the requirements detailed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. An OSA conducts a Level 1 self-assessment as detailed in paragraph (c) of this section to achieve a CMMC Status of Final Level 1 (Self).


(1) *Level 1 self-assessment requirements.* The OSA must complete and achieve a MET result for all security requirements specified in § 170.14(c)(2) to achieve the CMMC Status of Final Level 1 (Self). No POA&Ms are permitted for CMMC Level 1. The OSA must conduct a self-assessment in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 170.15(c)(1) and submit assessment results in SPRS. To maintain compliance with the requirements for the CMMC Status of Final Level 1 (Self), the OSA must conduct a Level 1 self-assessment on an annual basis and submit the results in SPRS, or its successor capability.


(i) *Inputs to SPRS.* The Level 1 self-assessment results in the Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS) shall include, at minimum, the following items:


(A) CMMC Level.


(B) CMMC Status Date.


(C) CMMC Assessment Scope.


(D) All industry CAGE code(s) associated with the information system(s) addressed by the CMMC Assessment Scope.


(E) Compliance result.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) *Affirmation.* Affirmation of the Level 1 (Self) CMMC Status is required for all Level 1 self-assessments. Affirmation procedures are set forth in § 170.22.


(b) *Contract eligibility.* Prior to award of any contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self), OSAs must both achieve a CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self) and have submitted an affirmation of compliance into SPRS for all information systems within the CMMC Assessment Scope.


(c) *Procedures*—(1) *Level 1 self-assessment.* The OSA must conduct a Level 1 self-assessment scored in accordance with the CMMC Scoring Methodology described in § 170.24. The Level 1 self-assessment must be performed in accordance with the CMMC Level 1 scope requirements set forth in § 170.19(a) and (b) and the following:


(i) The Level 1 self-assessment must be performed using the objectives defined in NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) for the security requirement that maps to the CMMC Level 1 security requirement as specified in table 1 to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. In any case where an objective addresses CUI, FCI should be substituted for CUI in the objective.


(ii) Mapping table for CMMC Level 1 security requirements to the NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 objectives.


(iii) Additional guidance can be found in the guidance document listed in paragraph (b) of appendix A to this part.


(2) *Artifact retention.* The artifacts used as evidence for the assessment must be retained by the OSA for six (6) years from the CMMC Status Date.






