# § 648.8   Vessel identification.

(a) *Vessel name and official number.* Each fishing vessel subject to this part and over 25 ft (7.6 m) in registered length must: 


(1) Affix permanently its name on the port and starboard sides of the bow and, if possible, on its stern. 


(2) Display its official number on the port and starboard sides of the deckhouse or hull, and on an appropriate weather deck so as to be clearly visible from enforcement vessels and aircraft. The official number is the USCG documentation number or the vessel's state registration number for vessels not required to be documented under title 46 U.S.C. 


(b) *Numerals.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the official number must be displayed in block arabic numerals in contrasting color at least 18 inches (45.7 cm) in height for fishing vessels over 65 ft (19.8 m) in registered length, and at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) in height for all other vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) in registered length. The registered length of a vessel, for purposes of this section, is that registered length set forth in USCG or state records. 


(c) *Duties of owner.* The owner of each vessel subject to this part shall ensure that—


(1) The vessel's name and official number are kept clearly legible and in good repair. 


(2) No part of the vessel, its rigging, its fishing gear, or any other object obstructs the view of the official number from any enforcement vessel or aircraft. 


(d) *Non-permanent marking.* Vessels carrying recreational fishing parties on a per capita basis or by charter must use markings that meet the above requirements, except for the requirement that they be affixed permanently to the vessel. The non-permanent markings must be displayed in conformity with the above requirements. 


(e) *New Jersey surfclam or ocean quahog vessels.* Instead of complying with paragraph (a) of this section, surfclam or ocean quahog vessels licensed under New Jersey law may use the appropriate vessel identification markings established by that state. 


(f) *Private Recreational Tilefish Vessels.* Vessels issued only a Federal private recreational tilefish permit are not subject to the requirements of § 648.8, but must comply with any other applicable state or Federal vessel identification requirements.



---

[N] [61 FR 34968, July 3, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 60649, Sept. 29, 2011; 85 FR 43152, July 15, 2020]




