# § 405.2401   Scope and definitions.

(a) *Scope.* This subpart establishes the requirements for coverage and reimbursement of rural health clinic and Federally qualified health center services under Medicare.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart, unless the context indicates otherwise:


*Allowable costs* means costs that are incurred by a RHC or FQHC that is authorized to bill based on reasonable costs and are reasonable in amount and proper and necessary for the efficient delivery of RHC and FQHC services.


*Beneficiary* means an individual enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program for the Aged and Disabled (part of title XVIII of the Act). 


*Certified nurse midwife (CNM)* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.77(a) of this chapter.


*Clinical psychologist (CP)* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.71(d) of this chapter.


*Clinical social worker (CSW)* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.73(a) of this chapter.


*CMS* stands for Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. 


*Coinsurance* means that portion of the RHC's charge for covered services or that portion of the FQHC's charge or PPS rate for covered services for which the beneficiary is liable (in addition to the deductible, where applicable).


*Covered services* means items or services for which the beneficiary is entitled to have payment made on his or her behalf under this subpart. 


*Deductible* means the amount incurred by the beneficiary during a calendar year as specified in § 410.160 and § 410.161 of this chapter.


*Employee* means any individual who, under the common law rules that apply in determining the employer-employee relationship (as applied for purposes of section 3121(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986), is considered to be employed by, or an employee of, an entity. (Application of these common law rules is discussed in 20 CFR 404.1007 and 26 CFR 31.3121(d)-1(c).)


*Federally qualified health center* (FQHC) means an entity that has entered into an agreement with CMS to meet Medicare program requirements under § 405.2434 and—


(1) Is receiving a grant under section 330 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, or is receiving funding from such a grant under a contract with the recipient of such a grant and meets the requirements to receive a grant under section 330 of the PHS Act;


(2) Is determined by the HRSA to meet the requirements for receiving such a grant;


(3) Was treated by CMS, for purposes of Medicare Part B, as a comprehensive federally funded health center as of January 1, 1990; or


(4) Is an outpatient health program or facility operated by a tribe or tribal organizations under the Indian Self-Determination Act or by an Urban Indian organization receiving funds under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.


*HRSA* means the Health Resources and Services Administration.


*Intensive outpatient services* means a distinct and organized intensive ambulatory treatment program that offers less than 24-hour daily care other than in an individual's home or in an inpatient or residential setting and that furnishes the services as described in § 410.44 of this chapter.


*Marriage and family therapist (MFT)* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.53 of this chapter.


*Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC)* means an organization that has a contract with the Secretary to administer the benefits covered by this subpart as described in § 421.404 of this chapter.


*Mental health counselor (MHC)* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.54 of this chapter.


*Nurse practitioner (NP)* means individuals who meet the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.75(b) of this chapter.


*Physician assistant (PA)* means an individual who meet the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.74(c) of this chapter.


*Prospective payment system (PPS)* means a method of payment in which Medicare payment is made based on a predetermined, fixed amount.


*Reporting period* generally means a period of 12 consecutive months specified by the MAC as the period for which a RHC or FQHC must report required costs and utilization information. The first and last reporting periods may be less than 12 months.


*Rural health clinic (RHC)* means a facility that has—


(1) Been determined by the Secretary to meet the requirements of section 1861(aa)(2) of the Act and part 491 of this chapter concerning RHC services and conditions for approval; and


(2) Filed an agreement with CMS that meets the requirements in § 405.2402 to provide RHC services under Medicare.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services or his or her delegate.


*Visiting nurse services* means part-time or intermittent nursing care and related medical supplies (other than drugs or biologicals) furnished by a registered professional nurse or licensed practical nurse to a homebound patient. 



---

[N] [43 FR 8261, Mar. 1, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 30526, July 14, 1978; 47 FR 21049, May 17, 1982; 47 FR 23448, May 28, 1982; 51 FR 41351, Nov. 14, 1986; 57 FR 24975, June 12, 1992; 59 FR 26958, May 25, 1994; 60 FR 63176, Dec. 8, 1995; 61 FR 14657, Apr. 3, 1996; 69 FR 74815, Dec. 24, 2003; 71 FR 55345, Sept. 22, 2006; 79 FR 25473, May 2, 2014; 83 FR 60072, Nov. 23, 2018; 88 FR 79523, Nov. 16, 2023; 88 FR 82176, Nov. 22, 2023] 




