# § 63.785   Compliance procedures.

(a) For each batch of coating that is received by an affected source, the owner or operator shall (see Figure 1 of this section for a flow diagram of the compliance procedures): 


(1) Determine the coating category and the applicable VOHAP limit as specified in § 63.783(a). 


(2) Certify the as-supplied VOC content of the batch of coating. The owner or operator may use a certification supplied by the manufacturer for the batch, although the owner or operator retains liability should subsequent testing reveal a violation. If the owner or operator performs the certification testing, only one of the containers in which the batch of coating was received is required to be tested. 


(b)(1) In lieu of testing each batch of coating, as applied, the owner or operator may determine compliance with the VOHAP limits using any combination of the procedures described in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section. The procedure used for each coating shall be determined and documented prior to application. 


(2) The results of any compliance demonstration conducted by the affected source or any regulatory agency using Method 24 shall take precedence over the results using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section. 


(3) The results of any compliance demonstration conducted by the affected source or any regulatory agency using an approved test method to determine VOHAP content shall take precedence over the results using the procedures in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. 


(c)(1) *Coatings to which thinning solvent will not be added.* For coatings to which thinning solvent (or any other material) will not be added under any circumstance or to which only water is added, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply as follows: 


(i) Certify the as-applied VOC content of each batch of coating. 


(ii) Notify the persons responsible for applying the coating that no thinning solvent may be added to the coating by affixing a label to each container of coating in the batch or through another means described in the implementation plan required in § 63.787(b). 


(iii) If the certified as-applied VOC content of each batch of coating used during a calendar month is less than or equal to the applicable VOHAP limit in § 63.783(a) (either in terms of g/L of coating or g/L of solids), then compliance is demonstrated for that calendar month, unless a violation is revealed using Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60. 


(2) *Coatings to which thinning solvent will be added—coating-by-coating compliance.* For a coating to which thinning solvent is routinely or sometimes added, the owner or operator shall comply as follows: 


(i) Prior to the first application of each batch, designate a single thinner for the coating and calculate the maximum allowable thinning ratio (or ratios, if the affected source complies with the cold-weather limits in addition to the other limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart) for each batch as follows:


If V_s_ is not supplied directly by the coating manufacturer, the owner or operator shall determine V_s_ as follows:


The procedures specified in § 63.786(d) may be used to determine the values of variables defined in this paragraph. In addition, the owner or operator may choose to construct nomographs, based on Equation 1 of this subpart, similar or identical to the one provided in appendix B of this subpart as a means of easily estimating the maximum allowable thinning ratio.


(ii) Prior to the first application of each batch, notify painters and other persons, as necessary, of the designated thinner and maximum allowable thinning ratio(s) for each batch of the coating by affixing a label to each container of coating or through another means described in the implementation plan required in § 63.787(b).


(iii) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of each batch of the coating used, as supplied, during the previous month.


(iv) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the total allowable volume of thinner for the coating used during the previous month as follows:


(v) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of thinner actually used with the coating during the previous month. 


(vi) If the volume of thinner actually used with the coating [paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section] is less than or equal to the total allowable volume of thinner for the coating [paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section], then compliance is demonstrated for the coating for the previous month, unless a violation is revealed using Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60. 


(3) *Coatings to which the same thinning solvent will be added—group compliance.* For coatings to which the same thinning solvent (or other material) is routinely or sometimes added, the owner or operator shall comply as follows: 


(i) Designate a single thinner to be added to each coating during the month and “group” coatings according to their designated thinner. 


(ii) Prior to the first application of each batch, calculate the maximum allowable thinning ratio (or ratios, if the affected source complies with the cold-weather limits in addition to the other limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart) for each batch of coating in the group using the equations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(iii) Prior to the first application of each “batch,” notify painters and other persons, as necessary, of the designated thinner and maximum allowable thinning ratio(s) for each batch in the group by affixing a label to each container of coating or through another means described in the implementation plan required in § 63.787(b). 


(iv) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of each batch of the group used, as supplied, during the previous month. 


(v) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the total allowable volume of thinner for the group for the previous month using Equation 3 of this subpart. 


(vi) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of thinner actually used with the group during the previous month. 


(vii) If the volume of thinner actually used with the group [paragraph (c)(3)(vi) of this section] is less than or equal to the total allowable volume of thinner for the group [paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section], then compliance is demonstrated for the group for the previous month, unless a violation is revealed using Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60.


(4) *Demonstration of compliance through an alternative (i.e., other than Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60) test method.* The owner or operator shall comply as follows: 


(i) Certify the as-supplied VOHAP content (g VOHAP/L solids) of each batch of coating. 


(ii) If no thinning solvent will be added to the coating, the owner or operator of an affected source shall follow the procedure described in § 63.785(c)(1), except that VOHAP content shall be used in lieu of VOC content. 


(iii) If thinning solvent will be added to the coating, the owner or operator of an affected source shall follow the procedure described in § 63.785(c)(2) or (3), except that in Equation 1 of this subpart: the term “m_VOC_” shall be replaced by the term “m_VOHAP_,” defined as the VOHAP content of the coating as supplied (g VOHAP/L coating) and the term “D_th_” shall be replaced by the term “D_th(VOHAP)_” defined as the average density of the VOHAP thinner(s) (g/L). 


(d) A violation revealed through any approved test method shall result in a 1-day violation for enforcement purposes. A violation revealed through the recordkeeping procedures described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section shall result in a 30-day violation for enforcement purposes, unless the owner or operator provides sufficient data to demonstrate the specific days during which noncompliant coatings were applied.


(e) Continuous compliance requirements. You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions standards and operating limits by using the performance test methods and procedures in § 63.786 for each affected source.


(1) *General requirements.* (i) You must monitor and collect data, and provide a site specific monitoring plan, as required by §§ 63.783, 63.785, 63.786 and 63.787.


(ii) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected source is operating, and periods of malfunction. Any period for which data collection is required and the operation of the Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS) is not otherwise exempt and for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.


(iii) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. The owner or operator must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [60 FR 64336, Dec. 15, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 72069, Nov. 21, 2011]




