# ยง 1599.2   Definitions.

These are definitions for terms used in this part. The definitions in 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented in 2 CFR part 400, are also applicable to this part, with the exception that, if a term that is defined in this section is defined differently in 2 CFR part 200 or 400, the definition in this section will apply to such term as used in this part.


*Activity* means a discrete undertaking within a project to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, that is specified in an agreement and is intended to fulfill a specific objective of the agreement.


*Agreement* means a legally binding grant or cooperative agreement entered into between FAS and a recipient to implement a project under the McGovern-Dole Program.


*Commodities* means agricultural commodities, or products of agricultural commodities, that:


(1) Are produced in the United States; or


(2)(i) Are produced in and procured from:


(A) A developing country that is a target country; or


(B) A developing country in the target region; and


(ii) At a minimum, meet each nutritional, quality, and labeling standard of the target country, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.


*Cooperative* means a private sector organization whose members own and control the organization and share in its services and its profits and that provides business services and outreach in cooperative development for its membership.


*Cost sharing or matching* means the portion of project expenses, or necessary goods and services provided to carry out a project, not paid or acquired with Federal funds. The term may include cash or in-kind contributions provided by recipients, subrecipients, foreign public entities, foreign organizations, or private donors.


*Country of origin means* the country in which procured commodities were produced.


*Developing country* means a country that has a shortage of foreign exchange earnings and has difficulty meeting all of its food needs through commercial channels.


*Disburse* means to make a payment to liquidate an obligation.


*Donated commodities* means the commodities produced in the United States that are donated by FAS to a recipient under an agreement. The term may include donated commodities that are used to produce a further processed product for use under the agreement.


*FAS* means the Foreign Agricultural Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*FAS-provided funds* means U.S. dollars provided under an agreement to a recipient, or through a subagreement to a subrecipient, for expenses authorized in the agreement, such as expenses for the purchase of qualified commodities; any ocean transportation of the procured commodities; overland transportation, storage, and handling of the donated commodities or procured commodities; expenses involved in the administration, monitoring, and evaluation of the activities under the agreement; and the costs of activities conducted in the target country that would enhance the effectiveness of the activities implemented under the McGovern-Dole Program.


*Food assistance* means assistance that is provided to members of a targeted vulnerable group to meet their food needs.


*Local procurement* means the procurement of qualified commodities by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in the target country to assist beneficiaries within that same country.


*McGovern-Dole Program* means the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program.


*Overland transportation* means any transportation other than ocean transportation. It includes internal transportation within the target country and regional transportation within the target region.


*Private voluntary organization* means a not-for-profit, nongovernmental organization (in the case of a United States organization, an organization that is exempt from Federal income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) that receives funds from private sources, voluntary contributions of money, staff time, or in-kind support from the public, and that is engaged in or is planning to engage in voluntary, charitable, or development assistance activities (other than religious activities).


*Procured commodities* means the qualified commodities that are procured by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, under an agreement.


*Program income* means interest earned on proceeds from the sale of donated commodities, as well as funds received by a recipient or subrecipient as a direct result of carrying out an approved activity under an agreement. The term includes but is not limited to income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under a Federal award, the sale of items fabricated under a Federal award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds. Program income does not include proceeds from; FAS-provided funds or interest earned on such funds; or funds provided for cost sharing or matching contributions, refunds or rebates, credits, discounts, or interest earned on any of them.


*Project* means the totality of the activities to be carried out by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, to fulfill the objectives of an agreement.


*Purchase country* means a developing country in which procured commodities are purchased.


*Qualified commodities* means commodities that are produced in a developing country that is the target country or in the target region under an agreement, and that meet each nutritional, quality, and labeling standard of the target country, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, as well as any other criteria specified in ยง 1599.6(b).


*Recipient* means an entity that enters into an agreement with FAS and receives donated commodities, FAS-provided funds, or both to carry out activities under the agreement. The term recipient does not include a subrecipient.


*Regional procurement* means the procurement of qualified commodities by a recipient, directly or through a subrecipient, in a developing country in the target region, other than the target country, to assist beneficiaries within the target country.


*Sale proceeds* means funds received by a recipient from the sale of donated commodities.


*Subrecipient* means an entity that enters into a subagreement with a recipient for the purpose of implementing in the target country activities described in an agreement. The term does not include an individual that is a beneficiary under the agreement.


*Target country* means the foreign country in which activities are implemented under an agreement.


*Target region* means the continent on which the target country is located.


*USDA* means the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions* means cost sharing or matching contributions specifically pledged on a voluntary basis by an applicant or recipient, which become binding as part of an agreement. Voluntary committed cost sharing or matching contributions may be provided in the form of cash or in-kind contributions.




