# § 19.143   Alternation for other purposes.

(a) *General.* The proprietor may temporarily extend or curtail the distilled spirits plant premises to allow for several other types of alternate uses. Premises may be alternately curtailed or extended to allow bonded premises to be used temporarily as general premises, or to allow general premises to be used as bonded premises. A curtailment or extension of distilled spirits plant premises may also allow for the use of the premises as:


(1) An adjacent bonded wine cellar;


(2) An adjacent taxpaid wine bottling house;


(3) An adjacent brewery; or


(4) Facilities for the manufacturer of eligible flavors.


(b) *Qualifying documents.* Before alternating the premises for a purpose listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the proprietor must file and receive approval of the necessary registration, application forms and attachments that relate to the proposed alternate use. Depending on the type of alternation involved, the proprietor must file one or more of the following qualification documents:


(1) *Registration.* For all alternate uses of the distilled spirits plant described in paragraph (a) of this section the proprietor must file a form TTB F 5110.41, Registration of a Distilled Spirits Plant, to cover the proposed alternation of premises.


(2) *Diagram.* For all alternate uses, the proprietor must provide a special diagram, in duplicate, delineating the premises as they will exist, both during extension and curtailment and clearly depicting all buildings, floors, rooms, areas, equipment that are to be subject to alternation, in their relative operating sequence.


(3) *Bond.* For all alternate uses, the proprietor must provide evidence of an existing bond, consent of surety, or a new bond to cover the proposed alternation of premises. This requirement does not apply if no bond is required under this chapter to cover the proposed alternation.


(4) *Bonded wine cellar or taxpaid wine bottling house.* If the proprietor intends to alternate the premises or part of the premises as a bonded wine cellar or taxpaid wine bottling house the proprietor must also file form TTB F 5120.25, Application to Establish and Operate Wine Premises.


(5) *Brewery.* If the proprietor intends to alternate the premises or part of the premises for a brewery operation the proprietor must file form TTB F 5130.10, Brewer's Notice.


(c) *Separation of premises.* The proprietor must separate the distilled spirits plant premises from the alternate use premises in accordance with the approved plan of alternation described in the qualifying documents.


(d) *Segregation of products.* When the proprietor alternates premises, the proprietor must segregate products as follows:


(1) *Wine operations.* (i) Prior to alternation from distilled spirits plant premises to wine premises, the proprietor must remove all distilled spirits, denatured spirits, articles, and wine from the distilled spirits plant premises that will be alternated. However, the proprietor may keep spirits on the premises if they are being withdrawn for use in wine production under § 19.419, or for use in the production of nonbeverage wine or wine products under § 19.421. Further, the proprietor may keep wine on the premises if it is to be transferred in bond under § 19.402(b)(2).


(ii) Prior to alternation from wine premises to distilled spirits plant premises, the proprietor must remove all wine and spirits from the wine premises that will be alternated. However, the proprietor may keep wine on the premises if it is being transferred in bond under § 19.402(b)(1). Further, the proprietor may keep spirits on the premises if they are being returned from bonded wine cellar premises to distilled spirits plant bonded premises under § 19.454.


(2) *Brewery.* Prior to alternation from distilled spirits plant premises to operation of a brewery the proprietor must remove all spirits, denatured spirits, articles and wine from the premises to be alternated to brewery premises. Prior to alternation of brewery premises to distilled spirits plant premises, the proprietor must remove all beer from the premises except beer that is being received for production of distilled spirits as provided in § 19.296.


(3) *General premises.* Prior to alternation between bonded and general premises, the proprietor must remove all spirits, denatured spirits, articles and wine from the premises to be alternated. However, the proprietor may keep bonded spirits on portions of bonded premises to be alternated to general premises if the spirits are taxpaid concurrently with the alternation. Also, the proprietor may keep taxpaid spirits on general premises that will be alternated to bonded premises if the spirits are to be immediately dumped and returned to bond under the provisions of subpart Q of this part.


(4) *Manufacture of nonbeverage products.* Prior to alternation of the distilled spirits plant premises for use in the manufacture of eligible flavors, the proprietor must remove all spirits, denatured spirits, articles and wine from the premises to be alternated. However, the proprietor may keep spirits on portions of the premises to be curtailed if the proprietor pays the tax concurrent with the alternation. Further, the proprietor may keep taxpaid spirits that have not been used in the manufacture of a nonbeverage product on parts of the premises to be included in the extension of the bonded premises if the spirits are to be immediately dumped and returned to bond under the provisions of subpart Q of this part.


(e) *Records.* The proprietor must prepare the record of alternating premises prescribed by § 19.627 each time that the proprietor alternates premises.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1120, Jan. 4, 2017]




