# § 215.24   Electronic Visa Update System (EVUS) requirements.

(a) *Enrollment required.* Each covered alien must initially enroll in EVUS, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, by providing the information set forth in paragraph (d) of this section electronically through EVUS. Each covered alien who intends to travel to the United States must have a valid notification of compliance as set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Upon each successful enrollment or re-enrollment, CBP will issue a notification of compliance.


(b) *Validity period of notification of compliance*—(1) *General validity period.* A notification of compliance will generally be valid for a period of two years from the date the notification of compliance is issued, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.


(2) *Exception.* If the nonimmigrant alien's passport or nonimmigrant visa will expire in less than two years from the date the notification of compliance is issued, the notification will be valid until the date of expiration of the passport or nonimmigrant visa, whichever is sooner.


(3) *Change in validity period of notification of compliance.* The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may increase or decrease the notification of compliance validity period otherwise authorized by paragraph (b)(1) of this section for an EVUS country. Any such increase or decrease would apply to subsequently issued notifications of compliance. Any changes to the validity period will be done through rulemaking. The EVUS Web site will be updated to reflect the specific duration of notification of compliance validity periods for each EVUS country.


(4) *Relation to nonimmigrant visa validity.* A notification of compliance is not valid unless the alien's nonimmigrant visa also is valid.


(c) *Schedule for EVUS enrollment*—(1) *Initial EVUS enrollment*—(i) *Visas received prior to November 29, 2016*. Each covered alien who received his or her nonimmigrant visa of a designated category prior to November 29, 2016 must initially enroll in EVUS by December 14, 2016, unless the covered alien intends to travel to the United States before that date, in which case the requirements for EVUS enrollment outlined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply.


(ii) *Visas received on or after November 29, 2016.* Each covered alien who received his or her nonimmigrant visa of a designated category on or after November 29, 2016 must initially enroll in EVUS upon receipt of such visa.


(2) *EVUS re-enrollment requirements prior to travel to the United States*—(i) *Individuals arriving at air or sea ports of entry.* Each covered alien who intends to travel by air or sea to the United States on a nonimmigrant visa of a designated category must have a notification of compliance that is valid, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, prior to boarding a carrier destined for travel to the United States through the date when the covered alien will arrive at a U.S. port of entry.


(ii) *Individuals arriving at land ports of entry.* Each covered alien who intends to travel by land to the United States on a nonimmigrant visa of a designated category must have a notification of compliance that is valid, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, through the date of application for admission to the United States.


(d) *Required EVUS enrollment elements.* DHS will collect such information from covered aliens as DHS deems necessary in its discretion, after consultation with the Department of State. The required information will be reflected in the EVUS enrollment questions.


(e) *EVUS re-enrollment required.* Each covered alien must re-enroll in EVUS and obtain a new notification of compliance from CBP if any of the following occurs:


(1) The alien is issued a new passport or new nonimmigrant visa of a designated category;


(2) The alien changes his or her name;


(3) The alien changes his or her gender;


(4) There is any change to the alien's country of citizenship or nationality, including becoming a dual national; or


(5) The circumstances underlying the alien's previous responses to any of the EVUS enrollment questions requiring a “yes” or “no” response (eligibility questions) have changed.


(f) *Limitation.* A notification of compliance is not a determination that the covered alien is admissible to the United States. A determination of admissibility is made after an applicant for admission is inspected by a CBP officer at a U.S. port of entry.


(g) *Noncompliance, expiration of notification of compliance, and change in EVUS status resulting in rescission of notification of compliance*—(1) *Initial EVUS enrollment.* Failure to initially enroll in EVUS in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section will result in the automatic provisional revocation of the covered alien's nonimmigrant visa pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending enrollment.


(2) *Expiration of notification of compliance.* Upon expiration of a notification of compliance, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the covered alien's nonimmigrant visa will be automatically provisionally revoked pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending re-enrollment. To prevent the automatic provisional revocation of his or her nonimmigrant visa due to the expiration of the notification of compliance, each covered alien must re-enroll in EVUS prior to such expiration.


(3) *Unsuccessful EVUS enrollment.* If a covered alien's EVUS enrollment or re-enrollment is unsuccessful, his or her nonimmigrant visa will be automatically provisionally revoked pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending successful enrollment or re-enrollment.


(4) *Change in EVUS status after receipt of a notification of compliance.* In the event that irreconcilable errors are discovered after the issuance of a notification of compliance, or other circumstances occur including but not limited to a change in the validity period of the notification of compliance as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, CBP may rescind the notification of compliance. If a covered alien's notification of compliance is rescinded, his or her nonimmigrant visa will be automatically provisionally revoked pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), pending successful enrollment. CBP will attempt to provide notification of a change in EVUS status to the covered alien through the provided email address.


(h) *Reversal of an automatically provisionally revoked visa and steps to address an unsuccessful EVUS enrollment or rescission of a notification of compliance*—(1) *Reversal of an automatically provisionally revoked visa.* If a covered alien's nonimmigrant visa has been automatically provisionally revoked as described in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, the revocation of the alien's visa will be automatically reversed, following compliance with EVUS, if the visa remains valid and was not also revoked on other grounds. After a reversal of the revocation the visa will immediately resume the validity provided for on its face, pursuant to 22 CFR 41.122(b)(3), after the alien enrolls in EVUS and receives a notification of compliance.


(2) *Unsuccessful EVUS enrollment.* If a covered alien's EVUS enrollment is unsuccessful per paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the covered alien may re-attempt enrollment or contact CBP.


(3) *Rescission of notification of compliance.* If a covered alien's nonimmigrant visa has been automatically provisionally revoked as described in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, the covered alien may re-attempt enrollment or contact CBP.




