# ยง 634.29   Violations.

(a) *Actions causing violations.* The following actions constitute violation of a contract by a participant:


(1) Knowingly or negligently damaging or causing BMP's to become impaired.


(2) Adopting a land use or practice during the contract period which tends to defeat the purposes of the program.


(3) Failing to comply with the terms of the contract.


(4) Filing a false claim.


(5) Misusing authorizations for payment.


(b) *Contract termination as a result of violations.* (1) By signing a contract, the participant agrees to forfeit all rights to further cost-sharing payments under a contract and to refund all cost-share payments received, with interest, if the administering agency, with the concurrence of the State Conservationist, NRCS, determines that:


(i) There was a violation of the contract during the time the participant had control of the land; and


(ii) The violation was of such a nature as to warrant termination of the contract.


(2) The participant shall be obligated to refund all cost-share payments and all cost shares paid under authorizations, with interest, at the rates established by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Pub. L. 92-41, 85 Stat. 97.


(c) *Payment adjustments and refunds resulting from violations.* (1) By signing a contract, the participant agrees to refund cost-share payments received under the contract or to accept payment adjustments if the administering agency determines and the State Conservationist, NRCS, concurs that:


(i) There was a violation of the contract during the time the participant had control of the land; and


(ii) The nature of the violation does not warrant termination of the contract.


(2) Payment adjustments may include decreasing the rate of cost share, or deleting from the contract a cost-share commitment, or withholding cost-share payments earned but not paid. The participant who signs the contract may be obligated to refund cost-share payments.




