# ยง 382.711   Clearinghouse registration.

(a) *Clearinghouse registration required.* Each employer and service agent must register with the Clearinghouse before accessing or reporting information in the Clearinghouse.


(b) *Employers.* (1) Employer Clearinghouse registration must include:


(i) Name, address, and telephone number;


(ii) USDOT number, except if the registrant does not have a USDOT Number, it may be requested to provide other information to verify identity; and


(iii) Name of the person(s) the employer authorizes to report information to or obtain information from the Clearinghouse and any additional information FMCSA needs to validate his or her identity.


(2) Employers must verify the names of the person(s) authorized under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section annually.


(3) Identification of the C/TPA or other service agent used to comply with the requirements of this part, if applicable, and authorization for the C/TPA to query or report information to the Clearinghouse. Employers must update any changes to this information within 10 days.


(c) *MROs and SAPs.* Each MRO or SAP must provide the following to apply for Clearinghouse registration:


(1) Name, address, telephone number, and any additional information FMCSA needs to validate the applicant's identity;


(2) A certification that the applicant's access to the Clearinghouse is conditioned on his or her compliance with the applicable qualification and/or training requirements in 49 CFR part 40; and


(3) Evidence of required professional credentials to verify that the applicant currently meets the applicable qualification and/or training requirements in 49 CFR part 40.


(d) *C/TPAs and other service agents.* Each consortium/third-party administrator or other service agent must provide the following to apply for Clearinghouse registration:


(1) Name, address, telephone number, and any additional information FMCSA needs to validate the applicant's identity; and


(2) Name, title, and telephone number of the person(s) authorized to report information to and obtain information from the Clearinghouse.


(3) Each C/TPA or other service agent must verify the names of the person(s) authorized under paragraph (d)(2) of this section annually.



---

[N] [81 FR 87725, Dec. 5, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 80181, Nov. 17, 2023.]




