# § 9409.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term—


*Commission* means the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, established by the Help America Vote Act of 2002, 42 U.S.C. 15301 *et seq.*

*Commission employee or employee* means:


(a) Any current or former officer or employee of the Commission;


(b) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of the Commission or who has performed or is performing services under an agreement for the Commission; and


(c) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to the Commission, whether formal or informal.


(d) This definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the Commission and who are retained or hired as expert witnesses or who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the Commission.


*Demand* means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of a Commission employee that is issued in a legal proceeding.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Commission or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part.


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.


*Records or official records and information* means:


(a) All documents and materials that are Commission records under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);


(b) All other documents and materials contained in files of the Commission; and


(c) All other information or materials acquired by a Commission employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.


*Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony that has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.




