# § 199.640   Alternatives for cargo vessels in a specified service.

(a) In addition to the alternatives for certain requirements in § 199.620, cargo vessels operating in oceans; coastwise; Great Lakes; lakes, bays, and sounds; and rivers service may comply with alternative requirements to subparts A, B, and D of this part as described in this section for the services specified in table 199.640(a) of this section.


(b) Vessels of less than 150 tons gross tonnage that do not carry persons other than the crew, may carry, as an alternative to distress signals that meet the requirements of § 199.60, six hand red flare distress signals approved under approval series 160.021 and six hand orange smoke distress signals approved under approval series 160.037.


(c) As an alternative to the survival craft requirements of § 199.261(b), (c), or (d), vessels may carry one or more liferafts with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board. The liferafts must be—


(1) Readily transferable for launching on either side of the vessel; or


(2) Supplemented with additional liferafts to bring the total capacity of the liferafts available on each side of the vessel to at least 100 percent of the total number of persons on board. If additional liferafts are provided and the rescue boat required under § 199.262 is also a lifeboat, its capacity may be included in meeting the aggregate capacity requirement.


(d) As an alternative to the survival craft requirements in § 199.261 (b), (c), or (d), vessels may carry one or more totally enclosed lifeboats with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board and one or more liferafts with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board. This combination of survival craft must meet the following:


(1) The aggregate capacity of the lifeboats and liferafts on each side of the vessel must be sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board.


(2) If the survival craft are stowed more than 100 meters (328 feet from either the stem or the stern of the vessel, an additional liferaft must be carried and stowed as far forward or aft as is reasonable and practicable. The requirement for the liferaft to float free under § 199.290(b) does not apply to a liferaft under this paragraph, provided the liferaft is arranged for quick manual release.


(e) As an alternative to the survival craft requirements in § 199.261 (b), (c), or (d), during periods of the year the vessel operates in warm water, a vessel may carry lifefloats with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of people on board. The lifefloat launching arrangement, stowage, and equipment must meet the requirements in § 199.640(j).


(f) A vessel need not comply with the requirements for survival craft in § 199.261 (b), (c), or (d) if the vessel operates—


(1) On a route that is in shallow water not more than 3 miles from shore and where the vessel cannot sink deep enough to submerge the topmost deck; or


(2) Where the cognizant OCMI determines that survivors can wade ashore.


(g) As an alternative to the rescue boat requirement in § 199.262(a), vessels may carry a motor-propelled workboat or a launch that meets all the embarkation, launching, and recovery arrangement requirements in § 199.160 (b) through (f). The OCMI may allow deviations from the rescue boat launching requirements based on the characteristics of the boat and the conditions of the vessel's route.


(h) As an alternative to the rescue boat requirement in § 199.262, vessels may carry a rescue boat meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.056 of this chapter if the rescue boat is equipped with a motor and meets the following:


(1) The towline for the rescue boat must be at least the same size and length as the rescue boat painter.


(2) The rescue boat must meet the embarkation, launching, and recovery arrangement requirements in § 199.160(b). A manually-powered winch may be used if personnel embark and disembark the rescue boat only when it is in the water. If the rescue boat is launched or recovered with personnel on board, the embarkation, launching, and recovery arrangements must also meet § 199.160 (c) through (f). The OCMI may allow deviations from the rescue boat launching requirements based on the characteristics of the boat and the conditions of the vessel's route.


(i) As an alternative to the number of lifebuoys required in § 199.271, vessels may carry—


(1) If the vessel is self-propelled, the number of lifebuoys specified in table 199.640(i) of this section; or


(2) If the vessel is non self-propelled, one lifebuoy on each end of the vessel.


(j) *Vessels carrying buoyant apparatus, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or lifefloats.* Vessels carrying buoyant apparatus, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or lifefloats must meet the following:


(1) *General.* Each buoyant apparatus and inflatable buoyant apparatus must be approved under approval series 160.010. Each lifefloat must be approved under approval series 160.027.


(2) *Stowage.* Each buoyant apparatus, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or lifefloat must, in addition to meeting the general stowage requirements of § 199.130(a), be stowed as follows:


(i) Each inflatable buoyant apparatus must meet the liferaft stowage requirements in § 199.130(c).


(ii) Each buoyant apparatus and lifefloat must—


(A) Meet the liferaft stowage requirements in § 199.130(c) (1), (2), (3), (6), and (7); or


(B) Meet the liferaft stowage requirements in § 199.130(c) (1), (2), (3), and (6), and have lashings that can be easily released.


(iii) A painter must be secured to the buoyant apparatus or lifefloat by—


(A) The attachment fitting provided by the manufacturer; or


(B) A wire or line that encircles the body of the buoyant apparatus or lifefloat, that will not slip off, and that meets the requirements of paragraph (4)(iii) of this section.


(iv) If buoyant apparatus or lifefloats are arranged in groups with each group secured by a single painter—


(A) The combined mass of each group must not exceed 185 kilograms (407.8 pounds);


(B) Each buoyant apparatus or lifefloat must be individually attached to the group's single painter by its own painter, which must be long enough to allow the buoyant apparatus or lifefloat to float without contacting any other buoyant apparatus or lifefloat in the group;


(C) The strength of the float-free link and the strength of the group's single painter must be appropriate for the combined capacity of the group of buoyant apparatus or lifefloats;


(D) The group of buoyant apparatus or lifefloats must not be stowed in more than four tiers and, when stowed in tiers, the separate units must be kept apart by spacers; and 


(E) The group of buoyant apparatus or lifefloats must be stowed to prevent shifting with easily detached lashings.


(3) *Marking.* Each buoyant apparatus or lifefloat must be marked plainly in block capital letters and numbers with the name of the vessel and the number of persons approved to use the device as shown on its nameplate.


(4) *Equipment.* Unless otherwise stated in this paragraph, each buoyant apparatus and lifefloat must carry the equipment listed in this paragraph and specified for it in table 199.640(j) of this section under the vessel's category of service.


(i) *Boathook.*

(ii) *Paddle.* Each paddle must be at least 1.2 meters (4 feet) long and buoyant.


(iii) *Painter.* The painter must—


(A) Be at least 30 meters (100 feet) long, but not less than three times the distance from the deck where the buoyant apparatus, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or lifefloats are stowed to the vessel's waterline with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition;


(B) Have a breaking strength of at least 6.7 kiloNewtons (1,500 pounds-force), or if the capacity of the buoyant apparatus or lifefloat is 50 persons or more, have a breaking strength of at least 13.4 kiloNewtons (3,000 pounds-force);


(C) If made of a synthetic material, be of a dark color or be certified by the manufacturer to be resistant to deterioration from ultraviolet light;


(D) Be stowed in such a way that it runs out freely when the buoyant apparatus or lifefloat floats away from the sinking vessel; and


(E) Have a float-free link meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.073 of this chapter secured to the end of the painter that is attached to the vessel, that is of the proper strength for the size and number of the buoyant apparatus or lifefloats attached to the float-free link.


(iv) *Self-igniting light.* The self-igniting light must be approved under approval series 161.010 and must be attached to the buoyant apparatus or lifefloat by a 12-thread manila or equivalent lanyard that is at least 5.5 meters (18 feet) long.



---

[N] [CGD 84-069, 61 FR 25313, May 20, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 52821, Oct. 1, 1998]




