# § 600.207-12   Calculation and use of vehicle-specific 5-cycle-based fuel economy and CO

(a) Fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values determined for each vehicle under § 600.114 and as approved in § 600.008(c), are used to determine vehicle-specific 5-cycle city and highway fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values for each vehicle configuration for which data are available.


(1) If only one set of 5-cycle city and highway fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values is accepted for a vehicle configuration, these values, where fuel economy is rounded to the nearest 0.0001 of a mile per gallon and the CO_2_ emission value in grams per mile is rounded to the nearest tenth of a gram per mile, comprise the city and highway fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values for that configuration. Note that the appropriate vehicle-specific CO_2_ values for fuel economy labels based on 5-cycle testing with E10 test fuel are adjusted as described in § 600.114-12.


(2) If more than one set of 5-cycle city and highway fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values are accepted for a vehicle configuration:


(i) All data shall be grouped according to the subconfiguration for which the data were generated using sales projections supplied in accordance with § 600.209-12(a)(3).


(ii) Within each subconfiguration of data, all fuel economy values are harmonically averaged and rounded to the nearest 0.0001 of a mile per gallon in order to determine 5-cycle city and highway fuel economy values for each subconfiguration at which the vehicle configuration was tested, and all CO_2_ emissions values are arithmetically averaged and rounded to the nearest tenth of gram per mile to determine 5-cycle city and highway CO_2_ emission values for each subconfiguration at which the vehicle configuration was tested. Note that the appropriate vehicle-specific CO_2_ values for fuel economy labels based on 5-cycle testing with E10 test fuel are adjusted as described in § 600.114-12.


(iii) All 5-cycle city fuel economy values and all 5-cycle highway fuel economy values calculated in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section are (separately for city and highway) averaged in proportion to the sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) within the vehicle configuration (as provided to the Administrator by the manufacturer) of vehicles of each tested subconfiguration. The resultant values, rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon, are the 5-cycle city and 5-cycle highway fuel economy values for the vehicle configuration.


(iv) All 5-cycle city CO_2_ emission values and all 5-cycle highway CO_2_ emission values calculated in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section are (separately for city and highway) averaged in proportion to the sales fraction (rounded to the nearest 0.0001) within the vehicle configuration (as provided to the Administrator by the manufacturer) of vehicles of each tested subconfiguration. The resultant values, rounded to the nearest 0.1 grams per mile, are the 5-cycle city and 5-cycle highway CO_2_ emission values for the vehicle configuration.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) For alcohol dual fuel automobiles and natural gas dual fuel automobiles, the procedures of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section shall be used to calculate two separate sets of 5-cycle city and highway fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values for each configuration.


(i) Calculate the 5-cycle city and highway fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values from the tests performed using gasoline or diesel test fuel.


(ii) Calculate the 5-cycle city and highway fuel economy and CO_2_ emission values from the tests performed using alcohol or natural gas test fuel, if 5-cycle testing has been performed. Otherwise, the procedure in § 600.210-12(a)(3) or (b)(3) applies.




(b) If only one equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy value exists for an electric configuration, that value, rounded to the nearest tenth of a mile per gallon, will comprise the petroleum-based 5-cycle fuel economy for that configuration.


(c) If more than one equivalent petroleum-based 5-cycle fuel economy value exists for an electric vehicle configuration, all values for that vehicle configuration are harmonically averaged and rounded to the nearest 0.0001 mile per gallon for that configuration.



---

[N] [76 FR 39551, July 6, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 28208, Apr. 18, 2024]




