# § 602.4   How to make a request.

(a) *How to make and address a request.* Your request for records must be in writing and addressed to the FOIA Officer, Farm Credit Administration. You may send it:


(1) By mail to 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102-5090;


(2) By facsimile to (703) 790-0052; or


(3) By E-mail to *foiaofficer@fca.gov.*

(b) *Description of requested records.* You must describe the requested records in enough detail to let us find them with a reasonable effort. If the description is inadequate, we will ask you to provide more information and the 20-day response period under § 602.5(a) will not begin until we receive your reply.


(c) *Faster response.* You may ask for a faster response to your FOIA request by giving us a statement, certified to be true, that you have a “compelling need.” The FOIA Officer will tell you within 10 calendar days after receiving the request whether we will respond to it faster. If so, we will respond to your request as soon as we can. A *compelling need* means:


(1) Someone's life or physical safety may be in danger if we do not respond to the request faster; or


(2) You urgently need to tell the public about Federal government activity as a representative of the news media.


(d) *Request for personal information.* If you or your representative requests your personal information, we may require you to give us a notarized request, identify yourself under penalty of perjury, or provide other proof of your identity.


(e) *Fees.* When making a request, you must tell us the most you are willing to pay. Our charges are in the fee tables in §§ 602.11 and 602.12. You may also want to tell us the purpose of your request so we can classify your request for fee purposes.


(f) *Other requests.* To ensure the public has timely information about our activities, the Office of Congressional and Public Affairs will make available copies of public documents, such as the FCA annual report and media advisories.




