# § 438.50   State Plan requirements.

(a) *General rule.* A State plan that requires Medicaid beneficiaries to enroll in MCOs, PCCMs, or PCCM entities must comply with the provisions of this section, except when the State imposes the requirement—


(1) As part of a demonstration project under section 1115(a) of the Act; or


(2) Under a waiver granted under section 1915(b) of the Act.


(b) *State plan information.* The plan must specify—


(1) The types of entities with which the State contracts.


(2) The payment method it uses (for example, whether FFS or capitation).


(3) Whether it contracts on a comprehensive risk basis.


(4) The process the State uses to involve the public in both design and initial implementation of the managed care program and the methods it uses to ensure ongoing public involvement once the State plan has been implemented.


(c) *State plan assurances.* The plan must provide assurances that the State meets applicable requirements of the following statute and regulations:


(1) Section 1903(m) of the Act, for MCOs and MCO contracts.


(2) Section 1905(t) of the Act, for PCCMs and PCCM or PCCM entity contracts.


(3) Section 1932(a)(1)(A) of the Act, for the State's option to limit freedom of choice by requiring beneficiaries to receive their benefits through managed care entities.


(4) This part, for MCOs, PCCMs, and PCCM entities.


(5) Part 434 of this chapter, for all contracts.


(6) Section 438.4, for payments under any risk contracts, and § 447.362 of this chapter for payments under any nonrisk contracts.


(d) *Limitations on enrollment.* The State must provide assurances that, in implementing the State plan managed care option, it will not require the following groups to enroll in an MCO, PCCM or PCCM entity:


(1) Beneficiaries who are also eligible for Medicare.


(2) Indians as defined in § 438.14(a), except as permitted under § 438.14(d).


(3) Children under 19 years of age who are:


(i) Eligible for SSI under Title XVI;


(ii) Eligible under section 1902(e)(3) of the Act;


(iii) In foster care or other out-of-home placement;


(iv) Receiving foster care or adoption assistance; or


(v) Receiving services through a family-centered, community-based, coordinated care system that receives grant funds under section 501(a)(1)(D) of Title V, and is defined by the State in terms of either program participation or special health care needs.




