# ยง 930.400   Use of Technology Investment Agreements (TIAs).

For purposes of this part, a Technology Investment Agreements (TIA) is a special type of other transaction (OT) agreement that is an assistance instrument used to increase involvement of a for-profit entity or segment of a for-profit entity (*e.g.,* a division or other business unit) that does a substantial portion of its business in the commercial marketplace in Department of Energy's (DOE) research, development, and demonstration (RD&D) programs. A TIA requires substantial Federal involvement in the technical or management aspects of the project. The goal for using a TIA is to broaden the technology base available to meet DOE mission requirements and foster within the technology base new relationships and practices to advance the national economic and energy security of the United States, to promote scientific and technological innovation in support of that mission, and to ensure the environmental cleanup of the national nuclear weapons complex. A TIA therefore is designed to reduce barriers to participation in RD&D programs by for-profit entities that deal primarily in the commercial marketplace. A TIA allows Agreements Officers (AO), meaning the cognizant warranted DOE or National Nuclear Security Administration official authorized to execute and administer OT agreements, to tailor Government requirements and lower or remove barriers if it can be done with proper stewardship of Federal funds. A TIA may also promote new relationships among performers in the technology base. Collaborations among for-profit entities that deal primarily in the commercial marketplace, firms that regularly perform on the DOE RD&D programs and nonprofit organizations can enhance overall quality and productivity.






