# § 60.5396c   What GHG standards apply to storage vessel designated facilities?

Each storage vessel designated facility must comply with the GHG standards in this section, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.


(a) *General requirements.* You must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. After 12 consecutive months of compliance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you may continue to comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or you may comply with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if applicable. If you choose to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, you are not required to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(1) Determine the potential for methane emissions in accordance with § 60.5386c(e)(2).


(2) Reduce methane emissions by 95.0 percent.


(3) Maintain the uncontrolled actual methane emissions from the storage vessel designated facility at less than 14 tpy without considering control in accordance with paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. Prior to using the uncontrolled actual methane emission rates for compliance purposes, you must demonstrate that the uncontrolled actual methane emissions have remained less than 14 tpy as determined monthly for 12 consecutive months. After such demonstration, you must determine the uncontrolled actual rolling 12-month determination methane emissions rates each month. The uncontrolled actual methane emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology which account for flashing, working, and breathing losses, and the calculations must be based on the actual average throughput, temperature, and separator pressure for the month. You may no longer comply with this paragraph and must instead comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section if your storage vessel designated facility meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) If a well feeding the storage vessel designated facility undergoes fracturing or refracturing, you must comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section as soon as liquids from the well following fracturing or refracturing are routed to the storage vessel designated facility.


(ii) If the rolling 12-month emissions determination required in this section indicates that methane emissions increase to 14 tpy or greater from your storage vessel designated facility and the increase is not associated with fracturing or refracturing of a well feeding the storage vessel designated facility, you must comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section within 30 days of the monthly determination.


(b) *Control requirements.* (1) Except as required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if you use a control device to reduce methane emissions from your storage vessel designated facility, you must meet all of the design and operational criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Each storage vessel in the tank battery must be equipped with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411c(b);


(ii) The storage vessels must be manifolded together with piping such that all vapors are shared among the headspaces of the storage vessels in the tank battery;


(iii) The tank battery must be equipped with one or more closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411c(a) and (c); and


(iv) The vapors collected in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section must be routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412c. As an alternative to routing the closed vent system to a control device, you may route the closed vent system to a process.


(2) For storage vessel designated facilities that do not have flashing emissions and that are not located at well sites or centralized production facilities, you may use a floating roof to reduce emissions. If you use a floating roof to reduce emissions, you must meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(1) or (2) and the relevant monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in subpart Kb of this part. You must submit a statement that you are complying with § 60.112b(a)(1) or (2) with the initial annual report specified in § 60.5420c(b)(1) and (7).


(c) *Requirements for storage vessel designated facilities that are removed from service or returned to service.* If you remove a storage vessel designated facility from service or remove a portion of a storage vessel designated facility from service, you must comply with the applicable paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. A storage vessel is not a designated facility under this subpart for the period that it is removed from service.


(1) For a storage vessel designated facility to be removed from service, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must completely empty and degas each storage vessel, such that each storage vessel no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage or in pools due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.


(ii) You must submit a notification as required in § 60.5420c(b)(7)(vii) in your next annual report, identifying each storage vessel designated facility removed from service during the reporting period and the date of its removal from service.


(2) For a portion of a storage vessel designated facility to be removed from service, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) You must completely empty and degas the storage vessel(s), such that the storage vessel(s) no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage or in pools due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.


(ii) You must disconnect the storage vessel(s) from the tank battery by isolating the storage vessel(s) from the tank battery such that the storage vessel(s) is no longer manifolded to the tank battery by liquid or vapor transfer.


(iii) You must submit a notification as required in § 60.5420c(b)(7)(viii) in your next annual report, identifying each storage vessel removed from service during the reporting period, the impacted storage vessel designated facility, and the date of its removal from service.


(iv) The remaining storage vessel(s) in the tank battery remain a storage vessel designated facility and must continue to comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(3) If a storage vessel identified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(2)(iii) of this section is returned to service, you must determine its designated facility status as provided in § 60.5386c(e)(5).


(4) For each storage vessel designated facility or portion of a storage vessel designated facility returned to service during the reporting period, you must submit a notification in your next annual report as required in § 60.5420c(b)(7)(viii), identifying each storage vessel designated facility or portion of a storage vessel designated facility and the date of its return to service.


(d) *Compliance, notification, recordkeeping, and reporting.* You must comply with paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards as required by § 60.5410c(h).


(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards as required by § 60.5415c(h).


(3) You must perform the required reporting as required by § 60.5420c(b)(1) and (7) and (b)(10) through (12), as applicable and the recordkeeping as required by § 60.5420c(c)(6) and (c)(7) through (12), as applicable.


(e) *Exemptions.* This subpart does not apply to storage vessels subject to and controlled in accordance with the requirements for storage vessels in subpart Kb of this part, and 40 CFR part 63, subparts G, CC, HH, or WW.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62920, Aug. 1, 2024]




