# § 945.303   Requirements governing occupancy in designated housing.

(a) *Priority for occupancy.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, in determining priority for admission to designated housing, the PHA shall make units in the designated housing available only to designated families. 


(b) *Compliance with preference regulations.* Among the designated families, the PHA shall give preference in accordance with the preferences in 24 CFR part 960, subpart B. 


(c) *Eligibility of other families for housing designated for elderly families*—(1) *Insufficient elderly families.* If there are an insufficient number of elderly families for the units in a project designated for elderly families, the PHA may make dwelling units available to near-elderly families, who qualify for preferences under 24 CFR part 960, subpart B. The election to make dwelling units available to near-elderly families if there are an insufficient number of elderly families should be explained in the PHA's allocation plan. 


(2) *Insufficient elderly families and near-elderly families.* If there are an insufficient number of elderly families and near-elderly families for the units in a project designated for elderly families, the PHA shall make available to all other families any dwelling unit that is: 


(i) Ready for re-rental and for a new lease to take effect; and 


(ii) Vacant for more than 60 consecutive days. 


(d) *Tenant choice of housing.* (1) Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the decision of any disabled family or elderly family not to occupy or accept occupancy in designated housing shall not have an adverse affect on: 


(i) The family's admission to or continued occupancy in public housing; or 


(ii) The family's position on or placement on a public housing waiting list. 


(2) The protection provided by paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not apply to any family who refuses to occupy or accept occupancy in designated housing because of the race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin of the occupants of the designated housing or the surrounding area. 


(3) The protection provided by paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall apply to an elderly family or disabled family that declines to accept occupancy, respectively, in a designated project for elderly families or for disabled families, and requests occupancy in a general occupancy project or in a mixed population project. 


(e) *Appropriateness of dwelling unit to family size.* This part may not be construed to require a PHA to offer a dwelling in a designated project to any family who is not of appropriate family size for the dwelling unit. The temporary absence of a child from the home due to placement in foster care is not considered in determining family composition and family size. 


(f) *Prohibition of evictions.* Any tenant who is lawfully residing in a dwelling unit in a public housing project may not be evicted or otherwise required to vacate the unit because of the designation of the project, or because of any action taken by HUD or the PHA in accordance with this part. 


(g) *Prohibition of coercion to accept supportive services.* As with other HUD-assisted housing, no disabled family or elderly family residing in designated housing may be required to accept supportive services made available by the PHA under this part. 


(h) *Availability of grievance procedures in 24 CFR part 966.* The grievance procedures in 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, which applies to public housing tenants, is applicable to this part. 




