# § 1.367(b)-7   Carryover of earnings and profits and foreign income taxes in certain foreign-to-foreign nonrecognition transactions.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to an acquisition by a foreign corporation (foreign acquiring corporation) of the assets of another foreign corporation (foreign target corporation) in a transaction described in section 381 (foreign section 381 transaction). This section describes the manner and extent to which earnings and profits and foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation carry over to the surviving foreign corporation (foreign surviving corporation) and the ordering of distributions by the foreign surviving corporation. See § 1.367(b)-9 for special rules governing reorganizations described in section 368(a)(1)(F) and foreign section 381 transactions involving foreign corporations that hold no property and have no tax attributes immediately before the transaction, other than a nominal amount of assets (and related tax attributes).


(b) *General rules*—(1) *Non-previously taxed earnings and profits and related taxes.* Earnings and profits and related foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation (pre-transaction earnings and pre-transaction taxes, respectively) shall carry over to the foreign surviving corporation in the manner described in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section. Dividend distributions by the foreign surviving corporation (post-transaction distributions) shall be out of earnings and profits and shall reduce related foreign income taxes in the manner described in paragraph (c) of this section. See paragraph (g) of this section for rules applicable to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end (“post-2017 taxable years”).


(2) *Previously taxed earnings and profits.* [Reserved]


(c) *Ordering rule for post-transaction distributions.* Dividend distributions out of a foreign surviving corporation's earnings and profits shall be ordered in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, depending on whether the foreign surviving corporation is a pooling corporation or a nonpooling corporation.


(1) *If foreign surviving corporation is a pooling corporation.* In the case of a foreign surviving corporation that is a pooling corporation, post-transaction distributions shall be first out of the post-1986 pool (as described in paragraph (d) of this section) and second out of the pre-pooling annual layers (as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) under an annual last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.


(2) *If foreign surviving corporation is a nonpooling corporation.* In the case of a foreign surviving corporation that is a nonpooling corporation, post-transaction distributions shall be out of the pre-pooling annual layers (as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) under the LIFO method.


(d) *Post-1986 pool.* If the foreign surviving corporation is a pooling corporation, then the post-1986 pool shall be determined under the rules of this paragraph (d).


(1) *In general*—(i) *Qualifying earnings and taxes.* The post-1986 pool shall consist of the post-1986 undistributed earnings and related post-1986 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation.


(ii) *Carryover rule.* Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the amounts described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section attributable to the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation shall carry over to the foreign surviving corporation and shall be combined on a separate category-by-separate category basis.


(2) *Hovering deficit*—(i) *In general.* If immediately prior to the foreign section 381 transaction either the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation has a deficit in one or more separate categories of post-1986 undistributed earnings or an aggregate deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits, such deficit will be a hovering deficit of the foreign surviving corporation. The rules of this paragraph (d)(2) apply to hovering deficits in separate categories of post-1986 undistributed earnings. See paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (e)(2)(iii) of this section for rules that apply to hovering deficits in pre-1987 accumulated profits. If the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation each have a post-1986 hovering deficit in the same separate category of post-1986 undistributed earnings, such deficits and their related post-1986 foreign income taxes shall be combined for purposes of applying this paragraph (d)(2). See also paragraphs (f)(1) and (4) of this section (describing other rules applicable to a deficit described in this paragraph (d)(2)).


(ii) *Offset rule.* A hovering deficit in a separate category of post-1986 undistributed earnings shall offset only earnings and profits accumulated by the foreign surviving corporation after the foreign section 381 transaction (post-transaction earnings) in the same separate category of post-1986 undistributed earnings. For purposes of this rule, however, post-transaction earnings do not include post-1986 undistributed earnings in the same category that are earned after the foreign section 381 transaction, but are distributed or deemed distributed in the same year they are earned (that is, that do not become accumulated). The offset shall occur as of the first day of the foreign surviving corporation's first taxable year following the year in which the post-transaction earnings accumulated.


(iii) *Related taxes.* Post-1986 foreign income taxes that are related to a hovering deficit in a separate category of post-1986 undistributed earnings shall only be added to the foreign surviving corporation's post-1986 foreign income taxes in that separate category on a pro rata basis as the hovering deficit is absorbed. Pro rata means in the same proportion as the portion of the hovering deficit that offsets post-transaction earnings in the separate category under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section bears to the total amount of the hovering deficit.


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d). The examples assume the following facts: Foreign corporations A and B are controlled foreign corporations (CFCs) that were incorporated after December 31, 1986, have always been pooling corporations, and have always had calendar taxable years. None of the shareholders of foreign corporations A and B are required to include any amount in income under § 1.367(b)-4 as a result of the foreign section 381 transaction. Foreign corporations A and B (and all of their respective qualified business units as defined in section 989) maintain a “u” functional currency. Finally, unless otherwise stated, any post-1986 undistributed earnings in the passive category resulted from a look-through dividend that was paid by a lower-tier CFC out of earnings accumulated when the CFC was a noncontrolled section 902 corporation and that qualified for the subpart F same-country exception under section 954(c)(3)(A). The examples are as follows:


(e) *Pre-pooling annual layers*—(1) *If foreign surviving corporation is a pooling corporation.* If the foreign surviving corporation is a pooling corporation, the pre-pooling annual layers shall be determined under the rules of this paragraph (e)(1).


(i) *Qualifying earnings and taxes.* The pre-pooling annual layers shall consist of the pre-1987 accumulated profits and the pre-1987 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation.


(ii) *Carryover rule.* Subject to paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, the amounts described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section shall carry over to the foreign surviving corporation but shall not be combined. If the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation have pre-1987 accumulated profits in the same year and a distribution is made therefrom, the rules of § 1.902-1(b)(2)(ii) and (b)(3) shall apply separately to reduce pre-1987 accumulated profits and pre-1987 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation on a pro rata basis. For further guidance, see Rev. Rul. 68-351 (1968-2 C.B. 307); Rev. Rul. 70-373 (1970-2 C.B. 152) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter); see also paragraph (f)(2) of this section (governing the reconciliation of taxable years).


(iii) *Deficit*—(A) *In general.* The rules of this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) apply when, immediately prior to the foreign section 381 transaction, the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has a deficit in earnings and profits for one or more of the years that comprise its pre-1987 accumulated profits (see also paragraphs (f)(1) and (4) of this section, describing other rules applicable to a deficit described in this paragraph (e)(1)(iii)).


(B) *Aggregate positive pre-1987 accumulated profits.* If the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has an aggregate positive (or zero) amount of pre-1987 accumulated profits, but a deficit in earnings and profits for one or more years, then the rules otherwise applicable to such deficits shall apply separately to the pre-1987 accumulated profits and related pre-1987 foreign income taxes of such corporation. A deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits for one or more years is applied to reduce pre-1987 accumulated profits on a LIFO basis. Any remaining deficit shall be applied to reduce pre-1987 accumulated profits in succeeding years. See Rev. Rul. 74-550 (1974-2 C.B. 209) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter); *Champion Int'l Corp.* v. *Commissioner*, 81 T.C. 424 (1983), acq. in result, 1987-2 C.B. 1; Rev. Rul. 87-72 (1987-2 C.B. 170) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter). As a result, no amount in excess of the aggregate positive amount of pre-1987 accumulated profits shall be distributed from the pre-transaction earnings of the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation.


(C) *Aggregate deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits.* If the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has an aggregate deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits, a hovering deficit as defined under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, then the rules under § 1.902-2(b) shall apply to such hovering deficit (and related pre-1987 foreign income taxes) immediately prior to the transaction, except that the aggregate hovering deficit that is carried forward into the foreign surviving corporation's post-1986 pool shall offset only post-transaction earnings accumulated by the foreign surviving corporation in the same separate category of post-1986 undistributed earnings to which the relevant portion of the hovering deficit is attributable. Post-transaction earnings do not include earnings and profits that are earned after the foreign section 381 transaction but distributed or deemed distributed in the same year they are earned.


(D) *Deficit and positive separate categories within annual layers.* For purposes of applying the rules of paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section, if within a single pre-pooling annual layer, the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has a deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits in a separate category and positive pre-1987 accumulated profits in another separate category, the deficit shall first be used to offset the positive pre-1987 accumulated profits in the other separate category in the same pre-pooling annual layer. Any remaining deficit shall be carried forward or back to other years according to the rules of paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(B) or (C) of this section as applicable.


(iv) *Pre-1987 section 960 earnings and profits and foreign income taxes.* The pre-1987 section 960 earnings and profits and pre-1987 section 960 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation shall carry over to the foreign surviving corporation but shall not be combined. The rules otherwise applicable to such amounts shall apply separately to the pre-1987 section 960 earnings and profits and pre-1987 section 960 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation on a pro rata basis. For further guidance, see Notice 88-70 (1988-2 C.B. 369) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).


(v) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (e)(1). The examples assume the following facts: Foreign corporation A was incorporated in 2003 and was a nonpooling corporation through December 31, 2004. Foreign corporation A became a CFC on January 1, 2005 and, as a result, began to maintain a pool of post-1986 undistributed earnings on that date. Foreign corporation B was incorporated in 2003 and has always been owned by foreign shareholders (and thus never has met the requirements of section 902(c)(3)(B)). Both foreign corporation A and foreign corporation B have always had calendar taxable years. Foreign corporations A and B (and all of their respective qualified business units as defined in section 989) maintain a “u” functional currency. Finally, unless otherwise stated, all earnings and profits of foreign corporations A and B are in the general category. The examples are as follows:


(2) *If foreign surviving corporation is a nonpooling corporation.* If the foreign surviving corporation is a nonpooling corporation, then the pre-pooling annual layers shall be determined under the rules of this paragraph (e)(2).


(i) *Qualifying earnings and taxes.* The pre-pooling annual layers shall consist of the pre-1987 accumulated profits and the pre-1987 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation. If the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has post-1986 undistributed earnings or a deficit in post-1986 undistributed earnings, then those earnings or deficits and any related post-1986 foreign income taxes shall be recharacterized as pre-1987 accumulated profits or deficits and pre-1987 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation accumulated immediately prior to the foreign section 381 transaction.


(ii) *Carryover rule.* Subject to paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the amounts described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section shall carry over to the foreign surviving corporation but shall not be combined. If the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation have pre-1987 accumulated profits in the same year and a distribution is made therefrom, the principles of § 1.902-1(b)(2)(ii) and (3) shall apply separately to reduce pre-1987 accumulated profits and pre-1987 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation on a pro rata basis. For further guidance, see Rev. Rul. 68-351 (1968-2 C.B. 307); Rev. Rul. 70-373 (1970-2 C.B. 152) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter); see also paragraph (f)(2) of this section (governing the reconciliation of taxable years).


(iii) *Deficits*—(A) *In general.* The rules of this paragraph (e)(2)(iii) apply when, immediately prior to the foreign section 381 transaction (and after application of the last sentence of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section), the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has a deficit in one or more years that comprise its pre-1987 accumulated profits. See also paragraphs (f)(1) and (4) of this section (describing other rules applicable to a deficit described in this paragraph (e)(2)(iii)).


(B) *Aggregate positive pre-1987 accumulated profits.* If the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has an aggregate positive (or zero) amount of pre-1987 accumulated profits, but a deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits in one or more years, then the rules otherwise applicable to such deficits shall apply separately to the pre-1987 accumulated profits and related foreign income taxes of such corporation. A deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits for one or more years is applied to reduce pre-1987 accumulated profits on a LIFO basis. Any remaining deficit shall be applied to reduce pre-1987 accumulated profits in succeeding years. See Rev. Rul. 74-550 (1974-2 C.B. 209) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter); *Champion Int'l Corp.* v. *Commissioner,* 81 T.C. 424 (1983), acq. in result, 1987-2 C.B. 1; Rev. Rul. 87-72 (1987-2 C.B. 170) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter). As a result, no amount in excess of the aggregate positive amount of pre-1987 accumulated profits shall be distributed from the pre-transaction earnings of the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation.


(C) *Aggregate deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits.* If the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has an aggregate deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits, a hovering deficit as defined under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, then the rules otherwise applicable to such hovering deficits shall apply separately to the pre-transaction earnings and profits and related taxes of the relevant corporation. See, e.g., sections 316(a) and 381(c)(2)(B). Thus, any hovering deficit shall offset only post-transaction earnings accumulated by the foreign surviving corporation in the same separate category of earnings and profits to which the relevant portion of the hovering deficit is attributable. Post-transaction earnings do not include earnings and profits that are earned after the foreign section 381 transaction but distributed or deemed distributed in the same year they are earned. Following the principles of § 1.902-2(b), if there is an aggregate deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits, any related pre-1987 foreign income taxes generally will not be reduced or deemed paid unless a foreign tax refund restores a positive balance to the associated earnings pursuant to section 905(c), and creates a pre-transaction aggregate positive balance for pre-1987 accumulated profits.


(D) *Deficit and positive separate categories within annual layers.* For purposes of applying the rules of paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section, if within a single pre-pooling annual layer, the foreign acquiring corporation or the foreign target corporation (or both) has a deficit in pre-1987 accumulated profits in a separate category and positive pre-1987 accumulated profits in another separate category, the deficit shall first be used to offset the positive pre-1987 accumulated profits in the other separate category in the same pre-pooling annual layer. Any remaining deficit shall be carried forward or back to other years according to the rules of paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) or (C) as applicable.


(iv) *Pre-1987 section 960 earnings and profits and foreign income taxes.* The pre-1987 section 960 earnings and profits and pre-1987 section 960 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation shall carry over to the foreign surviving corporation but shall not be combined. The rules otherwise applicable to such amounts shall apply separately to the pre-1987 section 960 earnings and profits and pre-1987 section 960 foreign income taxes of the foreign acquiring corporation and the foreign target corporation on a pro rata basis. For further guidance, see Notice 88-70 (1988-2 C.B. 369) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).


(v) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (e)(2). The examples assume the following facts: Both foreign corporation A and foreign corporation B have always had calendar taxable years. Foreign corporations A and B (and all of their respective qualified business units as defined in section 989) maintain a “u” functional currency, and 1u = US$1 at all times. Finally, unless otherwise stated, all earnings and profits of foreign corporations A and B are in the general category. The examples are as follows:


(f) *Special rules*—(1) *Treatment of deficit*—(i) *General rule.* Any deficit described in paragraph (d)(2), (e)(1)(iii), or (e)(2)(iii) of this section shall not be taken into account in determining current or accumulated earnings and profits of a foreign surviving corporation other than to offset post-transaction accumulated earnings, as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, including for purposes of calculating—


(A) The earnings and profits limitation of section 952(c)(1)(A); and


(B) The amount of the foreign surviving corporation's subpart F income as defined in section 952(a).


(ii) *Exceptions.* The rule in paragraph (i) shall not apply for purposes of calculating an earnings and profits limitation under section 952(c)(1)(B) or (C).


(iii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (f)(1). The examples assume the following facts: foreign corporation A, incorporated in 2002, is and always has been a wholly owned subsidiary of USP, a domestic corporation. Foreign corporation B, incorporated in 2004, is and always has been a wholly owned subsidiary of foreign corporation A. Both foreign corporation A and foreign corporation B are organized under the laws of foreign country X and have always had a calendar taxable year. Foreign corporations A and B (and all of their respective qualified business units as defined in section 989) maintain a “u” functional currency. Unless otherwise stated, any earnings and profits or deficit in earnings and profits of foreign corporation A and B in the general category are attributable to subpart F income derived from foreign base company sales income. Foreign corporation C is a wholly owned subsidiary of USP2 and was organized in 2004 under the laws of foreign country Y. Foreign corporation C (and all of its qualified business units as defined in section 989) maintains a “u” functional currency. Earnings and profits of foreign corporation C in the general category are not attributable to subpart F income. The examples are as follows:


(2) *Reconciling taxable years.* If a foreign acquiring corporation and a foreign target corporation had taxable years ending on different dates, then the pro rata distribution rules of paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section shall apply with respect to the taxable years that end within the same calendar year.


(3) *Post-transaction change of status.* If a foreign surviving corporation that is subject to the rules of paragraph (c)(2) of this section subsequently becomes a pooling corporation (by reason, for example, of a reorganization, liquidation, or change of ownership), then post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes that were recharacterized as pre-1987 accumulated profits and pre-1987 foreign income taxes, respectively, under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section retain their characterization as a pre-pooling annual layer.


(4) *Ordering rule for multiple hovering deficits*—(i) *Rule.* A foreign surviving corporation shall apply the deficit rules of paragraphs (d)(2), (e)(1)(iii), and (e)(2)(iii) of this section in that order if more than one of such rules applies to the foreign surviving corporation.


(ii) *Example.* The following example illustrates the principles of this paragraph (f)(4). The example assumes the following facts: Foreign corporation A has been a pooling corporation since its incorporation on January 1, 1998. Foreign corporation B has been a nonpooling corporation since its incorporation on January 1, 2000. Foreign corporations A and B have always had calendar taxable years. Foreign corporations A and B (and all of their respective qualified business units as defined in section 989) maintain a “u” functional currency. All earnings and profits of foreign corporation B are in the general category. Finally, unless otherwise stated, any earnings and profits in the passive category resulted from a look-through dividend that was paid by a lower-tier CFC out of earnings accumulated when the CFC was a noncontrolled section 902 corporation and that qualified for the subpart F same-country exception under section 954(c)(3)(A). The example is as follows:


(5) *Pro rata rule for earnings and deficits during transaction year.* (i) For purposes of offsetting post-transaction earnings of a foreign surviving corporation under the rules described in paragraphs (d)(2), (e)(1)(iii), and (e)(2)(iii) of this section, the earnings and profits, and any related foreign income taxes, in each separate category for the taxable year of the foreign surviving corporation in which the transaction occurs shall be deemed to have been accumulated after such transaction in an amount which bears the same ratio to the undistributed earnings and profits of the foreign surviving corporation for such taxable year (computed without regard to any earnings and profits carried over) as the number of days in the taxable year after the date of transaction bears to the total number of days in the taxable year. See, e.g., § 1.381(c)(2)-1(a)(7) *Example 2* (illustrating application of this rule with respect to domestic corporations).


(ii) For purposes of determining the amount of pre-transaction deficits described in paragraphs (d)(2), (e)(1)(iii), and (e)(2)(iii) of this section, of a foreign surviving corporation that has a deficit in earnings and profits in any separate category for its taxable year in which the transaction occurs, unless the actual accumulated earnings and profits, or deficit, as of such date can be shown, such pre-transaction deficit, and any related foreign income taxes, shall be deemed to have accumulated in a manner similar to that described in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section. See, e.g., § 1.381(c)(2)-1(a)(7) *Example 4* (illustrating application of this rule with respect to domestic corporations).


(g) *Post-2017 taxable years.* As a result of the repeal of section 902 effective for taxable years of foreign corporations beginning on or after January 1, 2018, all foreign target corporations, foreign acquiring corporations, and foreign surviving corporations are treated as nonpooling corporations in post-2017 taxable years. Any amounts remaining in post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes of any such corporation in any separate category as of the end of the foreign corporation's last taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018, are treated as earnings and taxes in a single pre-pooling annual layer in the foreign corporation's post-2017 taxable years for purposes of this section. Foreign income taxes that are related to non-previously taxed earnings of a foreign acquiring corporation and a foreign target corporation that were accumulated in taxable years before the current taxable year of the foreign corporation, or in a foreign target's taxable year that ends on the date of the section 381 transaction, are not treated as current year taxes (as defined in § 1.960-1(b)(4)) of a foreign surviving corporation in any post-2017 taxable year. In addition, foreign income taxes that are related to a hovering deficit are not treated as current year taxes of the foreign surviving corporation in any post-2017 taxable year, regardless of whether the hovering deficit is absorbed.


(h) *Applicability dates.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (h), this section applies to foreign section 381 transactions that occur on or after November 6, 2006. Paragraph (g) of this section applies to taxable years of foreign corporations ending on or after November 2, 2020, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end.



---

[N] [T.D. 9273, 71 FR 44985, Aug. 8, 2006; 71 FR 57889, Oct. 2, 2006; 71 FR 70876, Dec. 7, 2006, as amended by T.D. 9959, 87 FR 325, Jan. 4, 2022]




