# § 146.152   Orange juice with preservative.

(a) Orange juice with preservative is the food prepared for further manufacturing use. It complies with the requirements for composition of orange juice for manufacturing as provided for in § 146.151, except that a preservative is added to inhibit spoilage. It may be heat-treated to reduce substantially the enzymatic activity and the number of viable microorganisms.


(b) The preservatives referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are any safe and suitable preservatives or combinations thereof.


(c) The name of the food is “Orange juice with preservative”.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. In addition, the name of each preservative shall be proceeded by a statement of the percent by weight of the preservative used. If the food is packed in container sizes that are less than 19 liters (5 gallons), the label shall bear a statement indicating that the food is for further manufacturing use only.


(e) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statement specified in paragraph (d) of this section for naming the preservative ingredient used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow the name of the food, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14414, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 36378, June 22, 1979; 58 FR 2881, Jan. 6, 1993]




