# ยง 3419.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Capacity funds* means agricultural extension and research funds provided by formula to the eligible institutions under sections 1444 and 1445 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (NARETPA), as amended, or under sections 3(b) and (c) of the Smith-Lever Act, 7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c) or under section 3 of the Hatch Act of 1887, 7 U.S.C. 361c.


*Eligible institution* means a college or university eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321 *et seq.*) (commonly known as the Second Morrill Act), including Central State University, Tuskegee University, and West Virginia State University (1890 land-grant institutions), and a college or university designated under the Act of July 2, 1862 (7 U.S.C. 301, *et seq.*) (commonly known as the First Morrill Act) and located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the insular areas of American Samoa, Guam, Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and the U.S. Virgin Islands (1862 land-grant institutions in insular areas).


*Matching funds* means funds from non-Federal sources, including those made available by the State to the eligible institutions, for programs or activities that fall within the purposes of agricultural research and cooperative extension under: sections 1444 and 1445 of NARETPA; the Hatch Act of 1887; and the Smith-Lever Act.


*Non-Federal sources* means funds made available by the State to the eligible institution either through direct appropriation or under any authority (other than authority to charge tuition and fees paid by students) provided by a State to an eligible institution to raise revenue, such as gift acceptance authority or user fees. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated. 


*State* means the government of any one of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Northern Marianas, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.



---

[N] [65 FR 21631, Apr. 21, 2000, as amended at 83 FR 21849, May 11, 2018] 




