# 512.301   Solicitation provisions and contract clauses for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services (FAR DEVIATION).

(a) *Contract clauses.* Insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services (FAR DEVIATION):


(1) The clause at 552.212-71, Contract Terms and Conditions Applicable to GSA Acquisitions of Commercial Products and Commercial services (FAR DEVIATION). This clause incorporates by reference only those clauses required to implement GSA requirements applicable to the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services (FAR DEVIATION). This clause may be tailored in accordance with FAR 12.302 and GSAM 512.302.


(2) The clause at 552.212-72, Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders Applicable to GSA Acquisitions of Commercial Products and commercial services) FAR DEVIATION), when any listed clauses therein apply. This clause incorporates by reference only those clauses required to implement provisions of law or Executive orders that apply to commercial products and commercial services (FAR DEVIATION) acquisitions.


(b) *FAR deviation.* GSA has a deviation from FAR 52.212-4 that allows use of the clause at 552.212-4 in lieu of the FAR clause at 52.212-4. Insert the clause at 552.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, in lieu of the FAR clause at 52.212-4. This clause may be tailored in accordance with FAR 12.302 and GSAM 512.302.


(c) *Discretionary use of GSAR provisions and clauses.* Consistent with the limitations contained in FAR 12.302 and 512.302, the contracting officer may include in solicitations and contracts by addendum other GSAR provisions and clauses.


(d) *Use of additional provisions and clauses.* The Senior Procurement Executive shall approve the use of a provision or clause that is either not:


(1) Prescribed in the FAR or GSAR for use in acquisitions for commercial products and commercial services (FAR DEVIATION).


(2) Consistent with customary commercial practice.



---

[N] [86 FR 55518, Oct. 6, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 68442, Dec. 2, 2021; 87 FR 76112, Dec. 13, 2022; 89 FR 55086, July 3, 2024; 89 FR 62665, Aug. 2, 2024]




