# ยง 773.19   Interest rate, terms, security requirements, and repayment.

(a) *Interest rate.* The interest rate will be fixed for the term of the loan. The rate will be established by the Agency and available in each Agency Office, based upon the cost of Government borrowing for loans of similar maturities. 


(b) *Terms.* The loan term will be for up to 3 years, based upon the useful life of the security offered. 


(c) *Security requirements.* The Agency will take a lien on the following security, if available, as necessary to adequately secure the loan: 


(1) Real estate; 


(2) Chattels; 


(3) Crops; 


(4) Other assets owned by the applicant; and 


(5) Assets owned and pledged by a third party. 


(d) *Documentation of security value.* (1) For loans that are for $30,000 or less, collateral value will be based on the best available, verifiable information. 


(2) For loans of greater than $30,000 where the applicant's balance sheet shows a net worth of three times the loan amount or greater, collateral value will be based on tax assessment of real estate and depreciation schedules of chattels, as applicable, less any existing liens. 


(3) For loans of greater than $30,000 where the applicant's balance sheet shows a net worth of less than three times the loan amount, collateral value will be based on an appraisal. Such appraisals must be obtained by the applicant, at the applicant's expense and acceptable to the Agency. Appraisals of real estate must be completed in accordance with USPAP. 


(e) *Repayment.* (1) All loan applicants must demonstrate that the loan can be repaid. 


(2) For loans that are for $30,000 or less where the applicant's balance sheet shows a net worth of three times the loan amount or greater, repayment ability will be considered adequate without further documentation. 


(3) For loans that are for $30,000 or less where the applicant's balance sheet shows a net worth of less than three times the loan amount, repayment ability must be demonstrated using the farm's operating plan, including a projected cash flow budget based on historical performance. Such operating plan is required notwithstanding ยง 773.18 of this part. 


(4) For loans that are for more than $30,000, repayment ability must be demonstrated using the farm's operating plan, including a projected cash flow budget based on historical performance. 


(f) *Creditworthiness.* All loan applicants must have an acceptable credit history demonstrated by debt repayment. A history of failure to repay past debts as they came due (including debts to the Internal Revenue Service) when the ability to repay was within their control will demonstrate unacceptable credit history. Unacceptable credit history will not include isolated instances of late payments which do not represent a pattern and were clearly beyond the applicant's control or lack of credit history. 




