# § 13.1   Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply to all regulations contained in this part:


*Aircraft* means a machine or device that is used or intended to be used to carry persons or objects in flight through the air, including, but not limited to airplanes, helicopters and gliders.


*Airstrip* means visible, marked, or known aircraft landing areas in park areas. Airstrips may be marked with cones, lights, flagging, or windsocks, or be unmarked but recognizable because they have been cleared of vegetation or other obstructions.


*ANILCA* means the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (94 Stat. 2371; Pub. L. 96-487 (December 2, 1980)).


*Bait* means, for purposes of taking wildlife other than fish, any material used to attract wildlife by sense of smell or taste except:


(1) Parts of legally taken wildlife or fish that are not required to be salvaged if the parts are not moved from the kill site; or


(2) Wildlife or fish that died of natural causes, if not moved from the location where it was found.


*Carry* means to wear, bear or carry on or about the person and additionally, in the case of firearms, within or upon a device or animal used for transportation. 


*Downed aircraft* means an aircraft that as a result of mechanical failure or accident cannot take off.


*Facility* means buildings, structures, park roads as defined by § 1.4, parking lots, campgrounds, picnic areas, paved trails, and maintenance support yards.


*Federally owned lands* means lands, waters, and interests therein the title to which is in the United States, and does not include those land interests tentatively approved to the State of Alaska; or conveyed by an interim conveyance to a Native corporation.


*Firearm* means any loaded or unloaded pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or other weapon which will or is designated to or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of expanded gases, except that it does not include a pistol or rifle powered by compressed gas. The term “firearm” also includes irritant gas devices.


*Fish and wildlife* means any member of the animal kingdom, including without limitation any mammal, fish, bird (including any migratory, nonmigratory or endangered bird for which protection is also afforded by treaty or other international agreement), amphibian, reptile, mollusk, crustacean, arthropod, or other invertebrate, and includes any part, produce, egg, or offspring thereof, or the dead body or part thereof.


*Fossil* means any remains, impression, or trace of any animal or plant of past geological ages that has been preserved, by natural processes, in the earth's crust.


*Furbearer* means one of the following species: beaver, coyote, arctic fox, red fox, lynx, marten, mink, least weasel, short-tailed weasel, muskrat, land otter, red squirrel, flying squirrel, ground squirrel, Alaskan marmot, hoary marmot, woodchuck, wolf, and wolverine. 


*Gemstone* means a silica or igneous mineral including, but not limited to:


(1) Geodes;


(2) Petrified wood; and


(3) Jade, agate, opal, garnet, or other mineral that when cut and polished is customarily used as jewelry or other ornament.


*Motorboat* refers to a motorized vessel other than a personal watercraft.


*National Preserve* shall include the following areas of the National Park System: Alagnak National Wild River, Aniakchak National Preserve, Bering Land Bridge National Preserve, Denali National Preserve, Gates of the Arctic National Preserve, Glacier Bay National Preserve, Katmai National Preserve, Lake Clark National Preserve, Noatak National Preserve, Wrangell-St. Elias National Preserve, and Yukon-Charley Rivers National Preserve.


*Net* means a seine, weir, net wire, fish trap, or other implement designed to entrap fish, except a landing net.


*Off-road vehicle* means any motor vehicle designed for or capable of crosscountry travel on or immediately over land, water, sand, snow, ice, marsh, wetland or other natural terrain, except snowmachines or snowmobiles as defined in this chapter. 


*Park areas* means federally owned lands administered by the National Park Service in Alaska.


*Person* means any individual, firm, corporation, society, association, partnership, or any private or public body.


*Possession* means exercising dominion or control, with or without ownership, over weapons, traps, nets or other property.


*Public lands* means lands situated in Alaska which are federally owned lands, except—


(1) Land selections of the State of Alaska which have been tentatively approved or validly selected under the Alaska Statehood Act (72 Stat. 339) and lands which have been confirmed to, validly selected by, or granted to the Territory of Alaska or the State under any other provision of Federal law;


(2) Land selections of a Native Corporation made under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) which have not been conveyed to a Native Corporation, unless any such selection is determined to be invalid or is relinquished; and


(3) Lands referred to in section 19(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.


*Snowmachine or snowmobile* means a self-propelled vehicle intended for off-road travel primarily on snow having a curb weight of not more than 1,000 pounds (450 kg), driven by a track or tracks in contact with the snow and steered by a ski or skis on contact with the snow.


*Take or taking* as used with respect to fish and wildlife, means to pursue, hunt, shoot, trap, net, capture, collect, kill, harm, or attempt to engage in any such conduct.


*Temporary* means a continuous period of time not to exceed 12 months, except as specifically provided otherwise.


*Trap* means a snare, trap, mesh, or other implement designed to entrap animals other than fish.


*Trapping* means taking furbearers under a trapping license with a trap, or with a firearm when a furbearer is:


(1) Ensnared in an intact trap;


(2) Ensnared in a trap that is no longer anchored; or


(3) Mortally wounded by a trap but that has broken free from the trap.


*Unload* means there is no unexpended shell or cartridge in the chamber or magazine of a firearm; bows, crossbows and spearguns are stored in such a manner as to prevent their ready use; muzzle-loading weapons do not contain a powder charge; and any other implement capable of discharging a missile into the air or under the water does not contain a missile or similar device within the loading or discharging mechanism.


*Weapon* means a firearm, compressed gas or spring powered pistol or rifle, bow and arrow, crossbow, blow gun, speargun, hand thrown spear, slingshot, explosive device, or any other implement designed to discharge missiles into the air or under the water.



---

[N] [71 FR 69333, Nov. 30, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 3185, Jan. 17, 2008; 80 FR 64342, Oct. 23, 2015; 85 FR 35191, June 9, 2020; 85 FR 72961, Nov. 16, 2020; 89 FR 55072, July 3, 2024]






