# § 13.1178   Closed waters, islands and other areas.

The following are prohibited:


(a) Operating a vessel or otherwise approaching within 100 yards of South Marble Island; or Flapjack Island; or any of the three small unnamed islets approximately one nautical mile southeast of Flapjack Island; or Eider Island; or Boulder Island; or Geikie Rock; or Lone Island; or the northern three-fourths of Leland Island (north of 58°39.1′ N latitude); or any of the four small unnamed islands located approximately one nautical mile north (one island), and 1.5 nautical miles east (three islands) of the easternmost point of Russell Island; or Graves Rocks (on the outer coast); or Cormorant Rock, or any adjacent rock, including all of the near-shore rocks located along the outer coast, for a distance of 1
1/2 nautical miles, southeast from the mouth of Lituya Bay; or the surf line along the outer coast, for a distance of 1
1/2 nautical miles northwest of the mouth of the glacial river at Cape Fairweather.


(b) Operating a vessel or otherwise approaching within 100 yards of a Steller (northern) sea lion (*Eumetopias jubatus*) hauled-out on land or a rock or a nesting seabird colony: *Provided, however,* that vessels may approach within 50 yards of that part of South Marble Island lying south of 58°38.6′ N latitude (approximately the southern one-half of South Marble Island) to view seabirds.


(c) May 1 through August 31, operating a vessel, or otherwise approaching within 
1/4 nautical mile of, Spider Island or any of the four small islets lying immediately west of Spider Island.


(d) May 1 through August 31, operating a cruise ship on Johns Hopkins Inlet waters south of 58°54.2′ N latitude (an imaginary line running approximately due west from Jaw Point).


(e) May 1 through June 30, operating a vessel or a seaplane on Johns Hopkins Inlet waters south of 58°54.2′ N latitude (an imaginary line running approximately due west from Jaw Point).


(f) July 1 through August 31, operating a vessel or a seaplane on Johns Hopkins Inlet waters south of 58°54.2′ N latitude (an imaginary line running approximately due west from Jaw Point), within 
1/4 nautical mile of a seal hauled out on ice; except when safe navigation requires, and then with due care to maintain the 
1/4 nautical mile distance from concentrations of seals.


(g) Restrictions imposed in this section are minimum distances. Park visitors are advised that protection of park wildlife may require that visitors maintain greater distances from wildlife. *See,* 36 CFR 2.2 (Wildlife protection).




