# 552.103   Identification of provisions and clauses.

(a) *General.* When a GSAR provision or clause is used without deviation in a solicitation or contract, it shall be identified by number, title, and date (e.g., 552.211-77, Packing List (FEB 1996)).


(b) *Deviations.* (1) Federal Acquisition Regulation deviations. When a GSAR provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation in lieu of a FAR provision or clause in a solicitation or contract, it shall be identified by—


(i) The addition of “(FAR DEVIATION)” after the date of the GSAR provision or clause.


(ii) The addition of standardized language at the beginning of the prescription that reads “*FAR deviation.* GSA has a deviation from FAR (provision or clause number) . . .”.


(2) General Services Administration Acquisition Regulation deviations. When a GSAR provision or clause is used with an authorized deviation in a solicitation or contract, it shall be identified by—


(i) The addition of “(GSAR DEVIATION)” after the date of the GSAR provision or clause.


(ii) The addition of standardized language at the beginning of the prescription that reads “*GSAR deviation.* GSA has a deviation from GSAR (provision or clause number) . . .”.


(c) *Alternates.* When a GSAR provision or clause is used with an alternate in a solicitation or contract, it shall be identified by the basic provision or clause citation and the alternate label (e.g., 552.211-77, Packing List (FEB 1996) Alternate I (MAY 2003)). The alternate label consists of the word “Alternate”, the alternate number, and date (e.g., Alternate I (MAY 2003)).



---

[N] [86 FR 55522, Oct. 6, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 55086, July 3, 2024]




