# ยง 21.256   Incentives for employers.

(a) *General.* VA may make payments to employers to enable a veteran who has been rehabilitated to employability to begin and maintain employment or to provide on-job training. The purpose of such payment is to facilitate the placement of veterans who are generally qualified for employment but may lack some specific training or work experience which the employer requires or who are difficult to place due to their disability. The specific conditions which must be met before this option may be considered are contained in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.


(b) *Requirements for payments to employers.* Payments may be made to employers to provide on-job training or to begin and maintain employment if all of the following conditions are met:


(1) The veteran is in need of an on-job training situation or is generally qualified for employment but such on-job situation or employment opportunity is not otherwise available despite repeated and intensive efforts on the part of VA and the veteran to secure such opportunities. These conditions are also considered to be met when: 


(i) There are few employers within commuting distance of the veteran's home who can provide a training or employment opportunity consistent with the veteran's plan; and


(ii) The veteran reasonably could not be required to seek on-job or employment opportunities in other areas due to the effects of his or her disability, family situation, or other pertinent factors; and


(iii) The available local employers will only provide a training or employment opportunity if VA agrees to reimburse for direct expenses to the degree permitted under this section.


(2) The training establishment or employer is in compliance with provisions of ยง 21.292 (a) and (b), pertaining to the approval of courses and facilities.


(3) VA entered into an agreement with the employer in writing prior to the beginning of the period of on-job training or employment, whereby the employer will be reimbursed for direct expenses approved under provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.


(4) The on-job training program or employment of the veteran does not displace a current employee or prevent the recall of a laid-off employee.


(c) *Limitation on payment.* Payments to the employer may be made only for the employer's direct expenses as a result of hiring the veteran and generally may not exceed one-half of the wage paid to other employees in the same or similar job. Direct expenses include:


(1) Instruction;


(2) Instructional aids;


(3) Training materials and supplies provided to the veteran;


(4) Minor modification of equipment to the special limitations of the veteran;


(5) Significant loss of productivity of the employer caused by using the veteran as opposed to a nondisabled employee.


(d) *Duration.* The period for which the employer is paid may not exceed the period necessary to accomplish on-job training or to begin and maintain employment at the journeyman level for at least 2 months. The period for which payment may be authorized may not exceed 9 months, unless the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Officer, approves a longer period.


(e) *Benefits and services.* (1) An eligible veteran on whose behalf payments are made to the employer shall be provided all other Chapter 31 benefits and services furnished to other veterans receiving employment services. A veteran may not be paid a subsistence allowance during the period in which job training or work experience is furnished under this section.


(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of these regulations, if the program in which the veteran is participating meets the criteria for approval of on-job training under chapter 30, the veteran may be paid at educational assistance rates provided for this type of training under chapter 30 to the extent that he or she has remaining eligibility and entitlement under chapter 30 and has elected to receive a subsistence allowance in accordance with ยง 21.7136.


(f) *Non-duplication.* VA will not make payments under the provisions of this section to an employer receiving payments from any other program for the same training or employment expenses.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984; 50 FR 9622, Mar. 11, 1985; 54 FR 4283, Jan. 30, 1989; 57 FR 57108, Dec. 3, 1992; 62 FR 17709, Apr. 11, 1997; 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022] 




