# ยง 1450.19   Scope.

(a) *Coverage.* This subpart applies to agencies and employees as defined by ยง 1450.20.


(b) *Applicability.* This subpart and 5 U.S.C. 5514 apply in recovering certain debts by offset, except where the employee consents to the recovery, from the current pay account of that employee. Because it is an administrative offset, debt collection procedures for salary offset which are not specified in U.S.C. 5514 and these regulations should be consistent with the provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR parts 101-105).


(1) *Excluded debts or claims.* The procedures contained in this subpart do not apply to debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended (26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*) or the tariff laws of the United States, or to any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108).


(2) *Waiver requests and claims to the General Accounting Office.* This subpart does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of a salary overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office in accordance with procedures prescribed by the General Accounting Office. Similarly, in the case of other types of debts, it does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver, if waiver is available under any statutory provision pertaining to the particular debt being collected.


(c) *Time limit.* Under 4 CFR 102.3(b)(3), offset may not be initiated more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless an exception applies as stated in ยง 102.3(b)(3).




