# § 178.3910   Surface lubricants used in the manufacture of metallic articles.

The substances listed in this section may be safely used in surface lubricants employed in the manufacture of metallic articles that contact food, subject to the provisions of this section.


(a) The following substances may be used in surface lubricants used in the rolling of metallic foil or sheet stock provided that total residual lubricant remaining on the metallic article in the form in which it contacts food does not exceed 0.015 milligram per square inch of metallic food-contact surface:


(1) Substances identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(2) Substances identified in this paragraph.


(3) Mineral oil conforming to the identity prescribed in § 178.3620(c).


(4) Light petroleum hydrocarbons identified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section: *Provided,* That the total residual lubricant on the metallic article in the form in which it contacts food meets the ultraviolet absorbance limits prescribed in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section as determined by the analytical method described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.


(i) Light petroleum hydrocarbons are derived by distillation from virgin petroleum stocks or are synthesized from petroleum gases. They are chiefly paraffinic, isoparaffinic, napthenic, or aromatic in nature, and meet the following specifications:


(*a*) Initial boiling point is 24 °C minimum and final boiling point is 288 °C maximum, as determined by ASTM method D86-82, “Standard Method for Distillation of Petroleum Products,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the American Society for Testing Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, Philadelphia, PA 19428-2959, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(*b*) Nonvolatile residue is 0.005 gram per 100 milliliters, maximum, as determined by ASTM method D381-80, “Standard Test Method for Existent Gum in Fuels by Jet Evaporation,” when the final boiling point is 121 °C or above and by ASTM method D1353-78, “Standard Test Method for Nonvolatile Matter in Volatile Solvents for Use in Paint, Varnish, Lacquer, and Related Products,” when the final boiling point is below 121 °C. These ASTM methods are incorporated by reference. The availability of these incorporations by reference is given in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(*a*) of this section.


(*c*) Saybolt color 20 minimum as determined by ASTM method D156-82, “Standard Test Method for Saybolt Color of Petroleum Products (Saybolt Chromometer Method),” which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(*a*) of this section.


(*d*) Aromatic component content shall not exceed 32 percent.


(*e*) Conforms with ultraviolet absorbance limits prescribed in § 178.3620(c) as determined by the analytical method described therein.


(ii) Ultraviolet absorbance limits on residual lubricants are as follows:


(iii) The analytical method for determining ultraviolet absorbance limits on residual lubricants is as follows:


(b) The following substances may be used in surface lubricants used to facilitate the drawing, stamping, or forming of metallic articles from rolled foil or sheet stock by further processing provided that the total residual lubricant remaining on the metallic article in the form in which it contacts food does not exceed 0.2 milligram per square inch of food-contact surface: 


(1) Antioxidants used in compliance with regulations in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter.


(2) Substances identified in this subparagraph.


(c) The substances identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be used in surface lubricants used to facilitate the drawing, stamping, and forming of metallic articles from rolled foil and sheet stock provided that total residual lubricant remaining on the metallic article in the form in which it contacts food does not exceed 0.015 milligram per square inch of food-contact surface.


(d) Subject to any prescribed limitations, the quantity of surface lubricant used in the manufacture of metallic articles shall not exceed the least amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended technical effect and shall not be intended to nor, in fact, accomplish any technical effect in the food itself.


(e) The use of the surface lubricants in the manufacture of any article that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and § 179.45 of this chapter must comply with any specifications prescribed by such regulation for the finished form of the article.


(f) Any substance that is listed in this section and the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and § 179.45 of this chapter shall comply with any applicable specifications prescribed by such regulation.



---

[N] [42 FR 14609, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 238, Jan. 4, 1983; 49 FR 10113, Mar. 19, 1984; 49 FR 29579, July 23, 1984; 50 FR 36874, Sept. 10, 1985; 52 FR 10223, Mar. 31, 1987; 54 FR 6124, Feb. 8, 1989; 54 FR 24899, June 12, 1989; 56 FR 55456, Oct. 28, 1991; 57 FR 23953, June 5, 1992; 58 FR 17513, Apr. 5, 1993; 64 FR 47110, Aug. 30, 1999; 69 FR 24512, May 4, 2004; 87 FR 31089, May 20, 2022]




