# § 1075.105   Allocating funds from the Civil Penalty Fund—in general.

(a) *In general.* The Fund Administrator will allocate Civil Penalty Fund funds specified in paragraph (c) of this section to classes of victims and to consumer education and financial literacy programs as appropriate according to the schedule established in paragraph (b) of this section and the guidelines established in §§ 1075.106 and 1075.107.


(b) *Schedule for making allocations.* (1) Within 60 days of May 7, 2013, the Fund Administrator will establish, and publish on *www.consumerfinance.gov*, a schedule for allocating funds in the Civil Penalty Fund, in accordance with the following:


(i) The schedule will establish six-month periods and identify the start and end dates of those periods. The start date of one period will be the day immediately after the end date of the preceding period.


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the first and second periods may be longer or shorter than six months to allow future six-month periods to start and end on dates that better serve administrative efficiency. The first and second periods will constitute “six-month periods” under this part regardless of their actual length.


(iii) The start date of the first period is July 21, 2011.


(2) Within 60 days after the end of a six-month period, the Fund Administrator will allocate available funds in the Civil Penalty Fund in accordance with §§ 1075.106 and 1075.107.


(3) If the Civil Penalty Fund Governance Board determines that the schedule established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section should be changed to better serve administrative efficiency, it may change that schedule by directing the Fund Administrator to publish the new schedule on *www.consumerfinance.gov.* Any new schedule must comply with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. The first period of any new schedule may be shorter or longer than six months. That first period will constitute a “six-month period” under this part regardless of its actual length.


(c) *Funds available for allocation.* The funds available for allocation following the end of a six-month period are those funds that were in the Civil Penalty Fund on the end date of that six-month period, minus:


(1) Any funds already allocated,


(2) Any funds that the Fund Administrator determines are necessary for authorized administrative expenses, and


(3) Any funds collected pursuant to an order that has not yet become a final order.




