# § 731.106   Designation of public trust positions and investigative requirements.

(a) *Risk designation.* For every position in the competitive service; in the excepted service; to be filled with a career appointment in the Senior Executive Service; or in which the occupant performs a service as a contractor employee or as a nonappropriated fund employee, an agency head must designate the position at high, moderate, or low risk level (in accordance with the risk designation system issued jointly by the Executive Agents; see § 731.102(b)), as determined by the position's potential for adverse impact to the efficiency or integrity of the service.


(b) *Public trust position.* A position at the high or moderate risk level is designated as a “public trust” position. Such positions may involve policy making, major program responsibility, public safety and health, law enforcement duties, fiduciary responsibilities, or other duties demanding a significant degree of public trust such as positions involving access to or control of financial records or with significant risk for causing damage or realizing personal gain.


(c) *Investigative requirements.* (1) An individual entering employment subject to investigation under this part must undergo a background investigation as described in § 731.104. OPM establishes minimum investigative requirements correlating to the risk level. An investigation should be initiated before the individual is appointed or otherwise becomes employed by or on behalf of the agency; however, where an agency does not timely initiate the investigation, it must do so as soon as possible, even if the appointment has already occurred.


(2) Any position subject to risk designation under this section must also receive a sensitivity designation of Special-Sensitive, Critical-Sensitive, Noncritical-Sensitive, or Non-sensitive, as appropriate. This designation is complementary to the risk designation and may have an effect on the position's investigative requirement. Part 1400 of this title details the various sensitivity levels and investigative requirements for positions designated as sensitive. Procedures for determining investigative requirements for a position based upon risk and sensitivity will be published in issuances, as described in § 731.102(b) and 5 CFR part 1400.


(3) If a suitability or fitness issue develops prior to the required investigation, OPM or the agency may request investigation from an authorized investigative service provider sufficient to resolve the issue and support an unfavorable suitability or fitness determination. However, inquiries into criminal or credit history cannot occur until a conditional offer has been made, as specified in § 731.106(g). If warranted for positions in the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service, an agency may also take suitability action, in accordance with the authorities described in this part. If the individual is then appointed or otherwise becomes employed by or on behalf of the agency, the minimum level of investigation must be conducted as required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Continuous vetting requirements.* (1) Individuals occupying positions of employment subject to investigation are also subject to continuous vetting through periodic checks of their background at any time in accordance with standards issued by OPM. Checks must be conducted at regular intervals, based on the type of check and with consideration of position risk and sensitivity. The nature of a continuous vetting check, and any additional requirements and parameters, are specified in supplemental issuances as described in § 731.102(b). An individual may be subjected to continuous vetting only if they have signed an authorization for release of information permitting a disclosure for continuous vetting purposes. Continuous vetting for an individual in a public trust position satisfies the requirement for a periodic reinvestigation of an individual in a public trust position as directed in E.O. 13488, as amended. An agency must ensure that each continuous vetting check is conducted and a determination made regarding continued employment.


(2) An individual in a sensitive position who is continually vetted to standards established by the Security Executive Agent for satisfying periodic reinvestigation and/or continuous vetting requirements meets the continuous vetting requirements for a public trust position.


(3) An agency must notify each employee covered by this section of the continuous vetting requirements under this paragraph (d).


(e) *Risk level changes.* If an individual in employment subject to investigation experiences a change to a higher position risk level due to promotion, demotion, reassignment, or transfer, or the risk level of the individual's position is changed to a higher level, the individual may remain in or encumber the position. Any upgrade in the investigation required for the new risk level should be initiated within 14 days after the promotion, demotion, reassignment, transfer or new designation of risk level is final or as otherwise required by 5 CFR part 1400.


(f) *Completed investigations.* An investigation or continuous vetting check under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section supports a determination by the employing agency of whether the findings of the investigation would justify an action under this part or under another applicable authority, such as 5 CFR part 315, 359, or 752. Section 731.103 addresses whether an agency may take an action under this part, and whether the matter must be referred to OPM for debarment consideration.


(g) *Criminal or credit history inquiries.* A hiring agency may not make specific inquiries concerning an applicant's criminal background in oral or written form (including through the OF-306 or other forms used to conduct vetting for Federal employment, USAJOBS, or any other electronic means) unless the hiring agency has made a conditional offer of employment to the applicant. For criminal inquiries prior to a conditional offer, this prohibition does not apply to applicants for positions excepted under 5 CFR 920.201(b). For competitive service or career Senior Executive Service, a hiring agency may not make specific inquiries concerning an applicant's credit background in oral or written form (including through the OF-306 or other forms used to conduct vetting for Federal employment, USAJOBS, or any other electronic means) unless the hiring agency has made a conditional offer of employment to the applicant. Agencies may request an exception to the provision for making credit inquiries in advance of a conditional offer in accordance with the provisions in 5 CFR part 330, subpart M. Agencies may make an inquiry into an applicant's Selective Service registration, military service, citizenship status, where applicable, or previous work history, prior to making a conditional offer of employment to an applicant.


(h) *Recordkeeping and use of information.* When an agency makes a suitability or fitness determination based on an investigation, the agency must:


(1) Ensure that any record used in making the determination is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete to the extent reasonably necessary to ensure fairness to the individual in any determination;


(2) Ensure that all applicable administrative procedural requirements provided by law, including the regulations in this part and issuances as described in § 731.102(b) have been observed;


(3) Consider all available information in reaching its final decision on a suitability or fitness determination or suitability action, except information furnished by a non-corroborated confidential source, which may be used only for limited purposes, such as information used to develop a lead or in interrogatories to a subject, if the identity of the source is not compromised in any way; and


(4) Keep any record of the agency determination or action as required by issuances as described in § 731.102(b).






