# § 231.7   Tank cars with side platforms.

(a) *Hand brakes*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(1)).


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Each hand brake shall be so located that it can be safely operated while car is in motion.


(ii) The brake shaft shall be located on end of car to the left of center.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the brakes from right to left side on steel or steel-underframe cars with platform end sills in service July 1, 1911, except when such appliances are renewed, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(4)).


(b) *Sill steps.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(d)).


(c) *Side handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four or more.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one on face of each side sill near each end. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 12 inches from end of car.


(ii) If side safety railings are attached to tank or tank bands, four additional vertical handholds shall be applied, one as nearly as possible over each sill step and securely fastened to tank or tankband.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(4)).


(d) *End handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one near each side of each end of car on face of end sill. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 16 inches from side of car.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(4)).


(e) *Tank-head handholds*—(1) *Number.* Two. (Not required if safety railing runs around ends of tank.)


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, five-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clearance, 2, preferably 2
1/2, inches. Clear length of handholds shall extend to within 6 inches of outer diameter of tank at point of application.


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one across each head of tank not less than 30 nor more than 60 inches above platform.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Tankhead handholds shall be securely fastened.


(f) *Safety railings*—(1) *Number.* One continuous safety railing running around sides and ends of tank, securely fastened to tank or tank bands at ends and sides of tank; or two running full length of tank at sides of cars supported by posts.


(2) *Dimensions.* Not less than three-fourths of an inch, iron.


(3) *Location.* Running full length of tank either at side supported by posts or securely fastened to tank or tank bands, not less than 30 nor more than 60 inches above platform.


(4) *Manner of application.* Safety railings shall be securely fastened to tank body, tank bands, or posts.


(g) *Uncoupling levers.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(k)).


(h) *End-ladder clearance.* (1) No part of car above end sills within 30 inches from side of car, except buffer block, brake shaft, brake-shaft brackets, brake wheel or uncoupling level shall extend to within 12 inches of a vertical plane parallel with end of car and passing through the inside face of knuckle when closed with coupler horn against the buffer block or end sill, and no other part of end of car or fixtures on same above end sills, other than exceptions noted in this subparagraph, shall extend beyond the outer face of buffer block.


(2) Carriers are not required to make changes to secure additional end-ladder clearance on cars in service July 1, 1911, that have 10 or more inches end-ladder clearance, within 30 inches of side of car, until car is shopped for work amounting to practically rebuilding body of car, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.




