# § 63.11910   What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for storage vessels?

You must comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart for each storage vessel in HAP service.


(a) For each fixed roof storage vessel used to comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. If you elect to use a fixed roof storage vessel vented to a closed vent system and control device, the closed vent system and control device must meet the requirements in §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950.


(1) *Design requirements.* (i) The fixed roof must be installed in a manner such that there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces between roof section joints or between the interface of the roof edge and the tank wall.


(ii) Each opening in the fixed roof must be equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the opening and the closure device.


(2) *Operating requirements.* (i) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the fixed roof must be installed with each closure device secured in the closed position.


(ii) Opening of closure devices or removal of the fixed roof is allowed under conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) A closure device may be opened or the roof may be removed when needed to provide access.


(B) A conservation vent that vents to the atmosphere is allowed during normal operations to maintain the tank internal operating pressure within tank design specifications. Normal operating conditions that may require these devices to open are during those times when the internal pressure of the storage vessel is outside the internal pressure operating range for the storage vessel as a result of loading or unloading operations or diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations.


(iii) During periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, operate the storage vessel in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section. You must keep the records specified in § 63.11990(b)(6).


(A) Do not add material to the storage vessel during periods of planned routine maintenance.


(B) Limit periods of planned routine maintenance for each control device to no more than 360 hours per year (hr/yr).


(3) *Inspection and monitoring requirements.* (i) Visually inspect the fixed roof and its closure devices for defects initially and at least once per calendar year except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the wall of the storage vessel; broken, cracked or otherwise damaged seals, or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps or other closure devices.


(ii) The inspection requirement specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not apply to parts of the fixed roof that you determine are unsafe to inspect because operating personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, provided you comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) You prepare and maintain at the plant site written documentation that identifies all parts of the fixed roof that are unsafe to inspect and explains why such parts are unsafe to inspect.


(B) You develop and implement a written plan and schedule to conduct inspections the next time alternative storage capacity becomes available and the storage vessel can be emptied or temporarily removed from service, as necessary, to complete the inspection. The required inspections must be performed as frequently as practicable but do not need to be performed more than once per calendar year. You must maintain a copy of the written plan and schedule at the plant site.


(4) *Repair requirements.* (i) Complete repair of a defect as soon as possible, but no later than 45 days after detection. You must comply with the requirements in this paragraph (a)(4)(i) except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.


(ii) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 days if you determine that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the storage vessel and no alternative storage capacity is available at the site to accept the removed material. In this case, repair the defect the next time alternative storage capacity becomes available and the storage vessel can be emptied or temporarily removed from service.


(b) If you elect to use an internal floating roof storage vessel or external floating roof storage vessel to comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart, you must meet all requirements of §§ 63.1060 through 63.1067 of subpart WW of this part for internal floating roof storage vessels or external floating roof storage vessels, as applicable.


(c) For each pressure vessel used to comply with the requirements specified in Table 3 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Whenever the pressure vessel is in hazardous air pollutants (HAP) service, you must operate the pressure vessel as a closed system that does not vent to the atmosphere, e.g., during filling, emptying and purging. The vent stream during filling, emptying and purging must meet the requirements of § 63.11925(a) and (b).


(2) Each opening in the pressure vessel must be equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the opening and the closure device.


(3) All potential leak interfaces must be monitored annually for leaks using the procedures specified in § 63.11915 and you may adjust for background concentration. You must comply with the recordkeeping provisions specified in § 63.11990(b)(4) and the reporting provisions specified in § 63.11985(a)(1), (b)(1), and (b)(10).


(4) Pressure vessel closure devices must not discharge to the atmosphere. Any such release (e.g., leak) constitutes a violation of this rule. You must submit to the Administrator as part of your compliance report the information specified in § 63.11985(b)(10). This report is required even if you elect to follow the procedures specified in § 63.11895 to establish an affirmative defense.




