# § 144.83   Do I need to notify anyone about my Class V injection well?

Yes, you need to provide basic “inventory information” about your well to the UIC Director, if you haven't already. You also need to provide any additional information that your UIC Program Director requests in accordance with the provisions of the UIC regulations.


(a) *Inventory requirements.* Unless you know you have already satisfied the inventory requirements in § 144.26 that were in effect prior to the issuance of this Subpart G, you must give your UIC Program Director certain information about yourself and your injection operation. 


(1) The requirements differ depending on your well status and location, as described in the following table:


(2) If your well is in a Primacy State or a DI Program State, here is the information you must submit:


(i) No matter what type of Class V well you own or operate, you must submit at least the following information for each Class V well: facility name and location; name and address of legal contact; ownership of facility; nature and type of injection well(s); and operating status of injection well(s).


(ii) *Additional information.* If you are in a Direct Implementation State and you own or operate a well listed below you must also provide the information listed in paragraph (a) (2) (iii) as follows:


(A) Sand or other backfill wells (40 CFR 144.81(8) and 146.5(e)(8) of this chapter);


(B) Geothermal energy recovery wells (40 CFR 144.81(11) and 146.5 (e)(12) of this chapter);


(C) Brine return flow wells (40 CFR 144.81(13) and 146.5 (e)(14) of this chapter);


(D) Wells used in experimental technology (40 CFR 144.81(14) and 146.5 (e)(15) of this chapter);


(E) Municipal and industrial disposal wells other than Class I; and


(F) Any other Class V wells at the discretion of the Regional Administrator.


(iii) You must provide a list of all wells owned or operated along with the following information for each well. (A single description of wells at a single facility with substantially the same characteristics is acceptable).


(A) Location of each well or project given by Township, Range, Section, and Quarter-Section, or by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, according to the conventional practice in your State;


(B) Date of completion of each well;


(C) Identification and depth of the underground formation(s) into which each well is injecting;


(D) Total depth of each well;


(E) Construction narrative and schematic (both plan view and cross-sectional drawings);


(F) Nature of the injected fluids;


(G) Average and maximum injection pressure at the wellhead;


(H) Average and maximum injection rate; and


(I) Date of the last inspection.


(3) Regardless of whether your well is in a Primacy State or DI Program you are responsible for knowing about, understanding, and complying with these inventory requirements.


(b) *Information in response to requests.* If you are in one of the DI Programs listed in the table above, the UIC Program Director may require you to submit other information believed necessary to protect underground sources of drinking water.


(1) Such information requirements may include, but are not limited to:


(i) Perform ground water monitoring and periodically submit your monitoring results;


(ii) Analyze the fluids you inject and periodically submit the results of your analyses;


(iii) Describe the geologic layers through which and into which you are injecting; and


(iv) Conduct other analyses and submit other information, if needed to protect underground sources of drinking water.


(2) If the Director requires this other information, he or she will request it from you in writing, along with a brief statement on why the information is required. This written notification also will tell you when to submit the information.


(3) You are prohibited from using your injection well if you fail to comply with the written request within the time frame specified. You can start injecting again only if you receive a permit.




