# ยง 53.52   Leak check test.

(a) *Overview.* In section 7.4.6 of 40 CFR part 50, appendix L, the sampler is required to include the facility, including components, instruments, operator controls, a written procedure, and other capabilities as necessary, to allow the operator to carry out a leak test of the sampler at a field monitoring site without additional equipment. This test procedure is intended to test the adequacy and effectiveness of the sampler's leak check facility. Because of the variety of potential sampler configurations and leak check procedures possible, some adaptation of this procedure may be necessary to accommodate the specific sampler under test. The test conditions and performance specifications associated with this test are summarized in table E-1 of this subpart. The candidate test sampler must meet all test parameters and test specifications to successfully pass this test.


(b) *Technical definitions.* (1) External leakage includes the total flow rate of external ambient air which enters the sampler other than through the sampler inlet and which passes through any one or more of the impactor, filter, or flow rate measurement components.


(2) Internal leakage is the total sample air flow rate that passes through the filter holder assembly without passing through the sample filter.


(c) *Required test equipment.* (1) Flow rate measurement device, range 70 mL/min to 130 mL/min, 2 percent certified accuracy, NIST-traceable.


(2) Flow rate measurement adaptor (40 CFR part 50, appendix L, figure L-30) or equivalent adaptor to facilitate measurement of sampler flow rate at the top of the downtube.


(3) Impermeable membrane or disk, 47 mm nominal diameter.


(4) Means, such as a micro-valve, of providing a simulated leak flow rate through the sampler of approximately 80 mL/min under the conditions specified for the leak check in the sampler's leak check procedure.


(5) Teflon sample filter, as specified in section 6 of 40 CFR part 50, appendix L.


(d) *Calibration of test measurement instruments.* Submit documentation showing evidence of appropriately recent calibration, certification of calibration accuracy, and NIST-traceability (if required) of all measurement instruments used in the tests. The accuracy of flow rate meters shall be verified at the highest and lowest pressures and temperatures used in the tests and shall be checked at zero and one or more non-zero flow rates within 7 days of use for this test.


(e) *Test setup.* (1) The test sampler shall be set up for testing as described in the sampler's operation or instruction manual referred to in ยง 53.4(b)(3). The sampler shall be installed upright and set up in its normal configuration for collecting PM samples, except that the sample air inlet shall be removed and the flow rate measurement adaptor shall be installed on the sampler's downtube. 


(2) The flow rate control device shall be set up to provide a constant, controlled flow rate of 80 mL/min into the sampler downtube under the conditions specified for the leak check in the sampler's leak check procedure.


(3) The flow rate measurement device shall be set up to measure the controlled flow rate of 80 mL/min into the sampler downtube under the conditions specified for the leak check in the sampler's leak check procedure.


(f) *Procedure.* (1) Install the impermeable membrane in a filter cassette and install the cassette into the sampler. Carry out the internal leak check procedure as described in the sampler's operation/instruction manual and verify that the leak check acceptance criterion specified in table E-1 of this subpart is met.


(2) Replace the impermeable membrane with a Teflon filter and install the cassette in the sampler. Remove the inlet from the sampler and install the flow measurement adaptor on the sampler's downtube. Close the valve of the adaptor to seal the flow system. Conduct the external leak check procedure as described in the sampler's operation/instruction manual and verify that the leak check acceptance criteria specified in table E-1 of this subpart are met.


(3) Arrange the flow control device, flow rate measurement device, and other apparatus as necessary to provide a simulated leak flow rate of 80 mL/min into the test sampler through the downtube during the specified external leak check procedure. Carry out the external leak check procedure as described in the sampler's operation/instruction manual but with the simulated leak of 80 mL/min.


(g) *Test results.* The requirements for successful passage of this test are:


(1) That the leak check procedure indicates no significant external or internal leaks in the test sampler when no simulated leaks are introduced.


(2) That the leak check procedure properly identifies the occurrence of the simulated external leak of 80 mL/min.



---

[N] [62 FR 38799, July 18, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 61291, Oct. 17, 2006]




