# ยง 3172.7   Casing and cementing.

(a) *Requirements.* The proposed casing and cementing programs shall be conducted as approved to protect and/or isolate all usable water zones, potentially productive zones, lost circulation zones, abnormally pressured zones, and any prospectively valuable deposits of minerals. Any isolating medium other than cement shall receive approval prior to use. The casing setting depth shall be calculated to position the casing seat opposite a competent formation which will contain the maximum pressure to which it will be exposed during normal drilling operations. Determination of casing setting depth shall be based on all relevant factors, including: presence/absence of hydrocarbons; fracture gradients; usable water zones; formation pressures; lost circulation zones; other minerals; or other unusual characteristics. All indications of usable water shall be reported.


(1) Minimum design factors for tensions, collapse, and burst that are incorporated into the casing design by an operator/lessee shall be submitted to the authorized operator for his review and approval along with the APD for all exploratory wells or as otherwise specified by the authorized officer.


(2) Casing design shall assume formation pressure gradients of 0.44 to 0.50 psi per foot for exploratory wells (lacking better data).


(3) Casing design shall assume fracture gradients from 0.70 to 1.00 psi per foot for exploratory wells (lacking better data).


(4) Casing collars shall have a minimum clearance of 0.422 inches on all sides in the hole/casing annulus, with recognition that variances can be granted for justified exceptions.


(5) All waiting on cement times shall be adequate to achieve a minimum of 500 psi compressive strength at the casing shoe prior to drilling out.


(b) *Minimum standards and enforcement provisions for casing and cementing.* (1) All casing, except the conductor casing, shall be new or reconditioned and tested casing. All casing shall meet or exceed American Petroleum Institute (API) standards for new casing. The use of reconditioned and tested used casing shall be subject to approval by the authorized officer: approval will be contingent upon the wall thickness of any such casing being verified to be at least 87
1/2 percent of the nominal wall thickness of new casing.


(2) For liners, a minimum of 100 feet of overlap between a string of casing and the next larger casing is required. The interval of overlap shall be sealed and tested. The liner shall be tested by a fluid entry or pressure test to determine whether a seal between the liner top and next larger string has been achieved. The test pressure shall be the maximum anticipated pressure to which the seal will be exposed. No test shall be required for liners that do not incorporate or need a seal mechanism.


(3) The surface casing shall be cemented back to surface either during the primary cement job or by remedial cementing.


(4) All of the tests described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section shall be recorded in the drilling log.


(5) All indications of usable water shall be reported to the authorized officer prior to running the next string of casing or before plugging orders are requested, whichever occurs first.


(6) Surface casing shall have centralizers on the bottom 3 joints of the casing (a minimum of 1 centralizer per joint, starting with the shoe joint).


(7) Top plugs shall be used to reduce contamination of cement by displacement fluid. A bottom plug or other acceptable technique, such as a suitable preflush fluid, inner string cement method, etc., shall be utilized to help isolate the cement from contamination by the mud fluid being displaced ahead of the cement slurry.


(8) All casing strings below the conductor shall be pressure tested to 0.22 psi per foot of casing string length or 1,500 psi, whichever is greater, but not to exceed 70 percent of the minimum internal yield. If pressure declines more than 10 percent in 30 minutes, corrective action shall be taken.


(9) On all exploratory wells, and on that portion of any well approved for a 5M BOPE system or greater, a pressure integrity test of each casing shoe shall be performed. Formation at the shoe shall be tested to a minimum of the mud weight equivalent anticipated to control the formation pressure to the next casing depth or at total depth of the well. This test shall be performed before drilling more than 20 feet of new hole.


