# § 165.778   Security Zone; Port of Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.

(a) *Security zone.* A moving and fixed security zone is established around all cruise ships entering, departing, mooring, or anchoring in the Port of Mayaguez, Puerto Rico. The regulated area includes all waters from surface to bottom within a 50-yard radius of the vessel. The zone is activated when a cruise ship on approach to the Port of Mayaguez enters within 1 nautical mile of the Bahia de Mayaguez Range Front Light located in position 18°13′12″ N 067°10′46″ W. The zone is deactivated when a cruise ship departs the Port of Mayaguez and is no longer within 1 nautical mile of the Bahia de Mayaguez Range Front Light.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*Cruise ship* means any vessel over 100 gross registered tons, carrying more than 12 passengers for hire.


*Designated representative* means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels and Federal, State, and local officers designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port San Juan in the enforcement of the security zone.


*Vessel* means every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water, except U.S. Coast Guard or U.S. Naval vessels and servicing pilot and tug boats.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) No person or vessel may enter into the security zone under this section unless authorized by the Captain of the Port San Juan.


(2) Vessels seeking to enter a security zone established in this section, may contact the COTP on VHF channel 16 or by telephone at (787) 289-2041 to request permission.


(3) All persons and vessels granted permission to enter the security zone must comply with the orders of the Captain of the Port San Juan and designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel. On-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard.



---

[N] [USCG-2008-0070, 74 FR 14049, Mar. 30, 2009, as amended by USCG-2018-0231, 84 FR 7288, Mar. 4, 2019]




