# ยง 1518.2   Definitions.

*Council on Environmental Quality,* as used in this part, includes the Office of Environmental Quality.


*Director* means the Director of the Office of Environmental Quality (or delegate). The Environmental Quality Improvement Act, 42 U.S.C. 4372(a), specifies that the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality serves as the Director of the Office of Environmental Quality.


*Environmental project* means an official activity pertaining to the environment that requires coordination by or the involvement of the Council on Environmental Quality and other Federal agencies, such as an interagency task force.


*Interagency agreement* means a document jointly executed by the Office of Environmental Quality and at least one other Federal agency that sets forth the details of a jointly sponsored study contract or environmental project and the funding arrangements for such a study or project.


*Management Fund* means the Office of Environmental Quality Management Fund.


*Payment* means a transfer of funds from an agency or another account to the Management Fund.


*Personnel costs* include an employee's salary or wages and benefits and other direct expenses of employment, such as administrative costs associated with an official background investigation of the employee.


*Project Officer* means the Federal employee responsible for direct supervision of a study contract or environmental project that receives support from the Management Fund.


*Reallocation* means a transfer of funds from the Management Fund to another account or between subaccounts of the Management Fund.


*Study contract* means an agreement with a public or private agency, institution, organization, or individual (including, without limitation, an agency, committee, or official of the Federal Government) to prepare or support the development of a report, analysis, or recommendation.






