# ยง 56.17   Equipment and facilities for graders.

Equipment and facilities to be furnished by the applicant for use of graders in performing service on a resident basis shall include, but not be limited to, the following:


(a)(1) An accurate metal stem thermometer; 


(2) Electronic digital-display scales graduated in increments of 
1/10-ounce or less for weighing individual eggs and test weights for calibrating such scales. Plants packing product based on metric weight must provide scales graduated in increments of 1-gram or less;


(3) Electronic digital-display scales graduated in increments of 
1/4-ounce or less for weighing the lightest and heaviest consumer packages packed in the plant and test weights for calibrating such scales;


(4) Scales graduated in increments of 
1/4-pound or less for weighing shipping containers and test weights for calibrating such scales;


(5) Two candling lights that provide a sufficient combined illumination through both the aperture and downward through the bottom to facilitate accurate interior and exterior quality determinations.


(6) A candling booth adequately darkened and located in close proximity to the work area that is reasonably free of excessive noise. The booth must be sufficient in size to accommodate two graders, two candling lights, and other necessary grading equipment.


(b) Furnished office space, a desk, and file or storage cabinets (equipped with a satisfactory locking device) suitable for the security and storage of official supplies, and other facilities and equipment as may otherwise be required. Such space and equipment must meet the approval of the national supervisor.



---

[N] [32 FR 8230, June 8, 1967. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 39570, Aug. 4, 1981. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 12402, Mar. 7, 1995; 63 FR 13330, Mar. 19, 1998; 69 FR 76375, Dec. 21, 2004; 71 FR 42008, July 24, 2006]




