# ยง 121.919   Certification.

A person subject to an AQP is eligible to receive a commercial or airline transport pilot, flight engineer, or aircraft dispatcher certificate or appropriate rating based on the successful completion of training and evaluation events accomplished under that program if the following requirements are met:


(a) Training and evaluation of required knowledge and skills under the AQP must meet minimum certification and rating criteria established by the FAA in parts 61, 63, or 65 of this chapter. The FAA may approve alternatives to the certification and rating criteria of parts 61, 63, or 65 of this chapter, including practical test requirements, if it can be demonstrated that the newly established criteria or requirements represent an equivalent or better measure of crewmember or dispatcher competence, operational proficiency, and safety.


(b) The applicant satisfactorily completes the appropriate qualification curriculum.


(c) The applicant shows competence in required technical knowledge and skills (e.g., piloting or other) and crew resource management (e.g., CRM or DRM) knowledge and skills in scenarios (*i.e.*, LOE) that test both types of knowledge and skills together.


(d) The applicant is otherwise eligible under the applicable requirements of part 61, 63, or 65 of this chapter.


(e) The applicant has been trained to proficiency on the certificate holder's approved AQP Qualification Standards as witnessed by an instructor, check pilot, check flight engineer, or APD and has passed an LOE administered by an APD or the FAA.



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2019-0360; Amdt. No. 121-392, 89 FR 51428, June 18, 2024]






