# ยง 60.461   Definitions.

(a) All terms used in this subpart not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act or in subpart A of this part.


*Coating* means any organic material that is applied to the surface of metal coil.


*Coating application station* means that portion of the metal coil surface coating operation where the coating is applied to the surface of the metal coil. Included as part of the coating application station is the flashoff area between the coating application station and the curing oven.


*Curing oven* means the device that uses heat or radiation to dry or cure the coating applied to the metal coil.


*Finish coat operation* means the coating application station, curing oven, and quench station used to apply and dry or cure the final coating(s) on the surface of the metal coil. Where only a single coating is applied to the metal coil, that coating is considered a finish coat.


*Metal coil surface coating operation* means the application system used to apply an organic coating to the surface of any continuous metal strip with thickness of 0.15 millimeter (mm) (0.006 in.) or more that is packaged in a roll or coil.


*Prime coat operation* means the coating application station, curing oven, and quench station used to apply and dry or cure the initial coating(s) on the surface of the metal coil.


*Quench station* means that portion of the metal coil surface coating operation where the coated metal coil is cooled, usually by a water spray, after baking or curing.


*VOC content* means the quantity, in kilograms per liter of coating solids, of volatile organic compounds (VOC's) in a coating.


(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


