# ยง 117.911   Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, Little River to Savannah River.

(a) *General.* Public vessels of the United States and tugs with tows, upon proper signal, will be passed through the drawspan of each drawbridge listed in this section at anytime.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Ben Sawyer (SR 703) bridge across Sullivan's Island Narrows, mile 462.2 between Sullivan's Island and Mount Pleasant.* The draw shall open on signal; except that, the draw need not open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday except Federal holidays. On Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. the draw need open only on the hour. 


(d) *SR 171/700 (Wappoo Cut) Bridge across Wappoo Creek, mile 470.8, at Charleston, SC.* The draw shall open on signal; except that the draw need not open from 6 a.m. to 9:29 a.m. and 3:31 p.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. Between 9:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need open only once an hour on the half hour.


(e) *John Limehouse Bridge across the Stone River, mile 479.3 at Johns Island.* The draw of the John Limehouse Bridge shall open on signal; except that the draw need not open from 6:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., Monday through Friday except Federal holidays. Between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday except Federal holidays, the draw need open only on the hour and half hour. The draw shall open as soon as possible for the passage of tugs with tows, public vessels of the United States and vessels in a situation where a delay would endanger life or property.


(f) The Lady's Island Bridge (Woods Memorial), across the Beaufort River, Mile 536.0 at Beaufort. The draw shall operate as follows:


(1) On Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays:


(i) From 6:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., the draw need not open to navigation; and,


(ii) Between 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., the draw need open only on the hour.


(2) During the months of April, May, October, and November from Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the Lady's Island Bridge (Woods Memorial) shall operate as follows:


(i) From 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., the draw need not open to navigation; and,


(ii) Between 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., the draw need open only on the hour and half-hour.


(3) At all other times the draw shall open on signal.



---

[N] [CGD7 84-29, 50 FR 51250, Dec. 16, 1985]


