# § 1090.101   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*Affiliated company* means any company (other than an insured depository institution or insured credit union) that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a person.


(1) For purposes of this definition “company” means any corporation, limited liability company, business trust, general or limited partnership, proprietorship, cooperative, association, or similar organization.


(2) A person has control over another person if:


(i) The person directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities or similar ownership interest of the other person;


(ii) The person controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, members, or general partners of the other person; or


(iii) The person directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other person.




*Bureau* means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.


*Completed fiscal year* means a tax year including any fiscal year, calendar year, or short tax year. “Fiscal year,” “calendar year,” “tax year,” and “short tax year” have the meanings attributed to them by the IRS as set forth in IRS Publication 538, which provides that:


(1) A “fiscal year” is 12 consecutive months ending on the last day of any month except December 31.


(2) A “calendar year” is 12 consecutive months ending on December 31.


(3) A “tax year” is an annual accounting period for keeping records and reporting income and expenses, or, if appropriate, a short tax year. An annual accounting period does not include a short tax year.


(4) A “short tax year” is a tax year of less than 12 months.


*Consumer* means an individual or an agent, trustee, or representative acting on behalf of an individual.


*Consumer financial product or service* means any financial product or service, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5481(15), that is described in one or more categories under:


(1) 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A) and is offered or provided for use by consumers primarily for personal, family, or household purposes; or


(2) Clause (i), (iii), (ix), or (x) of 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A) and is delivered, offered, or provided in connection with a consumer financial product or service referred to in paragraph (1) of this definition.


*Dodd-Frank Act* means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.


*Larger participant* means a nonbank covered person that has met a test under subpart B of this part within the period provided in § 1090.102 of this part.


*Nonbank covered person* means, except for persons described in 12 U.S.C. 5515(a) and 5516(a):


(1) Any person that engages in offering or providing a consumer financial product or service; and


(2) Any affiliate of a person that engages in offering or providing a consumer financial product or service if such affiliate acts as a service provider to such person.


*Person* means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.


*Supervision and supervisory activity* mean the Bureau's exercise, or intended exercise, of supervisory authority, including by initiating or undertaking an examination, or requiring a report of a person, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514.


*Supervision Director* means the Supervision Director or any Bureau employee designated by the Director of the Bureau or the Supervision Director to act under this part. The Director of the Bureau may perform the functions of the Supervision Director under this part.





---

[N] [77 FR 42898, July 20, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 37526, June 30, 2015; 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]




