# ยง 61.251   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined here have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act or 40 CFR part 61, subpart A. The following terms shall have the following specific meanings:


(a) *Area* means the vertical projection of the pile upon the earth's surface.


(b) *Continuous disposal* means a method of uranium byproduct material or tailings management and disposal in which uranium byproduct material or tailings are dewatered by mechanical methods immediately after generation. The dried uranium byproduct material or tailings are then placed in trenches or other disposal areas and immediately covered to limit emissions consistent with applicable Federal standards.


(c) *Dewatered* means to remove the water from recently produced uranium byproduct material or tailings by mechanical or evaporative methods such that the water content of the uranium byproduct material or tailings does not exceed 30 percent by weight.


(d) *Existing conventional impoundment* means any conventional uranium byproduct material or tailings impoundment which is licensed to accept additional uranium byproduct material or tailings and is in existence on December 15, 1989.


(e) *Operation.* Operation means that an impoundment is being used for the continued placement of uranium byproduct material or tailings or is in standby status for such placement. An impoundment is in operation from the day that uranium byproduct material or tailings are first placed in the impoundment until the day that final closure begins.


(f) *Phased disposal* means a method of uranium byproduct material or tailings management and disposal which uses lined impoundments which are filled and then immediately dried and covered to meet all applicable Federal standards.


(g) *Uranium byproduct material or tailings* means the waste produced by the extraction or concentration of uranium from any ore processed primarily for its source material content. Ore bodies depleted by uranium solution extraction and which remain underground do not constitute byproduct material for the purposes of this subpart.


(h) *Conventional impoundment.* A conventional impoundment is a permanent structure located at any uranium recovery facility which contains mostly solid uranium byproduct material or tailings from the extraction of uranium from uranium ore. These impoundments are left in place at facility closure.


(i) *Non-conventional impoundment.* A non-conventional impoundment is used for managing liquids from uranium recovery operations and contains uranium byproduct material or tailings suspended in and/or covered by liquids. These structures are commonly known as holding ponds or evaporation ponds and can be located at any uranium recovery facility. They are typically not permanent structures unless they transition to become used as conventional impoundments. Impoundments constructed for the purpose of managing liquids from closure or remediation activities (*e.g.,* contaminated groundwater), and which are used solely for that purpose, are not subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(j) *Heap leach pile.* A heap leach pile is a pile of uranium ore placed on an engineered structure and stacked so as to allow uranium to be dissolved and removed by leaching liquids.


(k) *Standby.* Standby means the period of time that an impoundment is not accepting uranium byproduct material or tailings but has not yet entered final closure.


(l) *Uranium recovery facility.* A uranium recovery facility means a facility licensed by the NRC or an NRC Agreement State to manage uranium byproduct material or tailings during and following the processing of uranium ores. Common names for these facilities are a conventional uranium mill, an in-situ leach (or recovery) facility and a heap leach facility or pile.


(m) *Heap leach pile operational life.* The operational life of a heap leach pile means the time period from the first time that lixiviant is placed on the heap leach pile until the time the final rinse is completed.


(n) *Final closure* means the period during which an impoundment or heap leach pile is being managed in accordance with the milestones and requirements in an approved reclamation plan. Final closure for the impoundment or heap leach pile begins when the owner or operator provides written notice to the Administrator and to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or applicable NRC Agreement State that:


(1) A conventional impoundment is no longer receiving uranium byproduct material or tailings, is no longer on standby for such receipt and is being managed under an approved reclamation plan for that impoundment or facility closure plan; or


(2) A non-conventional impoundment is no longer required for evaporation or holding purposes, is no longer on standby for such purposes and is being managed under an approved reclamation plan for that impoundment or facility closure plan; or


(3) A heap leach pile has concluded its operational life and is being managed under an approved reclamation plan for that pile or facility closure plan.


(o) *Reclamation plan* means the plan detailing activities and milestones to accomplish reclamation of impoundments or piles containing uranium byproduct material or tailings. Activities and milestones to be addressed include, but are not limited to, dewatering and contouring of conventional impoundments and heap leach piles, and removal and disposal of non-conventional impoundments. A reclamation plan prepared and approved in accordance with 10 CFR part 40, Appendix A is considered a reclamation plan in this subpart.



---

[N] [54 FR 51703, Dec. 15, 1989, as amended at 82 FR 5178, Jan. 17, 2017]




