# § 165.804   Safety Zone; Hurricanes, Tropical Storms and Other Disasters in Southeast Texas and Southwest Louisiana.

(a) *Regulated areas.* All navigable waters within the Port Arthur Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone, MSU Port Arthur, TX, as described in 33 CFR 3.40-28(b), during specified conditions.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) *Designated representative* means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, and Federal, state, and local officers designated by or assisting the COTP Port Arthur, in the enforcement of the regulated areas.


(2) *Port Condition WHISKEY* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 72 hours.


(3) *Port Condition X-RAY* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 48 hours.


(4) *Port Condition YANKEE* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 24 hours.


(5) *Port Condition ZULU* means a condition set by the COTP when weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 12 hours.


(6) *Port Condition RECOVERY* means the condition set when weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds from a tropical hurricane force storm are no longer predicted for the designated area. This port condition remains in effect until the regulated areas are safe and reopened to normal operations.


(c) *Regulations*—(1) *Port Condition WHISKEY.* All vessels and port facilities in designated areas must exercise due diligence in preparation for potential storm impacts. Ports and waterfront facilities must begin removing all debris and securing potential flying hazards. Oceangoing vessels 500 gross tons (GT) and above must make plans to depart no later than the setting of Port Condition Yankee unless authorized by the COTP. Vessels wishing to remain in port are required to submit a Notice of Intent to Remain In Port to the COTP prior to setting Port Condition X-Ray.


(2) *Port Condition X-RAY.* All vessels and port facilities in designated areas must ensure that potential flying debris is removed or secured. Hazardous materials/pollution hazards must be secured in a safe manner and away from waterfront areas. Vessels over 500GT without an approval to remain in port must depart prior to the setting of Port Condition YANKEE. Vessels with the COTP's permission to remain in port must implement their pre-approved mooring arrangement. Terminal operators must prepare to terminate all cargo operations. The COTP may require additional precautions to ensure the safety of the ports and waterways.


(3) *Port Condition YANKEE.* Affected ports are closed to inbound vessel traffic. All oceangoing vessels greater than 500 Gross Tons must depart designated ports prior to the setting of Port Condition ZULU. Terminal operators must terminate all cargo operations not associated with storm preparations. Cargo operations associated with storm preparations include moving cargo within or off the port for securing purposes, port/facility equipment preparations, and similar activities, but do not include moving cargo onto the port or vessel loading/discharging operations unless specifically authorized by the COTP. All facilities must continue to operate in accordance with approved Facility Security Plans and comply with the requirements of the Maritime Transportation Security Act.


(4) *Port Condition ZULU.* Designated areas are closed to all vessel traffic except those specifically authorized by the COTP. Cargo operations are suspended, including bunkering and lightering. Waivers may be granted unless Cargo of Particular Hazard or Certain Dangerous Cargo is involved.


(5) *Port Condition RECOVERY.* Designated areas are closed to all commercial traffic and recreational vessels 65-feet in length and greater. Based on assessments of channel conditions, navigability concerns, and hazards to navigation, the COTP may permit vessel movements with restrictions. Restrictions may include, but are not limited to, preventing vessel movements, imposing draft, speed, size, horsepower, or daylight restrictions, or directing the use of specific routes. Vessels permitted to transit the regulated area shall comply with the lawful orders or directions given by the COTP or designated representative.


(6) *Safety zones notice.* The Coast Guard COTP will notify the maritime community of periods during which these safety zones will be in effect via Broadcast Notice to Mariners and Marine Safety Information Bulletin or by on-scene designated representatives.


(7) *Regulated area notice.* The Coast Guard will provide notice of the designated ports and/or waterways within the regulated area covered by each Port Condition via Broadcast Notice to Mariners, Marine Safety Information Bulletin or by on-scene designated representatives.


(8) *Exception.* This section does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.



---

[N] [USCG-2023-0380, 88 FR 57008, Aug. 22, 2023]






