# ยง 206.40   Designation of affected areas and eligible assistance.

(a) *Eligible assistance.* The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate has been delegated authority to determine and designate the types of assistance to be made available. The initial designations will usually be announced in the declaration. Determinations by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate of the types and extent of FEMA disaster assistance to be provided are based upon findings whether the damage involved and its effects are of such severity and magnitude as to be beyond the response capabilities of the State, the affected local governments, and other potential recipients of supplementary Federal assistance. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may authorize all, or only particular types of, supplementary Federal assistance requested by the Governor.


(b) *Areas eligible to receive assistance.* The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate also has been delegated authority to designate the affected areas eligible for supplementary Federal assistance under the Stafford Act. These designations shall be published in the _Federal Register._ An affected area designated by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate includes all local government jurisdictions within its boundaries. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may, based upon damage assessments in any given area, designate all or only some of the areas requested by the Governor for supplementary Federal assistance.


(c) *Requests for additional designations after a declaration.* After a declaration by the President, the Governor, or the GAR, may request that additional areas or types of supplementary Federal assistance be authorized by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. Such requests shall be accompanied by appropriate verified assessments and commitments by State and local governments to demonstrate that the requested designations are justified and that the unmet needs are beyond State and local capabilities without supplementary Federal assistance. Additional assistance or areas added to the declaration will be published in the _Federal Register._

(d) *Time limits to request.* In order to be considered, all supplemental requests under paragraph (c) of this section must be submitted within 30 days from the termination date of the incident, or 30 days after the declaration, whichever is later. The 30-day period may be extended by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate provided that a written request is made by the appropriate State official during this 30-day period. The request must include justification of the State's inability to meet the deadline.



---

[N] [55 FR 2292, Jan. 23, 1990, as amended at 74 FR 60213, Nov. 20, 2009]




