# § 1540.301   Withdrawal of approval of a security program.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to holders of a security program approved or accepted by TSA under 49 CFR chapter XII, subchapter C.


(b) *Withdrawal of security program approval.* TSA may withdraw the approval of a security program, if TSA determines continued operation is contrary to security and the public interest, as follows:


(1) *Notice of proposed withdrawal of approval.* TSA will serve a Notice of Proposed Withdrawal of Approval, which notifies the holder of the security program, in writing, of the facts, charges, and applicable law, regulation, or order that form the basis of the determination.


(2) *Security program holder's reply.* The holder of the security program may respond to the Notice of Proposed Withdrawal of Approval no later than 15 calendar days after receipt of the withdrawal by providing the designated official, in writing, with any material facts, arguments, applicable law, and regulation.


(3) *TSA review.* The designated official will consider all information available, including any relevant material or information submitted by the holder of the security program, before either issuing a Withdrawal of Approval of the security program or rescinding the Notice of Proposed Withdrawal of Approval. If TSA issues a Withdrawal of Approval, it becomes effective upon receipt by the holder of the security program, or 15 calendar days after service, whichever occurs first.


(4) *Petition for reconsideration.* The holder of the security program may petition TSA to reconsider its Withdrawal of Approval by serving a petition for consideration no later than 15 calendar days after the holder of the security program receives the Withdrawal of Approval. The holder of the security program must serve the Petition for Reconsideration on the designated official. Submission of a Petition for Reconsideration will not stay the Withdrawal of Approval. The holder of the security program may request the designated official to stay the Withdrawal of Approval pending review of and decision on the Petition.


(5) *Assistant Secretary's review.* The designated official transmits the Petition together with all pertinent information to the Assistant Secretary for reconsideration. The Assistant Secretary will dispose of the Petition within 15 calendar days of receipt by either directing the designated official to rescind the Withdrawal of Approval or by affirming the Withdrawal of Approval. The decision of the Assistant Secretary constitutes a final agency order subject to judicial review in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 46110.


(6) *Emergency withdrawal.* If TSA finds that there is an emergency with respect to aviation security requiring immediate action that makes the procedures in this section contrary to the public interest, the designated official may issue an Emergency Withdrawal of Approval of a security program without first issuing a Notice of Proposed Withdrawal of Approval. The Emergency Withdrawal would be effective on the date that the holder of the security program receives the emergency withdrawal. In such a case, the designated official will send the holder of the security program a brief statement of the facts, charges, applicable law, regulation, or order that forms the basis for the Emergency Withdrawal. The holder of the security program may submit a Petition for Reconsideration under the procedures in paragraphs (b)(4) through (b)(5) of this section; however, this petition will not stay the effective date of the Emergency Withdrawal.


(c) *Service of documents for withdrawal of approval of security program proceedings.* Service may be accomplished by personal delivery, certified mail, or express courier. Documents served on the holder of a security program will be served at its official place of business as designated in its application for approval or its security program. Documents served on TSA must be served to the address noted in the Notice of Withdrawal of Approval or Withdrawal of Approval, whichever is applicable.


(1) *Certificate of service.* An individual may attach a certificate of service to a document tendered for filing. A certificate of service must consist of a statement, dated and signed by the person filing the document, that the document was personally delivered, served by certified mail on a specific date, or served by express courier on a specific date.


(2) *Date of service.* The date of service is—


(i) The date of personal delivery;


(ii) If served by certified mail, the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark; or


(iii) If served by express courier, the service date shown on the certificate of service, or by other evidence if there is no certificate of service.


(d) *Extension of time.* TSA may grant an extension of time to the limits set forth in this section for good cause shown. A security program holder must submit a request for an extension of time in writing, and TSA must receive it at least two days before the due date in order to be considered. TSA may grant itself an extension of time for good cause.




