# ยง 172.43   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart shall, with the exception of those defined below, have the meaning set forth in the Act and in ยง 172.1.


*Containment and inactivation controls* means any combination of mechanical, procedural, or biological controls designed and operated to restrict environmental release of viable microorganisms from a facility.


*Deliberately modified* means the directed addition, rearrangement, or removal of nucleotide sequences to or from genetic material.


*Introduction of genetic material* means the movement of nucleotide sequences into a microorganism, regardless of the technique used.


*Inversions of genetic material* means the replacement of an internal section of a chromosome in the reverse orientation.


*Microbial pesticide* means a microbial agent intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest, or intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant, that:


(1) Is a eucaryotic microorganism including, but not limited to, protozoa, algae and fungi;


(2) Is a procaryotic microorganism, including, but not limited to, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria; or


(3) Is a parasitically replicating microscopic element, including, but not limited to, viruses.


*Microbial pesticides resulting from rearrangements* means a microbial pesticide resulting from translocations or inversions of genetic material.


*Microorganism* means a bacterium, fungus, alga, virus, or protozoan.


*Nonindigenous microbial pesticide* means a microbial pesticide brought into one of the following geographic areas from outside that area:


(1) The continental United States, including Alaska, and the immediately adjoining countries (*i.e.*, Canada and Mexico).


(2) The Hawaiian Islands.


(3) The Caribbean Islands including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


*Pesticidal property* means a characteristic exhibited by a microorganism that contributes to the intentional use of the microorganism to prevent, destroy, repel, or mitigate a pest or to act as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant.


*Single genome* means the sum total of chromosomal and extrachromosomal genetic material of an isolate and any descendants derived under axenic culture conditions from that isolate.


*Small-scale test* means the experimental use of a microbial pesticide in a facility such as a laboratory or greenhouse, or use in limited replicated field trials or other tests as described in ยง 172.3(c).


*Test* or *testing* means any use of a microbial pesticide consistent with section 5 of the Act, including limited replicated field trials and associated activities.


*Translocations of genetic material* means a chromosomal configuration in which part of a chromosome becomes attached to a different chromosome, or inserts in a different location on the same chromosome.



---

[N] [59 FR 45612, Sept. 1, 1994, as amended at 72 FR 61029, Oct. 26, 2007]




