# § 48.4216(b)-3   Constructive sale price; special rule for arm's-length sales.

(a) *In general.* Section 4216 (b)(2) provides a special rule under which a manufacturer shall determine a constructive sale price for his sales of taxable articles at retail, and to retail dealers, under certain conditions. The rule is applicable where:


(1) The manufacturer regularly sells such articles at retail, or to retailers, or both, as the case may be,


(2) The manufacturer also regularly sells such articles to one or more wholesale distributors in arm's-length transactions, and the manufacturer establishes that its prices in such cases are determined without regard to any benefit to be derived under section 4216(b)(2),


(3) The transactions are arm's-length transactions, and


(4) With respect to articles to which the tax imposed by section 4061(a) applies (relating to trucks, buses, tractors, etc.), the normal method of sales for such articles within the industry is not to sell such articles at retail or to retailers, or combinations thereof.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of section 4216(b)(2) and this section:


(1) *Actual sale price.* “Actual sale price” means the actual selling price of an article determined in the same manner as sale price is determined for a taxable sale. Accordingly, such price must reflect the inclusions and exclusions set forth in sections 4216 (a) and (f), and any price adjustments described in section 6416(b)(1).


(2) *Highest price to wholesale distributors.* The “highest price” charged wholesale distributors for an article by a manufacturer, producer, or importer thereof, is the highest price at which the manufacturer, producer, or importer sells the article to wholesale distributors, determined without regard to quantity. Such price shall be determined in the same manner as sale price is determined for a taxable sale with respect to sections 4216 (a) and (f) inclusions and exclusions; however, since the price is to be a “highest” price, no further adjustment may be made for price readjustments under section 6416(b)(1).


(3) *Regular sales.* An article is considered to sold “regularly” at retail or to retailers if sales are made at retail or to retailers periodically and recurringly as a regular part of the seller's business. If a seller makes only isolated or casual sales of an article at retail or to retailers, it is not considered to be selling “regularly” at retail or to retailers. Similarly, a manufacturer is considered to be making regular sales for an article to one or more distributors if it sells the article to at least one distributor periodically and recurringly as a regular part of its business.


(4) *Normal method of sales in industry.* In the absence of a showing to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of a more appropriate manner of determining the normal method of sales within an industry which is practical in application, the normal method of sales within an industry shall be regarded as not being at retail or to retailers, or both, if the industry dollar volume of sales which are at retail or to retailers, or both, is less than half the total industry dollar volume of sales at all levels of distribution by manufacturers, producers, or importers, including sales to other manufacturers, producers, or importers.


(5) *Industry.* Each of the following categories of articles upon which tax is imposed by section 4061(a) constitutes a separate “industry”:


(i) Taxable automobile trucks (consisting of automobile truck bodies and chassis);


(ii) Taxable automobile buses (consisting of automobile bus bodies and chassis);


(iii) Taxable truck and bus trailers and semitrailers (consisting of chassis and bodies of such trailers and semi-trailers); and


(iv) Taxable tractors of the kind chiefly used for highway transportation in combination with a trailer or semi-trailer.


(6) *Application of section 4216(b)(2) to certain sales before June 22, 1965.* In the case of sales before June 22, 1965, of articles then taxable under section 4121 (relating to electric, gas, and oil appliances), section 4216(b)(2) also applied in the case of a sale of such an article to a special dealer. The applicability of section 4216(b)(2) to such a sale may be determined by inserting “or to a special dealer” following “or to a retailer” in so much of section 4216(b)(2) as precedes subparagraph (A); by inserting “or to special dealers” following “retailers” in section 4216(b)(2)(A); and by inserting “(other than special dealers)” after “wholesale distributors” in section 4216(b)(2)(B) and so much of section 4216(b)(2) as follows section 4216(b)(2)(D). A “special dealer” was a distributor of articles taxable under section 4121 who did not maintain a sales force to resell the article whose constructive sale price was established under section 4216(b)(2) but relied on salesmen of the manufacturer, producer, or importer of the article. In the case of sales before June 22, 1965, of articles taxable under section 4191 (relating to business machines) or section 4211 (relating to matches), section 4216(b)(2) was applicable in the same manner as in the case of articles taxable under section 4061(a). With respect to sales after September 30, 1972, section 4216(b)(2)(C) applied only to articles taxable under section 4061(a), 4191, or 4211. Section 4216(b)(2)(C) was applicable to sales before October 1, 1962, of all articles subject to tax under Chapter 32.



---

[N] [T.D. 7613, 44 FR 23825, Apr. 23, 1979]




