# § 24.10-1   Definitions.

*Approved* means approved by the Commandant, unless otherwise stated. 


*Barge* means a non-self-propelled vessel. 


*Carrying freight for hire* means the carriage of any goods, wares, or merchandise, or any other freight for a consideration, whether directly or indirectly flowing to the owner, charterer, operator, agent, or any other person interested in the vessel. 


*Coast Guard District Commander* means an officer of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant to command all Coast Guard activities within his or her district, which includes the inspection, enforcement, and administration of Subtitle II, Title 46 U.S. Code; Title 33 U.S. Code; and regulations issued under these statutes. 


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard. 


*Consideration* means an economic benefit, inducement, right, or profit, including pecuniary payment accruing to an individual, person, or entity but not including a voluntary sharing of the actual expenses of the voyage by monetary contribution or donation of fuel, food, beverage, or other supplies. 


*Headquarters* means the Office of the Commandant, United States Coast Guard, Washington, DC. 


*International voyage* means a voyage between a country to which SOLAS applies and a port outside that country. A country, as used in this definition, includes every territory for the international relations of which a contracting government to the convention is responsible or for which the United Nations is the administering authority. For the U.S., the term “territory” includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, all possessions of the United States, and all lands held by the United States under a protectorate or mandate. For the purposes of this subchapter, vessels are not considered as being on an “international voyage” when solely navigating the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River as far east as a straight line drawn from Cap des Rosiers to West Point, Anticosti Island and, on the north side of Anticosti Island, the 63rd meridian. 


*Marine inspector* or *inspector* means any person from the civilian or military branch of the Coast Guard assigned under the direction of an Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, or any other person designated to perform duties related to the inspection, enforcement, and administration of Subtitle II, Title 46 U.S. Code; Title 33 U.S. Code; and regulations issued under these statutes. 


*Motor vessel* means any vessel more than 65 feet in length, which is propelled by machinery other than steam. 


*Motorboat* means any vessel indicated in column five of table 24.05-1(a) in § 24.05-1, 65 feet in length or less, which is equipped with propulsion machinery (including steam). The length must be measured from end-to-end over the deck, excluding sheer. This term includes a boat equipped with a detachable motor. For the purpose of this subchapter, motorboats are included under the term *vessel,* unless specifically noted otherwise. 


(1) The various length categories of motorboats are as follows: 


(i) Any motorboat less than 16 feet in length. 


(ii) Any motorboat 16 feet or over and less than 26 feet in length. 


(iii) Any motorboat 26 feet or over and less than 40 feet in length. 


(iv) Any motorboat 40 feet or over and not more than 65 feet in length. 


(2) The expression “length must be measured from end-to-end over the deck excluding sheer” means a straight-line measurement of the overall length from the foremost part of the vessel to the aftermost part of the vessel, measured parallel to the centerline. Bowsprits, bumpkins, rudders, outboard motor brackets, and similar fittings or attachments, are not to be included in the measurement. Length must be stated in feet and inches. 


*Oceans* means a route that goes beyond 20 nautical miles offshore on any of the following waters: 


(1) Any ocean. 


(2) The Gulf of Mexico. 


(3) The Caribbean Sea. 


(4) The Bering Sea. 


(5) The Gulf of Alaska. 


(6) Such other similar waters as may be designated by a Coast Guard District Commander. 


*Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection* or *OCMI* means any person from the civilian or military branch of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant and who, under the direction of the Coast Guard District Commander, is in charge of an inspection zone for performance of duties related to the inspection, enforcement, and administration of Subtitle II, Title 46 U.S. Code; Title 33 U.S. Code; and regulations issued under these statutes. 


*Passenger* means an individual carried on a vessel, except— 


(1) The owner or an individual representative of the owner, or in the case of a vessel under charter, an individual charterer or individual representative of the charterer; 


(2) The master; or 


(3) A member of the crew engaged in the business of the vessel, who has not contributed consideration for carriage, and who is paid for onboard services. 


*Passenger-for-hire* means a passenger for whom consideration is contributed as a condition of carriage on the vessel, whether directly or indirectly flowing to the owner, charterer, operator, agent, or any other person having an interest in the vessel. 


*Survival craft,* when used on an uninspected passenger vessel over 100 gross tons means a lifeboat, inflatable liferaft, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or small boat. 


*Vessel,* as used in this subpart includes all vessels indicated in column five of table 24.05-1(a) in § 24.05-1, unless otherwise noted in this subpart. 


*Uninspected passenger vessel* means an uninspected vessel— 


(1) Of at least 100 gross tons; 


(i) Carrying not more than 12 passengers, including at least one passenger-for-hire; or 


(ii) That is chartered with the crew provided or specified by the owner or the owner's representative and carrying not more than 12 passengers; and 


(2) Of less than 100 gross tons; 


(i) Carrying not more than six passengers, including at least one passenger-for-hire; or 


(ii) That is chartered with the crew provided or specified by the owner or the owner's representative and carrying not more than six passengers.




