# ยง 279.5   Determination of the designated reviewer.

(a) *Basis for designated reviewer determination.* The designated reviewer shall make a determination based upon:


(1) The information submitted by the appropriate FNS office;


(2) Information submitted by the firm in support of its position; and


(3) Any additional information, in writing, obtained by the designated reviewer from any other person having relevant information.


(b) *Review of denial or withdrawal of authorization.* When the action under review is the denial of an application for authorization or the withdrawal of an existing authorization, the designated reviewer shall sustain the action under review; sustain the action under review, but specify a shorter period of time the action will remain in effect; or direct that the action under review be reversed.


(c) *Review of disqualification or civil money penalty or fine.* When the action under review is disqualifying a firm from program participation or assessing a civil money penalty or fine against a firm, the designated reviewer shall: Sustain the action under review; specify a shorter period of disqualification; specify a reduced money penalty or fine; direct that an official warning letter be issued to the firm in lieu of a disqualification, civil money penalty or fine; or, direct that the action under review be reversed. The designated reviewer may change a disqualification of a firm to a civil money penalty if the disqualification would cause a hardship to participating households (except in the case of a permanent disqualification). The designated reviewer, working with the appropriate FNS office, shall determine if circumstances warrant a civil money penalty in accordance with ยง 278.6 of this chapter.


(d) *Review of denial of claim.* In the case of a request for review of a denial of all or part of a claim of a firm, the determination of the designated reviewer shall sustain the action under review or shall specify the amount of the claim to be paid by FNS.


(e) *Determination notifications.* FNS shall notify the firm of the determination. Such notification will be sent to the representative of the firm who filed the request for review.


(f) *Effective date.* The determination of the designated reviewer shall take effect 30 days after the date of delivery of the determination to the firm.



---

[N] [Amdt. 136, 43 FR 43279, Sept. 22, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 334, 57 FR 3913, Feb. 3, 1992; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29714, June 9, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 41053, July 10, 2003]




