# § 49.163   Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source petroleum dry cleaning facilities in Indian country.

(a) *Abbreviations and acronyms:*

(b) *Definitions for the purposes of this permit by rule*—(1) *Cause* means with respect to the reviewing authority's ability to terminate a permitted source's coverage under a permit that:


(i) The permittee is not in compliance with the provisions of this permit by rule;


(ii) The reviewing authority determines that the emissions resulting from the construction or modification of the permitted source significantly contribute to National Ambient Air Quality Standard violations, which are not adequately addressed by the requirements in this permit by rule;


(iii) The reviewing authority has reason to believe that the permittee obtained coverage under the permit by rule by fraud or misrepresentation; or


(iv) The permittee failed to disclose a material fact required by the Notification of Coverage or the requirements applicable to the permitted source of which the applicant had or should have had knowledge at the time the permittee submitted the Notification of Coverage.


(2) *Construction* means any physical change or change in the method of operation including fabrication, erection, installation, demolition, or modification of an affected emissions unit that would result in a change of emissions.


(3) *Notification of Coverage* means the permit notification that contains all of the information required in the standard notification form for this permit by rule.


(4) *Permittee* means the owner or operator of a permitted source.


(5) *Permitted source* means each petroleum drying cleaning facility for which a source submits a complete Notification of Coverage.


(6) *Responsible official* means one of the following:


(i) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is directly responsible for the overall operation of the permitted source.


(ii) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: A general partner or the proprietor, respectively.


(iii) For a public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official, such as a chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency.


(7) *Solvent recovery dryer* means a class of dry cleaning dyers that employs a condenser to condense and recovery solvent vapors evaporated in a closed-loop stream of heated air, together with the piping and ductwork used in the installation of this device.


(c) *Information about this permit by rule*—(1) *Applicability.* Pursuant to the provisions of the Clean Air Act (CAA), subchapter I, part D and 40 CFR part 49, subpart C, this permit by rule authorizes the construction or modification and the operation of each stationary petroleum dry cleaning facility for which a reviewing authority receives a completed Notification of Coverage (permitted source).


(2) *Eligibility.* To be eligible for coverage under this permit by rule, the permitted source must qualify as a true minor source as defined in 40 CFR 49.152 and satisfied the requirements in 40 CFR 49.156(f)(6)(iii).


(3) *Notification of Coverage.* Requirements for submitting a Notification of Coverage are contained in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The information contained in each permitted source's Notification of Coverage is hereby enforceable under this permit by rule.


(4) *Termination.* Paragraph (d)(6) of this section addresses a reviewing authority's ability to revise, revoke and reissue, or terminate coverage under this permit by rule. It also addresses the reviewing authority's ability to terminate an individual permitted source's coverage under this permit by rule.


(5) *Definitions.* The terms used herein shall have the meaning as defined in 40 CFR 49.152, unless otherwise defined in paragraph (b) of this section. If a term is not defined, it shall be interpreted in accordance with normal business use.


(d) *Permit by rule terms and conditions.* The following applies to each permittee and permitted source with respect to only the affected emissions units and any associated air pollution control technologies in that permitted source's Notification of Coverage.


(1) *General provisions*—(i) *Obtaining coverage under this permit by rule.* To obtain coverage under this permit by rule, an applicant must submit a completed Notification of Coverage to the appropriate reviewing authority for the area in which the permitted source is or will be located (the Notification of Coverage Form can be found at: *http://www.epa.gov/air/tribal/tribalnsr.html*). Table 1 of paragraph (f) of this section contains a list of reviewing authorities and their area of coverage. You must also submit a copy of the Notification of Coverage to the Indian governing body for any area in which the permitted source will operate.


(ii) *Construction and operation.* The permittee shall construct or modify and shall operate the affected emissions units and any associated air pollution control technologies in compliance with this permit by rule and all other applicable federal air quality regulations; and in a manner consistent with representations made by the permittee in the Notification of Coverage.


(iii) *Locations.* This permit by rule only authorizes the permittee to construct or modify and to operate the permitted source at the location listed in the Notification of Coverage for that permitted source.


(iv) *Liability.* This permit by rule does not release the permittee from any liability for compliance with other applicable federal and tribal environmental laws and regulations, including the CAA.


(v) *Severability.* The provisions of this permit by rule are severable. If any portion of this permit by rule is held invalid, the remaining terms and conditions of this permit by rule shall remain valid and in force.


(vi) *Compliance.* The permittee must comply with all provisions of this permit, including emission limitations that apply to the affected emissions units at the permitted source. Noncompliance with any permit by rule provision is a violation of the permit by rule and may constitute a violation of the CAA; is grounds for an enforcement action; and is grounds for the reviewing authority to revoke and terminate the permitted source's coverage under this permit by rule.


(vii) *National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS)/Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) Protection.* The permitted source must not cause or contribute to a NAAQS violation or, in an attainment area, must not cause or contribute to a PSD increment violation.


(viii) *Unavailable defense.* It is not a defense for the permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the provisions of this permit by rule.


(ix) *Property rights.* The permit by rule does not convey any property rights of any sort or any exclusive privilege.


(x) *Information requests.* You, as the permittee, shall furnish to the reviewing authority, within 30 days unless another timeframe is specified by the EPA, any information that the reviewing authority may request in writing to determine whether cause exists for revising, revoking and reissuing, or terminating coverage under the permit by rule or to determine compliance with the permit by rule. For any such information claimed to be confidential, the permittee must submit a claim of confidentiality in accordance with 40 CFR part 2, subpart B.


(xi) *Inspection and entry.* Upon presentation of proper credentials, the permittee must allow a representative of the reviewing authority to:


(A) Enter upon the premises where a permitted source is located or emissions-related activity is conducted or where records are required to be kept under the conditions of the permit by rule;


(B) Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that are required to be kept under the conditions of the permit by rule;


(C) Inspect, during normal business hours or while the permitted source is in operation, any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and air pollution control equipment), practices or operations regulated or required under the permit by rule;


(D) Sample or monitor, at reasonable times, substances or parameters for the purpose of assuring compliance with the permit by rule or other applicable requirements; and


(E) Record any inspection by use of written, electronic, magnetic and photographic media.


(xii) *Posting of coverage.* The most current Notification of Coverage for the permitted source must be posted prominently at the facility, and each affected emissions unit and any associated air pollution control technology must be labeled with the identification number listed in the Notification of Coverage for that permitted source.


(xiii) *Duty to obtain a source-specific permit.* If the reviewing authority intends to terminate a permitted source's coverage under this permit by rule for cause as provided in § 49.163(d)(6), then the permittee shall apply for and obtain a source-specific permit as required by the reviewing authority.


(xiv) *Credible evidence.* For the purpose of establishing whether the permittee violated or is in violation of any requirement of this permit by rule, nothing shall preclude the use, including the exclusive use, of any credible evidence or information relevant to whether a permitted source would have been in compliance with applicable requirements if the permittee had performed the appropriate performance or compliance test or procedure.


(2) *Emission limitations and standards.* (i) The permittee shall install, maintain, and operate each affected emissions unit, including any associated air pollution control equipment, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions of NSR regulated pollutants and considering the manufacturer's recommended operating procedures at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, maintenance and malfunction. The reviewing authority will determine whether the permittee is using acceptable operating and maintenance procedures based on information available to the reviewing authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, opacity observations, review of operating and maintenance procedures, and inspection of the permitted source.


(ii) The permittee shall not consume more than the amount of petroleum solvent specified below:


(A) 5,600 gallons per year based on a rolling 12-month total for a facility located in an ozone attainment, unclassifiable or attainment/unclassifiable area; or


(B) 1,300 gallons per year based on a rolling 12-month total for a facility located in an ozone nonattainment area.


(iii) If your facility has a total manufacturer's rated dryer capacity equal to or greater than 38 kilograms (84 pounds), then you shall meet the following requirements:


(A) Each petroleum solvent dry cleaning dryer shall be a solvent recovery dryer. The solvent recovery dryer(s) shall be properly installed, operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications.


(B) Each petroleum solvent dry cleaning dryer located in a serious, severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area shall be a closed loop, dry-to-dry machine with a refrigerated condenser (manufacture red on or after October 20, 2000) or with an evaporatively cooled condenser (manufacture red on or after July 9, 2004.)


(iv) The maximum heat input capacity of each fuel combustion unit shall not exceed 10 MMBtu/hour and only natural gas, propane or butane may be used as fuels.


(v) The total heat input capacity of the fuel combustion units shall be equal to or less than 30 MMBtu/hour.


(vi) The capacity of any volatile organic liquid storage tank shall not exceed 19,812 gallons.


(vii) All solvents shall be stored in closed containers.


(viii) Button and lint traps shall be cleaned each working day.


(ix) All washer lint traps, button traps, access doors, and other parts of the equipment where solvent may be exposed to the atmosphere shall be kept closed at all times except when required for proper operation or maintenance.


(x) The still residue, used filtering material, lint, used solvent and all other wastes containing solvent shall be stored in sealed containers until properly disposed.


(xi) If your facility is located in a serious, severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area, then the permittee shall also comply with the additional equipment specifications and operating requirements specified in § 49.163(e).


(3) *Monitoring and testing requirements.* Each petroleum solvent dry cleaning dryer shall be inspected every 15 calendar days for evidence of leaks and all vapor or liquid leaks shall be repaired within the subsequent 15 calendar day period.


(4) *Recordkeeping requirements.* (i) The permittee shall maintain all records required to be kept by this permit by rule for at least 5 years from the date of origin, unless otherwise stated, either onsite or at a convenient location, such that they can be delivered to the reviewing authority within 24 hours of a request.


(ii) The Notification of Coverage and all documentation supporting the notification shall be maintained by the permittee for the duration of time the affected emissions unit(s) is covered under this permit by rule.


(iii) The permittee shall maintain a log of:


(A) The results of the daily leak inspections, any corrective actions taken to repair leaks, and the results of any corrective actions taken;


(B) Each type of petroleum solvent used at the facility;


(C) The date, type, and amount of solvent (in gallons) added to the solvent tank of each dry cleaning machine; and


(D) The monthly total gallons of petroleum solvent used and the resulting 12-month rolling total of solvent used. The 12-month rolling total is defined as the sum of the gallons of petroleum solvent used during the current month and the gallons of petroleum solvent used for the previous eleven (11) months.


(5) *Notification and reporting requirements*—(i) *Notification of construction or modification, and operations.* The permittee shall submit a written or electronic notice to the reviewing authority within 30 days from when the permittee begins actual construction, and within 30 days from when the permittee begins initial operations or resumes operations after modification.


(ii) *Notification of change in ownership or operator.* If the permitted source changes ownership or operator, then the new owner must submit a written or electronic notice to the reviewing authority within 90 days before or after the change in ownership is effective. In the notice, the new permittee must provide the reviewing authority a written agreement containing a specific date for transfer of ownership, and an effective date on which the new owner assumes partial and/or full coverage and liability under this permit by rule. The submittal must identify the previous owner, and update the name, street address, mailing address, contact information, and any other information about the permitted source if it would change as a result of the change of ownership. The current owner shall ensure that the permitted source remains in compliance with the permit by rule until such transfer of ownership is effective.


(iii) *Notification of closure.* The permittee must submit a report of any permanent or indefinite closure to the reviewing authority in writing within 90 days after the cessation of all operations at the permitted source. It is not necessary to submit a report of closure for regular, seasonal closures.


(iv) *Annual reports.* The permittee shall submit an annual report on or before March 15 of each calendar year to the reviewing authority. The annual report shall cover the period from January 1 to December 31 of the previous calendar year and shall include:


(A) An evaluation of the permitted source's compliance status with the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section;


(B) Summaries of the required monitoring and recordkeeping in paragraphs (d)(3) and (4) of this section; and


(C) Summaries of deviation reports submitted pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(v) of this section.


(v) *Deviation reports.* The permittee shall promptly report to the reviewing authority any deviations as defined at 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(C) from permit by rule requirements including deviations attributable to upset conditions. (For the purposes of this permit by rule, *promptly* shall be defined to mean: At the time the annual report in paragraph (d)(5)(iv) of this section is submitted.) Deviation reports shall include:


(A) The identity of affected emissions unit where the deviation occurred.


(B) The nature of the deviation;


(C) The length of time of the deviation;


(D) The probable cause of the deviation; and


(E) Any corrective actions or preventive measures taken as a result of the deviation to minimize emissions from the deviation and to prevent future deviations.


(vi) *Reporting and notification address.* The permittee shall send all required reports to the reviewing authority at the mailing address specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(vii) *Signature verifying truth, accuracy and completeness.* All reports required by this permit by rule shall be signed by a responsible official as to the truth, accuracy and completeness of the information. The report must state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information are true, accurate, and complete. If the permittee discovers that any reports or notification submitted to the reviewing authority contain false, inaccurate, or incomplete information, the permittee shall notify the reviewing authority immediately and correct or amend the report as soon as practicable.


(6) *Changes to this permit by rule*—(i) *Revising, reopening, revoking and reissuing, or terminating for cause.* The permit by rule may be revised, reopened, revoked and reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit revision, revocation and re-issuance, or termination, or of a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any permit by rule condition. This provision also applies to the documents incorporated by reference.


(ii) *Terminating coverage under this permit by rule.* The reviewing authority may terminate coverage under the permit by rule, and thereby terminate that permittee's authorization to construct or modify, and that permitted source's authorization to operate under this permit by rule for cause as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. The reviewing authority may provide the permittee with notice of the intent to terminate, and delay the effective date of the termination to allow the permittee to obtain a source-specific permit.


(iii) *Permit becomes invalid.* Authority to construct and operate under this permit by rule becomes invalid if the permittee does not commence construction within 18 months after the effective date of the Request for Coverage under the permit by rule, if the permittee discontinues construction for a period of 18 months or more, or if the permittee does not complete construction within a reasonable time. The reviewing authority may extend the 18-month period upon a satisfactory showing that an extension is justified according to 40 CFR 49.156(e)(8).


(e) *Petroleum dry cleaning facilities in certain nonattainment areas.* For facilities located in serious, severe, or extreme ozone nonattainment areas, the permittee shall operate and maintain the solvent dry cleaning system in accordance with the requirements specified below and in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations:


(1) *General specifications.* (i) All parts of the dry cleaning system where solvent may be exposed to the atmosphere or workroom shall be kept closed at all times except when access is required for proper operation and maintenance.


(ii) Wastewater evaporators shall be operated to ensure that no liquid solvent or visible emulsion is allowed to vaporize to the atmosphere.


(2) *Additional specification for closed-loop machines.* (i) A *closed-loop machine* means dry cleaning equipment in which washing, extraction, and drying is performed within the same single affected emissions unit and which re-circulates and recovers the solvent-laden vapor.


(ii) A closed-loop machine shall not exhaust to the atmosphere or workroom during operation except when the vacuum pump exhausts to maintain a continuous vacuum.


(iii) For any closed-loop machine that is not equipped with a locking mechanism, the operator shall not open the door of a closed-loop machine prior to completion of the drying cycle.


(iv) For any closed-loop machine that is equipped with a locking mechanism, the operator shall not inactivate the locking mechanism and open the door of a closed-loop machine prior to completion of the drying cycle.


(3) *Leak check and repair requirements.* (i) No less frequently than monthly, the owner or operator shall inspect the dry cleaning system for liquid and vapor leaks, including, but not limited to, the following:


(A) Hose connections, unions, couplings, valves, and flanges;


(B) Machine door gasket and seating of the machine cylinder;


(C) Filter head gasket and seating;


(D) Pumps;


(E) Base tanks and storage containers;


(F) Water separators;


(G) Filter sludge recovery;


(H) Seals and gaskets of distillation unit(s);


(I) Diverter valves;


(J) Saturated lint from lint trap basket;


(K) Button trap lid;


(L) Cartridge or other types of filters;


(M) Seals, gaskets and the diverter valve of the refrigerated condenser;


(N) Exhaust stream ducts;


(O) Lint trap ducts; and


(P) Gaskets and ducts of the carbon adsorber.


(ii) To inspect for a vapor leak, the operator shall use at least one of the following techniques:


(A) Soap bubble technique in accordance with the procedures in EPA Method 21, section 4.3.3—Alternative Screening Procedure;


(B) A non-halogenated hydrocarbon detector;


(C) A portable hydrocarbon analyzer; or


(D) An alternative method approved by the reviewing authority.


(iii) To inspect for a liquid leak, the operator shall visually inspect the equipment for liquid leaking in a visible mist or at the rate of more than one drop every 3 minutes.


(iv) Any liquid leak or vapor leak that has been detected by the operator shall be repaired within 3 working days of detection. If repair parts are not available at the facility, the parts shall be ordered within 2 working days of detecting such a leak and the operator shall provide written notification to the reviewing authority that explains the reason(s) for delaying the leak repair. Such repair parts shall be installed within 5 working days after receipt. A facility with a leak that has not been repaired by the end of the 7th working day after detection shall not operate the dry cleaning equipment, until the leak is repaired.


(f) *List of reviewing authorities and areas of coverage.*


---

[N] [80 FR 25098, May 1, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 44227, Aug. 23, 2019]




