# § 292.20   Payments to Summer EBT agencies and use of administrative program funds.

(a) *General requirements for grant awards.* Grant awards are all subject to procedures established by USDA in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations in 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.


(b) *Program benefit funds.* FNS shall provide a grant to the Summer EBT agency that administers the EBT benefit issuance in an amount equal to 100 percent of issued eligible benefit funds as reflected in the final POM. Summer EBT benefits must be tracked separately from SNAP benefits, or other benefit types.


(c) *State administrative funds.* FNS must pay to each Summer EBT agency an amount equal to 50 percent of the administrative expenses incurred by the Summer EBT agency in operating the program under this section, including the administrative expenses of LEAs and other agencies in each State or ITO, as applicable, relating to the operation of the program under this section. Summer EBT agencies will report their incurred administrative expenses on a financial status report. Generally, Summer EBT agencies must cover the balance of their administrative costs, *i.e.,* their “match,” with non-Federal funds.


(d) *Applicable terms and conditions on grant awards.* All grant awards described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be subject to terms and conditions and standard reporting requirements of the Federal grant and Federal-State Agreement.


(e) *Use of State administrative funds*—(1) *Matching funds.* Summer EBT agency costs for Federal matching funds may consist of:


(i) Charges reported on a cash or accrual basis by the Summer EBT agency as project costs.


(ii) Project costs financed with cash contributed or donated to the Summer EBT agency.


(iii) Project costs represented by services and real or personal property donated to the Summer EBT agency.


(2) *Cash and in-kind contributions.* All cash or in-kind contributions except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section must be allowable as part of the Summer EBT agency's share of program costs when such contributions:


(i) Are verifiable;


(ii) Are not contributed for another federally assisted program, unless authorized by Federal legislation;


(iii) Are necessary and reasonable for accomplishment of project objectives;


(iv) Are charges that would be allowable under this part;


(v) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another Federal award, except where the Federal statute authorizing a program specifically provides that Federal funds made available for such program can be applied to matching or cost sharing requirements of other Federal programs; and


(vi) Are in the approved budget.


(f) *Volunteer services.* The value of services rendered by volunteers is unallowable for reimbursement purposes.


(g) *Recovery of funds.* The Summer EBT agency must return any Federal funds made available under this part which are in excess of obligations reported at the end of each fiscal year, in accordance with the reconciliation procedures specified in paragraph (h) of this section. The Summer EBT agency shall reflect such recoveries by a related adjustment in the Summer EBT agency's Letter of Credit.


(h) *Substantiation and reconciliation process.* The Summer EBT agency must maintain Program records necessary to support administrative costs claimed and the reports submitted to USDA under this paragraph (h). The Summer EBT agency must ensure such records are retained for a period of 3 years or as otherwise specified in § 292.23. Partnering agencies must also meet these requirements consistent with the inter-agency agreement with the Summer EBT agency.






