# § 541.601   Highly compensated employees.

(a) An employee shall be exempt under section 13(a)(1) of the Act if the employee receives total annual compensation of not less than the amount set forth in paragraph (a)(1) through (4) of this section, and the employee customarily and regularly performs any one or more of the exempt duties or responsibilities of an executive, administrative, or professional employee identified in subpart B, C, or D of this part:


(1) Beginning on July 1, 2024, $132,964 per year (the annualized earnings amount of the 80th percentile of full-time nonhourly workers nationally).


(2) Beginning on January 1, 2025, $151,164 per year (the annualized earnings amount of the 85th percentile of full-time nonhourly workers nationally).


(3) As of July 1, 2027, the total annual compensation level calculated pursuant to § 541.607(b)(2).


(4) Where the annual period covers periods during which multiple total annual compensation levels apply, the amount of total annual compensation due will be determined on a proportional basis.


(b)(1) Total annual compensation must include at least a weekly amount equal to that required by § 541.600(a)(1) through (3) paid on a salary or fee basis as set forth in §§ 541.602 and 541.605, except that § 541.602(a)(3) shall not apply to highly compensated employees. Total annual compensation may also include commissions, nondiscretionary bonuses and other nondiscretionary compensation earned during a 52-week period. Total annual compensation does not include board, lodging and other facilities as defined in § 541.606, and does not include payments for medical insurance, payments for life insurance, contributions to retirement plans and the cost of other fringe benefits.


(2) If an employee's total annual compensation does not total at least the amount set forth in paragraph (a) of this section by the last pay period of the 52-week period, the employer may, during the last pay period or within one month after the end of the 52-week period, make one final payment sufficient to achieve the required level. For example, for a 52-week period beginning January 1, 2025, an employee may earn $135,000 in base salary, and the employer may anticipate based upon past sales that the employee also will earn $20,000 in commissions. However, due to poor sales in the final quarter of the year, the employee only earns $14,000 in commissions. In this situation, the employer may within one month after the end of the year make a payment of at least $2,164 to the employee. Any such final payment made after the end of the 52-week period may count only toward the prior year's total annual compensation and not toward the total annual compensation in the year it was paid. If the employer fails to make such a payment, the employee does not qualify as a highly compensated employee, but may still qualify as exempt under subpart B, C, or D of this part.


(3) An employee who does not work a full year for the employer, either because the employee is newly hired after the beginning of the year or ends the employment before the end of the year, may qualify for exemption under this section if the employee receives a *pro rata* portion of the minimum amount established in paragraph (a) of this section, based upon the number of weeks that the employee will be or has been employed. An employer may make one final payment as under paragraph (b)(2) of this section within one month after the end of employment.


(4) The employer may utilize any 52-week period as the year, such as a calendar year, a fiscal year, or an anniversary of hire year. If the employer does not identify some other year period in advance, the calendar year will apply.


(c) A high level of compensation is a strong indicator of an employee's exempt status, thus eliminating the need for a detailed analysis of the employee's job duties. Thus, a highly compensated employee will qualify for exemption if the employee customarily and regularly performs any one or more of the exempt duties or responsibilities of an executive, administrative or professional employee identified in subparts B, C or D of this part. An employee may qualify as a highly compensated executive employee, for example, if the employee customarily and regularly directs the work of two or more other employees, even though the employee does not meet all of the other requirements for the executive exemption under § 541.100.


(d) This section applies only to employees whose primary duty includes performing office or non-manual work. Thus, for example, non-management production-line workers and non-management employees in maintenance, construction and similar occupations such as carpenters, electricians, mechanics, plumbers, iron workers, craftsmen, operating engineers, longshoremen, construction workers, laborers and other employees who perform work involving repetitive operations with their hands, physical skill and energy are not exempt under this section no matter how highly paid they might be.



---

[N] [69 FR 22260, Apr. 23, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 32550, May 23, 2016; 84 FR 51307, Sept. 27, 2019; 85 FR 34969, June 8, 2020; 89 FR 32972, Apr. 26, 2024]




