# § 4281.32   Notices of benefit reductions.

(a) *Requirement of notices.* A plan sponsor of a multiemployer plan under which a plan amendment reducing benefits is adopted pursuant to section 4281(c) of ERISA shall so notify the PBGC and plan participants and beneficiaries whose benefits are reduced by the amendment. The notices shall be delivered in the manner and within the time prescribed, and shall contain the information described, in this section. The notice required in this section shall be filed in lieu of the notice described in section 4244A(b)(2) of ERISA. 


(b) *When delivered.* The plan sponsor shall mail or otherwise deliver the notices of benefit reduction no later than the earlier of— 


(1) 45 days after the amendment reducing benefits is adopted; or 


(2) The date of the first reduced benefit payment. 


(c) *Method of issuance to participants and beneficiaries.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart B of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of issuance of the notice of benefit reduction to participants and beneficiaries. In addition to the methods permitted under subpart B of part 4000, the plan sponsor may notify participants and beneficiaries, other than participants and beneficiaries who are in pay status when the notice is required to be delivered or who are reasonably expected to enter pay status before the end of the plan year after the plan year in which the amendment is adopted, by posting the notice at participants' work sites or publishing the notice in a union newsletter or in a newspaper of general circulation in the area or areas where participants reside. Notice to a participant shall be deemed notice to that participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries. 


(d) *Contents of notice to the PBGC.* A notice of benefit reduction required to be filed with the PBGC pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name of the plan. 


(2) The name, address, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and of the plan sponsor's duly authorized representative, if any. 


(3) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned by the IRS to the plan sponsor and the three-digit Plan Number (PN) assigned by the plan sponsor to the plan, and, if different, the EIN or PN last filed with the PBGC. If no EIN or PN has been assigned, the notice shall so state. 


(4) The case number assigned by the PBGC to the filing of the plan's notice of termination pursuant to part 4041A, subpart B, of this chapter. 


(5) A statement that a plan amendment reducing benefits has been adopted, listing the date of adoption and the effective date of the amendment. 


(6) A certification, signed by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative, that notice of the benefit reductions has been given to all participants and beneficiaries whose benefits are reduced by the plan amendment, in accordance with the requirements of this section. 


(e) *Contents of notice to participants and beneficiaries.* A notice of benefit reductions required under paragraph (a) of this section to be given to plan participants and beneficiaries whose benefits are reduced by the amendment shall contain the following information: 


(1) The name of the plan. 


(2) A statement that a plan amendment reducing benefits has been adopted, listing the date of adoption and the effective date of the amendment. 


(3) A summary of the amendment, including a description of the effect of the amendment on the benefits to which it applies. 


(4) The name, address, and telephone number of the plan administrator or other person designated by the plan sponsor to answer inquiries concerning benefits. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34118, July 1, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 61457, Oct. 28, 2003; 84 FR 18726, May 2, 2019]




