# § 1090.85   Explanatory terms.

This section explains how certain phrases and terms are used in this part, especially those used to clarify and explain regulatory provisions. They do not, however, constitute specific regulatory requirements and as such do not impose any compliance obligation on regulated parties.


(a) *Types of provisions.* The term “provision” includes all aspects of the regulations in this part. As specified in this section, regulatory provisions include standards, requirements, and prohibitions, along with a variety of other types of provisions.


(1) A standard is a limit on the formulation, components, or characteristics of any fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock, established by regulation under this part. Compliance with or conformance to a standard is a specific type of requirement. Thus, a statement about the requirements of a part or section also applies with respect to the standards in the part or section. Examples of standards include the sulfur per-gallon standards for gasoline and diesel fuel.


(2) While requirements state what someone must do, prohibitions state what someone must not do. Failing to meet any requirement that applies to a person under this part is a prohibited act.


(3) The regulations in this part include provisions that are not standards, requirements, or prohibitions, such as definitions.


(b) *Subject to.* A fuel is considered “subject to” a specific provision if that provision applies, even if it falls within an exemption authorized under a different part of this regulation. For example, gasoline is subject to the provisions of this part even if it is exempt from the standards under subpart G of this part.


(c) *Singular and plural.* Unless stated otherwise or unless it is clear from the regulatory context, provisions written in singular form include the plural form and provisions written in plural form include the singular form.


(d) *Inclusive lists.* Lists in the regulations in this part prefaced by “including” or “this includes” are not exhaustive. The terms “including” and “this includes” should be read to mean “including but not limited to” and “this includes but is not limited to.”


(e) *Notes.* Statements that begin with “Note:” or “Note that” are intended to clarify specific regulatory provisions stated elsewhere in the regulations in this part. By themselves, such statements are not intended to specify regulatory requirements.


(f) *Examples.* Examples provided in the regulations in this part are typically introduced by either “for example” or “such as.” Specific examples given in the regulations do not necessarily represent the most common examples. The regulations may specify examples conditionally (that is, specifying that they are applicable only if certain criteria or conditions are met). Lists of examples are not exhaustive.




