# § 679.65   Bering Sea Chinook Salmon Bycatch Management Program Economic Data Report (Chinook salmon EDR program).

(a) *Requirements.* NMFS developed the regulations under this section to implement the Chinook salmon EDR program. Additional regulations that implement specific portions of the Chinook salmon EDR program are set out under paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) *Daily fishing logbook* (DFL), catcher vessel trawl gear. *See* § 679.5(c)(4).


(2) *Electronic logbook* (ELB), AFA and CDQ trawl catcher/processors. *See* § 679.5(f) in combination with eLandings pursuant to § 679.5(e).


(3) *IPA Annual Report.* See § 679.21(f)(13).


(4) *AFA cooperative annual reporting requirement. See* § 679.61(f)(2).


(b) *Chinook salmon PSC Compensated Transfer Report (CTR).* (1) An owner or leaseholder of an AFA-permitted vessel and the representative of any entity that received an allocation of Chinook salmon PSC from NMFS must submit a CTR, Part 1, each calendar year, for the previous calendar year.


(2) Any person who transferred Chinook salmon PSC allocation after January 20, and paid or received money for the transfer, must submit a completed CTR (Part 1 and Part 2) for the previous calendar year.


(3) The CTR is available through the Internet on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov,* or by contacting NMFS at (206) 526-6414.


(4) Beginning in 2013, and each year thereafter, the completed CTR must be submitted electronically on or before 1700, A.l.t., on June 1, following the instructions on the form.


(c) *Vessel Fuel Survey.* (1) An owner or leaseholder of an AFA-permitted vessel must submit all completed Vessel Fuel Surveys for each vessel used to harvest pollock in the Bering Sea in a given year.


(2) The Vessel Fuel Survey is available through the Internet on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov,* or by contacting NMFS at (206) 526-6414.


(3) The owner or leaseholder annually must submit a completed Vessel Fuel Survey, electronically on or before 1700, A.l.t., on June 1, 2013, and each year thereafter, following the instructions on the form.


(d) *Vessel Master Survey.* (1) For any AFA-permitted vessel used to harvest pollock in the Bering Sea in the previous year:


(i) The vessel master must complete the Vessel Master Survey, and the Vessel Master certification following the instructions on the form.


(ii) An owner or leaseholder must complete the Vessel owner certification following instructions on the form.


(iii) An owner or leaseholder must submit all Vessel Master Surveys, and each Vessel owner certification electronically on or before 1700, A.l.t., on June 1, 2013, and each year thereafter, following the instructions on the form.


(2) The Vessel Master Survey is available through the Internet on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov,* or by contacting NMFS at (206) 526-6414.


(e) *Chinook salmon EDR verification procedures.* NMFS or the data collection agent (DCA) will conduct verification of Chinook salmon EDR information with the persons identified at § 679.65(b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), (d)(1)(i), and (d)(1)(ii).


(1) The persons identified at § 679.65(b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), (d)(1)(i), and (d)(1)(ii) must respond to inquiries by NMFS and its DCA for purposes of the CTR, within 20 days of the date of issuance of the inquiry.


(2) [Reserved].



---

[N] [77 FR 5395, Feb. 3, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 7591, Feb. 6, 2023]




