# § 419.22   Hospital services excluded from payment under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system.

 The following services are not paid for under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system (except when packaged as a part of a bundled payment):


(a) Physician services that meet the requirements of § 415.102(a) of this chapter for payment on a fee schedule basis.


(b) Nurse practitioner and clinical nurse specialist services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(ii) of the Act. 


(c) Physician assistant services, as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(i) of the Act. 


(d) Certified nurse-midwife services, as defined in section 1861(gg) of the Act. 


(e) Services of qualified psychologists, as defined in section 1861(ii) of the Act. 


(f) Services of an anesthetist as defined in § 410.69 of this chapter. 


(g) Clinical social worker services as defined in section 1861(hh)(2) of the Act. 


(h) Physical therapy services, speech-language pathology services, and occupational therapy services described in section 1833(a)(8) of the Act for which payment is made under the fee schedule described in section 1834(k) of the Act.


(i) Ambulance services, as described in section 1861(v)(1)(U) of the Act, or, if applicable, the fee schedule established under section 1834(l). 


(j) Except as provided in § 419.2(b)(11), prosthetic devices and orthotic devices.


(k) Except as provided in § 419.2(b)(10), durable medical equipment supplied by the hospital for the patient to take home. 


(l) Except as provided in § 419.2(b)(17), clinical diagnostic laboratory tests.


(m)(1) Services provided on or before December 31, 2010, for patients with ESRD that are paid under the ESRD composite rate and drugs and supplies furnished during dialysis but not included in the composite rate.


(2) Renal dialysis services provided on or after January 1, 2011, for patients with ESRD that are paid under the ESRD benefit, as described in subpart H of part 413 of this chapter.


(n) Services and procedures that the Secretary designates as requiring inpatient care.


(o) Hospital outpatient services furnished to SNF residents (as defined in § 411.15(p) of this chapter) as part of the patient's resident assessment or comprehensive care plan (and thus included under the SNF PPS) that are furnished by the hospital “under arrangements” but billable only by the SNF, regardless of whether or not the patient is in a Part A SNF stay. 


(p) Services that are not covered by Medicare by statute. 


(q) Services that are not reasonable or necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of an illness or disease.


(r) Services defined in § 419.21(b) that are furnished to inpatients of hospitals that do not submit claims for outpatient services under Medicare Part B.


(s) Effective December 8, 2003, screening mammography services and effective January 1, 2005, diagnostic mammography services.


(t) Effective January 1, 2011, annual wellness visit providing personalized prevention plan services as defined in § 410.15 of this chapter.


(u) Outpatient diabetes self-management training.


(v) Effective January 1, 2017, items and services that do not meet the definition of excepted items and services under § 419.48(a).


(w) Services of marriage and family therapists, as defined in section 1861(lll)(1) of the Act.


(x) Services of mental health counselors, as defined in section 1861(lll)(3) of the Act.



---

[N] [65 FR 18542, Apr. 7, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 59922, Nov. 30, 2001; 69 FR 65863, Nov. 15, 2004; 75 FR 72265, Nov. 24, 2010; 78 FR 50969, Aug. 19, 2013; 78 FR 75196, Dec. 10, 2013; 79 FR 67031, Nov. 10, 2014; 81 FR 79879, Nov. 14, 2016; 82 FR 35, Jan. 3, 2017; 85 FR 86302, Dec. 29, 2020; 86 FR 63993, Nov. 16, 2021; 88 FR 82180, Nov. 22, 2023]




