# § 324.3   Women, citizens of the United States at birth, who lost or are believed to have lost citizenship by marriage and whose marriage has terminated.

(a) *Eligibility.* To be eligible for naturalization under section 324(c) of the Act, an applicant must establish: 


(1) That she was formerly a United States citizen by birth; 


(2) That she lost or may have lost her United States citizenship: 


(i) Prior to September 22, 1922, by marriage to an alien; or 


(ii) On or after September 22, 1922, by marriage to an alien ineligible to citizenship before March 3, 1931; 


(3) That the marriage specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section terminated subsequent to January 12, 1941; 


(4) That she did not acquire any other nationality by affirmative act other than by marriage; and 


(5) That she is not proscribed from naturalization under section 313 of the Act. 


(b) *Procedures*—(1) *Application.* An applicant eligible for naturalization pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, who desires to regain citizenship pursuant to section 324(c) of the Act, shall submit, without fee, an application for naturalization on the form prescribed by USCIS in accordance with the instructions on the form. 


(2) *Oath of Allegiance.* The USCIS shall review the applicant's submission, and shall inform the applicant of her eligibility under section 324(c) of the Act to take the oath in conformity with part 337 of this chapter. After the applicant has taken the oath, the applicant will be furnished with a copy of the oath by the clerk of the Court or USCIS, as appropriate, properly certified, for which a fee not exceeding $5 may be charged. The oath may also be taken abroad before any diplomatic or consular officer of the United States, in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of State. 



---

[N] [56 FR 50490, 50491, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]




