# ยง 95.10-10   Fire hydrants and hose.

(a) The size of fire hydrants, hose, and nozzles and the length of hose required must be as noted in Table 95.10-5(a). 


(b) Instead of the 2
1/2-in hose and hydrants specified in Table 95.10-5(a) of this subpart, on vessels of more than 1,500 gross tons:


(1) The hydrants in interior locations may have wye connections for 1
1/2-in hoses. In these cases, the hose must be 75 ft in length, and only one hose is required at each fire station; however, if all such stations can be satisfactorily served with 50-ft lengths, a 50-ft hose may be used; and


(2) The hydrants for exterior locations may substitute two 1
1/2 in outlets, each with a 1
1/2-in hose, supplied through a wye connection.


(c) On vessels of 500 gross tons or more there must be at least one shore connection to the fire main available to each side of the vessel in an accessible location. Suitable cut-out valves and check valves must be provided. Suitable adapters also must be provided for furnishing the vessel's shore connections with couplings mating those on the shore fire lines. Vessels of 500 gross tons or more on an international voyage, must be provided with at least one international shore connection complying with ASTM F 1121 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 95.01-2). Facilities must be available enabling an international connection to be used on either side of the vessel.


(d) Fire hydrants must be of sufficient number and so located that any part of the vessel, other than main machinery spaces, accessible to persons on board while the vessel is being navigated and all cargo holds may be reached with at least 2 streams of water from separate outlets, at least one of which must be from a single length of hose. In main machinery spaces, all portions of such spaces must be capable of being reached by at least 2 streams of water, each of which must be from a single length of hose from separate outlets; however, this requirement need not apply to shaft alleys containing no assigned space for the stowage of combustibles. Fire hydrants must be numbered as required by ยง 97.37-15 of this subchapter. 


(e) All parts of the fire main located on exposed decks must either be protected against freezing or be fitted with cut-out valves and drain valves so that the entire exposed parts of such piping may be shut off and drained in freezing weather. Except when closed to prevent freezing, such valves must be sealed open. 


(f) The outlet at the fire hydrant must be limited to any position from the horizontal to the vertical pointing downward, so that the hose will lead horizontally or downward to minimize the possibility of kinking. 


(g) Each fire hydrant must have at least one length of firehose, a spanner wrench, and a hose rack or other device for stowing the hose. 


(h) Firehose must be connected to the outlets at all times. However, on open decks where no protection is afforded to the hose in heavy weather, or where the hose may be liable to damage from the handling of cargo, the hose may be temporarily removed from the hydrant and stowed in an accessible nearby location. 


(i) Each firehose on each hydrant must have a combination solid stream and water spray firehose nozzle approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter. Firehose nozzles previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter may be retained so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.


(j) In each propulsion machinery space containing an oil fired boiler, internal combustion machinery, or oil fuel unit on a vessel on an international voyage or of 1000 gross tons or more, each firehose having a combination nozzle previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter must have a low-velocity water spray applicator that is also previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter. The length of the applicator must be less than 1.8 meters (6 feet).


(k) Fixed brackets, hooks, or other means for stowing an applicator must be next to each fire hydrant that has an applicator under paragraph (j) of this section.


(l) Firehose must not be used for any other purpose than fire extinguishing, drills, and testing. 


(m) Fire hydrants, nozzles, and other fittings must have threads to accommodate the hose connections noted in paragraph (l) of this section. 


(n) Firehose and couplings must be as follows:


(1) Fire station hydrant connections must be brass, bronze, or other equivalent metal. Couplings must either: 


(i) Use National Standard firehose coupling threads for the 1
1/2 inch (38 millimeter) and 2
1/2 inch (64 millimeter) hose sizes, i.e., 9 threads per inch for 1
1/2 inch hose, and 7
1/2 threads per inch for 2
1/2 inch hose; or 


(ii) Be a uniform design for each hose diameter throughout the vessel. 


(2) Where 19 millimeters (
3/4 inch) hose is permitted by table 95.10-5(a), the hose and couplings must be of good commercial grade.


(3) Each section of firehose must be lined commercial firehose that conforms to Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. Standard 19 or Federal Specification ZZ-H-451E. Hose that bears the label of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. as lined firehose is accepted as conforming to this requirement.



---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 17001, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGD 74-60, 41 FR 43151, Sept. 30, 1976; CGD 76-086, 44 FR 2392, Jan. 11, 1979; CGD 88-032, 56 FR 35826, July 29, 1991; CGD 95-012, 60 FR 48051, Sept. 18, 1995; CGD 95-027, 61 FR 26007, May 23, 1996; CGD 95-028, 62 FR 51206, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-2000-7790, 65 FR 58461, Sept. 29, 2000; USCG-2012-0196, 81 FR 48263, July 12, 2016]




