# § 9.272   Candy Mountain.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Candy Mountain”. For purposes of part 4 of this chapter, “Candy Mountain” is a term of viticultural significance.


(b) *Approved maps.* The three United States Geological Survey (USGS) 1:24,000 scale topographic maps used to determine the boundary of the Candy Mountain viticultural area are titled:


(1) Badger Mountain, Washington, 2013;


(2) Benton City, Washington, 2013; and


(3) Richland, Washington, 2014.


(c) *Boundary.* The Candy Mountain viticultural area is located in Benton County in Washington. The boundary of the Candy Mountain viticultural area is as described below:


(1) The beginning point is on the Badger Mountain map at the southernmost point of an unnamed road known locally as Arena Road. From the beginning point, proceed northwest in a straight line for approximately 1.85 miles, crossing onto the Benton City map, to the intersection with East Kennedy Road NE; then


(2) Proceed westerly along East Kennedy Road NE for approximately 2,500 feet to the intersection with an intermittent creek approximately 0.8 mile south of Lost Lake; then


(3) Proceed southeasterly along the easternmost fork of the intermittent creek to the intersection with Interstate 82; then


(4) Proceed southeast along Interstate 82 for 2.25 miles, crossing over the Richland map and onto the Badger Mountain map, and continuing along the ramp onto Interstate 182 to a point due south of the intersection of Dallas Road and an unnamed road known locally as East 260 Private Road NE; then


(5) Proceed north in a straight line for 0.5 mile, crossing onto the Richland map, to the intersection of Dallas Road and the 670-foot elevation contour; then


(6) Proceed west along the 670-foot elevation contour for 0.4 mile to the intersection with Arena Road; then


(7) Proceed southerly along Arena Road for approximately 0.45 miles, returning to the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-163, 85 FR 60361, Sept. 25, 2020]




