# § 301.6224(c)-2   Pass-thru partner binds indirect partners.

(a) *Pass-thru partner binds unidentified indirect partners*—(1) *In general.* If a pass-thru partner enters into a settlement agreement with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to partnership items, that agreement binds all indirect partners holding an interest in that partnership through the pass-thru partner except those indirect partners who have been identified as provided in section 6223(c)(3) and § 301.6223(c)-1 at least 30 days before the date on which the agreement is entered into. A settlement with respect to partnership items includes partnership-level determinations relating to any penalty, addition to tax, and additional amounts that relate to adjustments to partnership items. However, if, in addition to the interest in the partnership held through the pass-thru partner entering into a settlement agreement, an indirect partner holds a separate interest in that partnership, either directly or indirectly through a different pass-thru partner, then the indirect partner shall not be bound by that settlement agreement with respect to the interests held directly or indirectly through a pass-thru partner other than the pass-thru partner entering into the settlement agreement. 


(2) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following example: 


(b) *Person in pass-thru partner authorized to enter into settlement agreement that binds indirect partners.* In the case of a pass-thru partner that is— 


(1) A partnership within the meaning of section 6231(a)(1), the tax matters partner of that partnership; 


(2) A partnership other than a partnership described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, any general partner of that partnership; 


(3) An S corporation, any officer of that S corporation; or 


(4) A trust, estate, or nominee, any person authorized in writing to act on behalf of that trust, estate, or nominee, may enter into a settlement agreement with the Internal Revenue Service on behalf of its respective entity that would bind the unidentified indirect partners that hold a partnership interest through the pass-thru partner. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6224(c)-2T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50552, Oct. 4, 2001]




