# ยง 303.61   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart: 


(a) *Merger transaction* includes any transaction: 


(1) In which an insured depository institution merges or consolidates with any other insured depository institution or, either directly or indirectly, acquires the assets of, or assumes liability to pay any deposits made in, any other insured depository institution; or 


(2) In which an insured depository institution merges or consolidates with any noninsured bank or institution or assumes liability to pay any deposits made in, or similar liabilities of, any noninsured bank or institution, or in which an insured depository institution transfers assets to any noninsured bank or institution in consideration of the assumption of any portion of the deposits made in the insured depository institution. 


(b) *Corporate reorganization* means a merger transaction that involves solely an insured depository institution and one or more of its affiliates.


(c) *Interim merger transaction* means a merger transaction (other than a purchase and assumption transaction) between an operating depository institution and a newly-formed depository institution or corporation that will not operate independently and that exists solely for the purpose of facilitating a corporate reorganization. 


(d) *Resulting institution* refers to the acquiring, assuming or resulting institution in a merger transaction. 



---

[N] [67 FR 79247, Dec. 27, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 20526, Apr. 21, 2006; 73 FR 2145, Jan. 14, 2008]




