# ยง 158.120   Aggregate reporting.

(a) *General requirements.* For purposes of submitting the report required in ยง 158.110 of this subpart, the issuer must submit a report for each State in which it is licensed to issue health insurance coverage that includes the experience of all policies issued in the State during the MLR reporting year covered by the report. The report must aggregate data for each entity licensed within a State, aggregated separately for the large group market, the small group market and the individual market. Experience with respect to each policy must be included on the report submitted with respect to the State where the contract was issued, except as specified in ยง 158.120(d) of this subpart.


(b) *Group Health Insurance Coverage in Multiple States.* Group coverage issued by a single issuer that covers employees in multiple States must be attributed to the applicable State based on the situs of the contract. Group coverage issued by multiple affiliated issuers that covers employees in multiple States must be attributed by each issuer to each State based on the situs of the contract.


(c) *Group Health Insurance Coverage With Dual Contracts.* Where a group health plan involves health insurance coverage obtained from two affiliated issuers, one providing in-network coverage only and the second providing out-of-network coverage only, solely for the purpose of providing a group health plan that offers both in-network and out-of-network benefits, experience may be treated as if it were all related to the contract provided by the in-network issuer. However, if the issuer chooses this method of aggregation, it must apply it for a minimum of 3 MLR reporting years.


(d) *Exceptions.* (1) For individual market business sold through an association or trust, the experience of the issuer must be included in the State report for the issue State of the certificate of coverage.


(2) For employer business issued through a group trust or multiple employer welfare association (MEWA), the experience of the issuer must be included in the State report for the State where the employer (if sold through a trust) or the MEWA (if the MEWA is the policyholder) has its principal place of business.


(3) An issuer with policies that have a total annual limit of $250,000 or less must report the experience from such policies separately from other policies.


(4) An issuer with group policies that provide coverage to employees, substantially all of whom are: Working outside their country of citizenship; working outside of their country of citizenship and outside the employer's country of domicile; or non-U.S. citizens working in their home country, must aggregate and report the experience from these policies on a national basis, separately for the large group market and small group market, and separately from other policies.


(5) An issuer in the student market must aggregate and report the experience from these policies on a national basis, separately from other policies.



---

[N] [75 FR 74921, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 82278, Dec. 30, 2010; 76 FR 76592, Dec. 7, 2011; 77 FR 16469, Mar. 21, 2012; 77 FR 28790, May 16, 2012]




