# § 381.3   What activities may the Secretary fund?

(a) Funds made available under this part must be used for the following activities:


(1) Establishing a system to protect, and advocate for, the rights of individuals with disabilities.


(2) Pursuing legal, administrative, and other appropriate remedies or approaches to ensure the protection of, and advocacy for, the rights of eligible individuals with disabilities within the State or the American Indian Consortium.


(3) Providing information on and making referrals to programs and services addressing the needs of individuals with disabilities in the State or American Indian Consortium, including individuals with disabilities who are exiting from school programs.


(4) Coordinating the protection and advocacy program provided through an eligible system with the advocacy programs under—


(i) Section 112 of the Act (the Client Assistance Program (CAP));


(ii) The Older Americans Act of 1965 (the State long-term care ombudsman program) (42 U.S.C. 3001 *et seq.*);


(iii) Part C of the DD Act; and


(iv) The Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act of 2000 (PAIMI) (42 U.S.C. 10801-10807).


(5) Developing a statement of objectives and priorities on an annual basis and a plan for achieving these objectives and priorities.


(6) Providing to the public, including individuals with disabilities and, as appropriate, their representatives, an opportunity to comment on the objectives and priorities described in § 381.10(a)(6).


(7) Establishing a grievance procedure for clients or prospective clients of the eligible system to ensure that individuals with disabilities are afforded equal access to the services of the eligible system.


(b) Funds made available under this part also may be used to carry out any other activities consistent with the purpose of this part and the activities listed in paragraph (a) of this section.


