# § 1789.151   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS). 


*Application* means a request for financial assistance under the RE Act or such other approvals as may be required of the RUS pursuant to the terms of outstanding loan or security instruments or otherwise. 


*Borrower* means any organization which has an outstanding loan(s) made or guaranteed by RUS or its predecessor agency, the Rural Electrification Administration (REA) under the RE Act or any organization which has submitted or submits an Application before RUS. 


*Consultant* means a person or firm which has been retained pursuant to this subpart under a contract to provide financial, legal, engineering, environmental, or other technical advice and services. 


*Consultant Contract* means a contract for the performance of consulting services for RUS, to be paid using funds provided by a Borrower, which may be in the form of a Retainer Contract, purchase order, or other form as may be appropriate. 


*Escrow Account* means an account established pursuant to § 1789.158. 


*Escrow Agreement* means an agreement, between a Borrower, a Consultant and a Third-party Commercial Institution, meeting the requirements of § 1789.167. 


*Final Invoice* means the closing Invoice prepared for a given Task Order. 


*Financial Consultant* means a Consultant retained pursuant to this part to provide financial advisory services. 


*Funding Agreement* means an agreement, between a Borrower and a Consultant, providing for the Borrower to fund the costs of a Task Order and otherwise meeting the requirements of § 1789.166. 


*Indemnification Agreement* means an agreement by a Borrower meeting the requirements of § 1789.162. 


*Invoice* means an invoice prepared by a Consultant pursuant to the terms of a Consultant Contract. 


*Legal Consultant* means any Consultant retained pursuant to this part to provide legal services to RUS. 


*Notice of Proposal to Fund* means a notice meeting the requirements of § 1789.156 provided to RUS by the Borrower. 


*Organizational conflict of interest* means that because of other activities or relationships with other persons, a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government, or the person's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage. 


*Retainer Contract* means a Consultant Contract providing for a minimum required payment to a Consultant irrespective of whether services are utilized by RUS thereunder. 


*Task Order* means a written request for consultant services pursuant to the terms of a Consultant Contract. 


*Third-party Commercial Institution* means a commercial financial institution mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Consultant. 




