# § 1.1502-15   SRLY limitation on built-in losses.

(a) *SRLY limitation.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section (relating to built-in losses of the common parent) and paragraph (g) of this section (relating to an overlap with section 382), built-in losses are subject to the SRLY limitation under §§ 1.1502-21(c) and 1.1502-22(c) (including applicable subgroup principles). Built-in losses are treated as deductions or losses in the year recognized, except for the purpose of determining the amount of, and the extent to which the built-in loss is limited by, the SRLY limitation for the year in which it is recognized. Solely for such purpose, a built-in loss is treated as a hypothetical net operating loss carryover or net capital loss carryover arising in a SRLY, instead of as a deduction or loss in the year recognized. To the extent that a built-in loss is allowed as a deduction under this section in the year it is recognized, it offsets any consolidated taxable income for the year before any loss carryovers or carrybacks are allowed as a deduction. To the extent not so allowed, it is treated as a separate net operating loss or net capital loss carryover or carryback arising in the year of recognition and, under § 1.1502-21(c) or 1.1502-22(c), the year of recognition is treated as a SRLY.


(b) *Built-in losses*—(1) *Defined.* If a corporation has a net unrealized built-in loss under section 382(h)(3) (as modified by this section) on the day it becomes a member of the group (whether or not the group is a consolidated group), its deductions and losses are built-in losses under this section to the extent they are treated as recognized built-in losses under section 382(h)(2)(B) (as modified by this section). This paragraph (b) generally applies separately with respect to each member, but see paragraph (c) of this section for circumstances in which it is applied on a subgroup basis.


(2) *Operating rules.* Solely for purposes of applying paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the principles of § 1.1502-94(c) apply with appropriate adjustments, including the following:


(i) *Stock acquisition.* A corporation is treated as having an ownership change under section 382(g) on the day the corporation becomes a member of a group, and no other events (e.g., a subsequent ownership change under section 382(g) while it is a member) are treated as causing an ownership change.


(ii) *Asset acquisition.* In the case of an asset acquisition by a group, the assets and liabilities acquired directly from the same transferor (whether corporate or non-corporate, foreign or domestic) pursuant to the same plan are treated as the assets and liabilities of a corporation that becomes a member of the group (and has an ownership change) on the date of the acquisition.


(iii) *Recognized built-in gain or loss.* A loss that is included in the determination of net unrealized built-in gain or loss and that is recognized but disallowed or deferred (e.g., under § 1.337(d)-2, § 1.1502-35, § 1.1502-36, or section 267) is not treated as a built-in loss unless and until the loss would be allowed during the recognition period without regard to the application of this section. Section 382(h)(1)(B)(ii) does not apply to the extent it limits the amount of recognized built-in loss that may be treated as a pre-change loss to the amount of the net unrealized built-in loss.


(c) *Built-in losses of subgroups*—(1) *In general.* In the case of a subgroup, the principles of paragraph (b) of this section apply to the subgroup, and not separately to its members. Thus, the net unrealized built-in loss and recognized built-in loss for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section are based on the aggregate amounts for each member of the subgroup.


(2) *Members of subgroups.* A subgroup is composed of those members that have been continuously affiliated with each other for the 60 consecutive month period ending immediately before they become members of the group in which the loss is recognized. A member remains a member of the subgroup until it ceases to be affiliated with the loss member. For this purpose, the principles of § 1.1502-21(c)(2)(iv) through (vi) apply with appropriate adjustments.


(3) *Coordination of 60 month affiliation requirement with the overlap rule.* If one or more corporations become members of a group and are included in the determination of a net unrealized built-in loss that is subject to the overlap rule described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, then for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, such corporations that become members of the group are treated as having been affiliated for 60 consecutive months with the common parent of the group and are also treated as having been affiliated with any other members who have been affiliated or are treated as having been affiliated with the common parent at such time. The corporations are treated as having been affiliated with such other members for the same period of time that those members have been affiliated or are treated as having been affiliated with the common parent. If two or more corporations become members of the group at the same time, but this paragraph (c)(3) does not apply to every such corporation, then immediately after the corporations become members of the group, and solely for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the corporations to which this paragraph (c)(3) applies are treated as having not been previously affiliated with the corporations to which this paragraph (c)(3) does not apply. If the common parent has become the common parent of an existing group within the previous five year period in a transaction described in § 1.1502-75(d)(2)(ii) or (3), the principles of §§ 1.1502-91(g)(6) and 1.1502-96(a)(2)(iii) shall apply.


(4) *Built-in amounts.* Solely for purposes of determining whether the subgroup has a net unrealized built-in loss or whether it has a recognized built-in loss, the principles of § 1.1502-91(g) and (h) apply with appropriate adjustments.


(d) *Examples.* For purposes of the examples in this section, unless otherwise stated, all groups file consolidated returns, all corporations have calendar taxable years, the facts set forth the only corporate activity, value means fair market value and the adjusted basis of each asset equals its value, all transactions are with unrelated persons, and the application of any limitation or threshold under section 382 is disregarded. The principles of this section are illustrated by the following examples: 


(e) *Predecessors and successors.* For purposes of this section, any reference to a corporation or member includes, as the context may require, a reference to a successor or predecessor, as defined in § 1.1502-1(f)(4).


(f) *Built-in losses recognized by common parent of group*—(1) *General rule.* Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any loss recognized by the group on an asset held by the common parent on the date the group is formed. Following an acquisition described in § 1.1502-75(d)(2) or (3), references to the common parent are to the corporation that was the common parent immediately before the acquisition.


(2) *Anti-avoidance rule.* If a corporation that becomes a common parent of a group acquires assets with a net unrealized built-in loss in excess of the threshold requirement of section 382(h)(3)(B) (and thereby increases its net unrealized built-in loss or decreases its net unrealized built-in gain) prior to, and in anticipation of, the formation of the group, paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply.


(g) *Overlap with section 382*—(1) *General rule.* The limitations provided in §§ 1.1502-21(c) and 1.1502-22(c) do not apply to recognized built-in losses or to loss carryovers or carrybacks attributable to recognized built-in losses when the application of paragraph (a) of this section results in an overlap with the application of section 382.


(2) *Definitions*—(i) *Generally.* For purposes of this paragraph (g), the definitions and nomenclature contained in section 382, the regulations thereunder, and §§ 1.1502-90 through 1.1502-99 apply.


(ii) *Overlap*—(A) An overlap of the application of paragraph (a) of this section and the application of section 382 with respect to built-in losses occurs if a corporation becomes a member of a consolidated group (the SRLY event) within six months of the change date of an ownership change giving rise to a section 382(a) limitation that would apply with respect to the corporation's recognized built-in losses (the section 382 event). Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, application of the overlap rule does not require that the size and composition of the corporation's net unrealized built-in loss is the same on the date of the section 382 event and the SRLY event.


(B) For special rules in the event that there is a SRLY subgroup and/or a loss subgroup as defined in § 1.1502-91(d)(2) with respect to built-in losses, see paragraph (g)(4) of this section.


(3) *Operating rules*—(i) *Section 382 event before SRLY event.* If a SRLY event occurs on the same date as a section 382 event or within the six month period beginning on the date of the section 382 event, paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies beginning with the tax year that includes the SRLY event. Paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply, however, if a corporation that would otherwise be subject to the overlap rule acquires assets from a person other than a member of the group with a net unrealized built-in loss in excess of the threshold requirement of section 382(h)(3)(B) (and thereby increases its net unrealized built-in loss) after the section 382 event, and before the SRLY event.


(ii) *SRLY event before section 382 event.* If a section 382 event occurs within the period beginning the day after the SRLY event and ending six months after the SRLY event, paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies starting with the first tax year that begins after the section 382 event. However, paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply at any time if a corporation that otherwise would be subject to paragraph (g)(1) of this section transfers assets with an unrealized built-in loss to another member of the group after the SRLY event, but before the section 382 event, unless the corporation recognizes the built-in loss upon the transfer.


(4) *Subgroup rules.* In general, in the case of built-in losses for which there is a SRLY subgroup and the corporations joining the group at the time of the SRLY event also constitute a loss subgroup (as defined in § 1.1502-91(d)(2)), the principles of this paragraph (g) apply to the SRLY subgroup, and not separately to its members. However, paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies with respect to built-in losses only if—


(i) All members of the SRLY subgroup with respect to those built-in losses are also included in a loss subgroup (as defined in § 1.1502-91(d)(2)); and


(ii) All members of a loss subgroup (as defined in § 1.1502-91(d)(2)) are also members of a SRLY subgroup with respect to those built-in losses.


(5) *Asset acquisitions.* Notwithstanding the application of this paragraph (g), paragraph (a) of this section applies to asset acquisitions by the corporation that occurs after the latter of the SRLY event and the section 382 event. See, paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(6) *Examples.* The principles of this paragraph (g) are illustrated by the following examples: 


(h) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* This section generally applies to built-in losses recognized in taxable years for which the due date (without extensions) of the consolidated return is after June 25, 1999. However—


(i) In the event that paragraphs (f)(1) and (g)(1) of this section do not apply to a particular built-in loss in the current group, then solely for purposes of applying paragraph (a) of this section to determine a limitation with respect to that built-in loss and with respect to which the SRLY register (consolidated taxable income determined by reference to only the member's (or subgroup's) items of income, gain, deduction, or loss) began in a taxable year for which the due date of the return was on or before June 25, 1999, paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall not apply; and


(ii) For purposes of paragraph (g) of this section, only an ownership change to which section 382(a) as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 applies shall constitute a section 382 event.


(2) *Prior periods.* For certain taxable years ending on or before June 25, 1999, see § 1.1502-15T in effect prior to June 25, 1999, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1999, as applicable.



---

[N] [T.D. 8823, 64 FR 36101, July 2, 1999; 64 FR 41784, Aug. 2, 1999, as amended by T.D. 9048, 68 FR 12290, Mar. 14, 2003; T.D. 9187, 70 FR 10326, Mar. 3, 2005; T.D. 9254, 71 FR 13018, Mar. 14, 2006; T.D. 9424, 73 FR 53986, Sept. 17, 2008]




