# §thnsp;8.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Accreditation Body* or *“the Body”* means an organization that has been approved by the Secretary in this part to accredit OTPs dispensing MOUD.


*Accreditation Body application* means the application filed with the Secretary for purposes of obtaining approval as an Accreditation Body, as described in § 8.3(b).


*Accreditation elements* mean the elements or standards that are developed and adopted by an Accreditation Body and approved by the Secretary.


*Accreditation survey* means an onsite or virtual review and evaluation of an OTP by an Accreditation Body for the purpose of determining compliance with the Federal opioid use disorder treatment standards described in § 8.12.


*Accredited OTP* means an OTP that is the subject of a current, valid accreditation from an Accreditation Body approved by the Secretary under § 8.3(d).


*Behavioral health services* means any intervention carried out in a therapeutic context at an individual, family, or group level. Interventions may include structured, professionally administered clinical interventions (*e.g.,* cognitive behavior therapy or insight-oriented psychotherapy) delivered in-person, or remotely via telehealth or telemedicine, which has been shown to facilitate treatment outcomes, or non-clinical interventions.


*Care plan* means an individualized treatment and/or recovery plan that outlines attainable treatment goals that have been identified and agreed upon between the patient and the OTP clinical team, and which specifies the services to be provided, as well as the proposed frequency and schedule for their provision.


*Certification* means the process by which the Secretary determines that an OTP is qualified to provide OUD treatment under the Federal Opioid Use Disorder treatment standards.


*Certification application* means the application filed by an OTP for purposes of obtaining certification from the Secretary, as described in § 8.11(b).


*Certified opioid treatment program* means an OTP that is the subject of a current, valid certification under § 8.11.


*Comprehensive treatment* is treatment that includes the continued use of MOUD provided in conjunction with an individualized range of appropriate harm reduction, medical, behavioral health, and recovery support services.


*Conditional certification* is a type of temporary certification granted to an OTP that has requested renewal of its certification and that has received temporary accreditation for one year by an approved Accreditation Body. The one-year accreditation period is to allow the OTP to address areas of significant non-conformance with accreditation standards that do not involve immediate, high-risk health and/or safety concerns.


*Continuous medication treatment* means the uninterrupted treatment for OUD involving the dispensing and administration of MOUD at stable dosage levels for a period in excess of 21 days.


*Dispense* means to deliver a controlled medication to an ultimate user by, or pursuant to, the lawful order of, a practitioner, including the prescribing and administering of a controlled medication.


*Diversion control plan* means a set of documented procedures that reduce the possibility that controlled medications will be transferred or otherwise shared with others to whom the medication was not prescribed or dispensed.


*Federal Opioid Use Disorder treatment standards* means the standards established by the Secretary in § 8.12 that are used to determine whether an OTP is qualified to engage in OUD treatment. The Federal Opioid Use Disorder treatment standards established in § 8.12 also include the standards established by the Secretary regarding the quantities of MOUD which may be provided for unsupervised, take-home use.


*For-cause inspection* means an inspection, by the Secretary, an Accreditation Body, or a State authority, of an OTP that may be operating in violation of Federal Opioid Use Disorder treatment standards, may be providing substandard treatment, may be serving as a possible source of diverted medications, or where patient well-being is at risk.


*Harm reduction* refers to practical and legal evidence-based strategies, including: overdose education; testing and intervention for infectious diseases, including counseling and risk mitigation activities forming part of a comprehensive, integrated approach to address human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted infections, and bacterial and fungal infections; distribution of opioid overdose reversal medications; linkage to other public health services; and connecting those who have expressed interest in additional support to peer services.


*Individualized dose* means the dose of a medication for opioid use disorder, ordered by an OTP practitioner and dispensed to a patient, that sufficiently suppresses opioid withdrawal symptoms. Individualized doses may also include split doses of a medication for opioid use disorder, where such dosing regimens are indicated.


*Interim treatment* means that on a temporary basis, a patient may receive some services from an OTP, while awaiting access to more comprehensive treatment services. The duration of interim treatment is limited to 180 days.


*Long-term care facilities* mean those facilities that provide rehabilitative, restorative, and/or ongoing services to those in need of assistance with activities of daily living. Long-term care facilities include: extended acute care facilities; rehabilitation centers; skilled nursing facilities; permanent supportive housing; assisted living facilities; and chronic care hospitals.


*Medical director* means a physician, licensed to practice medicine in the jurisdiction in which the OTP is located, who assumes responsibility for all medical and behavioral health services provided by the program, including their administration. A medical director may delegate specific responsibilities to authorized program physicians, appropriately licensed non-physician practitioners with prescriptive authority functioning under the medical director's supervision, or appropriately licensed and/or credentialed non-physician healthcare professionals providing services in the OTP, in compliance with applicable Federal and State laws. Such delegations will not eliminate the medical director's responsibility for all medical and behavioral health services provided by the OTP.


*Medication for Opioid Use Disorder* or *MOUD* means medications, including opioid agonist medications, approved by the Food and Drug Administration under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355), for use in the treatment of OUD. As used in this part, “continuous medication treatment” is intended to be synonymous with the term “maintenance” treatment as used in 21 U.S.C. 823(h)(1), and the term “withdrawal management” is intended to be synonymous with the term “detoxification” as used in 21 U.S.C. 823(h)(1).


*Medication unit* means an entity that is established as part of, but geographically separate from, an OTP from which appropriately licensed OTP practitioners, contractors working on behalf of the OTP, or community pharmacists may dispense or administer MOUD, collect samples for drug testing or analysis, or provide other OTP services. Medication units can be a brick-and-mortar location or mobile unit.


*Nationally recognized evidence-based guidelines* mean a document produced by a national or international medical professional association, public health agency, such as the World Health Organization, or governmental body with the aim of assuring the appropriate use of evidence to guide individual diagnostic and therapeutic clinical decisions for the management of OUD and other health conditions that are widely recognized within the United States.


*Opioid Treatment Program* or *OTP* means a program engaged in OUD treatment of individuals with MOUD registered under 21 U.S.C. 823(h)(1).


*Opioid Treatment Program certification* means the process by which the Secretary determines that an OTP applicant is qualified to provide Opioid Use Disorder treatment under the Federal Opioid Use Disorder treatment standards described in § 8.12.


*Opioid Use Disorder* means a cluster of cognitive, behavioral, and physiological symptoms associated with a problematic pattern of opioid use that continues despite clinically significant impairment or distress within a 12-month period.


*Opioid Use Disorder treatment* means the dispensing of MOUD, along with the provision of a range of medical and behavioral health services, as clinically necessary and based on an individualized assessment and a mutually agreed-upon care plan, to an individual to alleviate the combination of adverse medical, psychological, or physical effects associated with an OUD.


*Patient,* for purposes of this part, means any individual who receives continuous treatment or withdrawal management in an OTP.


*Physical and behavioral health services* include services such as medical and psychiatric screening, assessments, evaluations, examinations, and interventions, counseling, health education, peer support services, and social services (*e.g.,* vocational and educational guidance, employment training), that are intended to help patients receiving care in OTPs achieve and sustain remission and recovery.


*Practitioner,* for purposes of this part, means a health care professional who is appropriately licensed by a State to prescribe and/or dispense medications for opioid use disorders and, as a result, is authorized to practice within an OTP.


*Program sponsor* means the person named in the application for certification described in § 8.11(b) as responsible for the operation of the OTP and who assumes responsibility for all its employees, including any practitioners, agents, or other persons providing medical, behavioral health, or social services at the program or any of its medication units. The program sponsor need not be a licensed physician but shall ensure that an actively licensed physician occupies the position of medical director within an OTP.


*Recovery support services* means:


(1) *Recovery* is the process of change through which people improve their health and wellness, live self-directed lives, and strive to reach their full potential.


(2) *Recovery support services* can include, but are not limited to, community-based recovery housing, peer recovery support services, social support, linkage to and coordination among allied service providers and a full range of human services that facilitate recovery and wellness contributing to an improved quality of life. The services extend the continuum of care by strengthening and complementing substance use disorder (SUD) treatment interventions in different settings and stages.


*Split dosing* means dispensing of a single dose of MOUD as separate portions to be taken within a 24-hour period. Split dosing is indicated among, but not limited to, those patients who: possess a genetic variant which increases methadone metabolism; concurrently take other medications or drink alcohol that also induce hepatic enzymes leading to more rapid metabolism of methadone; who are pregnant; or for whom methadone or buprenorphine are being used to treat a concurrent pain indication in addition to the diagnosis of OUD. This leads to more stable, steady-state medication levels.


*State Opioid Treatment Authority (SOTA)* is the agency designated by the Governor of a State, or other appropriate official designated by the Governor, to exercise the responsibility and authority within the State or Territory for governing the treatment of OUD with MOUD in OTPs.


*Telehealth* or *telemedicine, for purposes of this part,* is the delivery and facilitation of health and health-related services including medical care, counseling, practitioner, provider and patient education, health information services, and self-care via telecommunications and digital communication technologies. This includes Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)-compliant video and audio-only communication platforms.


*Withdrawal management* means the dispensing of a MOUD in decreasing doses to an individual to alleviate adverse physical effects incident to withdrawal from the continuous or sustained use of an opioid and as a method of bringing the individual to an opioid-free state within such period. Long-term withdrawal management refers to the process of medication tapering that exceeds 30 days.




