# § 983.212   Substantial improvement to units under a HAP contract.

(a) *Substantial improvement to units under a HAP contract.* The owner may undertake substantial improvement on a unit currently under a HAP contract, except a contract subject to a rider under the rehabilitated housing option for development activity after HAP contract execution in accordance with § 983.157, if approved to do so by the PHA. The owner may request PHA approval no earlier than the effective date of the HAP contract. The following conditions apply:


(1) The PHA may approve the substantial improvement only if one of the following conditions apply:


(i) The unit has been damaged by fire or natural disaster, or other extraordinary circumstances exist which require a unit previously compliant with HQS to urgently undergo substantial improvement. For this purpose, “extraordinary circumstances” are unforeseen events that are not the fault of the owner. The PHA may provide approval for substantial improvement resulting from the damage or extraordinary circumstances described in this paragraph (a)(1)(i) after the owner submits the request.


(ii) The owner requests to engage in substantial improvement that will commence following the first two years of the effective date of the HAP contract. The PHA may provide approval for substantial improvement occurring as described in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) after the owner submits the request, but no earlier than twenty-one months after the effective date of the HAP contract.


(2) The owner's request must include a description of the substantial improvement proposed to be undertaken and the length of time, if any, the owner anticipates that the unit, including items and components within the primary and secondary means of egress, common features, and systems equipment as described by 24 CFR 5.703(a)(2), will not meet HQS. The PHA must not approve as substantial improvement, under this section, an owner's request to demolish a building containing contract units and newly construct replacement units (see requirements for contract termination at § 983.206 and requirements for newly constructed housing in this part 983).


(3) If the unit is occupied and will not meet HQS during any part of the period of the substantial improvement, the owner's request must include a description of the owner's plan to house the family during the period the unit will not meet HQS. The PHA must not approve the substantial improvement unless the owner's plan complies with one of the following requirements:


(i) The owner must complete the substantial improvement without the family vacating the unit if the PHA reasonably expects that the owner can complete the substantial improvement in a manner that:


(A) Does not result in life-threatening deficiencies;


(B) Does not result in any other deficiencies under the HQS that are not corrected within 30 days; and


(C) Is mutually agreeable to the owner and the family;


(ii) If the conditions for in-place substantial improvement in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section cannot be achieved, the owner must temporarily relocate the family to complete the substantial improvement if:


(A) The PHA reasonably expects that the owner can complete the relocation and substantial improvement within a single calendar month (beginning no sooner than the first day of a month and ending no later than the last day of the same month); and


(B) The family can be relocated to a location and in a manner mutually agreeable to the owner and the family; and


(iii) If the conditions for in-place substantial improvement in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section and temporary relocation in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section cannot be achieved, the following protocol for lease termination and relocation applies:


(A) If there are contract units within the project will meet HQS during the period of substantial improvement and that are vacant or expected to become vacant at the time of the planned lease termination, the PHA must refer the family to the owner for occupancy of an appropriate-size contract unit. If the family accepts the offered unit, the owner must provide the family with a reasonable time to move to the offered unit, must pay the family's reasonable moving expenses, must execute a lease with the family for the offered unit to be effective at the time of the family's move, and must terminate the lease for the family's original unit at the time of the family's move. The owner must terminate the family's lease if the family rejects the offered unit; however, the PHA must first offer the family a different unit or tenant-based assistance under paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(B) of this section if needed as a reasonable accommodation under Section 504, the Fair Housing Act, or the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), for a household member who is a person with disabilities. The PHA must consider other family requests for a different unit or tenant-based assistance under paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(B) of this section;


(B) If no other contract unit within the project is available for the family to lease during the period of substantial improvement, the PHA must issue the family a tenant-based voucher. However, the PHA is not required to issue the family a voucher if the PHA has offered the family an alternative housing option (*e.g.,* an assisted unit in another PBV project), and the family chooses to accept the alternative housing option instead of the voucher. The PHA may also issue the family a tenant-based voucher to accommodate the family's need or request as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section. The PHA must issue the voucher no fewer than 90 calendar days prior to the planned lease termination in the case of substantial improvement pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. The PHA must issue the voucher as soon as practicable in the case of substantial improvement pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. If the family is eligible and willing to request a voucher to move in accordance with § 983.261, the PHA must issue the family the voucher to move under that section. If the family is not eligible or is unwilling to request a voucher to move under § 983.261, the PHA must remove the family's unit from the PBV HAP contract and issue the family its voucher to move with tenant-based assistance and subsequently add a unit back to the PBV HAP contract at such time that the unit is ready for occupancy. The PHA must extend the voucher term until the family either leases a unit with the tenant-based voucher or accepts a contract unit, whichever occurs first; and


(C) If the family moves from the project during the period of substantial improvement, the PHA must offer the family the option to return to the project with PBV assistance, if the family is eligible for PBV assistance, following completion of substantial improvement at the project. The PHA, or owner in the case of an absolute selection preference for occupancy in the project.


(4) The PHA must abate housing assistance payments for a unit beginning at the time the unit has any deficiency under HUD's HQS during the period of substantial improvement. The timing for the PHA to begin withholding and abatement specified in § 983.208(d) does not apply to deficiencies occurring during the period of substantial improvement. When all deficiencies in the unit are corrected, the PHA must recommence payments to the owner if the unit is still occupied by an assisted family, subject to paragraphs (a)(5) and (b)(1) of this section. Additionally, the PHA must not pay vacancy payments during the period of substantial improvement.


(5) The terms of the PHA approval must be recorded in an addendum to the HAP contract. The PHA may choose to temporarily remove vacant units from the PBV HAP contract during the time the units will not meet HQS during the substantial improvement. If the PHA temporarily removes a unit, the PHA reinstates the unit in accordance with § 983.207(b). Owner failure to complete the substantial improvement as approved shall be a breach of the HAP contract and the PHA may exercise any of its rights or remedies under the HAP contract, including but not limited to contract termination pursuant to § 983.206(c)(2).


(b) *Applicable requirements.* (1) Substantial improvement undertaken on units that are currently under a HAP contract is subject to the Federal equal employment opportunity requirements of Executive Orders 11246 as amended (3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339), 11625 (3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 616), 12432 (3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 198), and 12138 (3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 393).


(2) As applicable, the design and construction requirements of the Fair Housing Act and implementing regulations at 24 CFR 100.205; the accessibility requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8, including 8.22 and 8.23; and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131-12134) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35, including §§ 35.150 and 35.151, apply to substantial improvement undertaken on units that are currently under a HAP contract.


(3) Any substantial improvement undertaken on units that are currently under a HAP contract that constitutes substantial rehabilitation as defined by 24 CFR 5.100 of a building with more than four rental units and where the proposal or project selection date or the start of the substantial improvement while under a HAP contract is after January 19, 2017, must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the owner determines and documents the determination that:


(i) The location of the substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;


(ii) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or


(iii) The structure of the housing to be substantially rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.


(4) An owner or project principal who is on the U.S. General Services Administration list of parties excluded from Federal procurement and non-procurement programs, or who is debarred, suspended subject to a limited denial of participation, or otherwise excluded under 2 CFR part 2424, may not participate in substantial improvement undertaken on units subject to a HAP contract. The HAP contract must include a certification by the owner that the owner and other project principals (including the officers and principal members, shareholders, investors, and other parties having a substantial interest in the project) are not on such list and are not debarred, suspended subject to a limited denial of participation, or otherwise excluded under 2 CFR part 2424.


(5) An owner must disclose any possible conflict of interest that would be a violation of the HAP contract or HUD regulations, in accordance with § 982.161 of this title.


(6) The requirements for additional assistance after HAP contract at § 983.11(d) apply to substantial improvement undertaken on units that are currently under a HAP contract.


(7) Section 983.155, Completion of work, applies to substantial improvement undertaken on units that are currently under a HAP contract.


(8) Section 983.156(a), Inspection of units, and (d), PHA-owned units, apply to substantial improvement undertaken on units that are currently under a HAP contract.


(c) *PHA-owned units.* For PHA-owned units, the independent entity must determine whether to approve the PHA proposal to undertake substantial improvement as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, including making the determinations in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (a)(3)(ii)(A) when the owner will undertake substantial improvement in a unit currently occupied by an assisted family, as applicable (see § 983.57(b)(4)). The independent entity must approve the proposal if:


(1) The proposed substantial improvement meets one of the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section;


(2) The description of the substantial improvement does not include plans to demolish a building containing contract units and newly construct replacement units; and


(3) The plan to house each family during the period that family's unit will not meet HQS complies with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3).



---

[N] [89 FR 38329, May 7, 2024]






