# ยง 1507.2   Agency capability to comply.

Each agency shall be capable (in terms of personnel and other resources) of complying with the requirements of NEPA and the regulations in this subchapter. Such compliance may include use of the resources of other agencies, applicants, and other participants in the NEPA process, but the agency using the resources shall itself have sufficient capability to evaluate what others do for it and account for the contributions of others. Agencies shall:


(a) Designate a senior agency official to be responsible for overall review of agency NEPA compliance, including resolving implementation issues, and a Chief Public Engagement Officer to be responsible for facilitating community engagement in environmental reviews across the agency and, where appropriate, the provision of technical assistance to communities. When the agency is a department, it may be efficient for major subunits (with the consent of the department) to identify senior agency officials or Chief Public Engagement Officers within those subunits, whom the department-level official or Officer oversees.


(b) Fulfill the requirements of section 102(2)(A) of NEPA to utilize a systematic, interdisciplinary approach that will ensure the integrated use of the natural and social sciences and the environmental design arts in planning and in decision making that may have an impact on the human environment.


(c) Identify methods and procedures required by section 102(2)(B) of NEPA to ensure that presently unquantified environmental amenities and values may be given appropriate consideration.


(d) Prepare adequate environmental impact statements pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of NEPA and cooperate on the development of environmental impact statements in the areas where the agency has jurisdiction by law or special expertise or is authorized to develop and enforce environmental standards.


(e) Ensure environmental documents are prepared with professional integrity, including scientific integrity, consistent with section 102(2)(D) of NEPA.


(f) Make use of reliable data and resources in carrying out their responsibilities under NEPA, consistent with section 102(2)(E) of NEPA.


(g) Study, develop, and describe technically and economically feasible alternatives, consistent with section 102(2)(F) of NEPA.


(h) Study, develop, and describe alternatives to recommended courses of action in any proposal that involves unresolved conflicts concerning alternative uses of available resources, consistent with section 102(2)(H) of NEPA.


(i) Comply with the requirement of section 102(2)(K) of NEPA that the agency initiate and utilize ecological information in the planning and development of resource-oriented projects.


(j) Fulfill the requirements of sections 102(2)(I), 102(2)(J), and 102(2)(L), of NEPA, and Executive Order 11514, Protection and Enhancement of Environmental Quality, section 2, as amended by Executive Order 11991, Relating to Protection and Enhancement of Environmental Quality.






