# ยง 3020.111   Pre-filing requirements.

(a) *Pre-filing conference required.* Prior to the Postal Service filing a request that the Commission issue an advisory opinion on a proposed change in the nature of postal services subject to the procedures established in this subpart, the Postal Service shall conduct one or more pre-filing conference(s) with interested persons in the proceeding and shall make a good faith effort to address the concerns of such persons.


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of a pre-filing conference is to expedite consideration of the Postal Service's request for the issuance of advisory opinions by informing interested persons of the Postal Service's proposal; by providing an opportunity for interested persons to give feedback to the Postal Service that can be used by the Postal Service to modify or refine its proposal before it is filed at the Commission; and by identifying relevant issues and information needed to address those issues during proceedings at the Commission.


(c) *Rationale for the proposal.* The Postal Service shall make available at the pre-filing conference a representative capable of discussing the policy rationale behind the Postal Service's proposal with interested persons.


(d) *Notice.* The Postal Service shall file with the Commission a notice of its intent to conduct any pre-filing conference(s) at least ten days before the first scheduled conference. The notice filed by the Postal Service shall include a schedule of proposed date(s) and location(s) for the conference(s). Upon receipt of such notice, the Commission shall issue a notice of pre-filing conference(s), which shall be published in the _Federal Register,_ and appoint a Public Representative.


(e) *Nature of conferences.* Discussions during the pre-filing conference(s) shall be informal and off the record. No formal record will be created during a pre-filing conference.


(f) *Noncompliance.* If the Postal Service's noncompliance with the requirements of the pre-filing conference under ยง 3020.113(b)(4) is established by a participant, the Commission may, in its discretion, consider an extension of, or modification to, the procedural schedule.


(g) *Informal meetings.* Interested persons may meet outside the context of a pre-filing conference, among themselves or with the Postal Service, individually or in groups, to discuss the proposed changes in the nature of postal services.




