# § 404.2045   Conservation and investment of benefit payments.

(a) *General.* After the representative payee has used benefit payments consistent with the guidelines in this subpart (see § 404.2040 regarding use of benefits), any remaining amount shall be conserved or invested on behalf of the beneficiary. Conserved funds should be invested in accordance with the rules followed by trustees. Any investment must show clearly that the payee holds the property in trust for the beneficiary.


(b) *Preferred investments.* Preferred investments for excess funds are U.S. Savings Bonds and deposits in an interest or dividend paying account in a bank, trust company, credit union, or savings and loan association which is insured under either Federal or State law. The account must be in a form which shows clearly that the representative payee has only a fiduciary and not a personal interest in the funds. If the payee is the legally appointed guardian or fiduciary of the beneficiary, the account may be established to indicate this relationship. If the payee is not the legally appointed guardian or fiduciary, the accounts may be established as follows:


(1) For U.S. Savings Bonds—


(2) For interest or dividend paying accounts—


(c) *Interest and dividend payments.* The interest and dividends which result from an investment are the property of the beneficiary and may not be considered to be the property of the payee.



---

[N] [47 FR 30472, July 14, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 35483, Aug. 28, 1989; 78 FR 46501, Aug. 1, 2013]




