# ยง 888.3120   Ankle joint metal/polymer non-constrained cemented prosthesis.

(a) *Identification.* An ankle joint metal/polymer non-constrained cemented prosthesis is a device intended to be implanted to replace an ankle joint. The device limits minimally (less than normal anatomic constraints) translation in one or more planes. It has no linkage across-the-joint. This generic type of device includes prostheses that have a tibial component made of alloys, such as cobalt-chromium-molybdenum, and a talar component made of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene, and is limited to those prostheses intended for use with bone cement (ยง 888.3027). 


(b) *Classification.* Class III. 


(c) *Date PMA or notice of completion of a PDP is required.* A PMA or a notice of completion of a PDP is required to be filed with the Food and Drug Administration on or before December 26, 1996 for any ankle joint metal/polymer non-constrained cemented prosthesis that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, or that has, on or before December 26, 1996, been found to be substantially equivalent to an ankle joint metal/polymer non-constrained cemented prosthesis that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976. Any other ankle joint metal/polymer non-constrained cemented prosthesis shall have an approved PMA or a declared completed PDP in effect before being placed in commercial distribution.



---

[N] [52 FR 33702, Sept. 4, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 50709, Sept. 27, 1996] 




