# § 571.117   Standard No. 117; Retreaded pneumatic tires.

S1. *Scope.* This standard specifies performance, labeling, and certification requirements for retreaded pneumatic passenger car tires.


S2. *Purpose.* The purpose of this standard is to require retreaded pneumatic passenger car tires to meet safety criteria similar to those for new pneumatic passenger car tires.


S3. *Application.* This standard applies to retreaded pneumatic tires for use on passenger cars manufactured after 1948.


S4. *Definitions.*

S4.1 *Casing* means a used tire to which additional tread may be attached for the purpose of retreading.


*Retreaded* means manufactured by a process in which a tread is attached to a casing.


S4.2 All terms defined in §§ 571.109 and 571.110 are used as defined therein.


S5. *Requirements.*

S5.1 *Retreaded tires.*

S5.1.1 Except as specified in S5.1.3, each retreaded tire, when mounted on a test rim of the width specified for the tire's size designation in appendix A of § 571.109 shall comply with the following requirements of § 571.109:


(a) S4.1 (Size and construction).


(b) S4.2.1 (General).


(c) S4.2.2.3 (Tubeless tire resistance to bead unseating).


(d) S4.2.2.4 (Tire strength).


S5.1.2 Except as specified in S5.1.3, each retreaded tire, when mounted on a test rim of the width specified for the tire's size designation in appendix A of § 571.109, shall comply with the requirements of S4.2.2.2 of § 571.109, except that the tire's section width shall not be more than 110 percent of the section width specified, and the tire's size factor shall be at least 97 percent of the size factor specified, in appendix A of § 571.109 for the tire's size designation.


S5.1.3 Each retreaded tire shall be capable of meeting the requirements of S5.1.1 and S5.1.2 when mounted on any rim in accordance with those sections.


S5.1.4 No retreaded tire shall have a size designation, recommended maximum load rating, or maximum permissible inflation pressure that is greater than that originally specified on the casing pursuant to S4.3 of § 571.109, or specified for the casing in Table I.


S5.2 *Casings.*

S5.2.1 No retreaded tire shall be manufactured with a casing—


(a) On which bead wire or cord fabric is exposed before processing.


(b) On which any cord fabric is exposed during processing, except that cord fabric that is located at a splice, i.e., where two or more segments of the same ply overlap, or cord fabric that is part of the belt material, may be exposed but shall not be penetrated or removed to any extent whatsoever.


S5.2.2 No retreaded tire shall be manufactured with a casing—


(a) From which a belt or ply, or part thereof, is removed during processing; or


(b) On which a belt or ply, or part thereof, is added or replaced during processing.


S5.2.3 Each retreaded tire shall be manufactured with a casing that bears, permanently molded at the time of its original manufacture into or onto the tire sidewall, each of the following:


(a) The symbol DOT;


(b) The size of the tire; and


(c) The actual number of plies or ply rating.


S5.2.4 [Reserved]


S6. *Certification and labeling.*

S6.1 Each manufacturer of a retreaded tire shall certify that its product complies with this standard pursuant to Section 30115 of Title 49, United States Code, by labeling the tire with the symbol DOT in the location specified in section 574.5 of this chapter.


S6.2 [Reserved]


S6.3. *Labeling.* Each retreaded tire shall comply, according to the phase-in schedule specified in S7 of this standard, with the requirements of S5.5 and S5.5.1 of § 571.139.


S7. *Phase-In Schedule for labeling*

S7.1. *Tires retreaded on or after September 1, 2005 and before September 1, 2006.* For tires manufactured on or after September 1, 2005 and before September 1, 2006, the number of tires complying with S6.3 of this standard must be equal to not less than 40% of the retreader's production during that period.


S7.2. *Tires retreaded on or after September 1, 2006 and before September 1, 2007.* For tires manufactured on or after September 1, 2006 and before September 1, 2007, the number of tires complying with S6.3 of this standard must be equal to not less than 70% of the retreader's production during that period.


S7.3. *Tires retreaded on or after September 1, 2007.* Each tire must comply with S6.3 of this standard.



---

[N] [37 FR 5952, Mar. 23, 1972, as amended at 37 FR 11775, June 14, 1972; 38 FR 2982, Jan. 31, 1973; 38 FR 6999, Mar. 15, 1973; 38 FR 9688, Apr. 19, 1973; 39 FR 1443, Jan. 9, 1974; 39 FR 3553, Jan. 28, 1974; 39 FR 36016, Oct. 7, 1974; 39 FR 39884, Nov. 12, 1974; 61 FR 29494, June 11, 1996; 63 FR 28920, May 27, 1998; 67 FR 69627, Nov. 18, 2002; 69 FR 31319, June 3, 2004]


