# ยง 766.105   Agency consideration of servicing requests.

(a) *Order in which Agency considers servicing options.* The Agency will consider loan servicing options and combinations of options to maximize loan repayment and minimize losses to the Agency. The Agency will consider loan servicing options in the following order for each eligible borrower who requests servicing:


(1) Conservation Contract, if requested;


(2) Consolidation and rescheduling or reamortization;


(3) Deferral;


(4) Write-down; and


(5) Current market value buyout.


(b) *Debt service margin.* (1) The Agency will attempt to achieve a 110 percent debt service margin for the servicing options listed in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section.


(2) If the borrower cannot develop a feasible plan with the 110 percent debt service margin, the Agency will reduce the debt service margin by one percent and reconsider all available servicing authorities. This process will be repeated until a feasible plan has been developed or it has been determined that a feasible plan is not possible with a 100 percent margin.


(3) The borrower must be able to develop a feasible plan with at least a 100 percent debt service margin to be considered for the servicing options listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(c) *Appraisal of borrower's assets.* The Agency will obtain an appraisal on:


(1) All Agency security, non-essential assets, and real property unencumbered by the Agency that does not meet the criteria established in ยง 766.112(b), when:


(i) A write-down is required to develop a feasible plan;


(ii) The borrower will be offered current market value buyout.


(2) The borrower's non-essential assets when their net recovery value may be adequate to bring the delinquent loans current.



---

[N] [72 FR 63316, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 65044, Aug. 8, 2024]






