# § 1.884-0   Overview of regulation provisions for section 884.

(a) *Introduction.* Section 884 consists of three main parts: a branch profits tax on certain earnings of a foreign corporation's U.S. trade or business; a branch-level interest tax on interest paid, or deemed paid, by a foreign corporation's U.S. trade or business; and an anti-treaty shopping rule. A foreign corporation is subject to section 884 by virtue of owning an interest in a partnership, trust, or estate that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business or has income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. An international organization (as defined in section 7701(a)(18)) is not subject to the branch profits tax by reason of section 884(e)(5). A foreign government treated as a corporate resident of its country of residence under section 892(a)(3) shall be treated as a corporation for purposes of section 884. The preceding sentence shall be effective for taxable years ending on or after September 11, 1992, except that, for the first taxable year ending on or after that date, the branch profits tax shall not apply to effectively connected earnings and profits of the foreign government earned prior to that date nor to decreases in the U.S. net equity of a foreign government occurring after the close of the preceding taxable year and before that date. Similarly, § 1.884-4 shall apply, in the case of branch interest, only with respect to amounts of interest accrued and paid by a foreign government on or after that date, or, in the case of excess interest, only with respect to amounts attributable to interest accrued by a foreign government on or after that date and apportioned to ECI, as defined in § 1.884-1(d)(1)(iii). Except as otherwise provided, for purposes of the regulations under section 884, the term “U.S. trade or business” includes all the U.S. trades or businesses of a foreign corporation.


(1) *The branch profits tax.* Section 1.884-1 provides rules for computing the branch profits tax and defines various terms that affect the computation of the tax. In general, section 884(a) imposes a 30-percent branch profits tax on the after-tax earnings of a foreign corporation's U.S. trade or business that are not reinvested in a U.S. trade or business by the close of the taxable year, or are disinvested in a later taxable year. Changes in the value of the equity of the foreign corporation's U.S. trade or business are used as the measure of whether earnings have been reinvested in, or disinvested form, a U.S. trade or business. An increase in the equity during the taxable year is generally treated as a reinvestment of the earnings for the current taxable year; a decrease in the equity during the taxable year is generally treated as a disinvestment of prior years' earnings that have not previously been subject to the branch profits tax. The amount subject to the branch profits tax for the taxable year is the dividend equivalent amount. Section 1.884-2T contains special rules relating to the effect on the branch profits tax of the termination or incorporation of a U.S. trade or business or the liquidation or reorganization of a foreign corporation or its domestic subsidiary.


(2) *The branch-level interest tax.* Section 1.884-4 provides rules for computing the branch-level interest tax. In general, interest paid by a U.S. trade or business of a foreign corporation (“branch interest”, as defined in § 1.884-4(b)) is treated as if it were paid by a domestic corporation and may be subject to tax under section 871(a) or 881, and to withholding under section 1441 or 1442. In addition, if the interest apportioned to ECI exceeds branch interest, the excess is treated as interest paid to the foreign corporation by a wholly-owned domestic corporation and is subject to tax under section 881(a).


(3) *Qualified resident.* Section 1.884-5 provides rules for determining whether a foreign corporation is a qualified resident of a foreign country. In general, a foreign corporation must be a qualified resident of a foreign country with which the United States has an income tax treaty in order to claim an exemption or rate reduction with respect to the branch profits tax, the branch-level interest tax, and the tax on dividends paid by the foreign corporation.


(b) *Special rules for U.S. possessions.* (1) Section 884 does not apply to a corporation created or organized in, or under the law of, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or the U.S. Virgin Islands, provided that the conditions of § 1.881-5(c)(1) through (c)(3) are satisfied with respect to such corporation. The preceding sentence applies for taxable years ending after April 9, 2008.


(2) Section 884 does not apply for purposes of determining tax liability incurred to a section 935 possession or the U.S. Virgin Islands by a corporation created or organized in, or under the law of, such possession or the United States. The preceding sentence applies for taxable years ending after April 9, 2008.


(c) *Outline of major topics in §§ 1.884-1 through 1.884-5.*


---

[N] [T.D. 8432, 57 FR 41649, Sept. 11, 1992; 57 FR 49117, Oct. 29, 1992; 57 FR 60126, Dec. 18, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8657, 61 FR 9338, Mar. 8, 1996; T.D. 9194, 70 FR 18930, Apr. 11, 2005; T.D. 9391, 73 FR 19360, Apr. 9, 2008; 73 FR 27728, May 14, 2008]




