# § 49.4163   General provisions.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in §§ 49.4161 through 49.4168, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act, in subpart A and subpart OOOO of 40 CFR part 60, in the Prevention of Significant Deterioration regulations at 40 CFR 52.21, or in the Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country at 40 CFR 49.151. The following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.


(1) *Bakken Pool* means Oil produced from the Bakken, Three Forks, and Sanish Formations.


(2) *Breathing losses* means natural gas emissions from fixed roof tanks resulting from evaporative losses during storage.


(3) *Casinghead natural gas* means the associated natural gas that naturally dissolves out of reservoir fluids during well completion operations and recompletion operations due to the pressure relief that occurs as the reservoir fluids travel up the well casinghead.


(4) *Closed vent system* means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of hard-piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport natural gas from a piece or pieces of equipment to a control device or back to a process.


(5) *Enclosed combustor* means a thermal oxidation system with an enclosed combustion chamber that maintains a limited constant temperature by controlling fuel and combustion air.


(6) *Existing facility* means an oil and natural gas production facility that begins actual construction prior to the effective date of the “Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Well Production Facilities; Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation), North Dakota”.


(7) *Flashing losses* means natural gas emissions resulting from the presence of dissolved natural gas in the produced oil and the produced water, both of which are under high pressure, that occurs as the produced oil and produced water is transferred to storage tanks or other vessels that are at atmospheric pressure.


(8) *Modified facility* means a facility which has undergone the addition, completion, or recompletion of one or more oil and natural gas wells, and/or the addition of any associated equipment necessary for production and storage operations at an existing facility.


(9) *New facility* means an oil and natural gas production facility that begins actual construction after the effective date of the “Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Well Production Facilities; Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation), North Dakota”.


(10) *Oil* means hydrocarbon liquids.


(11) *Oil and natural gas production facility* means all of the air pollution emitting units and activities located on or integrally connected to one or more oil and natural gas wells that are necessary for production operations and storage operations.


(12) *Oil and natural gas well* means a single well that extracts subsurface reservoir fluids containing a mixture of oil, natural gas, and water.


(13) *Owner or operator* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises an oil and natural gas production facility.


(14) *Permit to construct or construction permit* means a permit issued by the Regional Administrator pursuant to 40 CFR 49.151, 52.10 or 52.21, or a permit issued by a tribe pursuant to a program approved by the Administrator under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, authorizing the construction or modification of a stationary source.


(15) *Permit to operate or operating permit* means a permit issued by the Regional Administrator pursuant to 40 CFR part 71, or by a tribe pursuant to a program approved by the Administrator under 40 CFR part 51 or 40 CFR part 70, authorizing the operation of a stationary source.


(16) *Pit flare* means an ignition device, installed horizontally or vertically and used in oil and natural gas production operations to combust produced natural gas and natural gas emissions.


(17) *Produced natural gas* means natural gas that is separated from extracted reservoir fluids during production operations.


(18) *Produced oil* means oil that is separated from extracted reservoir fluids during production operations.


(19) *Produced oil storage tank* means a unit that is constructed primarily of non-earthen materials (such as steel, fiberglass, or plastic) which provides structural support and is designed to contain an accumulation of produced oil.


(20) *Produced water* means water that is separated from extracted reservoir fluids during production operations.


(21) *Produced water storage tank* means a unit that is constructed primarily of non-earthen materials (such as steel, fiberglass, or plastic) which provides structural support and is designed to contain an accumulation of produced water.


(22) *Production operations* means the extraction and separation of reservoir fluids from an oil and natural gas well, using separators and heater-treater systems. A separator is a pressurized vessel designed to separate reservoir fluids into their constituent components of oil, natural gas and water. A heater-treater is a unit that heats the reservoir fluid to break oil/water emulsions and to reduce the oil viscosity. The water is then typically removed by using gravity to allow the water to separate from the oil.


(23) *Regional Administrator* means the Regional Administrator of EPA Region 8 or an authorized representative of the Regional Administrator.


(24) *Standing losses* means natural gas emissions from fixed roof tanks as a result of evaporative losses during storage.


(25) *Storage operations* means the transfer of produced oil and produced water to storage tanks, the filling of the storage tanks, the storage of the produced oil and produced water in the storage tanks, and the draining of the produced oil and produced water from the storage tanks.


(26) *Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system* generally refers to industrial control computer systems that monitor and control industrial infrastructure or facility-based processes.


(27) *Utility flare* means thermal oxidation system using an open (without enclosure) flame. An enclosed combustor as defined in §§ 49.4161 through 49.4168 is not considered a flare.


(28) *Visible Smoke emissions* means a pollutant generated by thermal oxidation in a flare or enclosed combustor and occurring immediately downstream of the flame. Visible smoke occurring within, but not downstream of, the flame, is not considered to constitute visible smoke emissions.


(29) *Well completion* means the process that allows for the flowback of oil and natural gas from newly drilled wells to expel drilling and reservoir fluids and tests the reservoir flow characteristics, which may vent produced hydrocarbons to the atmosphere via an open pit or tank.


(30) *Well completion operation* means any oil and natural gas well completion using hydraulic fracturing occurring at an oil and natural gas production facility.


(31) *Well recompletion operation* means any oil and natural gas well completion using hydraulic refracturing occurring at an oil and natural gas production facility.


(32) *Working losses* means natural gas emissions from fixed roof tanks resulting from evaporative losses during filling and emptying operations.


(b) *Requirement for testing.* The Regional Administrator may require that an owner or operator of an oil and natural gas production facility demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the “Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Well Production Facilities; Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation), North Dakota” by performing a source test and submitting the test results to the Regional Administrator. Nothing in the “Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Well Production Facilities; Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation), North Dakota” limits the authority of the Regional Administrator to require, in an information request pursuant to section 114 of the Act, an owner or operator of an oil and natural gas production facility subject to the “Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities, Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation)” to demonstrate compliance by performing testing, even where the facility does not have a permit to construct or a permit to operate.


(c) *Requirement for monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.* Nothing in “Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities, Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation)” precludes the Regional Administrator from requiring monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting, including monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting in addition to that already required by an applicable requirement in these rules, in a permit to construct or permit to operate in order to ensure compliance.


(d) *Credible evidence.* For the purposes of submitting reports or establishing whether or not an owner or operator of an oil and natural gas production facility has violated or is in violation of any requirement, nothing in the “Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Well Production Facilities; Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation), North Dakota” shall preclude the use, including the exclusive use, of any credible evidence or information, relevant to whether a facility would have been in compliance with applicable requirements if the appropriate performance or compliance test had been performed.




