# § 124.507   Written determinations of eligibility.

(a) Determinations of eligibility must be in writing, be made in accordance with this section, and a copy of the determination must be provided to the applicant promptly.


(b) *Content of determinations*—(1) *Favorable determinations.* A determination that an applicant is eligible must indicate:


(i) That the facility will provide uncompensated services at no charge or at a specified charge less than the allowable credit for the services;


(ii) The date on which services were requested;


(iii) The date on which the determination was made;


(iv) The applicant's individual or family income, as applicable, and family size; and


(v) The date on which services were or will be first provided to the applicant.


(2) *Conditional determinations.* (i) As a condition to providing uncompensated services, a facility may:


(A) Require the applicant to furnish any information that is reasonably necessary to substantiate eligibility; and


(B) Require the applicant to apply for any benefits under third party insurer or governmental programs to which he/she is or could be entitled upon proper application.


(ii) A conditional determination must:


(A) Comply with paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and


(B) State the condition(s) under which the applicant will be found eligible.


(iii) When a facility determines that the condition(s) upon which a conditional determination was made has been met, or will not be met, it shall make a favorable determination or denial on the request, as appropriate, in accordance with this section.


(3) *Denials.* A facility must provide to each applicant denied the uncompensated services requested, in whole or in part, a dated statement of the reasons for the denial.


(c) *Timing of determinations*—(1) *Preservice determinations.* (i) Facilities other than nursing homes shall make a determination of eligibility within two working days following a request for uncompensated services which is made before receipt of outpatient services or before discharge for inpatient services;


(ii) Nursing homes shall make a determination of eligibility within ten working days, but no later than two working days following the date of admission, following a request for uncompensated services made prior to admission.


(2) *Postservice determinations.* All facilities shall make a determination of eligibility not later than the end of the first full billing cycle following a request for uncompensated services which is made after receipt of outpatient services, discharge for inpatient services, or admission for nursing home services.



---

[N] [52 FR 46031, Dec. 3, 1987; 52 FR 48362, Dec. 21, 1987]




