# § 266.504   Healthcare facilities that are very small quantity generators for both hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste that are not operating under this subpart.

(a) *Potentially creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.* A healthcare facility that is a very small quantity generator for both hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste may send its potentially creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals to a reverse distributor.




(b) *Off-site collection of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals generated by a healthcare facility that is a very small quantity generator.* A healthcare facility that is a very small quantity generator for both hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste may send its hazardous waste pharmaceuticals off site to another generator, provided:






(1) The receiving healthcare facility meets the conditions in § 266.502(l) of this subpart and § 266.503(b), as applicable; or


(2) The very small quantity generator healthcare facility meets the conditions in § 262.14(a)(5)(viii) and the receiving large quantity generator meets the conditions in § 262.17(f).


(c) *Long-term care facilities that are very small quantity generators.* A long-term care facility that is a very small quantity generator for both hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste may dispose of its hazardous waste pharmaceuticals (excluding contaminated personal protective equipment or clean-up materials) in an on-site collection receptacle of an authorized collector (as defined by the Drug Enforcement Administration) that is registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration provided the contents are collected, stored, transported, destroyed and disposed of in compliance with all applicable Drug Enforcement Administration regulations for controlled substances.


(d) *Long-term care facilities with 20 beds or fewer.* A long-term care facility with 20 beds or fewer is presumed to be a very small quantity generator subject to § 262.14 for both hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and non-pharmaceutical hazardous waste and *not* subject to this subpart, except for §§ 266.505 and 266.507 and the other optional provisions of this section. The EPA Regional Administrator has the responsibility to demonstrate that a long-term care facility with 20 beds or fewer generates quantities of hazardous waste that are in excess of the very small quantity generator limits as defined in § 260.10. A long-term care facility with more than 20 beds that operates as a very small quantity generator under § 262.14 must demonstrate that it generates quantities of hazardous waste that are within the very small quantity generator limits as defined by § 260.10.





---

[N] [84 FR 5940, Feb. 22, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 54113, Aug. 9, 2023]














