# ยง 165.1402   Safety Zone; Navy Underwater Detonation (UNDET) Exercises, GU.

(a) *Location.* The following areas, within the U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone (See 33 CFR 3.70-15), from the surface of the water to the ocean floor, are safety zones:


(1) *Apra Outer Harbor, Guam.* All waters above and below the surface bounded by a circle with a 700 yard radius centered at 13 degrees 27 minutes 42 seconds North Latitude and 144 degrees 38 minutes 30 seconds East Longitude, (NAD 1983).


(2) *Piti, Guam.* All waters above and below the surface bounded by a circle with a 700 yard radius centered at 13 degrees 29 minutes 03 seconds North Latitude and 144 degrees 40 minutes 03 seconds East Longitude, (NAD 1983).


(b) *Enforcement periods.* This section will be enforced for designated periods of time, many of which are of short duration, on days requested by the Navy for purpose of UNDET exercises.


(c) *Regulations.* The general regulations governing safety zones contained in ยง 165.23 apply. With the exception of exercise participants, no vessels may enter or transit safety zones in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and no persons in the water may enter or transit the safety zone in paragraph (a)(2) of this section unless authorized by the COTP or a designated representative thereof.


(d) *Enforcement.* Any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer, and any other COTP representative permitted by law, may enforce these safety zones.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-0651, 83 FR 23369, May 21, 2018, as amended by USCG-2022-0429, 87 FR 48446, Aug. 9, 2022]




