# § 80.115   RNG RIN separators.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Any RNG RIN separator must comply with the requirements of this section.


(2) The RNG RIN separator must also comply with all other applicable requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 1090.


(3) If the RNG RIN separator meets the definition of more than one type of regulated party under this part or 40 CFR 1090, the RNG RIN separator must comply with the requirements applicable to each of those types of regulated parties.


(4) The RNG RIN separator must comply with all applicable requirements of this part, regardless of whether the requirements are identified in this section.


(b) *Registration.* (1) The RNG RIN separator must register with EPA under §§ 80.135, 80.1450, and 40 CFR part 1090, subpart I, as applicable.


(2) A dispensing location may only be included in one RNG RIN separator's registration at a time.


(c) *Reporting.* The RNG RIN separator must submit reports to EPA under §§ 80.140, 80.1451, and 80.1452, as applicable.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* The RNG RIN separator must create and maintain records under §§ 80.145 and 80.1454.


(e) *PTDs.* On each occasion when the RNG RIN separator transfers title of renewable fuel and RINs to another party, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under § 80.1453.


(f) *Measurement.* (1) All measurements must be done in accordance with § 80.155.


(2) An RNG RIN separator must measure the volume of natural gas, in Btu LHV, withdrawn from the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(g) *Attest engagements.* The RNG RIN separator must submit annual attest engagement reports to EPA under §§ 80.165 and 80.1464 using procedures specified in 40 CFR 1090.1800 and 1090.1805.






