# ยง 3550.57   Dwelling requirements.

(a) *Modest dwelling.* The property must be one that is considered modest for the area, must not be designed for income producing purposes, or have a market value in excess of the applicable maximum area loan limit, in accordance with ยง 3550.63, unless RHS authorizes an exception under this paragraph (a). An exception may be granted on a case-by-case basis to accommodate the specific needs of an applicant, such as to serve exceptionally large households or to provide reasonable accommodation for a household member with a disability. Any additional loan amount approved must not exceed the amount required to address the specific need. Existing properties with in-ground swimming pools may be considered modest; however, in-ground swimming pools with new construction or with properties which are purchased new are prohibited.


(1) *Area-wide exception.* Area-wide exceptions may be granted when RHS determines that the section 203(b) limit is too low to enable applicants to purchase adequate housing. 


(2) *Individual exceptions.* Individual exceptions may be granted to accommodate the specific needs of an applicant, such as to serve exceptionally large households or to provide reasonable accommodation for a household member with a disability. Any additional loan amount approved must not exceed the amount required to address the specific need. 


(b) *New dwellings.* Construction must meet the requirements in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A. 


(c) *Existing dwellings.* Existing dwellings must be structurally sound; functionally adequate; in good repair, or to be placed in good repair with loan funds; have adequate electrical, heating, plumbing, water, and wastewater disposal systems; and be free of termites and other wood damaging pests and organisms. 



---

[N] [61 FR 59779, Nov. 22, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 78329, Dec. 24, 2002; 72 FR 70222, Dec. 11, 2007; 87 FR 6772, Feb. 7, 2022]




