# ยง 24.77   Experimental wine.

(a) *General.* Any scientific university, college of learning, or institution of scientific research may, without payment of tax, produce, receive, blend, treat, and store wine for experimental or research use, but not for consumption (other than organoleptic tests) or sale, and may receive wine spirits without payment of tax in quantities as may be necessary for the production of wine.


(b) *Qualification.* An institution that wants to conduct experimental wine operations must apply in letter form to the appropriate TTB officer. The application will show the name and address of the institution, the nature, extent, and purpose of the operations to be conducted, describe the operations and equipment and the location at which operations will be conducted (including identification of the building or buildings, or portions thereof, to be used), and the security measures to be provided. If wine spirits are to be used, that fact will be stated together with the estimated annual requirements in proof gallons. A secure place of storage under lock will be provided for such spirits and will be described in the application. The applicant must, when required by the appropriate TTB officer, furnish as part of the application, additional information that may be necessary to determine whether the application should be approved. Operations may not begin until authorized by the appropriate TTB officer.


(c) *Procurement of spirits.* Where the approved application provides for the use of wine spirits in experimental wine operations, such spirits may be procured to the extent stated in the approved qualifying application. However, an application will be filed with the appropriate TTB officer and authorization obtained for each wine spirits procurement.


(d) *Records.* All approved qualifying documents and applications will be retained in the files of the institution and will be exhibited on request to appropriate TTB officers. No reports concerning wine or wine spirits need be filed unless required by appropriate TTB officer, but records appropriate to the experiments to be conducted and records documenting the disposition of the wine and wine spirits will be retained and will be made available for inspection by appropriate TTB officers. If wine spirits are used, the records will show the quantities of spirits received and used each day.


(e) *Discontinuance.* When an institution discontinues experimental wine operations, all remaining wine or wine spirits will be disposed of either by destruction or shipment to premises authorized to receive wine or wine spirits. A letter application will be filed with the appropriate TTB officer and authorization obtained prior to the destruction or shipment of the wine or wine spirits. When the authorized destruction or shipment has been completed, a letter notification will be sent to the appropriate TTB officer.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, 13684, Mar. 22, 1999]




