# § 705.14   Embarkation of media representatives.

(a) *General.* (1) Although this paragraph applies primarily to embarkation in ships, provisions which are applicable to embarkation on aircraft or visits to shore installations apply also to those situations.


(2) See also § 705.37 on transportation of non-Navy civilians.


(b) *Invitations to embark.* (1) Invitations should be extended as far in advance as possible and inclusive information on the following should be provided:


(i) Type, scope and duration of operation or cruise.


(ii) Communications, methods of press transmission, and charges, if any.


(iii) Transportation arrangements.


(iv) Approximate cost of meals and/or quarters, and the statement that the newsman will be expected to pay for these and other personal expenses incurred.


(2) It should be made clear to the newsman that there may be limits on movement from one participating unit to another. If helicopters or highline transfers are to be used, their limitations and hazards should be explained.


(3) On operations where security is critical, embarkation of newsmen may be made contingent to their agreement to submit copy for security review. Under such circumstances, the reason for the review will be made clear prior to embarkation, and every effort will be made to avoid any interpretation of such review as “censorship” or interference with freedom of the press.


(c) *Arrangements aboard ship.* (1) Where appropriate, a briefing should be held at the earliest convenient time after embarkation at which newsmen may meet the commanding officer and other key personnel and guests and at which previously supplied information is reviewed.


(2) If feasible, an escort officer will be assigned to each newsman (or group of newsmen having similar requirements).


(3) It should be reported in the ship's newspaper (and on radio and closed-circuit TV, if any) that newsmen will be embarked, giving their names and the media they represent.


(4) If a correspondent is interested in home town material, personnel from his area should be contacted in advance, if possible, to determine if and when they would be available for interviews and photos.


(5) Representatives of press associations and radio and TV networks will be embarked in the Exercise Commander's flagship or the Exercise Control ship, when possible. This ship should also control the ship-to-shore press radio and teletype (RATT).


(6) When more than one representative from the same medium is embarked, an attempt should be made to have them located at separate vantage points.


(d) *Communications.* (1) Every effort will be made to provide suitable communication facilities for newsmen embarked (including equipment and personnel, if feasible).


(2) All persons embarked with permission of proper authority and accredited as correspondents are eligible to file press traffic, as authorized by the procedures set forth in Naval Telecommunication Procedures (NTP-9), “Commercial Communications.”


(3) Navy radio or wire transmission facilities, where available, may be made available to news media (including accredited civilian photographers) when operational requirements permit, in accordance with instructions set forth by the Director of Naval Communications. This includes making live broadcasts or telecasts. (A live network broadcast or telecast must, however, be approved by the Chief of Information.)


(4) Messages and instructions from editors and station managers to embarked newsmen will be handled as press traffic, as authorized in Naval Telecommunication Procedures (NTP-9).


(5) Stations receiving press circuits will be authorized to receipt for press traffic without asking for time-consuming “repeats.”


(6) Under normal circumstances, press copy will be transmitted on a first-come, first-served basis; however, newsmen will be informed that the prerogative of limiting the amount to be filed during any one period rests with the Exercise Commander.


(7) If it becomes necessary for operational reasons for newsmen to pool copy, such messages shall be filed as “multiple address messages” or book messages, as appropriate, or when requested by the newsmen concerned.


(8) If the locale of the exercise permits newsfilm and press mail to be flown ashore, flights should be scheduled on a high priority basis to connect with scheduled commercial air traffic. Operational aircraft as well as scheduled government air flights should be considered for delivery of television news film, radio tapes and photography to the nearest commercial communications facility.


(e) *Voluntary submission of material by a newsman for security review.* When a review is not required but is sought by the newsman, no attempt will be made to delete or change any material, whether or not it appears critical of the Navy or of naval personnel. If any classified information is included, the newsman will be asked to delete it. In addition, his attention will be drawn to any inaccurate or possibly misleading statements.



---

[N] [41 FR 29101, July 15, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 6390, Feb. 1, 1979]




