# ยง 385.101   Applicability (Rule 101).

(a) *General rules.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this part applies to:


(1) Any filing or proceeding under this chapter; and


(2) Any oil pipeline filing or proceeding under this chapter or 49 CFR Chapter X and replaces the Interstate Commerce Commission General Rules of Practice (49 CFR part 1100) with respect to any oil pipeline filing or proceeding.


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) This part does not apply to investigations under part 1b of this chapter.


(2) If any provision of this part is inconsistent with any provision of another part of this chapter, the provision of this part is inapplicable and the provision of the other part governs to the extent of the inconsistency.


(3) If any provision of this part is inconsistent with any provision of 49 CFR Chapter X that is not otherwise replaced by this part or Commission rule or order, the provision of this part is inapplicable and the provision of 49 CFR Chapter X governs to the extent of the inconsistency.


(c) *Transitional provisions.* (1) This part applies to any filing submitted on or after and to any proceeding pending on or initiated after, August 26, 1982.


(2) A decisional authority may, in the interest of justice:


(i) Apply the appropriate provisions of the prior Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR part 1) to any filing submitted after, or to any proceeding or part of a proceeding pending on August 26, 1982;


(ii) Apply the provisions of this part to any filing submitted, or any proceeding or part of a proceeding initiated, after April 28, 1982 but before August 26, 1982. 


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Waiver.* To the extent permitted by law, the Commission may, for good cause, waive any provision of this part or prescribe any alternative procedures that it determines to be appropriate.



---

[N] [Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 376, 49 FR 21705, May 23, 1984; Order 607, 65 FR 51234, Sept. 22, 1999]




