# § 600.310-12   Fuel economy label format requirements—electric vehicles.

Fuel economy labels for electric vehicles must meet the specifications described in § 600.302, with the following modifications:


(a) Include the following statement instead of the statement specified in § 600.302-12(b)(4): “Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle gets a MPG and costs $ b to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based on c miles per year at $ d per kW-hr. MPGe is miles per gasoline gallon equivalent. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of climate change and smog.” For a, b, c, and d, insert the appropriate values established by EPA.


(b) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in § 600.302-12(c)(1):


(1) The heading “Fuel Economy” near the top left corner of the field.


(2) The combined fuel economy value as determined in § 600.311 below the heading. Include the expression “combined city/hwy” below this number.


(3) An electric plug logo to the left of the combined fuel economy value.


(4) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:


(i) Include the term “MPGe” in the upper portion of the designated space.


(ii) Include the city fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower left portion of the designated space. Include the expression “city” below this number.


(iii) Include the highway fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower right portion of the designated space. Include the expression “highway” below this number.


(5) The fuel consumption rate determined in § 600.311, to the right of the fuel economy information. Include the expression “kW-hrs per 100 miles” below the numerical value.


(6) The sub-heading “Driving Range” below the combined fuel economy value. Below this sub-heading, insert a horizontal range bar nominally 80 mm long to show how far the vehicle can drive when fully fueled. Include a vehicle logo at the right end of the range bar. Include the following left-justified expression inside the range bar: “When fully charged, vehicle can travel about * * *”. Below the right end of the range bar, include the expression “*x* miles”; complete the expression by identifying the appropriate value for total driving range from § 600.311. Include numbers below the bar showing the scale, with numbers starting at 0 and increasing in equal increments. Use good engineering judgment to divide the range bar into four, five, or six increments.


(7) Below the driving range information, the expression “Charge Time: *x* hours (240V)”, where *x* is the time to charge the battery as specified in § 600.311. Change the specified voltage if appropriate as specified in § 600.311.


(c) Include the following statement instead of the one identified in § 600.302-12(c)(5): “This vehicle emits *x* grams CO_2_ per mile. The best emits 0 grams per mile (tailpipe only). Does not include emissions from generating electricity; learn more at fueleconomy.gov.” For *x,* insert the vehicle's composite CO_2_ emission rate as described in § 600.311.



---

[N] [76 FR 39563, July 6, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 63184, Oct. 15, 2012]






