# § 888.203   Use of contract rent automatic annual adjustment factors.

(a) To compute an adjustment to a Contract Rent, find the schedule of Automatic Annual Adjustment Factors for the appropriate Census Region or Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area—


(1) If the Contract Rent includes all utilities, use the factor shown on the basic schedule for the rent bracket within which the particular Contract Rent falls and for the applicable size of unit (by number of bedrooms).


(2) If the Contract Rent does not include all utilities but does include the highest cost utility, use the appropriate factor shown on the basic schedule.


(3) If the Contract Rent does not include any utilities or includes some utilities but not the highest cost utility, use the Annual Adjustment Factor for Contract Rent (Excluding Utilities).


(b) The adjusted monthly amount of the Contract Rent of a dwelling unit shall be determined by multiplying the Contract Rent in effect on the anniversary date of the contract by the applicable Automatic Annual Adjustment Factor (see paragraph (a) of this section) and rounding the result as follows:


(1) If the result contains a fractional dollar amount ranging from $0.01 to $0.49, round to the next lower whole dollar amount;


(2) If the result contains a fractional dollar amount ranging from $0.50 to $0.99, round to the next higher whole dollar amount.



---

[N] [42 FR 60508, Nov. 25, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 21769, Apr. 12, 1979; 47 FR 4252, Jan. 29, 1982; 59 FR 38564, July 29, 1994]




