# ยง 50.30   Resumption of nationality.

(a) *Section 324(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.* (1) A woman formerly a citizen of the United States at birth who wishes to regain her citizenship under section 324(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act may apply abroad to a diplomatic or consular officer on the form prescribed by the Department to take the oath of allegiance prescribed by section 337 of that Act.


(2) The applicant shall submit documentary evidence to establish her eligibility to take the oath of allegiance. If the diplomatic or consular officer or the Department determines, when the application is submitted to the Department for decision, that the applicant is ineligible for resumption of citizenship because of section 313 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the oath shall not be administered.


(b) *The Act of June 25, 1936.* (1) A woman who has been restored to citizenship by the Act of June 25, 1936, as amended by the Act of July 2, 1940, but who failed to take the oath of allegiance prior to December 24, 1952, as prescribed by the nationality laws, may apply abroad to any diplomatic or consular officer to take the oath of allegiance as prescribed by section 337 of the Immigration and Nationality Act.


(2) The applicant shall submit documentary evidence to establish her eligibility to take the oath of allegiance. If the diplomatic or consular officer or the Department determines, when the application is submitted to the Department, that the applicant is ineligible for resumption of citizenship under section 313 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the oath shall not be administered.


(c) *Certification of repatriation.* Upon request and payment of the prescribed fee, a diplomatic or consular officer or the Department shall issue a certified copy of the application and oath administered to a woman repatriated under this section. 


(d) *Section 324(d)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.* (1) A former citizen of the United States who did not retain U.S. citizenship by failure to fulfill residency requirements as set out in Section 201(g) of the 1940 Nationality Act or former 301(b) of the 1952 Immigration and Nationality Act, may regain his/her U.S. citizenship pursuant to Section 324(d) INA, by applying abroad at a diplomatic or consular post, or in the U.S. at any Immigration and Naturalization Service office in the form and manner prescribed by the Department of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS).


(2) The applicant shall submit documentary evidence to establish eligibility to take the oath of allegiance, which includes proof of birth abroad to a U.S. citizen parent between May 24, 1934 and December 24, 1952. If the diplomatic, consular, INS, or passport officer determines that the applicant is ineligible to regain citizenship under section 313 INA, the oath shall not be administered.



---

[N] [31 FR 13537, Oct. 20, 1966, as amended at 61 FR 29653, June 12, 1996]










