# ยง 352.1   Definitions.

The definitions in ยง 301.2, not otherwise defined in this part, are incorporated into this part. In addition to those definitions, the following definitions will be applicable to the regulations in this part.


(a) *Act* means the applicable provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (60 Stat. 1087, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 1621 *et seq.*).


(b) *Acceptable* means suitable for the purpose intended and acceptable to the Food Safety and Inspection Service.


(c) *Antelope* means any of various ruminant deerlike mammals (family Bovidae) chiefly of Africa and southwest Asia that have a slender lean build and usually horns directed upward and backward.


(d) *Applicant* means any interested party who requests any inspection service.


(e) *Bison (Bison bison),* commonly known as the American bison or buffalo, is a species of the genus Bison native to North America. Bison includes catalo or cattalo.


(f) *Buffalo* refers to a subtribe Bubalina of the tribe Bovini within the subfamily Bovinae that includes the water buffalo (*Bubalus bubalis)* and Cape buffalo* (Syncerus caffer*).


(g) *Catalo* or* Cattalo* means any hybrid animal with bison (*Bison bison*) appearance resulting from direct crossbreeding of bison (*Bison bison*) and cattle (*Bos taurus*).


(h) *Condition* means any condition, including, but not limited to, the state of preservation, cleanliness, or soundness of any product or the processing, handling, or packaging which may affect such product.


(i) *Condition and wholesomeness* means the condition of any product, its healthfulness and fitness for human food.


(j) *Deer* refers to the any farm-raised species of the family Cervidae.


(k) *Exotic animal* means any reindeer, elk, deer, antelope, water buffalo, bison, buffalo, or yak.


(l) *Elk* (*Cervus canadensis*) refers to one of the largest species within the family Cervidae. It is native to North America and in high mountains of Central Asia.


(m) *Exotic animal inspection service* means the personnel who are engaged in the administration, application, and direction of exotic animal inspection programs and services pursuant to the regulations in this part.


(n) *Exotic animal producer* means any interested party that engages in the raising and/or marketing of an exotic animal for commercial purposes.


(o) *Field ante-mortem inspection* means the ante-mortem inspection of an exotic animal away from the official exotic animal establishment's premises.


(p) *Field designated area* means any designated area on the applicant's premises, approved by the Regional Director, where field ante-mortem inspection is to be performed.


(q) *Identify* means to apply official identification to products or containers.


(r) *Inspection* means any inspection by an inspector to determine, in accordance with regulations in this part, (1) the condition and wholesomeness of an exotic animal, or (2) the condition and wholesomeness of edible product of an exotic animal at any state of the preparation or packaging in the official plant where inspected and certified, or (3) the condition and wholesomeness of any previously inspected and certified product of an exotic animal if such product has not lost its identity as an inspected and certified product.


(s) *Interested party* means any person financially interested in a transaction involving any inspection.


(t) *Official exotic animal establishment* means any slaughtering, cutting, boning, curing, smoking, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishment at which inspection is maintained under the regulations in this part.


(u) *Official device* means a stamping appliance, branding device, stencil printed label, or any other mechanically or manually operated tool that is approved by the Administrator for the purpose of applying any official mark or other identification to any product or packaging material.


(v) *Official identification* means any symbol, stamp, label or seal indicating that the product has been officially inspected and/or indicating the condition of the product approved and authorized by the Administrator to be affixed to any product, or affixed to or printed on the packaging material of any product.


(w) *Program* means the Voluntary Exotic Animal Inspection Program of the Food Safety and Inspection Service.


(x) *Reindeer* (*Rangifer tarandus*), commonly referred to as caribou, is a species within the family Cervidae with circumpolar distribution, native to Arctic, sub-Arctic, tundra, boreal, and mountainous regions of northern Europe, Siberia, and North America.


(y) *Transport vehicle* means any vehicle used to transport an exotic animal.


(z) *Veterinarian* means an authorized veterinarian of the Program employed by the Department or any cooperating State who is authorized by the Secretary to do any work or perform any duty in connection with the Program. 


(aa) *Water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis)*, commonly known as the domestic water buffalo or Asian water buffalo, is a large bovid originating in the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and China.


(bb) *Yak (Bos grunniens)* means a long-haired bovid animal originally found throughout the Himalaya region of southern Central Asia and the Tibetan Plateau.



---

[N] [54 FR 1330, Jan. 13, 1989, as amended at 86 FR 37218, July 15, 2021]




