# § 2.1   Scope, purpose, and applicability.

(a) This part sets forth rules to be followed when an employee or former employee of the Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS” or “Department”), other than an employee of the Food and Drug Administration, is requested or subpoenaed to provide testimony in a deposition, trial, or other similar proceeding concerning information acquired in the course of performing official duties or because of such person's official capacity with DHHS. This part also sets forth procedures for the handling of subpoenas duces tecum and other requests for any document in the possession of DHHS, other than the Food and Drug Administration, and for the processing of requests for certification of copies of documents. Separate regulations, 21 CFR part 20, govern the Food and Drug Administration, and those regulations are not affected by this part. 


(b) It is the policy of the DHHS to provide information, data, and records to non-federal litigants to the same extent and in the same manner that they are *made* available to the general public *and,* when subject to the jurisdiction of a court or other tribunal presiding over non-federal party litigation, to follow all applicable procedural and substantive rules relating to the production of information, data, and records by a non-party. The availability of Department employees to testify in litigation not involving federal parties is governed by the Department's policy to maintain strict impartiality with respect to private litigants and to minimize the disruption of official duties. 


(c) This part applies to state, local and tribal judicial, administrative, and legislative proceedings, and to federal judicial and administrative proceedings. 


(d) This part does not apply to:


(1) Any civil or criminal proceedings where the United States, the Department of Health and Human Services, and any agency thereof, or any other Federal agency is a party.


(2) Congressional requests or subpoenas for testimony or documents. 


(3) Consultative services and technical assistance provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, or any agency thereof, in carrying out its normal program activities. 


(4) Employees serving as expert witnesses in connection with professional and consultative services as approved outside activities in accordance with 5 CFR 2635.805 and 5 CFR 5501.106. (In cases where employees are providing such outside services, they must state for the record that the testimony represents their own views and does not necessarily represent the official position of the DHHS.) 


(5) Employees making appearances in their private capacity in legal or administrative proceedings that do not relate to the Department of Health and Human Services (such as cases arising out of traffic accidents, crimes, domestic relations, etc.) and not involving professional and consultative services. 


(6) Any matters covered in 21 CFR part 20-,involving the Food and Drug Administration. 


(7) Any civil or criminal proceedings in State court brought on behalf of the Department of Health and Human Services.



---

[N] [52 FR 37146, Oct. 5, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 4611, Feb. 9, 1990; 68 FR 25838, May 14, 2003]




