# ยง 120.11   Order of review.

(a) *Control.* Articles are controlled on the U.S. Munitions List (USML) because they are either:


(1) Enumerated in a category; or


(2) Described in a catch-all paragraph that incorporates specially designed as a control parameter. In order to classify an item on the USML, begin with a review of the general characteristics of the item. This should guide you to the appropriate category, whereupon you should attempt to match the particular characteristics and functions of the article to a specific entry within that category.


(b) *Specially designed.* (1) If the entry includes the term specially designed, refer to ยง 120.41 to determine if the article qualifies for one or more of the exclusions articulated in ยง 120.41(b).


(2) An item described in multiple entries should be categorized according to an enumerated entry rather than a specially designed catch-all paragraph.


(c) *Integration of controlled items.* Defense articles described on the USML are controlled and remain subject to this subchapter following incorporation or integration into any item not described on the USML, unless specifically provided otherwise in this subchapter.


(d) *Other controls.* In all cases, articles not controlled on the USML may be subject to another U.S. Government regulatory agency (see ยง 120.5, and Supplement No. 4 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) in title 15 of the CFR for guidance on classifying an item subject to the EAR).






