# § 98.232   GHGs to report.

(a) You must report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from each industry segment specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) and (m) of this section, CO2, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from each flare as specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section, and stationary and portable combustion emissions as applicable as specified in paragraph (k) of this section. You must also report the information specified in paragraph (l) of this section, as applicable.


(b) For offshore petroleum and natural gas production, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following sources. Offshore platforms do not need to report emissions from portable equipment.


(1) Equipment leaks (*i.e.*, fugitives), vented emission, and flare emission source types as identified by Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) in compliance with 30 CFR 550.302 through 304.


(2) Other large release events.




(c) For an onshore petroleum and natural gas production facility, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from only the following source types on a single well-pad or associated with a single well-pad:


(1) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.


(2) Blowdown vent stacks.


(3) Natural gas driven pneumatic pump venting.


(4) Well venting for liquids unloading.


(5) Gas well venting during well completions without hydraulic fracturing.


(6) Well venting during well completions with hydraulic fracturing that have a GOR of 300 scf/STB or greater (oil here refers to hydrocarbon liquids produced of all API gravities).


(7) Gas well venting during well workovers without hydraulic fracturing.


(8) Well venting during well workovers with hydraulic fracturing that have a GOR of 300 scf/STB or greater (oil here refers to hydrocarbon liquids produced of all API gravities).


(9) Flare stack emissions.


(10) Hydrocarbon liquids and produced water storage tank emissions.




(11) Reciprocating compressor venting.


(12) Well testing venting and flaring.


(13) Associated gas venting and flaring from produced hydrocarbons.


(14) Dehydrator vents.


(15) [Reserved]


(16) EOR injection pump blowdown.


(17) Acid gas removal unit vents and nitrogen removal unit vents.




(18) EOR hydrocarbon liquids dissolved CO_2_.


(19) Centrifugal compressor venting.


(20) [Reserved]


(21) Equipment leaks listed in paragraph (c)(21)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable:


(i) Equipment leaks from components including valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, pumps, flanges, and other components (such as instruments, loading arms, stuffing boxes, compressor seals, dump lever arms, and breather caps, but does not include components listed in paragraph (c)(11) or (19) of this section, and it does not include thief hatches or other openings on a storage vessel).


(ii) Equipment leaks from major equipment including wellheads, separators, meters/piping, compressors, dehydrators, heaters, and storage vessels.




(22) You must use the methods in § 98.233(z) and report under this subpart the emissions of CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O from stationary or portable fuel combustion equipment that cannot move on roadways under its own power and drive train, and that is located at an onshore petroleum and natural gas production facility as defined in § 98.238. Stationary or portable equipment are the following equipment, which are integral to the extraction, processing, or movement of oil or natural gas: well drilling and completion equipment, workover equipment, natural gas dehydrators, natural gas compressors, electrical generators, steam boilers, and process heaters.


(23) Other large release events.


(24) Drilling mud degassing.


(25) Crankcase vents.


(d) For onshore natural gas processing, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following sources:


(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.


(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.


(3) Blowdown vent stacks.


(4) Dehydrator vents.


(5) Acid gas removal unit vents and nitrogen removal unit vents.




(6) Flare stack emissions.


(7) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters, and equipment leaks from all other components in gas service (not including thief hatches or other openings on storage vessels) that either are subject to equipment leak standards for onshore natural gas processing plants in § 60.5400b or § 60.5401b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).




(8) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.


(9) Other large release events.


(10) Hydrocarbon liquids and produced water storage tank emissions.


(11) Crankcase vents.


(e) For onshore natural gas transmission compression, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following sources:


(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.


(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.


(3) Condensate storage tanks.


(4) Blowdown vent stacks.


(5) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.


(6) Flare stack emissions.


(7) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters.


(8) Equipment leaks from all other components that are not listed in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (7) of this section and either are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, the fugitive emissions standards for well sites, centralized production facilities, and compressor stations in § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter, or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a). The other components subject to this paragraph (e)(8) also do not include thief hatches or other openings on a storage vessel.




(9) Other large release events.


(10) Dehydrator vents.


(11) Crankcase vents.


(f) For underground natural gas storage, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following sources:


(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.


(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.


(3) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.


(4) Flare stack emissions.


(5) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters associated with storage stations.


(6) Equipment leaks from all other components that are associated with storage stations, are not listed in paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (5) of this section, and either are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, the fugitive emissions standards for well sites, centralized production facilities, and compressor stations in § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a). The other components subject to this paragraph (f)(6) do not include thief hatches or other openings on a storage vessel.




(7) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open-ended lines, and pressure relief valves associated with storage wellheads.


(8) Equipment leaks from all other components that are associated with storage wellheads, are not listed in paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (7) of this section, and either are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, the fugitive emissions standards for well sites, centralized production facilities, and compressor stations in § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).




(9) Other large release events.


(10) Dehydrator vents.


(11) Blowdown vent stacks.


(12) Condensate storage tanks.


(13) Crankcase vents.


(g) For LNG storage, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following sources:


(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.


(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.


(3) Flare stack emissions.


(4) Equipment leaks from valves, pump seals, connectors, and other equipment leak sources in LNG service.


(5) Equipment leaks from vapor recovery compressors, if you do not survey components associated with vapor recovery compressors in accordance with paragraph (g)(6) of this section.


(6) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, and either are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, the fugitive emissions standards for well sites, centralized production facilities, and compressor stations in § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).


(7) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are not associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, and either are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, the fugitive emissions standards for well sites, centralized production facilities, and compressor stations in § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).






(8) Other large release events.


(9) Blowdown vent stacks.


(10) Acid gas removal unit vents and nitrogen removal unit vents.


(11) Crankcase vents.


(h) LNG import and export equipment, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following sources:


(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.


(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.


(3) Blowdown vent stacks.


(4) Flare stack emissions.


(5) Equipment leaks from valves, pump seals, connectors, and other equipment leak sources in LNG service.


(6) Equipment leaks from vapor recovery compressors, if you do not survey components associated with vapor recovery compressors in accordance with paragraph (h)(7) of this section.


(7) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section, and either are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, the fugitive emissions standards for well sites, centralized production facilities, and compressor stations in § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).


(8) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are not associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section, and either are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, the fugitive emissions standards for well sites, centralized production facilities, and compressor stations in § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b of this chapter, or an applicable approved state plan or applicable Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter or that you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).




(9) Acid gas removal unit vents and nitrogen removal unit vents.


(10) Other large release events.


(11) Crankcase vents.


(i) For natural gas distribution, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following sources:


(1) Equipment leaks from connectors, block valves, control valves, pressure relief valves, orifice meters, regulators, and open-ended lines at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.


(2) Equipment leaks at below grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.


(3) Equipment leaks at above grade metering-regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.


(4) Equipment leaks at below grade metering-regulating stations.


(5) Distribution main equipment leaks.


(6) Distribution services equipment leaks.


(7) Report under subpart W of this part the emissions of CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from stationary fuel combustion sources following the methods in § 98.233(z).


(8) Other large release events.


(9) Blowdown vent stacks.


(10) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.


(11) Crankcase vents.


(j) For an onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facility, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following source types:


(1) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.


(2) Natural gas driven pneumatic pump venting.


(3) Acid gas removal unit vents and nitrogen removal unit vents.




(4) Dehydrator vents.


(5) Blowdown vent stacks.


(6) Hydrocarbon liquids and produced water storage tank emissions.




(7) Flare stack emissions.


(8) Centrifugal compressor venting.


(9) Reciprocating compressor venting.


(10) Equipment leaks listed in paragraph (j)(10)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable:


(i) Equipment leaks from components including valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, pumps, flanges, and other components (such as instruments, loading arms, stuffing boxes, compressor seals, dump lever arms, and breather caps, but does not include components in paragraph (j)(8) or (9) of this section, and it does not include thief hatches or other openings on a storage vessel).


(ii) Equipment leaks from major equipment including wellheads, separators, meters/piping, compressors, dehydrators, heaters, and storage vessels.




(11) Gathering pipeline equipment leaks.


(12) You must use the methods in § 98.233(z) and report under this subpart the emissions of CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O from stationary or portable fuel combustion equipment that cannot move on roadways under its own power and drive train, and that is located at an onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facility as defined in § 98.238. Stationary or portable equipment includes the following equipment, which are integral to the movement of natural gas: Natural gas dehydrators, natural gas compressors, electrical generators, steam boilers, and process heaters.


(13) Other large release events.


(14) Crankcase vents.


(k) Report under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) the emissions of CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O from each stationary fuel combustion unit by following the requirements of subpart C except for facilities under onshore petroleum and natural gas production, onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting, and natural gas distribution. Onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities must report stationary and portable combustion emissions as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Natural gas distribution facilities must report stationary combustion emissions as specified in paragraph (i) of this section. Onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities must report stationary and portable combustion emissions as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.


(l) You must report under subpart PP of this part (Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide), CO_2_ emissions captured and transferred off site by following the requirements of subpart PP.


(m) For onshore natural gas transmission pipeline, report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from the following source types:


(1) Blowdown vent stacks.


(2) Other large release events.


(3) Equipment leaks listed in paragraph (m)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable:


(i) Equipment leaks at transmission company interconnect metering-regulating stations.


(ii) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters at transmission company interconnect metering-regulating stations.


(4) Equipment leaks listed in paragraph (m)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable:


(i) Equipment leaks at farm tap and/or direct sale metering-regulating stations.


(ii) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters at farm tap and/or direct sale metering-regulating stations.


(5) Transmission pipeline equipment leaks.





---

[N] [75 FR 74488, Nov. 30, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 80574, Dec. 23, 2011; 79 FR 70385, Nov. 25, 2014; 80 FR 64284, Oct. 22, 2015; 81 FR 86511, Nov. 30, 2016; 89 FR 42221, May 14, 2024]








