# § 15.5   Test samples.

(a) *Submission of test samples.* (1) The applicant shall not submit explosives or sheathed explosive units to be tested until requested to do so by MSHA. 


(2) The applicant shall submit 70 pounds of 1
1/4-inch diameter explosives and additional cartridges in the amount of 3200 divided by the length in inches, except for cartridges 12, 20 and greater than 36 inches long. The applicant shall submit 70 pounds and additional cartridges in the amount of 3800 divided by the length in inches for cartridges 12, 20 and greater than 36 inches long. 


(3) If approval is requested for cartridges in diameters less than 1-
1/4 inches, the applicant shall submit a number of cartridges equal to 1800 divided by the length in inches, except for cartridges 12, 20 and greater than 36 inches long. The applicant shall submit cartridges in the amount of 2200 divided by the length in inches for cartridges 12, 20 and greater than 36 inches long. 


(4) If approval is requested for cartridges in diameters larger than 1-
1/4 inches, the applicant shall submit an additional 10 cartridges of each larger diameter. 


(5) If approval is requested for cartridges in more than one length, the applicant shall submit an additional 10 cartridges for each additional length and diameter combination. 


(6) Each applicant seeking approval of sheathed explosive units shall submit 140 units. 


(b) *Condition and composition.* Explosives and sheathed explosive units will not be tested that—


(1) Contain chlorites, chlorates, or substances that will react over an extended time and cause degradation of the explosive or sheathed explosive unit;


(2) Are chemically unstable; 


(3) Show leakage; 


(4) Use aluminum clips to seal the cartridge; 


(5) Contain any combination of perchlorate and aluminum; 


(6) Contain more than 5 percent perchlorate; or 


(7) Contain any perchlorate and less than 5 percent water. 


(c) *Storage.* Explosives and sheathed explosive units shall be stored in a magazine for at least 30 days before gallery tests are conducted.




