# ยง 1072.109   Program accessibility: Existing facilities.

(a) *General.* The Bureau shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. This paragraph does not require the Bureau


(1) To make structural alterations in each of its existing facilities in order to make them accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section; or


(2) To take any action that would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Bureau shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless to the extent reasonably feasible ensure that individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.


(b) *Methods.* The Bureau may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The Bureau, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the Bureau shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with disabilities in the most integrated setting appropriate.


(c) *Time period for compliance.* The Bureau shall comply with the obligations established under this section within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this part except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made within three years of the effective date of this part, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.




