# § 703.15   Purpose and scope of this subpart.

This subpart sets forth the policy and procedures of the Library of Congress regarding, first, the testimony, as witnesses in legal proceedings where the Library is not a party, of employees and former employees concerning information acquired in the course of performing official duties or because of the employee's official relationship with the Library of Congress, and second, the production or disclosure of information contained in Library of Congress documents for use in legal proceedings where the Library is not a party, pursuant to a request, order, or subpoena (collectively referred to in this subpart as a “demand”). 


(a) This subpart applies to: 


(1) State court proceedings (including grand jury proceedings); 


(2) Federal court proceedings; and 


(3) State and local legislative and administrative proceedings. 


(b) This subpart does not apply to: 


(1) Matters that are not related to the Library of Congress but relate solely to an employee's personal dealings; 


(2) Congressional demands for testimony or documents; 


(3) Any demand relating to activity within the scope of Title 17 of the United States Code (the Copyright Act and related laws). These are governed by Copyright Office regulations, which provide for different procedures and for service on the General Counsel of the Copyright Office. *See* 37 CFR 201.1, sec. 203, sec. 204, and sec. 205. 


(c) The purpose of this subpart is to ensure that employees' official time is used only for official purposes, to maintain the impartiality of the Library of Congress among private litigants, to ensure that public funds are not used for private purposes, to ensure the protection of Congress' interests, and to establish centralized procedures for deciding whether or not to approve testimony or the production of documents. 




