# ยง 78.24   Bison from herds not known to be affected.

Bison from herds not known to be affected may be moved interstate only as follows:


(a) *Movement to recognized slaughtering establishments.* Bison from herds not known to be affected may be moved directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment without further restriction under this subpart. 


(b) *Movement to quarantined feedlots.* Bison from herds not known to be affected may be moved directly to a quarantined feedlot without further restriction under this subpart. 


(c) *Movement from public zoo to public zoo.* Bison from herds not known to be affected may be moved from a zoo owned by a governmental agency to another such zoo if handled in accordance with ยง 78.3. 


(d) *Movement other than in accordance with paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section.* Bison from herds not known to be affected may be moved interstate other than in accordance with paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section only as follows: 


(1) Such bison under 6 months of age may be moved interstate when accompanied by an ICVI. 


(2) Such bison which are official vaccinates under 2 years of age and are not parturient or postparturient may be moved interstate when accompanied by an ICVI. 


(3) Such bison may be moved interstate if they are negative to an official test within 30 days prior to such movement and are accompanied by an ICVI which states, in addition to the items specified in ยง 78.1, the dates and results of the official tests. 


(4) Such bison may be moved interstate if they originate in a certified brucellosis-free herd and are accompanied by an ICVI which states, in addition to the items specified in ยง 78.1, that the bison originated in a certified brucellosis-free herd.



---

[N] [51 FR 32580, Sept. 12, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 58639, Nov. 21, 1991; 78 FR 2070, Jan. 9, 2013]




