# § 133.105   Survival craft.

(a) Each survival craft must be approved and equipped as follows:


(1) Each inflatable liferaft—


(i) On an OSV on an unlimited oceans route, must be approved under approval series 160.151 and be equipped with a SOLAS A pack;


(ii) On an OSV on an oceans route limited to within 50 nautical miles of the shore, must be approved under approval series 160.151 and be equipped with either a SOLAS A pack or SOLAS B pack; and


(iii) On an OSV on a coastwise route, must be approved under approval series 160.051 or 160.151, with any approved equipment pack.


(2) Each rigid liferaft must be approved under approval series 160.118 and be equipped as specified in table 133.175 of this part.


(3) Each inflatable buoyant apparatus must be approved under approval series 160.010.


(4) Each lifefloat must be approved under approval series 160.027 and be equipped with the following:


(i) *One boathook.*

(ii) *Two paddles.* Each paddle must be at least 1.2 meters (4 feet) long and buoyant.


(iii) *One painter.* The painter must—


(A) Be at least 30 meters (100 feet) long, but not less than three times the distance between the deck where the lifefloats are stowed and to the OSV's waterline in the lightest seagoing condition;


(B) Have a breaking strength of at least 6.7 kiloNewtons (1,500 pounds-force), except that if the capacity of the lifefloat is 50 persons or more, the breaking strength must be at least 13.4 kiloNewtons (3,000 pounds-force);


(C) If made of a synthetic material, be dark in color or certified by the manufacturer to be resistant to deterioration from ultraviolet light;


(D) Be stowed in such a way that it runs out freely when the buoyant apparatus, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or lifefloat floats away from the sinking OSV; and


(E) Have a float-free link meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.073 of this chapter, connecting the painter to the OSV.


(iv) *One self-igniting light.* The self-igniting light must be approved under approval series 161.010, and must be attached to the buoyant apparatus, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or lifefloat by a 12-thread manila or equivalent lanyard, at least 5.5 meters (18 feet) long. The self-igniting light is not required on a lifefloat with a capacity of 24 persons or less.


(5) Each marine evacuation system must be approved under approval series 160.175.


(6) Lifeboats may be substituted for liferafts. If lifeboats are installed on an OSV, their installation and arrangement must meet the applicable requirements of subchapter W of this chapter.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, OSVs must carry one or more liferafts with an aggregate capacity that will accommodate the total number of persons on board. The liferafts must be—


(1) Stowed in a position providing for easy side-to-side transfer at a single open deck level; or


(2) Additional liferafts must be provided to bring the total capacity available on each side to at least 100 percent of the total number of persons on board. If additional liferafts are provided and the rescue boat required under § 133.135 is also a lifeboat, it may be included in the aggregate capacity requirement.


(c) Each OSV operating in the Gulf of Mexico, as an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, may carry a sufficient number of inflatable buoyant apparatus or a sufficient number of lifefloats, having an aggregate capacity that, together with any lifeboats, rescue boats, and liferafts, will accommodate the total number of persons on board.



---

[N] [CGD 84-069, 61 FR 25304, May 20, 1996; 61 FR 40281, Aug. 1, 1996]




