# § 363.23   What are the matching requirements?

(a) *Non-Federal share.* (1) For funds allotted under § 363.20 and not reserved under § 363.22 for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, there is no non-Federal share requirement.


(2)(i) For funds allotted under § 363.20 and reserved under § 363.22 for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, a designated State agency must provide non-Federal expenditures in an amount that is not less than 10 percent of the total expenditures, including the Federal reserved funds and the non-Federal share, incurred for the provision of supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities, including extended services.


(ii) In the event that a designated State agency uses more than 50 percent of its allotment under this part to provide supported employment services to youth with the most significant disabilities as required by § 363.22, there is no requirement that a designated State agency provide non-Federal expenditures to match the excess Federal funds spent for this purpose.


(3) Except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, non-Federal expenditures made under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan supplement to meet the non-Federal share requirement under this section must be consistent with the provision of 2 CFR 200.306.


(b) *Third-party in-kind contributions.* Third-party in-kind contributions, as described in 2 CFR 200.306(b), may not be used to meet the non-Federal share under this section.


(c)(1) *Contributions by private entities.* Expenditures made from contributions by private organizations, agencies, or individuals that are deposited into the sole account of the State agency, in accordance with State law may be used as part of the non-Federal share under this section, provided the expenditures under the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan supplement, as described in § 363.11, do not benefit in any way the donor, an individual to whom the donor is related by blood or marriage or with whom the donor shares a financial interest.


(2) The Secretary does not consider a donor's receipt from the State unit of a contract or subaward with funds allotted under this part to be a benefit for the purpose of this paragraph if the contract or subaward is awarded under the State's regular competitive procedures.


