# § 1489.15   Operational procedures for brand promotion programs.

(a) Where CCC approves an application by a RAPP Participant to run a brand promotion program that will include brand participants, the RAPP Participant shall establish brand program operational procedures. The RAPP Participant shall submit to CCC for approval its proposed brand program operational procedures. CCC will notify all RAPP Participants in writing in each Participant's approval letter as to applicable submission dates for and dates for approvals of brand program operation procedures. Such procedures shall include, at a minimum, a brand program application, application procedures, application review criteria, brand participant eligibility requirements, a participation agreement, reimbursement requirements, compliance requirements, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, employment practices, financial management requirements, contracting procedures, and evaluation requirements. The RAPP Participant must submit to CCC for approval any proposed changes to already approved brand program operational procedures before implementing such proposed changes.


(b) The RAPP Participant shall not enter into any participation agreements with brand participants, nor shall it implement any RAPP brand activities, unless and until CCC has communicated in writing its approval of the proposed operational procedures to the RAPP Participant.


(c) Where CCC approves a RAPP Participant's application to run a brand promotion program that will include brand participants, the RAPP Participant shall enter into participation agreements with brand participants. Brand participants' size may not exceed 300 percent of the applicable small business size standard as found in 13 CFR part 121. These agreements must:


(1) Specify a time period for such brand promotion and require that all brand promotion expenditures be made within the RAPP Participant's approved budget period;


(2) Make no allowance for extension or renewal;


(3) Limit reimbursable expenditures to those made in countries and for activities approved in the brand participant's activity plan;


(4) Specify the percentage of promotion expenditures that will be reimbursed, reimbursement procedures, and documentation requirements;


(5) Include a written certification by the brand participant that it either owns the brand of the product it will promote or has exclusive rights to promote the brand in each of the countries in which promotion activities will occur;


(6) Require that all product labels, promotional material, and advertising will identify the origin of the eligible commodity as “American”, “Product of the United States of America”, “Product of the U.S.”, “Product of the U.S.A.”, “Product of America”, “Grown in the United States of America”, “Grown in the U.S.”, “Grown in the U.S.A.”, “Grown in America”, “Made in the United States of America,” “Made in the U.S.”, “Made in the U.S.A.”, “Made in America”, or product of, grown in or made in any state or territory of the United States of America spelled out in its entirety, or other U.S. regional designation if approved in advance by the CCC; that such origin identification will be conspicuously displayed in a manner easily observed as identifying the origin of the product; and that such origin identification will conform, to the extent possible, to the U.S. standard of 
1/6 inch (.42 centimeters) in height based on the lower case letter “o”. The use of the above terms as a descriptor or in the name of the product (*e.g.,* Cincinnati style chili, Gina's American Pizza) does not satisfy the product origin requirement. Phrases “product of”, “grown in” or “made in” are encouraged, but not required. A RAPP Participant that wishes to use an origin statement that varies from those set out in this subsection must submit the proposed statement to CCC for review and must receive approval to use the statement before its use in an activity. A RAPP Participant may request an exemption from this requirement on a case-by-case basis. All such requests shall be in writing and include justification satisfactory to the CCC that the labeling requirement in this paragraph (c)(6) would hinder a RAPP Participant's promotional efforts. CCC will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether sufficient justification exists to grant an exemption from the labeling requirement. In addition, the CCC may temporarily waive this requirement where the CCC has determined that such labeling will likely harm sales rather than help them. Such determinations will be announced to RAPP Participants via a RAPP notice issued on the FAS website;


(7) Include a written certification by the brand participant that identifies its size on the date of its application for branded program funding, or that it is a U.S. agricultural cooperative;


(8) Require that the brand participant submit to the RAPP Participant a statement certifying that any Federal funds received will supplement, but not supplant, any private or third-party funds or other contributions to program activities; and


(9) Require the brand participant to maintain all original records and documents relating to program activities for three calendar years following the end of the applicable budget period and make such records and documents available upon request to authorized officials of the U.S. Government.






