# ยง 156.602   Other coverage that qualifies as minimum essential coverage.

The following types of coverage are designated by the Secretary as minimum essential coverage for purposes of section 5000A(f)(1)(E) of the Code:


(a) *Self-funded student health coverage.* Coverage offered to students by an institution of higher education (as defined in the Higher Education Act of 1965), where the institution assumes the risk for payment of claims, are designated as minimum essential coverage for plan or policy years beginning on or before December 31, 2014. For coverage beginning after December 31, 2014, sponsors of self-funded student health coverage may apply to be recognized as minimum essential coverage pursuant to the process provided under 45 CFR 156.604.


(b) *Refugee Medical Assistance supported by the Administration for Children and Families.* Coverage under Refugee Medical Assistance, authorized under section 412(e)(7)(A) of The Immigration and Nationality Act, provides up to eight months of coverage to certain noncitizens who are considered Refugees, as defined in section 101(a)(42) of the Act.


(c) *Medicare advantage plans.* Coverage under the Medicare program pursuant to Part C of title XVIII of the Social Security Act, which provides Medicare Parts A and B benefits through a private insurer.


(d) *State high risk pool coverage.* A qualified high risk pool as defined by section 2744(c)(2) of the Public Health Service Act established on or before November 26, 2014 in any State.


(e) *Other coverage.* Other coverage that qualifies pursuant to ยง 156.604.



---

[N] [78 FR 39529, July 1, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 10875, Feb. 27, 2015]




