# ยง 618.205   Petitions.

(a) *Who may file a petition.* A petition for certification of eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance for a group of workers, or a request to amend an existing certification under ยง 618.250, must be filed simultaneously with the Department and with the State in which such workers' firm is located, by any of the following:


(1) A group of two or more workers from the same firm, on whose behalf the petition is filed;


(2) A certified or recognized union, or other duly authorized representative of the group of workers;


(3) The employer(s) of the group of workers; or


(4) One-stop center operators or one-stop partners, including State workforce officials, employment security agencies, or dislocated worker unit and rapid response team members.


(b) *Form and contents.* Petitioners may obtain a petition form and instructions online at: *https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/tradeact,* at a one-stop center (also known as an American Job Center), or by writing to: U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20210. A petition, which may include attachments, must provide the following information to be considered valid and for an investigation to commence:


(1) The name and contact information for each petitioner;


(2) The name of the firm;


(3) The address of the location(s) where the group of workers who have been totally or partially separated or threatened with separation report to work (for a teleworker, the address of the location to which they report);


(4) The name and contact information of an official within the firm or an individual authorized to provide information regarding the operation of the group of workers' firm;


(5) The article produced or service supplied by the firm;


(6) The actual or approximate date on which total or partial separations are threatened to occur or did occur;


(7) The actual or estimated total number of workers who have been or may be separated;


(8) A reason why the petitioner believes that worker separations have occurred or may occur at the firm due to foreign trade impacts, or a reason why a request to amend an existing and active certification should be granted; and


(9)(i) Every petition must be signed and dated by at least two members of the petitioning group of workers, or by an official of a certified or recognized union or other duly authorized representative of the group of workers, or by an official of the employer of the group of workers, or by a representative of one of the organizations listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(ii) Signing of a petition must constitute acknowledgement that the information provided on the petition form will be used for the purposes of determining worker group eligibility and providing notice to petitioners, workers, and the general public that the petition has been filed, and whether the worker group is eligible to apply for TAA Program benefits and services. Knowingly falsifying any information on the petition form is a Federal offense (18 U.S.C. 1001) and a violation of the Act (19 U.S.C. 2316). For the petition to be valid, the petitioner(s) listed on the form must sign and date the form, attesting to the fact that they are authorized to file a petition.


(c) *Supplemental information.* Providing supplemental information, while not required, may assist the investigation. Attachments to the petition form are part of the petition.


(d) *Filing.* (1) Petitions should be filed electronically with the Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance, via *https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/tradeact.* Individuals requiring assistance in filing online should contact their nearest one-stop center or the State's rapid response unit.


(2) Alternatively, petitions may be filed via email to *taa.petition@dol.gov,* via fax at (202) 693-3584 or (202) 693-3585, or by mail to: U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20210.


(e) *Industry notification of ITC determinations.* Upon receiving notification from the ITC that it has issued an affirmative determination of injury or threat of injury under section 202 or 421 of the Act, under an applicable safeguard provision enacted to implement a trade agreement to which the United States is a party, or an affirmative final determination of material injury of threat thereof in investigation under section 705 or 735 of the Tariff Act of 1930, the Department will notify the affected parties listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. To the extent practicable, the Department may also notify other duly authorized representatives of the industry to which the ITC determination applies.


(1) Parties the Department will notify under paragraph (e) of this section include:


(i) Representatives of the domestic industry affected by the determination;


(ii) Firms publicly identified by name during the proceeding related to the ITC determination; and


(iii) Unions representing workers in firms covered by the determination.


(2) The notice provided by the Department under paragraph (e) of this section will include:


(i) A summary of the ITC determination;


(ii) Information about the workers' potential eligibility for TAA Program benefits;


(iii) The benefits and services available under the TAA Program;


(iv) Information regarding the process for filing of petitions; and


(v) The availability of assistance from the State for filing petitions.


(3) The Department will also notify the Governor of each State in which one or more firms covered by an ITC determination are located and will identify those firms to the State.


(f) *Acceptance of petitions.* The Department will review a petition, including attachments, to determine if it is valid within 2 business days of receipt of the petition by the Department. The date on which the petition is determined to be valid under paragraph (b) of this section is the filing date. The Department will not initiate the investigation until it has determined that the petition is valid.


(g) *Multiple petitions for same group of workers.* If the Department receives multiple petitions regarding the same group of workers, it will base the filing date upon the first petition received.


(h) *Publication of notice in the*_Federal Register._ The Department will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ and on the Department's website announcing the initiation of an investigation into all valid petitions filed.


(i) *Public access to petitions.* A petition, including attachments, is a record that is available, in redacted form, in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), Executive Order 12600, and 29 CFR part 70. The Department will post all petitions, in redacted form, to the Department's website and make them available for review at the Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance, Washington, DC.


(j) *Receipt of petition by the State.* When the State receives a petition, the State must verify that the Department has also received the petition. If the petition has not been posted to the Department's website within 10 calendar days of receipt by the State, the State must forward the petition to the Department.




