# § 5502.106   Supplemental disclosure of prohibited financial interests applicable to employees of the Food and Drug Administration.

(a) *Applicability.* This section does not apply to special Government employees.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Confidential filer* means an employee who meets the criteria in 5 CFR 2634.904 and who has not been excluded from the requirement of filing a confidential financial disclosure report under the procedures in 5 CFR 2634.905.


(2) *Prohibited financial interest* means a financial interest prohibited by § 5501.104(a), including those financial interests that are excepted under § 5501.104(b) of this chapter.


(3) *Public filer* means an employee who meets the criteria in 5 CFR 2634.202 and who has not been excluded from the requirement of filing a public financial disclosure report under the procedures in 5 CFR 2634.203.


(4) *Remainder of HHS* has the meaning set forth in § 5501.102(b)(2) of this chapter.


(5) *Separate agency component* has the meaning set forth in § 5501.102(a) of this chapter.


(c) *Report of prohibited financial interests*—(1) *New entrant employees.* A new entrant employee shall report in writing within 30 days after entering on duty with the FDA any prohibited financial interest and the value thereof held upon commencement of employment with the agency.


(2) *Reassigned employees.* An employee of a separate agency component other than the FDA or of the remainder of HHS who is reassigned to a position at the FDA shall report in writing within 30 days of entering on duty with the FDA any prohibited financial interest and the value thereof held on the effective date of the reassignment to the agency.


(3) *Incumbent employees.* An incumbent employee of the FDA who acquires any prohibited financial interest shall report such interest and the value thereof in writing within 30 days after acquiring the financial interest.



---

[N] [70 FR 5564, Feb. 3, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 51573, Aug. 31, 2005; 70 FR 61713, Oct. 26, 2005]




