# § 173.127   Class 5, Division 5.1—Definition and assignment of packing groups.

(a) *Definition.* For the purpose of this subchapter, *oxidizer* (Division 5.1) means a material that may, generally by yielding oxygen, cause or enhance the combustion of other materials.


(1) A solid material, except for solid ammonium nitrate based fertilizer (see paragraph (a)(3) of this section), is classed as a Division 5.1 material if, when tested in accordance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter):


(i) If test O.1 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.1), the mean burning time is less than or equal to the burning time of a 3:7 potassium bromate/cellulose mixture; or


(ii) If test O.3 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.3), the mean burning rate is greater than or equal to the burning rate of a 1:2 calcium peroxide/cellulose mixture.


(2) A liquid material is classed as a Division 5.1 material if, when tested in accordance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, it spontaneously ignites or its mean time for a pressure rise from 690 kPa to 2070 kPa gauge is less then the time of a 1:1 nitric acid (65 percent)/cellulose mixture.


(3) Solid ammonium nitrate-based fertilizers must be classified in accordance with the procedure as set out in the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, Part III, Section 39.


(b) *Assignment of packing groups.* (1) The packing group of a Division 5.1 material which is a solid shall be assigned using the following criteria:


(i) Packing Group I, for any material which, in either concentration tested:


(A) If test O.1 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.1), the mean burning time is less than the mean burning time of a 3:2 potassium bromate/cellulose mixture; or


(B) If test O.3 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.3), the mean burning rate is greater than the mean burning rate of a 3:1 calcium peroxide/cellulose mixture.


(ii) Packing Group II, for any material which, in either concentration tested:


(A) If test O.1 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.1), the mean burning time is less than the mean burning time of a 2:3 potassium bromate/cellulose mixture and the criteria for Packing Group I are not met; or


(B) If test O.3 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.3), the mean burning rate is greater than the mean burning rate of a 1:1 calcium peroxide/cellulose mixture and the criteria for Packing Group I are not met.


(iii) Packing Group III for any material which, in either concentration tested:


(A) If test O.1 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.1), the mean burning time is less than the mean burning time of a 3:7 potassium bromate/cellulose mixture and the criteria for Packing Groups I and II are not met; or


(B) If test O.3 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.3), the mean burning rate is greater than the mean burning rate of a 1:2 calcium peroxide/cellulose mixture and the criteria for Packing Groups I and II are not met.


(iv) The materials is not classified as a Division 5.1 material if, in either concentration tested:


(A) If test O.1 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.1), the sample tested does not ignite and exhibit burn, or exhibits a mean burning time of greater than or equal to the mean burning time of a 3:7 potassium bromate/cellulose mixture.


(B) If test O.3 is used (UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, sub-section 34.4.3), the sample tested does not ignite and exhibit burn, or exhibits a mean burning rate less than or equal to the mean burning rate of a 1:2 calcium peroxide/cellulose mixture.


(2) The packing group of a Division 5.1 material which is a liquid shall be assigned using the following criteria:


(i) Packing Group I for:


(A) Any material which spontaneously ignites when mixed with cellulose in a 1:1 ratio; or


(B) Any material which exhibits a mean pressure rise time less than the pressure rise time of a 1:1 perchloric acid (50 percent)/cellulose mixture.


(ii) Packing Group II, any material which exhibits a mean pressure rise time less than or equal to the pressure rise time of a 1:1 aqueous sodium chlorate solution (40 percent)/cellulose mixture and the criteria for Packing Group I are not met.


(iii) Packing Group III, any material which exhibits a mean pressure rise time less than or equal to the pressure rise time of a 1:1 nitric acid (65 percent)/cellulose mixture and the criteria for Packing Group I and II are not met.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-261, 62 FR 24732, May 6, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 75744, Dec. 31, 2003; 80 FR 1156, Jan. 8, 2015; 80 FR 72924, Nov. 23, 2015; 85 FR 27880, May 11, 2020]




