# § 4.75   Incomplete manifest; incomplete or missing Electronic Export Information (EEI); bond.

(a) *Pro forma manifest.* Except as provided for in § 4.75(c), if a master desiring to clear his vessel for a foreign port does not have available for filing with the CBP port director a complete Cargo Declaration Outward with Commercial Forms, CBP Form 1302A (see § 4.63) in accordance with 46 U.S.C. 60105, or all required EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends (see 15 CFR 30.47), the CBP port director may accept in lieu thereof an incomplete manifest (referred to as a pro forma manifest) on the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, CBP Form 1300, if there is on file in his office a bond on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.64 of this chapter relating to international carriers, executed by the vessel owner or other person as attorney in fact of the vessel owner. The “Incomplete Manifest for Export” box in item 17 of the Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement form must be checked.


(b) *Time in which to file complete manifest and EEI.* Not later than the fourth business day after clearance from each port of lading in the vessel's itinerary, the master, or the vessel's agent on behalf of the master, must submit to the director of each port a complete Cargo Declaration Outward with Commercial Forms, CBP Form 1302A, in accordance with § 4.63, of the cargo laden at such port together with all required EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends for such cargo and a Vessel Entrance or Clearance Statement, CBP Form 1300. The statutory grace period of four (4) days for filing the complete manifest and missing EEI begins to run on the first day (exclusive of any day on which the U.S. port of lading is not open for marine business) following the date on which clearance is granted.


(c) *Countries for which vessels may not be cleared until complete manifests and EEI are filed.* To aid CBP in the enforcement of export laws and regulations, no vessel will be cleared for any port in the following countries until a complete outward foreign manifest and all required EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends have been filed with the port director:



---

[N] [T.D. 87-1, 52 FR 255, Jan. 5, 1987, as amended by T.D. 91-60, 56 FR 32085, July 15, 1991; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16515, Mar. 29, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32237, July 13, 2017]




