# § 4041.49   Verification of plan sufficiency prior to closeout.

(a) *General rule.* Before distributing plan assets pursuant to a closeout under § 4041.50, the plan administrator must verify whether the plan's assets are still sufficient to provide for benefits at the level determined by the PBGC, *i.e.,* guaranteed benefits or benefit liabilities. If the plan administrator finds that the plan is no longer able to provide for benefits at the level determined by the PBGC, then paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as appropriate, will apply.


(b) *Subsequent insufficiency for guaranteed benefits.* When a plan administrator finds that a plan is no longer sufficient for guaranteed benefits, the plan administrator must promptly notify the PBGC in writing of that fact and may take no further action to implement the plan termination, pending the PBGC's determination and notice pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(1) *PBGC concurrence with finding.* If the PBGC concurs with the plan administrator's finding, the distribution notice will be void, and the PBGC will—


(i) Issue the plan administrator a notice of inability to determine sufficiency in accordance with § 4041.47(b); and


(ii) Require the plan administrator to submit a new valuation, certified to by an enrolled actuary, of the benefit liabilities and guaranteed benefits under the plan, valued in accordance with §§ 4044.41 through 4044.58 of this chapter as of the date of the plan administrator's notice to the PBGC.


(2) *PBGC non-concurrence with finding.* If the PBGC does not concur with the plan administrator's finding, it will so notify the plan administrator in writing, and the distribution notice will remain in effect.


(c) *Subsequent insufficiency for benefit liabilities.* When a plan administrator finds that a plan is sufficient for guaranteed benefits but is no longer sufficient for benefit liabilities, the plan administrator must immediately notify the PBGC in writing of this fact, but must continue with the distribution of assets in accordance with § 4041.50.


(d) *Finding by PBGC of subsequent insufficiency.* In any case in which the PBGC finds on its own initiative that a subsequent insufficiency for guaranteed benefits has occurred, paragraph (b)(1) of this section will apply, except that the guaranteed benefits must be revalued as of the date of the PBGC's finding.


(e) *Restrictions upon finding of subsequent insufficiency.* When the plan administrator makes the finding described in paragraph (b) of this section or receives notice that the PBGC has made the finding described in paragraph (d) of this section, the plan administrator is (except to the extent the PBGC otherwise directs) subject to the prohibitions in § 4041.42.



---

[N] [62 FR 60428, Nov. 7, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 48299, June 6, 2024]






