# § 721.11473   Benzamide, 2-(trifluoromethyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzamide, 2-(trifluoromethyl)- (PMN P-17-334, CAS No. 360-64-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (2)(i) and (iv), (3), (4), (6)(v) and (vi), (b) and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), particulate applies. For purposes of § 721.63(b), the concentration is set at 0.1%.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1)(iii) through (v), and (ix), (2)(i) through (iii) and (v), (3)(i) and (ii), and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), concentration is set at 0.1%. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (g) and (y)(1).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) where N=39.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 57973, Sept. 17, 2020]




