# ยง 1150.4   Definitions.

*A&TBCB* means the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.


*Agency* means Federal department, agency, or instrumentality as defined in sections 551(1) and 701(b)(1) of title 5 U.S.C., or an agency official authorized to represent the agency. It includes any executive department or independent establishment in the Executive Branch of the government, including wholly owned government corporations, and any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the government, except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under his direction.


*Alteration* means any change in a building or facility or its permanent fixtures or equipment. It includes, but is not limited to, remodeling, renovation, rehabilitation, reconstruction, changes or rearrangement in structural parts, and extraordinary repairs. It does not include normal maintenance, reroofing, interior decoration, or changes to mechanical systems.


*Architectural Barriers Act* means the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, Pub. L. 90-480, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4151 *et seq.*

*Building or facility* means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, parks, sites, or other real property or interest in such property.


*Chair* means the Chair of the A&TBCB.


*Complaint* means any written notice of an alleged violation, whether from an individual or organization, or other written information reasonably indicating to the Executive Director a violation of the standard.


*Construction* means any section of a new building or an addition to an existing building.


*Day* means calendar day.


*Executive Director* means the A&TBCB Executive Director.


*Extraordinary repair* means the replacement or renewal of any element of an existing building or facility for purposes other than normal maintenance. 


*Judge* means an Administrative Law Judge appointed by the A&TBCB and assigned to the case in accordance with either section 3105 or 3314 of title 5 U.S.C. 


*PER* means Provisional Expedited Relief. 


*Respondent* means a party answering the citation, including PER Citation. 


*Section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act* means section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93-112, 29 U.S.C. 792, as amended. 


*Standard* means any standard for accessibility and usability prescribed under the Architectural Barriers Act. 



---

[N] [53 FR 39473, Oct. 7, 1988]




