# § 1033.135   Labeling.

As described in this section, each locomotive must have a label on the locomotive and a separate label on the engine. The label on the locomotive stays on the locomotive throughout its service life. It generally identifies the original certification of the locomotive, which is when it was originally manufactured for Tier 1 and later locomotives. The label on the engine is replaced each time the locomotive is remanufactured and identifies the most recent certification.


(a) *Serial numbers.* At the point of original manufacture, assign each locomotive and each locomotive engine a serial number or other unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp the number on the locomotive and engine in a legible way.


(b) *Locomotive labels.* (1) Locomotive labels meeting the specifications of paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be applied as follows:


(i) The manufacturer must apply a locomotive label at the point of original manufacture.


(ii) The remanufacturer must apply a locomotive label at the point of original remanufacture, unless the locomotive was labeled by the original manufacturer.


(iii) Any remanufacturer certifying a locomotive to an FEL or standard different from the previous FEL or standard to which the locomotive was previously certified must apply a locomotive label.


(2) The locomotive label must meet all of the following criteria:


(i) The label must be permanent and legible and affixed to the locomotive in a position in which it will remain readily visible. Attach it to a locomotive chassis part necessary for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement during the service life of the locomotive. You may not attach this label to the engine or to any equipment that is easily detached from the locomotive. Attach the label so that it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing the label. For Tier 0 and Tier 1 locomotives, the label may be made up of more than one piece, as long as all pieces are permanently attached to the locomotive.


(ii) The label must be lettered in the English language using a color that contrasts with the background of the label.


(iii) The label must include all the following information:


(A) The label heading: “ORIGINAL LOCOMOTIVE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION.” Manufacturers/remanufacturers may add a subheading to distinguish this label from the engine label described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(B) Full corporate name and trademark of the manufacturer (or remanufacturer).


(C) The applicable engine family and configuration identification. In the case of locomotive labels applied by the manufacturer at the point of original manufacture, this will be the engine family and configuration identification of the certificate applicable to the freshly manufactured locomotive. In the case of locomotive labels applied by a remanufacturer during remanufacture, this will be the engine family and configuration identification of the certificate under which the remanufacture is being performed.


(D) Date of original manufacture of the locomotive, as defined in § 1033.901.


(E) The standards/FELs to which the locomotive was certified and the following statement: “THIS LOCOMOTIVE MUST COMPLY WITH THESE EMISSION LEVELS EACH TIME THAT IT IS REMANUFACTURED, EXCEPT AS ALLOWED BY 40 CFR 1033.750.”


(3) Label diesel-fueled locomotives near the fuel inlet to identify the allowable fuels, consistent with § 1033.101. For example, Tier 4 locomotives with sulfur-sensitive technology (or that otherwise require ULSD for compliance) should be labeled “ULTRA LOW SULFUR DIESEL FUEL ONLY”. You do not need to label Tier 3 and earlier locomotives certified for use with both LSD and ULSD.


(c) *Engine labels.* (1) For engines not requiring aftertreatment devices, apply engine labels meeting the specifications of paragraph (c)(2) of this section once an engine has been assembled in its certified configuration. For engines that require aftertreatment devices, apply the label after the engine has been fully assembled, which may occur before installing the aftertreatment devices. These labels must be applied by:


(i) The manufacturer at the point of original manufacture; and


(ii) The remanufacturer at the point of each remanufacture (including the original remanufacture and subsequent remanufactures).


(2) The engine label must meet all of the following criteria:


(i) The label must be durable throughout the useful life of the engine, be legible and affixed to the engine in a position in which it will be readily visible after installation of the engine in the locomotive. Attach it to an engine part necessary for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement during the useful life of the locomotive. You may not attach this label to any equipment that is easily detached from the engine. Attach the label so it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing the label. The label may be made up of more than one piece, as long as all pieces are permanently attached to the same engine part.


(ii) The label must be lettered in the English language using a color that contrasts with the background of the label.


(iii) The label must include all the following information:


(A) The label heading: “ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION.” Manufacturers/remanufacturers may add a subheading to distinguish this label from the locomotive label described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(B) Full corporate name and trademark of the manufacturer/remanufacturer.


(C) Engine family and configuration identification as specified in the certificate under which the locomotive is being manufactured or remanufactured.


(D) A prominent unconditional statement of compliance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations which apply to locomotives, as applicable:


(*1*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 0 + switch locomotives.”


(*2*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 0 + line-haul locomotives.”


(*3*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 1 + locomotives.”


(*4*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 2 + locomotives.”


(*5*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 3 switch locomotives.”


(*6*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 3 line-haul locomotives.”


(*7*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 4 switch locomotives.”


(*8*) “This locomotive conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to Tier 4 line-haul locomotives.”


(E) The useful life of the locomotive.


(F) The standards/FELS to which the locomotive was certified.


(iv) You may include other critical operating instructions such as specifications for adjustments or reductant use for SCR systems.


(d) You may add information to the emission control information label as follows:


(1) You may identify other emission standards that the engine/locomotive meets or does not meet (such as international standards). You may include this information by adding it to the statement we specify or by including a separate statement.


(2) You may add other information to ensure that the locomotive will be properly maintained and used.


(3) You may add appropriate features to prevent counterfeit labels. For example, you may include the engine's unique identification number on the label.


(e) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1033 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part. 



---

[N] [73 FR 37197, June 30, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59189, Oct. 8, 2008; 81 FR 74004, Oct. 25, 2016]




