# § 380.12   Environmental reports for Natural Gas Act applications.

(a) *Introduction.* (1) The applicant must submit an environmental report with any application that proposes the construction, operation, or abandonment of any facility identified in § 380.3(c)(2)(i). The environmental report shall consist of the thirteen resource reports and related material described in this section.


(2) The detail of each resource report must be commensurate with the complexity of the proposal and its potential for environmental impact. Each topic in each resource report shall be addressed or its omission justified, unless the resource report description indicates that the data is not required for that type of proposal. If material required for one resource report is provided in another resource report or in another exhibit, it may be incorporated by reference. If any resource report topic is required for a particular project but is not provided at the time the application is filed, the environmental report shall explain why it is missing and when the applicant anticipates it will be filed.


(3) The appendix to this part contains a checklist of the minimum filing requirements for an environmental report. Failure to provide at least the applicable checklist items will result in rejection of the application unless the Director of the Office of Energy Projects determines that the applicant has provided an acceptable reason for the item's absence and an acceptable schedule for filing it. Failure to file within the accepted schedule will result in rejection of the application.


(b) *General requirements.* As appropriate, each resource report shall:


(1) Address conditions or resources that might be directly or indirectly affected by the project;


(2) Identify significant environmental effects expected to occur as a result of the project;


(3) Identify the effects of construction, operation (including maintenance and malfunctions), and termination of the project, as well as cumulative effects resulting from existing or reasonably foreseeable projects;


(4) Identify measures proposed to enhance the environment or to avoid, mitigate, or compensate for adverse effects of the project;


(5) Provide a list of publications, reports, and other literature or communications, including agency contacts, that were cited or relied upon to prepare each report. This list should include the name and title of the person contacted, their affiliations, and telephone number;


(6) Whenever this section refers to “mileposts” the applicant may substitute “survey centerline stationing” if so desired. However, whatever method is chosen should be used consistently throughout the resource reports.


(c) *Resource Report 1—General project description.* This report is required for all applications. It will describe facilities associated with the project, special construction and operation procedures, construction timetables, future plans for related construction, compliance with regulations and codes, and permits that must be obtained. Resource Report 1 must:


(1) Describe and provide location maps of all jurisdictional facilities, including all aboveground facilities associated with the project (such as: meter stations, pig launchers/receivers, valves), to be constructed, modified, abandoned, replaced, or removed, including related construction and operational support activities and areas such as maintenance bases, staging areas, communications towers, power lines, and new access roads (roads to be built or modified). As relevant, the report must describe the length and diameter of the pipeline, the types of aboveground facilities that would be installed, and associated land requirements. It must also identify other companies that must construct jurisdictional facilities related to the project, where the facilities would be located, and where they are in the Commission's approval process.


(2) Identify and describe all nonjurisdictional facilities, including auxiliary facilities, that will be built in association with the project, including facilities to be built by other companies.


(i) Provide the following information:


(A) A brief description of each facility, including as appropriate: Ownership, land requirements, gas consumption, megawatt size, construction status, and an update of the latest status of Federal, state, and local permits/approvals;


(B) The length and diameter of any interconnecting pipeline;


(C) Current 1:24,000/1:25,000 scale topographic maps showing the location of the facilities;


(D) Correspondence with the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) or duly authorized Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (THPO) for tribal lands regarding whether properties eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) would be affected;


(E) Correspondence with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (and National Marine Fisheries Service, if appropriate) regarding potential impacts of the proposed facility on federally listed threatened and endangered species; and


(F) For facilities within a designated coastal zone management area, a consistency determination or evidence that the owner has requested a consistency determination from the state's coastal zone management program.


(ii) Address each of the following factors and indicate which ones, if any, appear to indicate the need for the Commission to do an environmental review of project-related nonjurisdictional facilities.


(A) Whether or not the regulated activity comprises “merely a link” in a corridor type project (e.g., a transportation or utility transmission project).


(B) Whether there are aspects of the nonjurisdictional facility in the immediate vicinity of the regulated activity which uniquely determine the location and configuration of the regulated activity.


(C) The extent to which the entire project will be within the Commission's jurisdiction.


(D) The extent of cumulative Federal control and responsibility.


(3) Provide the following maps and photos:


(i) Current, original United States Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute series topographic maps or maps of equivalent detail, covering at least a 0.5-mile-wide corridor centered on the pipeline, with integer mileposts identified, showing the location of rights-of-way, new access roads, other linear construction areas, compressor stations, and pipe storage areas. Show nonlinear construction areas on maps at a scale of 1:3,600 or larger keyed graphically and by milepost to the right-of-way maps.


(ii) Original aerial images or photographs or photo-based alignment sheets based on these sources, not more than 1 year old (unless older ones accurately depict current land use and development) and with a scale of 1:6,000 or larger, showing the proposed pipeline route and location of major aboveground facilities, covering at least a 0.5 mile-wide corridor, and including mileposts. Older images/photographs/alignment sheets should be modified to show any residences not depicted in the original. Alternative formats (e.g., blue-line prints of acceptable resolution) need prior approval by the environmental staff of the Office of Energy Projects.


(iii) In addition to the copy required under § 157.6(a)(2) of this chapter, applicant should send two additional copies of topographic maps and aerial images/photographs directly to the environmental staff of the Office of Energy Projects.


(4) When new or additional compression is proposed, include large scale (1:3,600 or greater) plot plans of each compressor station. The plot plan should reference a readily identifiable point(s) on the USGS maps required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The maps and plot plans must identify the location of the nearest noise-sensitive areas (schools, hospitals, or residences) within 1 mile of the compressor station, existing and proposed compressor and auxiliary buildings, access roads, and the limits of areas that would be permanently disturbed.


(5)(i) Identify facilities to be abandoned, and state how they would be abandoned, how the site would be restored, who would own the site or right-of-way after abandonment, and who would be responsible for any facilities abandoned in place.


(ii) When the right-of-way or the easement would be abandoned, identify whether landowners were given the opportunity to request that the facilities on their property, including foundations and below ground components, be removed. Identify any landowners whose preferences the company does not intend to honor, and the reasons therefore.


(6) Describe and identify by milepost, proposed construction and restoration methods to be used in areas of rugged topography, residential areas, active croplands, sites where the pipeline would be located parallel to and under roads, and sites where explosives are likely to be used.


(7) Unless provided in response to Resource Report 5, describe estimated workforce requirements, including the number of pipeline construction spreads, average workforce requirements for each construction spread and meter or compressor station, estimated duration of construction from initial clearing to final restoration, and number of personnel to be hired to operate the proposed project.


(8) Describe reasonably foreseeable plans for future expansion of facilities, including additional land requirements and the compatibility of those plans with the current proposal.


(9) Describe all authorizations required to complete the proposed action and the status of applications for such authorizations. Identify environmental mitigation requirements specified in any permit or proposed in any permit application to the extent not specified elsewhere in this section.


(10) Provide the names and mailing addresses of all affected landowners specified in § 157.6(d) and certify that all affected landowners will be notified as required in § 157.6(d).


(d) *Resource Report 2—Water use and quality.* This report is required for all applications, except those which involve only facilities within the areas of an existing compressor, meter, or regulator station that were disturbed by construction of the existing facilities, no wetlands or waterbodies are on the site and there would not be a significant increase in water use. The report must describe water quality and provide data sufficient to determine the expected impact of the project and the effectiveness of mitigative, enhancement, or protective measures. Resource Report 2 must:


(1) Identify and describe by milepost perennial waterbodies and municipal water supply or watershed areas, specially designated surface water protection areas and sensitive waterbodies, and wetlands that would be crossed. For each waterbody crossing, identify the approximate width, state water quality classifications, any known potential pollutants present in the water or sediments, and any potable water intake sources within 3 miles downstream.


(2) Compare proposed mitigation measures with the staff's current “*Wetland and Waterbody Construction and Mitigation Procedures*,” which are available from the Commission Internet home page or the Commission staff, describe what proposed alternative mitigation would provide equivalent or greater protection to the environment, and provide a description of site- specific construction techniques that would be used at each major waterbody crossing.


(3) Describe typical staging area requirements at waterbody and wetland crossings. Also, identify and describe waterbodies and wetlands where staging areas are likely to be more extensive.


(4) Include National Wetland Inventory (NWI) maps. If NWI maps are not available, provide the appropriate state wetland maps. Identify for each crossing, the milepost, the wetland classification specified by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the length of the crossing. Include two copies of the NWI maps (or the substitutes, if NWI maps are not available) clearly showing the proposed route and mileposts directed to the environmental staff. Describe by milepost, wetland crossings as determined by field delineations using the current Federal methodology.


(5) Identify aquifers within excavation depth in the project area, including the depth of the aquifer, current and projected use, water quality and average yield, and known or suspected contamination problems.


(6) Describe specific locations, the quantity required, and the method and rate of withdrawal and discharge of hydrostatic test water. Describe suspended or dissolved material likely to be present in the water as a result of contact with the pipeline, particularly if an existing pipeline is being retested. Describe chemical or physical treatment of the pipeline or hydrostatic test water. Discuss waste products generated and disposal methods.


(7) If underground storage of natural gas is proposed: 


(i) Identify how water produced from the storage field will be disposed of, and


(ii) For salt caverns, identify the source locations, the quantity required, and the method and rate of withdrawal of water for creating salt cavern(s), as well as the means of disposal of brine resulting from cavern leaching.


(8) Discuss proposed mitigation measures to reduce the potential for adverse impacts to surface water, wetlands, or groundwater quality to the extent they are not described in response to paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Discuss the potential for blasting to affect water wells, springs, and wetlands, and measures to be taken to detect and remedy such effects.


(9) Identify the location of known public and private groundwater supply wells or springs within 150 feet of proposed construction areas. Identify locations of EPA or state-designated sole-source aquifers and wellhead protection areas crossed by the proposed pipeline facilities.


(e) *Resource Report 3—Fish, wildlife, and vegetation.* This report is required for all applications, except those involving only facilities within the improved area of an existing compressor, meter, or regulator station. It must describe aquatic life, wildlife, and vegetation in the vicinity of the proposed project; expected impacts on these resources including potential effects on biodiversity; and proposed mitigation, enhancement or protection measures. Resource Report 3 must:


(1) Describe commercial and recreational warmwater, coldwater, and saltwater fisheries in the affected area and associated significant habitats such as spawning or rearing areas and estuaries.


(2) Describe terrestrial habitats, including wetlands, typical wildlife habitats, and rare, unique, or otherwise significant habitats that might be affected by the proposed action. Describe typical species that have commercial, recreational, or aesthetic value.


(3) Describe and provide the acreage of vegetation cover types that would be affected, including unique ecosystems or communities such as remnant prairie or old-growth forest, or significant individual plants, such as old-growth specimen trees.


(4) Describe the impact of construction and operation on aquatic and terrestrial species and their habitats, including the possibility of a major alteration to ecosystems or biodiversity, and any potential impact on state-listed endangered or threatened species. Describe the impact of maintenance, clearing and treatment of the project area on fish, wildlife, and vegetation. Surveys may be required to determine specific areas of significant habitats or communities of species of special concern to state or local agencies.


(5) Identify all federally listed or proposed endangered or threatened species and critical habitat that potentially occur in the vicinity of the project. Discuss the results of the consultation requirements listed in § 380.13(b) at least through § 380.13(b)(5)(i) and include any written correspondence that resulted from the consultation. The initial application must include the results of any required surveys unless seasonal considerations make this impractical. If species surveys are impractical, there must be field surveys to determine the presence of suitable habitat unless the entire project area is suitable habitat.


(6) Identify all federally listed essential fish habitat (EFH) that potentially occurs in the vicinity of the project. Provide information on all EFH, as identified by the pertinent Federal fishery management plans, that may be adversely affected by the project and the results of abbreviated consultations with NMFS, and any resulting EFH assessments.


(7) Describe site-specific mitigation measures to minimize impacts on fisheries, wildlife, and vegetation.


(8) Include copies of correspondence not provided pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) of this section, containing recommendations from appropriate Federal and state fish and wildlife agencies to avoid or limit impact on wildlife, fisheries, and vegetation, and the applicant's response to the recommendations.


(f) *Resource Report 4—Cultural resources.* This report is required for all applications. In preparing this report, the applicant must follow the principles in § 380.14 of this part. Guidance on the content and the format for the documentation listed below, as well as professional qualifications of preparers, is detailed in “ *Office of Energy Projects' (OEP) Guidelines for Reporting on Cultural Resources Investigations*,” which is available from the Commission Internet home page or from the Commission staff.


(1) Resource Report 4 must contain: 


(i) Documentation of the applicant's initial cultural resources consultation, including consultations with Native Americans and other interested persons (if appropriate); 


(ii) Overview and Survey Reports, as appropriate; 


(iii) Evaluation Report, as appropriate; 


(iv) Treatment Plan, as appropriate; and 


(v) Written comments from State Historic Preservation Officer(s) (SHPO), Tribal Historic Preservation Officers (THPO), as appropriate, and applicable land-managing agencies on the reports in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)-(iv) of this section.


(2) *Initial filing requirements.* The initial application must include the documentation of initial cultural resource consultation, the Overview and Survey Reports, if required, and written comments from SHPOs, THPOs and land-managing agencies, if available. The initial cultural resources consultations should establish the need for surveys. If surveys are deemed necessary by the consultation with the SHPO/THPO, the survey report must be filed with the application.


(i) If the comments of the SHPOs, THPOs, or land-management agencies are not available at the time the application is filed, they may be filed separately, but they must be filed before a final certificate is issued.


(ii) If landowners deny access to private property and certain areas are not surveyed, the unsurveyed area must be identified by mileposts, and supplemental surveys or evaluations shall be conducted after access is granted. In such circumstances, reports, and treatment plans, if necessary, for those inaccessible lands may be filed after a certificate is issued. 


(3) The Evaluation Report and Treatment Plan, if required, for the entire project must be filed before a final certificate is issued. 


(i) The Evaluation Report may be combined in a single synthetic report with the Overview and Survey Reports if the SHPOs, THPOs, and land-management agencies allow and if it is available at the time the application is filed. 


(ii) In preparing the Treatment Plan, the applicant must consult with the Commission staff, the SHPO, and any applicable THPO and land-management agencies. 


(iii) Authorization to implement the Treatment Plan will occur only after the final certificate is issued. 


(4) Applicant must request privileged treatment for all material filed with the Commission containing location, character, and ownership information about cultural resources in accordance with § 388.112 of this chapter. The cover and relevant pages or portions of the report should be clearly labeled in bold lettering: “CONTAINS PRIVILEGED INFORMATION—DO NOT RELEASE.” 


(5) Except as specified in a final Commission order, or by the Director of the Office of Energy Projects, construction may not begin until all cultural resource reports and plans have been approved. 


(g) *Resource Report 5—Socioeconomics.* This report is required only for applications involving significant aboveground facilities, including, among others, conditioning or liquefied natural gas (LNG) plants. It must identify and quantify the impacts of constructing and operating the proposed project on factors affecting towns and counties in the vicinity of the project. Resource Report 5 must:


(1) Describe the socioeconomic impact area.


(2) Evaluate the impact of any substantial immigration of people on governmental facilities and services and plans to reduce the impact on the local infrastructure.


(3) Describe on-site manpower requirements and payroll during construction and operation, including the number of construction personnel who currently reside within the impact area, would commute daily to the site from outside the impact area, or would relocate temporarily within the impact area.


(4) Determine whether existing housing within the impact area is sufficient to meet the needs of the additional population.


(5) Describe the number and types of residences and businesses that would be displaced by the project, procedures to be used to acquire these properties, and types and amounts of relocation assistance payments.


(6) Conduct a fiscal impact analysis evaluating incremental local government expenditures in relation to incremental local government revenues that would result from construction of the project. Incremental expenditures include, but are not limited to, school operating costs, road maintenance and repair, public safety, and public utility costs.


(h) *Resource Report 6—Geological resources.* This report is required for applications involving LNG facilities and all other applications, except those involving only facilities within the boundaries of existing aboveground facilities, such as a compressor, meter, or regulator station. It must describe geological resources and hazards in the project area that might be directly or indirectly affected by the proposed action or that could place the proposed facilities at risk, the potential effects of those hazards on the facility, and methods proposed to reduce the effects or risks. Resource Report 6 must:


(1) Describe, by milepost, mineral resources that are currently or potentially exploitable;


(2) Describe, by milepost, existing and potential geological hazards and areas of nonroutine geotechnical concern, such as high seismicity areas, active faults, and areas susceptible to soil liquefaction; planned, active, and abandoned mines; karst terrain; and areas of potential ground failure, such as subsidence, slumping, and landsliding. Discuss the hazards posed to the facility from each one.


(3) Describe how the project would be located or designed to avoid or minimize adverse effects to the resources or risk to itself, including geotechnical investigations and monitoring that would be conducted before, during, and after construction. Discuss also the potential for blasting to affect structures, and the measures to be taken to remedy such effects.


(4) Specify methods to be used to prevent project-induced contamination from surface mines or from mine tailings along the right-of-way and whether the project would hinder mine reclamation or expansion efforts.


(5) If the application is for underground storage facilities:


(i) Describe how the applicant would control and monitor the drilling activity of others within the field and buffer zone;


(ii) Describe how the applicant would monitor potential effects of the operation of adjacent storage or production facilities on the proposed facility, and vice versa;


(iii) Describe measures taken to locate and determine the condition of old wells within the field and buffer zone and how the applicant would reduce risk from failure of known and undiscovered wells; and


(iv) Identify and discuss safety and environmental safeguards required by state and Federal drilling regulations.


(i) *Resource Report 7—Soils.* This report is required for all applications except those not involving soil disturbance. It must describe the soils that would be affected by the proposed project, the effect on those soils, and measures proposed to minimize or avoid impact. Resource Report 7 must:


(1) List, by milepost, the soil associations that would be crossed and describe the erosion potential, fertility, and drainage characteristics of each association.


(2) If an aboveground facility site is greater than 5 acres:


(i) List the soil series within the property and the percentage of the property comprised of each series;


(ii) List the percentage of each series which would be permanently disturbed;


(iii) Describe the characteristics of each soil series; and


(iv) Indicate which are classified as prime or unique farmland by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service.


(3) Identify, by milepost, potential impact from: Soil erosion due to water, wind, or loss of vegetation; soil compaction and damage to soil structure resulting from movement of construction vehicles; wet soils and soils with poor drainage that are especially prone to structural damage; damage to drainage tile systems due to movement of construction vehicles and trenching activities; and interference with the operation of agricultural equipment due to the probability of large stones or blasted rock occurring on or near the surface as a result of construction.


(4) Identify, by milepost, cropland and residential areas where loss of soil fertility due to trenching and backfilling could occur.


(5) Describe proposed mitigation measures to reduce the potential for adverse impact to soils or agricultural productivity. Compare proposed mitigation measures with the staff's current “*Upland Erosion Control, Revegetation and Maintenance Plan,*” which is available from the Commission Internet home page or from the Commission staff, and explain how proposed mitigation measures provide equivalent or greater protections to the environment.


(j) *Resource Report 8—Land use, recreation and aesthetics.* This report is required for all applications except those involving only facilities which are of comparable use at existing compressor, meter, and regulator stations. It must describe the existing uses of land on, and (where specified) within 0.25 mile of, the proposed project and changes to those land uses that would occur if the project is approved. The report shall discuss proposed mitigation measures, including protection and enhancement of existing land use. Resource Report 8 must:


(1) Describe the width and acreage requirements of all construction and permanent rights-of-way and the acreage required for each proposed plant and operational site, including injection or withdrawal wells.


(i) List, by milepost, locations where the proposed right-of-way would be adjacent to existing rights-of-way of any kind.


(ii) Identify, preferably by diagrams, existing rights-of-way that would be used for a portion of the construction or operational right-of-way, the overlap and how much additional width would be required.


(iii) Identify the total amount of land to be purchased or leased for each aboveground facility, the amount of land that would be disturbed for construction and operation of the facility, and the use of the remaining land not required for project operation.


(iv) Identify the size of typical staging areas and expanded work areas, such as those at railroad, road, and waterbody crossings, and the size and location of all pipe storage yards and access roads.


(2) Identify, by milepost, the existing use of lands crossed by the proposed pipeline, or on or adjacent to each proposed plant and operational site.


(3) Describe planned development on land crossed or within 0.25 mile of proposed facilities, the time frame (if available) for such development, and proposed coordination to minimize impacts on land use. Planned development means development which is included in a master plan or is on file with the local planning board or the county.


(4) Identify, by milepost and length of crossing, the area of direct effect of each proposed facility and operational site on sugar maple stands, orchards and nurseries, landfills, operating mines, hazardous waste sites, state wild and scenic rivers, state or local designated trails, nature preserves, game management areas, remnant prairie, old-growth forest, national or state forests, parks, golf courses, designated natural, recreational or scenic areas, or registered natural landmarks, Native American religious sites and traditional cultural properties to the extent they are known to the public at large, and reservations, lands identified under the Special Area Management Plan of the Office of Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and lands owned or controlled by Federal or state agencies or private preservation groups. Also identify if any of those areas are located within 0.25 mile of any proposed facility.


(5) Identify, by milepost, all residences and buildings within 50 feet of the proposed pipeline construction right-of-way and the distance of the residence or building from the right-of-way. Provide survey drawings or alignment sheets to illustrate the location of the facilities in relation to the buildings.


(6) Describe any areas crossed by or within 0.25 mile of the proposed pipeline or plant and operational sites which are included in, or are designated for study for inclusion in: The National Wild and Scenic Rivers System (16 U.S.C. 1271); The National Trails System (16 U.S.C. 1241); or a wilderness area designated under the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132).


(7) For facilities within a designated coastal zone management area, provide a consistency determination or evidence that the applicant has requested a consistency determination from the state's coastal zone management program.


(8) Describe the impact the project will have on present uses of the affected area as identified above, including commercial uses, mineral resources, recreational areas, public health and safety, and the aesthetic value of the land and its features. Describe any temporary or permanent restrictions on land use resulting from the project.


(9) Describe mitigation measures intended for all special use areas identified under paragraphs (j)(2) through (6) of this section.


(10) Describe proposed typical mitigation measures for each residence that is within 50 feet of the edge of the pipeline construction right-of-way, as well as any proposed residence-specific mitigation. Describe how residential property, including for example, fences, driveways, stone walls, sidewalks, water supply, and septic systems, would be restored. Describe compensation plans for temporary and permanent rights-of-way and the eminent domain process for the affected areas.


(11) Describe measures proposed to mitigate the aesthetic impact of the facilities especially for aboveground facilities such as compressor or meter stations.


(12) Demonstrate that applications for rights-of-way or other proposed land use have been or soon will be filed with Federal land-management agencies with jurisdiction over land that would be affected by the project.


(k) *Resource Report 9—Air and noise quality.* This report is required for applications involving compressor facilities at new or existing stations, and for all new LNG facilities. It must identify the effects of the project on the existing air quality and noise environment and describe proposed measures to mitigate the effects. Resource Report 9 must:


(1) Describe the existing air quality, including background levels of nitrogen dioxide and other criteria pollutants which may be emitted above EPA-identified significance levels.


(2) Quantitatively describe existing noise levels at noise-sensitive areas, such as schools, hospitals, or residences and include any areas covered by relevant state or local noise ordinances.


(i) Report existing noise levels as the L_eq_ (day), L_eq_ (night), and L_dn_ and include the basis for the data or estimates.


(ii) For existing compressor stations, include the results of a sound level survey at the site property line and nearby noise-sensitive areas while the compressors are operated at full load.


(iii) For proposed new compressor station sites, measure or estimate the existing ambient sound environment based on current land uses and activities.


(iv) Include a plot plan that identifies the locations and duration of noise measurements, the time of day, weather conditions, wind speed and direction, engine load, and other noise sources present during each measurement.


(3) Estimate the impact of the project on air quality, including how existing regulatory standards would be met.


(i) Provide the emission rate of nitrogen oxides from existing and proposed facilities, expressed in pounds per hour and tons per year for maximum operating conditions, include supporting calculations, emission factors, fuel consumption rates, and annual hours of operation.


(ii) For major sources of air emissions (as defined by the Environmental Protection Agency), provide copies of applications for permits to construct (and operate, if applicable) or for applicability determinations under regulations for the prevention of significant air quality deterioration and subsequent determinations.


(4) Provide a quantitative estimate of the impact of the project on noise levels at noise-sensitive areas, such as schools, hospitals, or residences.


(i) Include step-by-step supporting calculations or identify the computer program used to model the noise levels, the input and raw output data and all assumptions made when running the model, far-field sound level data for maximum facility operation, and the source of the data.


(ii) Include sound pressure levels for unmuffled engine inlets and exhausts, engine casings, and cooling equipment; dynamic insertion loss for all mufflers; sound transmission loss for all compressor building components, including walls, roof, doors, windows and ventilation openings; sound attenuation from the station to nearby noise-sensitive areas; the manufacturer's name, the model number, the performance rating; and a description of each noise source and noise control component to be employed at the proposed compressor station. For proposed compressors the initial filing must include at least the proposed horsepower, type of compression, and energy source for the compressor.


(iii) Far-field sound level data measured from similar units in service elsewhere, when available, may be substituted for manufacturer's far-field sound level data.


(iv) If specific noise control equipment has not been chosen, include a schedule for submitting the data prior to certification.


(v) The estimate must demonstrate that the project will comply with applicable noise regulations and show how the facility will meet the following requirements:


(A) The noise attributable to any new compressor station, compression added to an existing station, or any modification, upgrade or update of an existing station, must not exceed a day- night sound level (L_dn_) of 55 dBA at any pre-existing noise-sensitive area (such as schools, hospitals, or residences).


(B) New compressor stations or modifications of existing stations shall not result in a perceptible increase in vibration at any noise-sensitive area.


(5) Describe measures and manufacturer's specifications for equipment proposed to mitigate impact to air and noise quality, including emission control systems, installation of filters, mufflers, or insulation of piping and buildings, and orientation of equipment away from noise-sensitive areas.


(l) *Resource Report 10—Alternatives.* This report is required for all applications. It must describe alternatives to the project and compare the environmental impacts of such alternatives to those of the proposal. The discussion must demonstrate how environmental benefits and costs were weighed against economic benefits and costs, and technological and procedural constraints. The potential for each alternative to meet project deadlines and the environmental consequences of each alternative shall be discussed. Resource Report 10 must:


(1) Discuss the “no action” alternative and the potential for accomplishing the proposed objectives through the use of other systems and/or energy conservation. Provide an analysis of the relative environmental benefits and costs for each alternative.


(2) Describe alternative routes or locations considered for each facility during the initial screening for the project.


(i) For alternative routes considered in the initial screening for the project but eliminated, describe the environmental characteristics of each route or site, and the reasons for rejecting it. Identify the location of such alternatives on maps of sufficient scale to depict their location and relationship to the proposed action, and the relationship of the pipeline to existing rights-of-way.


(ii) For alternative routes or locations considered for more in-depth consideration, describe the environmental characteristics of each route or site and the reasons for rejecting it. Provide comparative tables showing the differences in environmental characteristics for the alternative and proposed action. The location of any alternatives in this paragraph shall be provided on maps equivalent to those required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(m) *Resource Report 11—Reliability and safety.* This report is required for applications involving new or recommissioned LNG facilities. Information previously filed with the Commission need not be refiled if the applicant verifies its continued validity. This report shall address the potential hazard to the public from failure of facility components resulting from accidents or natural catastrophes, how these events would affect reliability, and what procedures and design features have been used to reduce potential hazards. Resource Report 11 must:


(1) Describe measures proposed to protect the public from failure of the proposed facilities (including coordination with local agencies).


(2) Discuss hazards, the environmental impact, and service interruptions which could reasonably ensue from failure of the proposed facilities.


(3) Discuss design and operational measures to avoid or reduce risk.


(4) Discuss contingency plans for maintaining service or reducing downtime.


(5) Describe measures used to exclude the public from hazardous areas. Discuss measures used to minimize problems arising from malfunctions and accidents (with estimates of probability of occurrence) and identify standard procedures for protecting services and public safety during maintenance and breakdowns.


(n) *Resource Report 12—PCB contamination.* This report is required for applications involving the replacement, abandonment by removal, or abandonment in place of pipeline facilities determined to have polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in excess of 50 ppm in pipeline liquids. Resource Report 12 must:


(1) Provide a statement that activities would comply with an approved EPA disposal permit, with the dates of issuance and expiration specified, or with the requirements of the Toxic Substances Control Act.


(2) For compressor station modifications on sites that have been determined to have soils contaminated with PCBs, describe the status of remediation efforts completed to date.


(o) *Resource Report 13—Engineering and design material.* This report is required for construction of new liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities, or the recommissioning of existing LNG facilities. If the recommissioned facility is existing and is not being replaced, relocated, or significantly altered, resubmittal of information already on file with the Commission is unnecessary. Resource Report 13 must:


(1) Provide a detailed plot plan showing the location of all major components to be installed, including compression, pretreatment, liquefaction, storage, transfer piping, vaporization, truck loading/unloading, vent stacks, pumps, and auxiliary or appurtenant service facilities.


(2) Provide a detailed layout of the fire protection system showing the location of fire water pumps, piping, hydrants, hose reels, dry chemical systems, high expansion foam systems, and auxiliary or appurtenant service facilities.


(3) Provide a layout of the hazard detection system showing the location of combustible-gas detectors, fire detectors, heat detectors, smoke or combustion product detectors, and low temperature detectors. Identify those detectors that activate automatic shutdowns and the equipment that would shut down. Include all safety provisions incorporated in the plant design, including automatic and manually activated emergency shutdown systems.


(4) Provide a detailed layout of the spill containment system showing the location of impoundments, sumps, subdikes, channels, and water removal systems.


(5) Provide manufacturer's specifications, drawings, and literature on the fail-safe shut-off valve for each loading area at a marine terminal (if applicable).


(6) Provide a detailed layout of the fuel gas system showing all taps with process components.


(7) Provide copies of company, engineering firm, or consultant studies of a conceptual nature that show the engineering planning or design approach to the construction of new facilities or plants.


(8) Provide engineering information on major process components related to the first six items above, which include (as applicable) function, capacity, type, manufacturer, drive system (horsepower, voltage), operating pressure, and temperature.


(9) Provide manuals and construction drawings for LNG storage tank(s).


(10) Provide up-to-date piping and instrumentation diagrams. Include a description of the instrumentation and control philosophy, type of instrumentation (pneumatic, electronic), use of computer technology, and control room display and operation. Also, provide an overall schematic diagram of the entire process flow system, including maps, materials, and energy balances.


(11) Provide engineering information on the plant's electrical power generation system, distribution system, emergency power system, uninterruptible power system, and battery backup system.


(12) Identify all codes and standards under which the plant (and marine terminal, if applicable) will be sited, designed, constructed, tested, monitored, operated, and maintained, and any special considerations or safety provisions that were applied to the design of plant components.


(13) Provide a list of all permits or approvals from local, state, Federal, or Native American groups or Indian agencies required prior to and during construction of the plant, and the status of each, including the date filed, the date issued, and any known obstacles to approval. Include a description of data records required for submission to such agencies and transcripts of any public hearings by such agencies. Also provide copies of any correspondence relating to the actions by all, or any, of these agencies regarding all required approvals.


(14) Identify all Federal, state, and local regulations and requirements that apply to the siting, design, construction, testing, monitoring, operation, and maintenance of the proposed project and explain how the proposed project will comply with the applicable Federal regulations, including codes and standards incorporated by reference into Federal regulations.


(15) Provide information to demonstrate that the proposed facilities will be sited, designed, constructed, and operated to maintain reliability and will not significantly impact public safety given geotechnical conditions and the occurrence of a natural hazard identified in paragraphs (o)(15)(i) through (iii) of this section. Site information must provide geotechnical studies and natural hazard studies based on the site location, which must provide impacts and magnitude of historical events and projected impacts and magnitude of events based on projected prescriptive/deterministic events and projected probabilistic events corresponding to mean recurrence intervals. Design information must provide the basis of design supported by site information, including design parameters and criteria and preliminary resultant design loads used in the geotechnical and structural design of LNG facilities. Construction and operation information must also include discussion of quality assurance and quality control plans, monitoring programs, and action programs developed in preparation of and response to geotechnical and natural hazards. All information provided must, at a minimum, demonstrate compliance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and identify any applicable state and local requirements for the siting, design, construction, testing, monitoring, operation, and maintenance used to safeguard against significant impacts caused by geotechnical conditions and natural hazards.


(i) *General information.* Provide site information that includes:


(A) A description of all structures, systems, and components, including, at a minimum, the layout of all proposed above ground and below ground structures, systems, and components including temporary access roads used during construction and permanent roads used during operation.


(B) The design classification for each structure, system, and component in accordance with, at a minimum, all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.


(C) The derivation and values for risk category and mean recurrence intervals that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.


(D) A description of all load combinations for each design classification for all structures, systems, and components that are, at a minimum, in accordance with design methods and all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.


(E) A description of all preliminary dead loads that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and include, at a minimum, weight of materials of construction of structures, systems, and components; weight of any hydrostatic test fluid service within structures, systems, and components during commissioning; weight of fluid services within structures, systems, and components during startup, normal operation, abnormal operation, and shutdown; and soil and hydrostatic pressure loads and potential uplift of below ground structures, systems, and components.


(F) A description of all preliminary live loads that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and include, at a minimum, dynamic loads from movement during transportation of structures, systems, and components; induced loads from construction equipment atop of below ground structures, systems, and components; uniform and concentrated loads from construction and operation personnel and equipment on structures, systems, and components; and crane loads for structures, systems, and components.


(G) A description of all preliminary loads induced from natural hazards for all structures, systems, and components that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards as described in paragraph (o)(15)(iii) of this section.


(H) A description of all mitigation measures to protect against natural hazards (like earthquakes) including, at a minimum, a discussion of the proposed site elevation and design of any storm walls or barriers relative to information described in paragraphs (o)(15)(ii) and (iii) of this section.


(I) A description of a natural hazard preparedness and action program, which includes facilitating timely decisions concerning the present or future state of the LNG facility that address, at a minimum, the natural hazards described in paragraph (o)(15)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Geotechnical information.* Provide a geotechnical investigation that includes:


(A) A summary of the site investigation that lists the applicant's exploratory program for the site and the types of subsurface investigations performed and planned to be performed for the site.


(B) A list and description of all in situ tests performed, standards used for tests, and their results including all standard penetration tests, cone penetration tests (static and dynamic), test pits, trenches, borings, rock coring, soil sampling, plate load tests, and in situ shear strength tests.


(C) A plot plan that identifies the number, location, spacing, cross-sections, and depths of each in situ test.


(D) A description of completed surveys, standards used for surveys, and the results of surveys that were conducted to obtain continuous lateral and depth information for the evaluation of subsurface conditions including all seismic refraction and reflection surveys.


(E) A description of the applicant's laboratory testing program that includes the treatment of samples, the preparation of the soil specimen for testing, the techniques to detect sample disturbance, and the laboratory testing specifications.


(F) A list and description of all laboratory tests performed, standards used for tests, and their results, including results from all soil classification tests, index tests, strength and compressibility tests, permeability tests, and soil corrosivity tests.


(G) A description of proposed mitigation measures for soil improvement or other mitigation that would remediate low bearing strength, poor consolidation, poor permeability, high corrosivity, or other geotechnical issues discovered during in situ or laboratory tests.


(H) A discussion of subsurface conditions and profiles based on the results of the subsurface exploration and field test conducted at the site. Subsurface profiles must identify groundwater conditions and the physicochemical properties of the groundwater, soil/rock layers and parameters, and various soil strata in various cross-section drawings spanning across the site including the LNG storage tank areas.


(I) A description of soil conditions that indicate compressible or expansive soils, corrosive soils, collapsible soils, erodible soils, liquefaction-susceptible soils, frost-heave susceptible soils, frozen soils, sanitary landfill, or contaminated soils.


(J) An analysis of actual or potential hazards (*e.g.,* landslides, subsidence, uplift, capable faults, or collapse resulting from natural features such as tectonic depressions and cavernous or karst terrains) to the site.


(K) A discussion of the relationship between the regional and local geology and the site location.


(L) An evaluation and discussion of surface displacement caused by faulting or seismically induced lateral spreading or lateral flow, regional subsidence, local subsidence, and heave.


(M) Drawings of existing and proposed site elevation contours.


(N) A slope-stability analysis, including slope stabilization methods, sloping topography for the site, recommendations for slope stability, static and seismic stability, and factor of safety.


(O) Recommendations for site improvement to increase bearing capacity, reduce the potential of liquefaction and lateral spreading, and mitigate poor or unusual soil conditions.


(P) Recommendations for site improvement to mitigate soil contaminants and shoreline erosion control.


(Q) An evaluation and discussion of the expected total settlement over the design life of the facilities that considers soil conditions, regional subsidence, and local subsidence.


(R) Recommendations for shallow foundations, including, at a minimum, ultimate bearing capacity, factor of safety, allowable bearing capacity, total and differential settlement criteria, liquefaction settlements, settlement monitoring, and lateral resistance.


(S) Recommendations for deep foundations, including, at a minimum, acceptable foundation type, bearing capacity, total pile capacities, axial capacity, lateral capacity, group effects, down-drag, factor of safety, settlement of single pile and pile groups, lateral movement of pile groups, pile installation, pile cap, indicator piles and pile load test programs, static axial pile load test, lateral load test, and dynamic pile load test.


(T) A summary of information needed to establish broad design parameters and conclusions used to determine the proposed layout and design of buildings, structures, and support facilities.


(U) A description of the implementation of the geotechnical monitoring system for the site and structures, including inclinometer, extensometers, piezometer, tiltmeter, settlement monuments or cells, pressure and load cells, and crack monitoring devices.


(iii) *Natural hazard information.* Provide studies, basis of design, and plans for all natural hazards, including, at a minimum, each natural hazard in paragraphs (o)(15)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section:


(A) *Seismic information.* Provide a discussion of seismic design and hazards analysis that includes:


(*1*) The seismic design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.


(*2*) A description of seismic setting and seismic hazard investigation.


(*3*) A description of seismological characteristics of the geographical region within 100 miles of the site.


(*4*) A description of capable faults, including any part of a fault within five miles of the site, the fault characteristics in the site vicinity, the methods and techniques used for fault analysis and investigations, and the potential effect of fault displacement on structures, systems, and components.


(*5*) Derivation of the site class describing the soil conditions and supportive geotechnical studies that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.


(*6*) Criteria used to determine potential soil liquefaction, subsidence, fault rupture, seismic slope stability, and lateral spreading.


(*7*) A historical ground motion analysis, including a description of past seismic events of Modified Mercalli Intensity greater than IV or magnitude greater than 3.0 within 100 miles of the site, including date of seismic events, magnitude of seismic events, distance from site to epicenter of seismic events, depth of seismic events, and resultant ground motions recorded or estimated at site location.


(*8*) A site-specific ground motion analysis based on ground motions projected from the U.S. Geological Survey national seismic maps and any deterministic seismic hazard analyses (DSHA) and probabilistic seismic hazard analyses (PSHA).


(*9*) Derivation of all ground motions used for the Operating Basis Earthquake (OBE), Safe Shutdown Earthquake (SSE), site-specific design earthquake (DE), site-specific peak ground motion (PGA), and aftershock level earthquake (ALE) that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.


(*10*) A list of OBE, SSE, and ALE site-specific ground motion spectral values for 0.5%, 1%, 2%, 5%, 7%, 10%, 15%, and 20% damping during all periods range.


(*11*) The DE seismic coefficients and seismic design parameters, including the spectral response acceleration and five percent damped design spectral response acceleration parameters at a short-period, at a period of one second, and at other periods; short-period site coefficient and long-period site coefficient; importance factor; component importance factor; fundamental period of the structure; long-period transition period; and response modification coefficient that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards.


(*12*) A description of site-specific response spectrum analysis method, time history analysis method, or equivalent static load analysis.


(*13*) A seismic analysis for soil-structure interaction that is, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, and includes, at a minimum, a discussion of the modeling methods and the factors considered in the modeling methods, including the extent of embedment, the layering of the soil/rock strata, and the boundary of soil-structure model.


(*14*) A comparison of seismic responses used for each design classification for all structures, systems, and components.


(*15*) A list of seismic hazard curves of spectral accelerations for all periods for the site.


(*16*) Vertical response spectra for seismic design and ratio to horizontal response spectra.


(*17*) Natural frequencies and responses for each LNG tank system and associated safety systems and associated structures, systems, and components.


(*18*) A description of procedures used for structural analyses, including consideration of incorporating the stiffness, mass, and damping characteristics of the structural systems into the analytical models.


(*19*) A description of determination of seismic overturning moments and sliding forces for each LNG tank system and associated safety related structures, systems, and components, including consideration of the three components of input motion and the simultaneous action of vertical and horizontal seismic forces.


(*20*) A description of design procedure for seismically isolated structures, systems, and components.


(*21*) A description of seismic design basis and criteria for the LNG storage tank(s) and foundation(s). The seismic design basis and criteria must include the flexibility of the tank shell(s) and its influence on the natural frequencies of the tank(s), liquid level, effects of liquid motion or pressure changes; minimum design freeboard; sloshing and impulsive loads; seismic coefficients; importance factor(s); reduction factor(s); slosh height(s); sloshing periods of LNG storage tank(s); global stability of the tank(s) in terms of the potential for overturning and sliding; differential displacement between the tank(s) and the first support; and a total settlement monitoring program for the tank foundation(s).


(*22*) A description of seismic monitoring system in accordance with, at a minimum, all applicable Federal requirements and applicable codes and standards, including any triaxial ground motion recorder installed to register the free-field ground motion and additional triaxial ground motion recorders on each LNG tank system foundation, LNG tank roof, and associated safety related structures, systems, and components. The proposed seismic monitoring must include the installation locations on a plot plan; description of the triaxial strong motion recorders or other seismic instrumentation; the proposed alarm set points, and operating procedures (including emergency operating procedures) for control room operators in response to such alarms/data obtained from seismic instrumentation; and maintenance procedures.


(*23*) A cross reference to potential for earthquake generated tsunamis and seiches provided in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(B) of this section, earthquake generated floods in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(C) of this section, earthquake generated landslides in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(G) of this section, and earthquake generated releases and fires in paragraph (m) of this section.


(B) *Tsunami and seiche information.* Provide a discussion of tsunami and seiche design and hazards that includes:


(*1*) The tsunami and seismic design basis and criteria with a description of the applicable requirements and guidelines, and generally accepted codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.


(*2*) The seiche design inundation and run-up elevations and corresponding return periods for all structures, systems, and components.


(*3*) The maximum considered tsunami (MCT) inundation and run-up elevation for the site, including the maximum considered earthquake (MCE) level ground motions at the site if the MCE is the triggering source of the MCT.


(*4*) A comparison of design loads of seiche water inundation elevations with inundation elevation corresponding to return periods of MCE and MCT for all structures, systems, and components.


(*5*) The Tsunami Risk Category for the site and a description of potential tsunami generation by seismic sources, and the prevention and mitigation plan for potential tsunami and seiche hazards.


(*6*) A cross reference to potential tsunami and seiche generated floods in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(C) of this section, tsunami and seiche generated landslides in paragraph (o)(15)(iii)(G) of this section, and tsunami and seiche generated releases and fires in paragraph (m) of this section.


(C) *Flood information.* Provide a discussion of flood design criteria and hazards that includes:


(*1*) The floods design basis and criteria with references to applicable requirements and guidelines, and generally accepted codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.


(*2*) A description of flooding potential in the region surrounding the site due to one or more natural causes such as storm surge, tides, wind generated waves, meteorological tsunamis or seiches, extreme precipitation, or other natural hazard events that have a common cause.


(*3*) A comparison of flood design loads corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.


(*4*) A discussion of final designed site elevations and storm surge walls or floodwalls for the site that includes tsunami considerations, flood design considerations, site total settlements, sea level rise, subsidence.


(D) *Hurricane information.* Provide a discussion of hurricanes and other meteorological events design criteria and hazards that includes:


(*1*) The wind and storm surge design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.


(*2*) A comparison of design wind loads for both sustained and three-second gusts and storm surge elevations, including consideration for still water, wind/wave run-up effects, and crest elevations, with hurricanes and other meteorological events at the site location corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.


(*3*) A discussion of historic hurricane frequencies and hurricane categories equivalent on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale at the site and associated wind speeds and storm surge.


(*4*) The design regional subsidence that includes a discussion of the elevation change used to account for regional subsidence for the design life of the facilities at the site.


(E) *Tornado information.* Provide a discussion of tornado design criteria and hazards that includes:


(*1*) The tornadoes design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.


(*2*) A comparison of tornado design loads corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.


(*3*) A discussion of historic tornado frequencies and tornado categories as classified on the Enhanced Fujita (EF) Scale at the site and associated wind speeds.


(*4*) A discussion of tornado loads determination and design procedure.


(*5*) A comparison of impact between wind loads and tornado loads for the site.


(F) *Rain, ice, snow, and related precipitation information.* Provide a discussion of rain, ice, snow, and related precipitation design criteria and hazards that includes:


(*1*) The rain, ice, and snow design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.


(*2*) The identification of stormwater flows, outfalls, and stormwater management systems for all surfaces, including spill containment system with sump pumps or other water removal systems.


(*3*) The comparison of rain, ice, and snow design loads with rainfall rates, snow loads, and ice loads corresponding to return periods of 10,000-year, 5,000-year, 1,000-year, 500-year, and 100-year for all structures, systems, and components.


(*4*) A discussion of historic ice and blizzard events and frequencies and other ice and snow events at the site and associated loads.


(G) *Landslides, wildfires, volcanic activity, and geomagnetism information.* Provide a discussion of landslides, wildfires, volcanic activity, and geomagnetism design criteria and hazards that includes:


(*1*) The landslides, wildfires, volcanic activity, and geomagnetism design basis and criteria that are, at a minimum, in accordance with all applicable Federal requirements, and applicable codes, standards, and specifications used as basis of design.


(*2*) A discussion of historic landslide, wildfire, volcano activity, and geomagnetic disturbance risks and intensities at the site.


(*3*) A description of capable volcanoes, volcanic characteristics of the region, and a discussion of potentially hazardous volcanic phenomena considerations. 



---

[N] [Order 603, 64 FR 26611, May 14, 1999, as amended by Order 603-A, 64 FR 54537, Oct. 7, 1999; Order 609, 64 FR 57392, Oct. 25, 1999; Order 699, 72 FR 45328, Aug. 14, 2007; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012; Order 900, 88 FR 74042, Oct. 30, 2023]




