# § 2702.3   Making a request for information.

(a) *Content of request.* All requests for information must:


(1) Be in writing;


(2) Include the words “Freedom of Information Act Request” or “FOIA” on the face of the request;


(3) Include, if concerning a case that has come before the Commission or a Commission Administrative Law Judge, the Commission case docket number or, in the alternative, the related MSHA citation or order number(s);


(4) Reasonably describe the particular record(s) requested; and


(5) Specify the preferred form or format in which the requester wishes to receive the response. The Commission shall accommodate requests as to form or format if the record is readily reproducible in the requested form or format. When requesters do not specify the preferred form or format of the response, the Commission shall respond in the form or format in which the record is most accessible to the Commission.


(b) *Optional content considerations.* If the requester desires expedited processing or a waiver or reduction of fees, such requests must be in writing and should be included in the initial request for information filed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. See §§ 2702.4(b)(3) and 2702.10 for additional requirements.


(c) *Personal records.* For individuals seeking access to their records, not including Commission files generated in adversary proceedings under the Mine Act, please see the Commission's Privacy Act rules at 29 CFR part 2705.


(d) *Submitting a request.* Requests must be submitted via:


(1) The Commission's FOIA Request form located on the Commission's website at *https://www.fmshrc.gov/foia/foia-request-form;* or by


(2) Email, mail, fax, or hand delivery to the Chief FOIA Officer at *FOIA@FMSHRC.gov,* Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, Attn: Chief FOIA Officer, 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Suite 520N, Washington, DC 20004-1710, Fax: 202-434-9944.




