# § 147.2600   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of wells in the territory of Guam, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Guam Environmental Protection Agency, approved by EPA pursuant to SDWA section 1422. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on May 2, 1983 (47 FR 19717); the effective date of this program is June 1, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the territory of Guam. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Water Resources Conservation Act, Government Code of Guam sections 57021-57025, Public Law 9-31 (March 9, 1967), as amended by Public Law 9-76 (July 29, 1967), as amended by Public Law 12-191 (December 30, 1974);


(2) Water Pollution Control Act, Government Code of Guam sections 57042 and 57045, Public Law 9-76 (July 29, 1967), as amended by Public Law 9-212 (August 5, 1968), as amended by Public Law 10-31 (March 10, 1969), as amended by Public Law 12-191 (December 30, 1974);


(3) Guam Environmental Protection Agency, Underground Injection Control Regulations, Chapters 1-9, as revised by amendments adopted September 24, 1982;


(4) Guam Environmental Protection Agency, Water Quality Standards, Section I-IV (approved September 25, 1981, effective November 16, 1981). 


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for specific sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered program: 


(1) Government Code of Guam, Title XXV, Chapters I-III (sections 24000-24207);


(2) Government Code of Guam, Title LXI, Chapters I-III (sections 57000-57051);


(3) Government Code of Guam, Title LXI, Chapters VI (sections 57120-57142);


(4) Government Code of Guam, Title LXI, Chapters VIII (sections 57170-57188);


(5) Government Code of Guam, Title LXI, Chapters XII (sections 57285-57299);


(c) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA, Region IX and the Guam Environmental Protection Agency signed by the Regional Administrator on January 14, 1983.


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) Letter from Attorney General of Guam to Regional Administrator, Region IX, “Re: Attorney General's Statement for Underground Injection Control Program (UIC), Ground Water Program Guidance #16” May 12, 1982; 


(2) Letter from Attorney General of Guam to Regional Administrator, Region IX, “Re: Additional comments to be incorporated into the May 12, 1982, Attorney General's Statement for Underground Injection Control Program,” September 2, 1982. 


(e) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or amendments thereto. 



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43092, Oct. 25, 1988]




