# § 747.2002   Review of orders imposing discretionary supervisory action.

(a) *Notice of intent to issue directive*—(1) *Generally.* Whenever the NCUA Board intends to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action under§ 702.107 (b), § 702.108(b) or § 702.109(b) of this chapter on a credit union classified “undercapitalized” or lower, or under § 702.204(b) or § 702.205(b) of this chapter on a new credit union classified “moderately capitalized” or lower, it must give the credit union prior notice of the proposed action and an opportunity to respond. 


(2) *Immediate issuance of directive without notice.* The NCUA Board may issue a directive to take effect immediately under paragraph (a)(1) of this section without notice to the credit union if the NCUA Board finds it necessary in order to carry out the purposes of part 702 of this chapter. A credit union that is subject to a directive which takes effect immediately may appeal the directive in writing to the NCUA Board. Such an appeal must be received by the NCUA Board within 14 calendar days after the directive was issued, unless the NCUA Board permits a longer period. Unless ordered by the NCUA Board, the directive shall remain in effect pending a decision on the appeal. The NCUA Board shall consider any such appeal, if timely filed, within 60 calendar days of receiving it. 


(b) *Contents of notice.* The NCUA Board's notice to a credit union of its intention to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action must state: 


(1) The credit union's net worth ratio and net worth category classification; 


(2) The specific restrictions or requirements that the NCUA Board intends to impose, and the reasons therefor; 


(3) The proposed date when the discretionary supervisory action would take effect and the proposed date for completing the required action or terminating the action; and 


(4) That a credit union must file a written response to a notice within 14 calendar days from the date of the notice, or within such shorter period as the NCUA Board determines is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the credit union or other relevant circumstances. 


(c) *Contents of response to notice.* A credit union's response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must: 


(1) Explain why it contends that the proposed discretionary supervisory action is not an appropriate exercise of discretion under this part; 


(2) Request the NCUA Board to modify or to not issue the proposed directive; 


(3) Include other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the credit union's position regarding the proposed directive; and 


(4) If desired, request the recommendation of NCUA's ombudsman pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section. 


(d) *NCUA Board consideration of response.* The NCUA Board, or an independent person designated by the NCUA Board to act on its behalf, after considering a response under paragraph (c) of this section, may: 


(1) Issue the directive as originally proposed or as modified; 


(2) Determine not to issue the directive and to so notify the credit union; or 


(3) Seek additional information or clarification from the credit union or any other relevant source. 


(e) *Failure to file response.* A credit union which fails to file a written response to a notice of the NCUA Board's intention to issue a directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action, within the specified time period, shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to respond, and to have consented to the issuance of the directive. 


(f) *Request to modify or rescind directive.* A credit union that is subject to an existing directive imposing a discretionary supervisory action may request in writing that the NCUA Board reconsider the terms of the directive, or rescind or modify it, due to changed circumstances. Unless otherwise ordered by the NCUA Board, the directive shall remain in effect while such request is pending. A request under this paragraph which remains pending 60 days following receipt by the NCUA Board is deemed granted. 


(g) *Ombudsman.* A credit union may request in writing the recommendation of NCUA's ombudsman to modify or to not issue a proposed directive under paragraph (b) of this section, or to modify or rescind an existing directive due to changed circumstances under paragraph (f) of this section. A credit union which fails to request the ombudsman's recommendation in a response under paragraph (c) of this section, or in a request under paragraph (f) of this section, shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity to do so. The ombudsman shall promptly notify the credit union and the NCUA Board of his or her recommendation.



---

[N] [65 FR 8594, Feb. 18, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 66723, Oct. 29, 2015]




