# § 123.42   Truck shipments transiting the United States.

(a) *Manifest required.* Trucks with merchandise transiting the United States from point to point in Canada will be manifested on United States-Canada Transit Manifest, Customs Form 7512-B Canada 8
1/2. The driver, in accordance with Canadian Customs regulations, shall present the manifest in four copies to Canadian Customs at the Canadian port of departure for review and validation.


(b) *Procedure at Canadian port of departure.* The Customs officer receiving the manifest shall validate it by stamping each copy in the lower right hand corner to show the port name and date and by initialing each copy. All copies of the validated manifest then will be returned to the driver for presentation to U.S. Customs at the United States port of entry.


(c) *Procedure at U.S. port of arrival*—(1) *Filing of in-bond application.* An in-bond application must be filed pursuant to § 18.1 of this chapter prior to or upon arrival at a U.S. port. At CBP's discretion the driver may be required to present four validated copies of the United States-Canada Transit Manifest, CBP Form 7512-B Canada 8
1/2, to the CBP officer, who will review the manifest for accuracy and verify its validation by Canadian Customs. If the manifest is found not to be validated properly, the truck will be required to be returned to the Canadian port of departure so that the manifest may be validated in accordance with Canadian Customs regulations. If the manifest is validated properly and no irregularity is found, the truck will be sealed unless sealing is waived by CBP. The CBP officer will note in the in-bond record and, if paper, on the manifest, the seal numbers or the waiver of sealing, retain the original, and return three copies of the manifest to the driver for presentation to CBP at the U.S. port of exportation.


(2) *Sealing or waiver of sealing.* Trucks transiting the United States will be sealed with red in-bond seals at the United States port of arrival unless sealing is waived in accordance with § 18.4 of this chapter. If a truck cannot be sealed effectively and sealing is deemed necessary to protect the revenue or to prevent violation of the Customs laws or regulations, the truck will not be permitted to transit the United States under bond.


(d) *Procedure at U.S. port of exportation.* The arrival of the in-bond shipment at the port of exportation must be reported to CBP in accordance with § 18.1 of this chapter.


(1) If the seals are intact, they will be left unbroken unless there is indication that the contents should be verified.


(2) If the seals have been broken, or there is other indication that the contents should be verified, all merchandise will be required to be unladen and a detailed inventory made against the waybills.


(e) *Procedure at Canadian port of reentry.* The driver of a truck reentering Canada after transiting the United States shall present a certified copy of the United States-Canada Transit Manifest, Customs Forms 7512-B Canada 8
1/2, to the Canadian Customs officer. If this copy of the manifest does not bear the certification of a U.S. Customs officer at the United States port of exit, the driver will be allowed to return to that port to have it certified.


(f) *Proof of exportation from United States.* The certified copy of the manifest returned to the driver by the U.S. Customs officer at the U.S. port of exit will serve as proof of exportation of the shipment from the U.S.


(g) *Forwarding procedure.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, merchandise transported in trucks shall be forwarded in accordance with the general provisions for transportation in bond (§§ 18.1-18.8 of this chapter).



---

[N] [T.D. 81-85, 46 FR 21991, Apr. 15, 1981, as amended by T.D. 84-212, 49 FR 39047, Oct. 3, 1984; T.D. 00-22, 65 FR 16518, Mar. 29, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45405, Sept. 28, 2017]




