# § 11.73   Quantification phase—resource recoverability analysis.

(a) *Requirement.* The time needed for the injured resources to recover to the state that the authorized official determines services are restored, rehabilitated, replaced, and/or the equivalent have been acquired to baseline levels shall be estimated. The time estimated for recovery or any lesser period of time as determined in the Assessment Plan must be used as the recovery period for purposes of § 11.38 and the Damage Determination phase, §§ 11.80 through 11.84.


(1) In all cases, the amount of time needed for recovery if no restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources efforts are undertaken beyond response actions performed or anticipated shall be estimated. This time period shall be used as the “No Action-Natural Recovery” period for purposes of § 11.82 and § 11.84(g)(2)(ii) of this part.


(2) The estimated time for recovery shall be included in possible alternatives for restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources, as developed in § 11.82 of this part, and the data and process by which these recovery times were estimated shall be documented.


(b) *Restoration not feasible.* If the authorized official determines that restoration will not be technically feasible, as that phrase is used in this part, the reasoning and data on which this decision is based shall be documented as part of the justification for any replacement alternatives that may be considered or proposed.


(c) *Estimating recovery time.* (1) The time estimates required in paragraph (a) of this section shall be based on the best available information and where appropriate may be based on cost-effective models. Information gathered may come from one or more of the following sources, as applicable:


(i) Published studies on the same or similar resources;


(ii) Other data sources identified in § 11.72 of this part;


(iii) Experience of managers or resource specialists with the injured resource;


(iv) Experience of managers or resource specialists who have dealt with restoration for similar discharges or releases elsewhere; and


(v) Field and laboratory data from assessment and control areas as necessary.


(2) The following factors should be considered when estimating recovery times:


(i) Ecological succession patterns in the area;


(ii) Growth or reproductive patterns, life cycles, and ecological requirements of biological species involved, including their reaction or tolerance to the oil or hazardous substance involved;


(iii) Bioaccumulation and extent of oil or hazardous substances in the food chain;


(iv) Chemical, physical, and biological removal rates of the oil or hazardous substance from the media involved, especially as related to the local conditions, as well as the nature of any potential degradation or decomposition products from the process including:


(A) Dispersion, dilution, and volatilization rates in air, sediments, water, or geologic materials;


(B) Transport rates in air, soil, water, and sediments;


(C) Biological degradation, depuration, or decomposition rates and residence times in living materials;


(D) Soil or sediment properties and adsorption-desorption rates between soil or sediment components and water or air;


(E) Soil surface runoff, leaching, and weathering processes; and


(F) Local weather or climatological conditions that may affect recovery rates.



---

[N] [51 FR 27725, Aug. 1, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 14283, Mar. 25, 1994; 61 FR 20612, May 7, 1996]




