# § 842.107   Nonassertable claims.

The following are considered nonassertable claims and should not be asserted:


(a) *Claims against any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States.* “Agency or instrumentality” includes any self-insured nonappropriated fund activity whether revenue producing, welfare, or sundry. The term does not include private associations.


(b) *Claims for care furnished a veteran by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for service connected disability.* However, claims may be asserted for the reasonable value of medical care an Air Force member receives prior to his or her discharge and transfer to the VA facility or when the Air Force has reimbursed the VA facility for the care.


(c) *Claims for care furnished a merchant seaman under 42 U.S.C. 249.* A claim against the seaman's employer should not be filed.


(d) *Government contractors.* In claims in which the United States must reimburse the contractor for a claim according to the terms of the contract, settlement authorities investigate the circumstances surrounding the incident to determine if assertion is appropriate. If the U.S. is not required to reimburse the contractor, the MCR authority may assert a claim against the contractor.


(e) *Foreign governments.* Settlement authorities investigate any claims that might be made against foreign governments, their political subdivisions, armed forces members or civilian employees.


(f) *U.S. personnel.* Claims are not asserted against members of the uniformed services; employees of the US, its agencies or instrumentalities; or an individual who is a dependent of a service member or employee at the time of assertion unless they have insurance to pay the claim, they were required by law or regulation to have insurance which would have covered the Air Force, or their actions, which necessitated the medical treatment provided at government expense, constituted willful misconduct or gross negligence.



---

[N] [81 FR 83699, Nov. 22, 2016]




