# ยง 24.125   Change in proprietorship.

(a) *General.* If there is a change in the proprietorship of wine premises qualified to operate under this part, the outgoing proprietor shall comply with the requirements of ยง 24.140, and the successor shall, before commencing operations, apply for and obtain any required permits, file any required bonds, and file an application for and receive permission to operate in the same manner as a person qualifying a new wine premises; however, the successor may, in the manner provided in ยง 24.127, adopt the approved formulas of the outgoing proprietor. Wine, spirits, and winemaking materials may be transferred from an outgoing proprietor to a successor in the manner provided in ยง 24.140.


(b) *Fiduciary.* A successor to the proprietorship of wine premises who is an administrator, executor, receiver, trustee, assignee, or other fiduciary shall, except as otherwise provided in this section, comply with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. However, in lieu of filing a new bond, if a bond is required, the fiduciary may furnish a consent of surety extending the terms of any bonds of the predecessor, and any pertinent information contained in the predecessor's application may be incorporated by reference. In addition, the fiduciary shall furnish a certified copy of the order of the court or other pertinent document showing the appointment as such fiduciary. The effective date of the qualifying documents filed by a fiduciary will be the effective date of the court order, or the date specified for the fiduciary to assume control. If the fiduciary was not appointed by a court, the date of assuming control will coincide with the effective date of the qualifying documents filed by the fiduciary.


(c) *Exception.* A fiduciary intending to liquidate the business conducted on wine premises, i.e., disposition of any wine and spirits on hand, including use of any cellar treatment necessary to put the wine in merchantable condition, who does not intend to produce wine, or use spirits, or receive wine in bond may be exempted from qualifying as the proprietor of the wine premises upon filing with the appropriate TTB officer a statement to that effect, a copy of a foreclosure action, or a copy of the court order directing the liquidation of the business, and, if the wine premises is covered by a bond, a consent of surety wherein the surety and the fiduciary agree to remain liable on the bond.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31077, July 9, 1991; T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, Mar. 22, 1999]




