# § 148.450   Cargoes subject to liquefaction.

(a) This section applies only to cargoes identified in Table 148.10 of this part with a reference to this section and cargoes identified in the IMSBC Code (incorporated by reference, see § 148.8) as cargoes that may liquefy.


(b) This section does not apply to—


(1) Shipments by unmanned barge; or


(2) Cargoes of coal that have an average particle size of 10mm (.394 in.) or greater.


(c) Definitions as used in this section—


(1) *Cargo subject to liquefaction* means a material that is subject to moisture migration and subsequent liquefaction if shipped with moisture content in excess of the transportable moisture limit.


(2) *Moisture migration* is the movement of moisture by settling and consolidation of a material, which may result in the development of a flow state in the material.


(3) *Transportable moisture limit* or *TML* of a cargo that may liquefy is the maximum moisture content that is considered safe for carriage on vessels.


(d) Except on a vessel that is specially constructed or specially fitted for the purpose of carrying such cargoes (see also section 7 of the IMSBC Code, incorporated by reference, see § 148.8), a cargo subject to liquefaction may not be transported by vessel if its moisture content exceeds its TML.


(e) The shipper of a cargo subject to liquefaction must give the master the material's moisture content and TML.


(f) The master of a vessel shipping a cargo subject to liquefaction must ensure that—


(1) A cargo containing a liquid is not stowed in the same cargo space with a cargo subject to liquefaction; and


(2) Precautions are taken to prevent the entry of liquids into a cargo space containing a cargo subject to liquefaction.


(g) The moisture content and TML of a material may be determined by the tests described in Appendix 2, Section 1, of the IMSBC Code (incorporated by reference, see § 148.8).




