# § 75.1719-2   Lighting fixtures; requirements.

(a) Lighting fixtures shall be permissible. 


(b) Lighting fixtures may be installed on self-propelled machines or may be stationary lighting fixtures.


(c)(1) Electrically operated lighting fixtures shall be energized by direct current, or by sinusoidal full wave alternating current not less than 50 cycles per second (100 pulses per second), or by an equivalent power source that causes no greater flicker. 


(2) Alternating current circuits supplying power to stationary lighting fixtures shall contain conductors energized at voltages not greater than 70 volts to ground. Alternating current circuits, energized at 100 volts or more and used to supply power to stationary lighting fixtures, shall originate at a transformer having a center or neutral tap grounded to earth through a proper resistor, which shall be designed to limit fault current to not more than 5 amperes. A grounding circuit in accordance with § 75.701-4 shall originate at the grounded terminal of the grounding resistor and extend along with the power conductors and serve as a grounding conductor for the frames of all equipment receiving power from the circuit. The ground fault current rating of grounding resistors shall meet the “extended time rating” set forth in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Standard No. 32 (IEEE Std. 32-1972) which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. The incorporated publication is available for examination at each MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health district office, and may be obtained from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., Publications Office, 10662 Los Vaqueros Circle, P.O. Box 3014 Los Alamitos, CA 90720-1264 Telephone: 800-272-6657 (toll free); *http://www.ieee.org.*

(3) Machine-mounted lighting fixtures shall be electrically grounded to the machine by a separate grounding conductor in compliance with § 75.701-4.


(d) Direct current circuits in excess of a nominal voltage of 300 volts shall not be used to supply power to stationary light fixtures.


(e) Cables conducting power to stationary lighting fixtures from both alternating and direct current power sources, other than intrinsically safe devices, shall be considered trailing cables, and shall meet the requirements of Subpart G of this part. In addition, such cables shall be protected against overloads and short circuits by a suitable circuit breaker or other device approved by the Secretary. Circuit breakers or other device approved by the Secretary protecting trailing cables receiving power from resistance grounded circuits shall be equipped with a ground trip arrangement which shall be designed to deenergize the circuit at not more than 50% of the available fault current.


(f) Before shunts are removed from blasting caps, lighting fixtures and associated cables located in the same working place shall be deenergized. Furthermore, lighting fixtures shall be removed out of the line of blast and not less than 50 feet from the blasting operation unless otherwise protected against flying debris.


(g) Lighting fixtures shall be designed and installed to minimize discomfort glare.



---

[N] [41 FR 43534, Oct. 1, 1976, as amended at 71 FR 16669, Apr. 3, 2006]




