# § 286.1   Definitions.

As used in this part 286:


*Area Director* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of an area office or his authorized representative.


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs of the United States Department of the Interior or the official in the Bureau of Indian Affairs to whom the Assistant Secretary has delegated authority to act on behalf of the Assistant Secretary. 


*Cooperative Association* means an association of individuals organized pursuant to state, Federal, or tribal law, for the purpose of owning and operating an economic enterprise for profit with profits distributed or allocated to patrons who are members of the organization. 


*Corporation* means an entity organized pursuant to state, Federal, or tribal law, with or without stock, for the purpose of owning and operating an economic enterprise. 


*Economic enterprise* means any Indian-owned, commercial, industrial, agricultural, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit, provided that eligible Indian ownership constitutes not less than 51 per centum of the enterprise. 


*Grantee(s)* means the recipient(s) of a nonreimburseable grant under this part. 


*Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe or a person of Alaska Native descent who is a shareholder in a corporation organized under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended. 


*Partnership* means a form of business organization in which two or more legal persons are associated as co-owners for the purposes of business or professional activities for private pecuniary gain. 


*Profits* means the net income earned after deducting operating expenses from operating revenues. 


*Reservation* means Indian reservation, California rancheria, public domain Indian allotment, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, and land held by Alaska Native groups incorporated under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior. 


*Superintendent* means the Bureau official in charge of a Bureau agency office or other local office reporting to an Area Director. 


*Tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or any regional, village, urban or group corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) as amended, which is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 



---

[N] [55 FR 36273, Sept. 5, 1990]




