# § 420.16   Pretreatment standards for new sources (PSNS).

Except as provided in 40 CFR 403.7, any new source subject to this subpart that introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works must comply with 40 CFR part 403 and must achieve the following pretreatment standards for new sources (PSNS), as applicable.


(a) *By-product cokemaking.* (1) Any new source subject to the provisions of this section that commenced discharging after November 18, 1992 and before November 18, 2002 must continue to achieve the standards specified in § 420.16 of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, revised as of July 1, 2001, (except for the standards for phenols 4AAP) for ten years beginning on the date the source commenced discharge or during the period of depreciation or amortization of the facility, whichever comes first, after which the source must achieve the standards specified in § 420.15(a).


(2) Except as provided in 40 CFR 403.7, the following standards apply with respect to each new source that commences construction after November 18, 2002:


(A) Increased loadings, not to exceed 13.3 percent of the above limitations, shall be provided for process wastewaters from coke oven gas wet desulfurization systems, but only to the extent such systems generate process wastewaters.


(B) Increased loadings shall be provided for process wastewaters from other wet air pollution control systems (except those from coal charging and coke pushing emission controls), coal tar processing operations and coke plant groundwater remediation systems, but only to the extent such systems generate process wastewaters and those wastewaters are co-treated with process wastewaters from by-product cokemaking wastewaters.


(C) Increased loadings, not to exceed 44.2 percent of the above limitations, shall be provided for water used for the optimization of coke plant biological treatment systems.


(b) *Cokemaking—non-recovery.* Except as provided in 40 CFR 403.7, the following standards apply with respect to each new source that commences construction after November 18, 2002: There shall be no discharge of process wastewater pollutants to POTWs.



---

[N] [67 FR 64263, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 73623, Dec. 13, 2005]




