# ยง 1406.1   Scope, purpose, and effective date.

(a) *Scope.* This part 1406 requires manufacturers, including importers, of coal and wood burning appliances, as defined in ยง 1406.3(a), to provide consumers with a specified notification concerning the installation, operation, and maintenance of the appliances. The notification is intended to provide consumers with technical and performance information related to the safety of the appliances. This part 1406 also requires these manufacturers to provide to the Commission a copy of the notification to consumers and a statement of the reasons supporting the manufacturer's conclusion that certain clearance distances contained in the notification are appropriate for preventing fires.


(b) *Purpose.* This regulation is intended to reduce the unreasonable risk of injury from fire associated with inadequate information provided with coal and wood burning appliances. This rule does not replace any voluntary standards applicable to these appliances or any state or local requirements applicable to the installation, use, or maintenance of such appliances that are not inconsistent with this rule. Thus, for example, a local code could require the actual installation of appliances at different distances from combustibles than those specified on the label required by this rule, and voluntary standards or local codes could require labeling or instructions in addition to those required by this rule. The fact that a product complies with this regulation is not intended to be a substitute for the performance tests and other criteria established by listing organizations whose approval is required to meet some state or local requirements applicable to these appliances.


(c) *Effective date.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, manufacturers, including importers, of coal and wood burning appliances as defined in ยง 1406.3(a) must comply with this regulation with respect to stoves that are manufactured or imported after October 17, 1983, or that are first introduced into United States commerce after May 16, 1984, regardless of the date of manufacture. For the purposes of this rule, an appliance is manufactured when no further assembly of the appliance is required (i) before shipment by the manufacturer or (ii), if the product is not so shipped, before delivery to the first purchaser. A product manufactured in the United States (U.S.) is first introduced into U.S. commerce when it is shipped by the manufacturer or delivered to the next purchaser, whichever comes first. A product manufactured outside the U.S. is first introduced into U.S. commerce when it is first brought within a U.S. port of entry.


(2) The requirements of ยง 1406.4(c) apply to sales catalogs and point of sale literature provided by manufacturers after May 16, 1984.


(3) Section 1406.5 is effective December 6, 1983.



---

[N] [48 FR 21914, May 16, 1983; 48 FR 26761, June 10, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 50706, Nov. 3, 1983; 48 FR 52889, Nov. 23, 1983]




