# ยง 648.162   Bluefish specifications.

(a) *Recommended measures.* Based on the annual review and requests for research quota as described in paragraph (h) of this section, the Bluefish Monitoring Committee shall recommend to the MAFMC and the ASMFC the following measures to ensure that the ACL specified by the process outlined in ยง 648.160(a) will not be exceeded:


(1) A fishery-level ACT;


(2) Research quota set from a range of 0 to 3 percent of TALs;


(3) Commercial minimum fish size;


(4) Minimum mesh size;


(5) Recreational possession limit set from a range of 0 to 20 bluefish;


(6) Recreational minimum fish size;


(7) Recreational season;


(8) Restrictions on gear other than otter trawls and gill nets;


(9) Changes, as appropriate, to the SBRM, including the CV-based performance standard, the means by which discard data are collected/obtained, fishery stratification, the process for prioritizing observer sea-day allocations, reports, and/or industry-funded observers or observer set aside programs; and


(10) Modification of existing AM measures and ACT control rules utilized by the Bluefish Monitoring Committee.


(b) *TAL.* The Bluefish Monitoring Committee shall recommend sector-specific TALs less than or equal to the ACTs through the specifications process.


(1) *Recreational harvest limit and commercial quota.* If research quota is specified as described in paragraph (g) of this section, the recreational harvest limit and commercial quota will be based on the respective sector TALs remaining after the deduction of the applicable research quota.


(2) *Sector quota transfer.* During the specifications process, the Bluefish Monitoring Committee may recommend a transfer of quota from the commercial fishery to the recreational fishery or from the recreational fishery to the commercial fishery; based on a review and comparison of expected landings for each sector and the recreational harvest limit and commercial quota. The amount of quota transferred between sectors may not exceed 10-percent of the ABC for that fishing year. No transfer may occur when the bluefish stock is overfished or subject to overfishing.


(c) *Annual fishing measures.* The MAFMC shall review the recommendations of the Bluefish Monitoring Committee. Based on these recommendations and any public comment, the MAFMC shall recommend to the Regional Administrator by September 1 measures necessary to prevent overages of the applicable specified limits or targets for each sector as prescribed in the FMP. The MAFMC's recommendations must include supporting documentation, as appropriate, concerning the environmental, economic, and social impacts of the recommendations. The Regional Administrator shall review these recommendations and any recommendations of the ASMFC. After such review, NMFS will publish a proposed rule in the _Federal Register_ as soon as practicable to implement ACLs, ACTs, research quota, a coastwide commercial quota, individual State commercial quotas, a recreational harvest limit, and additional management measures for the commercial and recreational fisheries to prevent overages of the applicable specified limits or targets for each sector as prescribed in the FMP. After considering public comment, NMFS will publish a final rule in the _Federal Register_.


(d) *Distribution of annual commercial quota.* (1) The annual commercial quota will be distributed to the states, based upon the following percentages; state each followed by its allocation in parentheses: ME (0.1091); NH (0.2154); MA (10.1150); RI (9.6079); CT (1.0872); NY (19.7582); NJ (13.8454); DE (0.4945); MD (1.9175); VA (5.8657); NC (32.0278); SC (0.1034); GA (0.1023); and FL (4.7788). Note: The sum of all state allocations does not add to 100 because of rounding. This distribution includes a minimum allocation of 0.1 to every state in the management unit.


(2) The allocation percentages in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be phased in over a 7-year period beginning in 2022. The percent change in allocation from those prior to 2022 for each state is divided equally by seven, and will be applied incrementally each year until the final allocations listed in paragraph (d)(1) are in full effect for fishing year 2028.


(e) *Quota transfers and combinations.* Any state implementing a state commercial quota for bluefish may request approval from the Regional Administrator to transfer part or all of its annual quota to one or more states. Two or more states implementing a state commercial quota for bluefish may request approval from the Regional Administrator to combine their quotas, or part of their quotas, into an overall regional quota. Requests for transfer or combination of commercial quotas for bluefish must be made by individual or joint letter(s) signed by the principal state official with marine fishery management responsibility and expertise, or his/her previously named designee, for each state involved. The letter(s) must certify that all pertinent state requirements have been met and identify the states involved and the amount of quota to be transferred or combined.


(1) Within 10 working days following the receipt of the letter(s) from the states involved, the Regional Administrator shall notify the appropriate state officials of the disposition of the request. In evaluating requests to transfer a quota or combine quotas, the Regional Administrator shall consider whether:


(i) The transfer or combination would preclude the overall annual quota from being fully harvested;


(ii) The transfer addresses an unforeseen variation or contingency in the fishery; and


(iii) The transfer is consistent with the objectives of the Bluefish FMP and Magnuson-Stevens Act.


(2) The transfer of quota or the combination of quotas will be valid only for the calendar year for which the request was made.


(3) A state may not submit a request to transfer quota or combine quotas if a request to which it is party is pending before the Regional Administrator. A state may submit a new request when it receives notification that the Regional Administrator has disapproved the previous request or when notification of the approval of the transfer or combination has been published in the _Federal Register._

(f) *Revision of state allocation.* Based upon any changes in the landings data available from the states for the base years 2009-2018, the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC) and the MAFMC may recommend to the Regional Administrator that the states' shares specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section be revised. The MAFMC's and the ASMFC's recommendation must include supporting documentation, as appropriate, concerning the environmental and economic impacts of the recommendation. The Regional Administrator shall review the recommendation of the ASMFC and the MAFMC. After such review, NMFS will publish a proposed rule in the _Federal Register_ to implement a revision in the state shares. After considering public comment, NMFS will publish a final rule in the _Federal Register_ to implement any warranted changes in allocation.


(g) *Research quota.* See ยง 648.22(g).



---

[N] [76 FR 60639, Sept. 29, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 81850, Dec. 29, 2011; 80 FR 37197, June 30, 2015; 86 FR 66981, Nov. 24, 2021; 88 FR 14511, Mar. 9, 2023]




