# § 165.930   Safety Zone, Brandon Road Lock and Dam to Lake Michigan including Des Plaines River, Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, Chicago River, and Calumet-Saganashkee Channel, Chicago, IL.

(a) *Location.* The safety zone consists of the following areas:


(1) *Des Plaines River.* All U.S. waters of the Des Plaines River located between mile marker 286.0 (Brandon Road Lock and Dam) and mile marker 290.0 (point at which the Des Plaines River connects with the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal).


(2) *Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal.* All U.S. waters of the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal between mile marker 290.0 (point at which the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal connects to the Des Plaines River) and mile marker 321.8 (point at which the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal Connects to the South Branch Chicago River).


(3) *South Branch Chicago River.* All U.S. waters of the South Branch Chicago River between mile marker 321.8 (point at which the South Branch Chicago River connects to the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal) and mile marker 325.6 (point at which the South Branch Chicago River connects to the Chicago River (Main Branch) and North Branch Chicago River).


(4) *Chicago River (Main Branch).* All U.S. waters of the Chicago River (Main Branch) between mile marker 325.6 (point at which the Chicago River connects to the South Branch Chicago River) and 100 yards extending past the end of the Chicago River covering the area of the Federal channel within Chicago Harbor.


(5) *North Branch Chicago River.* All U.S. waters of the North Branch Chicago River between mile marker 325.6 (point at which the North Branch Chicago River connects to the Chicago River (Main Branch) and the South Branch Chicago River) and mile marker 331.4 (end of navigation channel).


(6) *Calumet-Saganashkee Channel.* All U.S. waters of the Calumet-Saganashkee Channel between mile marker 303.5 (point at which the Calumet-Saganashkee Channel connects to the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal) and mile marker 333.0; all U.S. waters of the Calumet-Saganashkee Channel between mile marker 333.0 and Lake Michigan (Calumet Harbor).


(b) *Effective period.* This rule is effective July 18, 2011.


(c) *Enforcement.* (1) The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, may enforce this safety zone in whole, in segments, or by any combination of segments. The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, may suspend the enforcement of any segment of this safety zone for which notice of enforcement had been given.


(2) The safety zone established by this section will be enforced, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, only upon notice by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan. Suspension of any previously announced period of enforcement will also be provided by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan. All notices of enforcement and notices of suspension of enforcement will clearly describe any segments of the safety zone affected by the notice. At a minimum, notices of enforcement and notices of suspension of enforcement will identify any affected segments by reference to mile markers. When possible, the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will also identify enforced segments of this safety zone by referencing readily identifiable geographical points. In addition to providing the geographical bounds of any enforced segment of this safety zone, notices of enforcement will also provide the date(s) and time(s) at which enforcement will commence or suspend.


(3) The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will publish notices of enforcement and notices of suspension of enforcement in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a) and in a manner that provides as much notice to the public as possible. The primary method of notification will be through publication in the _Federal Register._ The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will also provide notice through other means, such as Broadcast Notice to Mariners, local Notice to Mariners, local news media, distribution in leaflet form, and on-scene oral notice. Additionally, the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, may notify representatives from the maritime industry through telephonic and email notifications.


(d) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.23 of this part, entry into, transiting, mooring, laying up, or anchoring within any enforced segment of the safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative.


(2) The “designated representative” of the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, to act on his or her behalf. The designated representative of the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will be aboard a Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, or other designated vessel or will be on shore and will communicate with vessels via VHF radio, loudhailer, or by phone. The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative may be contacted via VHF radio Channel 16 or the Coast Guard Sector Lake Michigan Command Center at 414-747-7182.


(3) To obtain permission to enter or operate within an enforced segment of the safety zone established by this section, Vessel operators must contact the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative. Vessel operators given permission to operate in an enforced segment of the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative.


(4) When a segment of the safety zone is being enforced, it will be closed to all vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative. As soon as operations permit, the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will issue a notice of suspension of enforcement as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(5) All persons entering any enforced segment of the safety zone established in this section are advised that they do so at their own risk.



---

[N] [USCG-2011-0228, 76 FR 35109, June 16, 2011]




