# ยง 72.42   Expansion and new development.

(a) *Expansion.* Because the UPARR Program is targeted to distressed areas, every assurance should be made that if any expansion takes place, existing recreation facilities are up to building standards and the following general requirements are met.


(1) The general category of sites/facilities or programs involved must be an identified priority in the jurisdiction's Recovery Action Program.


(2) The results of the expansion must not substantially increase the personnel or maintenance costs of the applicant jurisdiction's overall recreation system unless expansion of the system has been addressed as a priority in the jurisdiction's Recovery Action Program, and the RAP strategies specifying how the funds for increased personnel or maintenance costs associated with the expansion will be obtained. The preapplication narrative must describe the extent of increased personnel and maintenance for the project(s) included in the proposal, if any, and methods of financing them.


(3) The expansion must increase the extent, volume, scope, or quality of recreation opportunities to residents of distressed neighborhoods.


(b) *New development.* For purposes of this program, new development is defined as the developing for changing of relatively unimproved property which has not previously been developed for recreation. This includes the creation of new parks and facilities.


(1) *Rehabilitation.* New development will not be assisted under a rehabilitation grant.


(2) *Innovation.* New development may be allowed under an Innovation grant when it is directly related to a specific innovative idea or technique, increases the utility of a property and/or service program, and increases recreation opportunities for users in the target area. 




