# ยง 1355.42   Reporting populations.

(a) *Out-of-home care reporting population.* (1) A title IV-E agency must report a child of any age who is in out-of-home care for more than 24 hours. The out-of-home care reporting population includes a child in the following situations:


(i) A child in foster care as defined in ยง 1355.20.


(ii) A child on whose behalf title IV-E foster care maintenance payments are made and who is under the placement and care responsibility of another public agency or an Indian tribe, tribal organization or consortium with which the title IV-E agency has an agreement pursuant to section 472(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act.


(iii) A child who runs away or whose whereabouts are unknown at the time the child is placed under the placement and care responsibility of the title IV-E agency.


(2) Once a child enters the out-of-home care reporting population, the child remains in the out-of-home care reporting population through the end of the report period in which the title IV-E agency's placement and care responsibility ends, or a child's title IV-E foster care maintenance payment pursuant to a title IV-E agreement per section 472(a)(2) of the Act ends, regardless of any subsequent living arrangement.


(b) *Adoption and guardianship assistance reporting population.* (1) The title IV-E agency must include in the adoption and guardianship assistance reporting population any child who is:


(i) In a finalized adoption under a title IV-E adoption assistance agreement pursuant to section 473(a) of the Act with the reporting title IV-E agency that is or was in effect at some point during the current report period; or


(ii) In a legal guardianship under a title IV-E guardianship assistance agreement pursuant to section 473(d) of the Act with the reporting title IV-E agency that is or was in effect at some point during the current report period.


(2) A child remains in the adoption or guardianship assistance reporting population through the end of the report period in which the title IV-E agreement ends or is terminated.



---

[N] [81 FR 90569, Dec. 14, 2016]




