# ยง 511.701   Effective dates generally.

(a) *Agency classification actions.* (1) A classification action is a determination to establish or change the title, series, grade or pay system of a position based on application of published position classification standards or guides. This is a position action.


(i) The effective date of a position action taken by an agency shall be the date an official with properly delegated authority approves (certifies) the proposed classification. This is accomplished when the authorized official(s) signs the allocation of the position.


(ii) The effective date of a position action may be extended to correspond with the effective date of the personnel action when:


(A) The position is being changed to lower grade or pay; and


(B) The employee occupying the position is eligible for retained grade or pay under 5 U.S.C. 5362-5363.


(2) A position action is implemented by a personnel action. The personnel action must occur within a reasonable period of time following the date of the position action.


(3) If the position action requires a personnel action which will result in a loss of grade or pay to the occupant of the position, the agency must advise the employee, in writing, of the position action and the proposed date of the personnel action. This notice shall be issued prior to taking a personnel action.


(4) Except as provided in ยง 511.703, classification actions may not be made retroactive.


(b) *Office of Personnel Management's classification decision.* (1) The effective date of a classification decision made by means of a certificate issued under the authority of section 5110, title 5, United States Code is not earlier than the date of the certificate, and not later than the beginning of the fourth pay period following the date of the certificate, unless a subsequent date is specifically stated in the certificate. Except as otherwise provided by this paragraph the filing of an appeal of such a certificate does not delay its effective date.


(2) The implementation of the certificate may be suspended when it is determined before its effective date that a review of the classification decision is warranted and suspension is desirable. The determination to suspend implementation may be made by the Director or the Director's designee. Suspending the implementation of a certificate does not automatically change the effective date except when the certificate requires that the grade or pay of the position be reduced and the employee is not entitled to retained grade or pay.


(3) When the original decision requires that the grade or pay of the position be reduced and the employee is not entitled to retained grade or pay the reviewing authority shall issue a new certificate if it sustains the original decision. Since demotions cannot be made retroactive, the effective date of the new certificate shall be not earlier than the date of the certificate, and not later than the beginning of the fourth pay period after the date of the certificate unless a subsequent date is specifically stated in the certificate. 



---

[N] [46 FR 9915, Jan. 30, 1981, as amended at 58 FR 65534, Dec. 15, 1993; 71 FR 37489, June 30, 2006]




