# § 341.10   Application of rates to intermediate points.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) A carrier may provide in its tariff that existing rates between points named in the tariff will be applied to transportation movements from intermediate origin points not named in the tariff to named destination points, and from named origin points to intermediate destination points not named in the tariff.


(2) A carrier must file a tariff publication applicable to the transportation movements within 30 days of the start of the service if the intermediate point is to be used on a continuous basis for more than 30 days.


(b) *Intermediate point commodity rate regulations*—(1) *Intermediate origin points.* The rate for service provided to a published destination point from an origin point not specifically named in the tariff, but located intermediate to published origin and destination points, must be the same as the published rate from the next more distant origin point. Application of this provision is subject to the following: 


(i) If branch or diverging lines create two or more “next more distant” points, the carrier must apply the rate which results in the lowest charge.


(ii) If the intermediate point is located between two published origin points, the carrier must apply the rate which results in the higher charge. 


(iii) If the intermediate point is between more than two published origin points due to branch or diverging lines, the carrier must eliminate all such points except that from which the lowest charge is applicable. 


(iv) If there is in any other tariff a commodity rate from the proposed intermediate origin point that is applicable to the same movement, the carrier should not apply this rule from such intermediate point. 


(2) *Intermediate destination points.* The rate for service provided from a published origin point to a destination point not specifically named in the tariff, but located intermediate to published origin and destination points, must be the same as the published rate to the next more distant destination point. Application of this provision is subject to the following: 


(i) If branch or diverging lines create two or more “next more distant” points, the carrier must apply the rate which results in the lowest charge. 


(ii) If the intermediate point is located between two published destination points, the carrier must apply the rate which results in the higher charge.


(iii) If the intermediate point is between more than two published destination points due to branch or diverging lines, the carrier must eliminate all such points except that from which the lowest charge is applicable.


(iv) If there is in any other tariff a commodity rate to the proposed intermediate destination point that is applicable to the same movement, the carrier should not apply the provisions of this rule to such intermediate point.


(3) *Intermediate origin and destination points.* Both paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section may apply in connection with the same rate. In this instance, both regulations should be used to establish rates from intermediate points of origin to intermediate points of destination.




