# § 423.33   Camping.

(a) You may camp on Reclamation lands, except that you must comply with any restrictions, conditions, limitations, or prohibitions on camping established by an authorized official in a special use area under subpart E of this part 423.


(b) Camping stay limits are as follows:


(1) You must not camp on Reclamation lands at any single Reclamation recreation facility such as a campground for more than 14 days during any period of 30 consecutive days, except as allowed by permit issued under subpart D of this part.


(2) You must not camp in a single location on Reclamation lands, including undeveloped project lands or open range for more than 14 days during any period of 30 consecutive days, and must move at least 10 miles after each 14-day period is reached, except as allowed by permit issued under subpart D of this part.


(c) You must not attempt to reserve a campsite for future use by placing equipment or other items on the campsite, or by personal appearance, without camping on and paying the required fees for that campsite daily.


(d) You must not camp on or place any equipment at a campsite that is posted or otherwise marked as “reserved” or “closed” by an authorized official without a valid reservation for that campsite, except as allowed by a permit issued under subpart D of this part 423.


(e) You must not dig in or level any ground, or erect any structure other than a tent, in a designated campground.


(f) Where recreation facilities or other areas of Reclamation lands and waterbodies are operated through a contract or other agreement by a managing recreation partner of another Federal, State, local, or Tribal governmental entity, such as a State park, the laws, ordinances, and regulations of those partner agencies pertaining to camping shall be enforced by those partner agencies. However, Reclamation retains the authority to take necessary actions to safeguard the security and safety of the public and such Reclamation facilities, lands, and waterbodies.



---

[N] [73 FR 75349, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 80991, Nov. 21, 2023]






