# § 130.840   Closeout procedures.

(a) *General.* The purpose of closeout procedures is to ensure that the program funds and property acquired or developed under the SBDC cooperative agreement are fully reconciled and transferred seamlessly between recipient organizations, SBDC service center organizations, or other Federal programs. The responsibility of conducting closeout procedures is vested with the recipient organization whose cooperative agreement is not being renewed. The procedures should be documented and accomplished in accordance with the applicable property standards and the provisions of this part.


(b) *Supplies and equipment.* Supplies and equipment acquired with funds under the cooperative agreement must be accounted for at closeout.


(c) *Intellectual property.* (1) In accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, intangible property and items subject to copyright that are purchased or developed under the cooperative agreement must be accounted for at closeout.


(2) Inventory and documentation of intellectual property must be collected by the Lead Center for close out. In circumstances where SBA is not renewing the cooperative agreement, the recipient organization must provide an intellectual property inventory and the support documentation to the SBDC clearinghouse and to the District Office for disposition instructions.


(d) *Responsibilities*—(1) *Recipient organizations.* When an SBDC cooperative agreement is not being renewed, regardless of cause, the recipient organization will ensure the following steps are taken in their closeout process and perform the necessary inventories and reconciliations prior to submitting the final annual financial report.


(i) An inventory of the SBDC property must be compiled and evaluated. An asset evaluation final report accounting for the property, equipment, and the aggregate of usable supplies and materials must be provided to the Program Manager.


(ii) Program income balances must be reconciled, and unused program income transferred to the Lead Center from SBDC service center organization accounts.


(iii) Client counseling and training records, paper and electronic, must be compiled to facilitate an SBA program closeout review.


(iv) Financial records will be compiled to facilitate an SBA closeout financial examination.


(2) *Close out actions.* Recipient organizations that terminate SBDC service center organization agreements will perform the close out actions in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section to ensure the safeguard of program resources under the cooperative agreement.


(3) *SBA.* Upon receipt of the final financial report from a non-renewing recipient organization, the AA/SBDC will issue disposition instructions to the former recipient organization as described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Final disposition.* (1) The final financial status report from the recipient organization must include the information identified in the inventory process and identify any program income collected from the SBDC network.


(2) The AA/SBDC will issue written disposition instructions to the recipient organization providing:


(i) The name and address of the entity or agency to which property and program income must be transferred;


(ii) A date by which the transfer must be completed;


(iii) Actions to be taken regarding property and program income;


(iv) Actions to be taken regarding program records such as client and training files; and


(v) Authorization to incur costs for accomplishing the transfer. Such costs may, when authorized, be applied to residual program income or Federal or matching funds.



---

[N] [88 FR 76652, Nov. 7, 2023]






