# ยง 1466.32   Conservation innovation grant funding.

(a) *General guidelines.* The guidelines in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section apply for national-level CIG awards:


(1) CIG funding is available for single- or multi-year projects.


(2) The Chief will determine the funding level for CIG on an annual basis.


(3) CIG funding is made available from EQIP funds made available for EQIP.


(4) The Chief may establish funding limits for individual grants.


(5) The Chief will publicly announce funding for CIG.


(b) *Project or activity funding.* (1) Selected applicants may receive grants or cooperative agreements of up to 50 percent of the total project cost, not to exceed the federal project cap.


(2) Applicants must provide non-federal funding at least equal to the amount of federal funds requested.


(3) Non-federal funds must be derived from cash or in-kind sources.


(c) *Authority to reduce matching requirement.* The Chief may reduce the matching requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, provided that the applicant is:


(1) An historically underserved producer;


(2) A community-based organization comprised of, representing, or exclusively working with historically underserved producers on a CIG project;


(3) Developing an innovative conservation approach or technology specifically targeting historically underserved producers' unique needs and limitations; or


(4) An 1890 or 1994 land grant institution (7 U.S.C. 3222 *et seq.*), Hispanic-serving institution (20 U.S.C. 1101a), or other minority-serving institution, such as an historically Black college or university (20 U.S.C. 1061), a tribally controlled college or university (25 U.S.C. 1801), or Asian American and Pacific Islander-serving institution (20 U.S.C. 1059g).




(d) *Limitation to funding technical assistance.* CIG provides financial assistance to grantees. Procurement of any technical assistance to agricultural producers required to carry out a project is the responsibility of the grantee. A Federal technical representative designated by NRCS will provide technical oversight for grant projects.


(e) *Set-aside.* NRCS may set aside up to 10 percent of the total funds available for CIG for applications from historically underserved producers, or a community-based organization comprised of, representing, or exclusively working with these producers on a CIG project.



---

[N] [84 FR 69280, Dec. 17, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 67648, Oct. 26, 2020]






