# § 558.705   Findings of Violation.

(a) *When issued.* (1) OFAC may issue an initial Finding of Violation that identifies a violation if OFAC:


(i) Determines that there has occurred a violation of any provision of this part, or a violation of the provisions of any regulation, ruling, instruction, order, directive, or license issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to this part or otherwise under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*);


(ii) Considers it important to document the occurrence of a violation; and


(iii) Based on the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter, concludes that an administrative response is warranted but that a civil monetary penalty is not the most appropriate response.


(2) An initial Finding of Violation shall be in writing and may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter. For additional details concerning issuance of a Finding of Violation, see appendix A to part 501 of this chapter.


(b) *Response*—(1) *Right to respond.* An alleged violator has the right to contest an initial Finding of Violation by providing a written response to OFAC.


(2) *Deadline for response; default determination.* A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be made within 30 days as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The failure to submit a response within 30 days shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to respond, and the initial Finding of Violation will become final and will constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.


(i) *Computation of time for response.* A response to an initial Finding of Violation must be postmarked or date-stamped by the U.S. Postal Service (or foreign postal service, if mailed abroad) or courier service provider (if transmitted to OFAC by courier), or dated if sent by email, on or before the 30th day after the postmark date on the envelope in which the initial Finding of Violation was served or date the Finding of Violation was sent by email. If the initial Finding of Violation was personally delivered by a non-U.S. Postal Service agent authorized by OFAC, a response must be postmarked or date-stamped on or before the 30th day after the date of delivery.


(ii) *Extensions of time for response.* If a due date falls on a federal holiday or weekend, that due date is extended to include the following business day. Any other extensions of time will be granted, at the discretion of OFAC, only upon specific request to OFAC.


(3) *Form and method of response.* A response to an initial Finding of Violation need not be in any particular form, but it must be typewritten and signed by the alleged violator or a representative thereof (electronic signature is acceptable), contain information sufficient to indicate that it is in response to the initial Finding of Violation, and include the OFAC identification number listed on the initial Finding of Violation. The response must be sent to OFAC's Enforcement Division by mail or courier or email and must be postmarked or date-stamped in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(4) *Information that should be included in response.* Any response should set forth in detail why the alleged violator either believes that a violation of the regulations did not occur and/or why a Finding of Violation is otherwise unwarranted under the circumstances, with reference to the General Factors Affecting Administrative Action set forth in the Guidelines contained in appendix A to part 501 of this chapter. The response should include all documentary or other evidence available to the alleged violator that supports the arguments set forth in the response. OFAC will consider all relevant materials submitted in the response.


(c) *Determination*—(1) *Determination that a Finding of Violation is warranted.* If, after considering the response, OFAC determines that a final Finding of Violation should be issued, OFAC will issue a final Finding of Violation that will inform the violator of its decision. A final Finding of Violation shall constitute final agency action. The violator has the right to seek judicial review of that final agency action in federal district court.


(2) *Determination that a Finding of Violation is not warranted.* If, after considering the response, OFAC determines a Finding of Violation is not warranted, then OFAC will inform the alleged violator of its decision not to issue a final Finding of Violation.


(d) *Representation.* A representative of the alleged violator may act on behalf of the alleged violator, but any oral communication with OFAC prior to a written submission regarding the specific alleged violations contained in the initial Finding of Violation must be preceded by a written letter of representation, unless the initial Finding of Violation was served upon the alleged violator in care of the representative.



---

[N] [88 FR 31612, May 18, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]




