# ยง 107.630   Requirement for Licensees to file financial statements with SBA (Form 468).

(a) *Annual filing of Form 468.* For each fiscal year, you must submit to SBA financial statements and supplementary information prepared on SBA Form 468. You must file Annual Form 468 within 90 calendar days of the end of your fiscal year. Reinvestor SBICs must file Annual Form 468 within 120 calendar days of the end of your fiscal year. 


(1) *Audit of Form 468.* The annual Form 468 must be audited by an independent public accountant acceptable to SBA. 


(2) *Insurance requirement for public accountant.* Unless SBA approves otherwise, your independent public accountant must carry at least $1,000,000 of Errors and Omissions insurance, or be self-insured and have a net worth of at least $1,000,000. 


(b) *Interim filings of Form 468.* When requested by SBA, you must file interim reports on Form 468. SBA may require you to file the entire form or only certain statements and schedules. You must file such reports on or before the last day of the month following the end of the reporting period. If you have an outstanding Leverage commitment from SBA, see the filing requirements in ยง 107.1220. Reinvestor SBICs must file such reports within 120 calendar days of the end of the reporting period.


(c) *Standards for preparation of Form 468.* You must prepare SBA Form 468 in accordance with SBA's Accounting Standards and Financial Reporting Requirements for Small Business Investment Companies. 




(d) *Reporting of economic impact information on Form 468.* Your annual filing of SBA Form 468 must include an assessment of the economic impact of each Financing, specifying the full-time equivalent net jobs created and total jobs created or retained, and the impact of the Financing on the revenues and profits of the business and on taxes paid by the business and its employees.


(e) *Fund management contact and optional demographic information.* The Licensee shall provide and update management contact information. Demographic information is requested for reporting purposes only and on a voluntary basis.



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 39340, Aug. 18, 2017; 88 FR 46011, July 18, 2023; 89 FR 3548, Jan. 19, 2024] 




