# ยง 456.712   Annual report.

(a) *DUR Board report.* The State must require the DUR Board to prepare and submit an annual DUR report to the Medicaid agency that contains information specified by the State.


(b) *Medicaid agency report.* The Medicaid agency must prepare and submit, on an annual basis, a report to the Secretary that incorporates the DUR Board's report and includes the following information:


(1) A description of the nature and scope of the prospective drug review program.


(2) A description of how pharmacies performing prospective DUR without computers are expected to comply with the statutory requirement for written criteria.


(3) Detailed information on the specific criteria and standards in use. After the first annual report, information regarding only new or changed criteria must be provided and deleted criteria must be identified.


(4) A description of the steps taken by the State to include in the prospective and retrospective DUR program drugs dispensed to residents of a nursing facility that is not in compliance with the drug regimen review procedures set forth in part 483 of this chapter. After the first annual report, only changes must be reported.


(5) A description of the actions taken by the State Medicaid agency and the DUR Board to ensure compliance with the requirements for predetermined standards at ยง 456.703(f) and with the access to the predetermined standards requirement at ยง 456.703(g). After the first annual report, only changes must be reported.


(6) A description of the nature and scope of the retrospective DUR program.


(7) A summary of the educational interventions used and an assessment of the effect of these educational interventions on the quality of care.


(8) A description of the steps taken by the State Agency to monitor compliance by pharmacies with the prospective DUR counseling requirements contained in Federal and State laws and regulations. After the first annual report, only changes must be reported.


(9) Clear statements of purpose that delineate the respective goals, objectives, and scopes of responsibility of the DUR and surveillance and utilization (SUR) functions. These statements must clarify the working relationships between DUR and SUR functions and other entities such as the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit and State Board of Pharmacy. The annual report also must include a statement delineating how functional separation will be maintained between the fraud and abuse activities and the educational activities. After the first annual report, only changes must be reported.


(10) An estimate of the cost savings generated as a result of the DUR program. This report must identify costs of DUR and savings to the Medicaid drug program attributable to prospective and retrospective DUR.


(c) *Public availability.* All fee-for-service (FFS) and managed care DUR reports received by CMS under paragraph (b) of this section and, as applicable, pursuant to ยง 438.3(s) of this chapter, will be publicly posted on a website maintained by CMS for the sharing of reports and other information concerning Medicaid DUR programs.





---

[N] [57 FR 49408, Nov. 2, 1992, as amended at 85 FR 87104, Dec. 31, 2020]








