# § 222.7   Order regarding second filing fee and electronic filing registration.

(a) *Issuance of order.* Once a proceeding has become active with respect to all respondents who have been served and have not opted out within the 60-day period set forth in 17 U.S.C. 1506(i), the Board shall issue an order to all parties in the proceeding providing that within 14 days of the order—


(1) The claimant must submit the second payment of the filing fee set forth in 37 CFR 201.3(g) through eCCB; and


(2) All claimant(s) and respondent(s) must register for eCCB unless they have been granted a waiver pursuant to § 222.5(f).


(b) *Receipt of second payment from claimant*—(1) *Confirmation of active proceeding.* Upon receipt of the second payment of the filing fee set forth in 37 CFR 201.3(g) and after completion of the 14-day period specified in the Board's order, the Board shall issue a scheduling order through eCCB.


(2) *Notice to respondent.* If any claimant or respondent has not registered for eCCB, the scheduling order shall be accompanied by a notice to those parties that unless they have been granted a waiver pursuant to § 222.5(f), they must register for eCCB and that a failure to do so within a time set by the Board may result in default or failure to prosecute. Such scheduling order and notice shall be served on the respondent according to the procedures set forth in § 222.5(d)(2).


(c) *Failure of claimant to submit second payment.* If the claimant(s) fails to submit the second payment of the filing fee set forth in 37 CFR 201.3(g) within 14 days from the date of the Board's order, the Board shall issue another notice to the claimant(s), which shall provide that the proceeding shall be dismissed without prejudice unless the claimant(s) submits the second payment of the filing fee within 14 days. If the claimant(s) fails to submit the second payment of the filing fee within 14 days of the issuance of that notice, the Board shall dismiss the proceeding without prejudice, unless the Board finds that the proceeding should not be dismissed in the interests of justice.



---

[N] [87 FR 17004, Mar. 25, 2022]




