# § 63.705   Performance test methods and procedures to determine initial compliance.

(a) Except as specified in § 63.705(a) (1) through (3), to determine initial compliance with the emission limits under § 63.703 (c), (d)(2), (e)(1), (f)(1), and (g), the owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance demonstration as required under § 63.7 using the procedures and test methods listed in § 63.7 and § 63.705. If multiple emission points are vented to one common control device to meet the requirements of § 63.703 (c), (d)(2), (e)(1), and (f)(1), only one performance test is required to demonstrate initial compliance for that group of emission points. This section also contains initial compliance demonstration procedures (other than testing) for owners or operators subject to § 63.703 (c), (d)(1), (e)(1)(ii), (f)(1)(ii), and (g).


(1) A control device (not enclosure) used to comply with § 63.703 (c), (e), or (f) does not need to be tested if each of the following criteria are met:


(i) It is used to control gaseous HAP emissions from an existing affected source;


(ii) It is operating prior to March 11, 1994;


(iii) It is equipped with continuous emission monitors for determining inlet and outlet total HAP or VOC concentration, such that a percent efficiency can be calculated; and


(iv) The continuous emission monitors are used to demonstrate continuous compliance in accordance with § 63.704(c)(3)(i).


(2) The owner or operator is not required to conduct an initial performance test if the requirements of § 63.7(e)(2)(iv) or § 63.7(h) are met.


(3) An owner or operator is not required to conduct an initial performance test for a capture device when:


(i) The room, enclosure, or vent was previously tested to demonstrate compliance with subpart SSS of part 60; and


(ii) Sufficient data were gathered during the test to establish operating parameter values in accordance with § 63.704(b)(6) (i), (ii), and (iii).


(b) When an initial compliance demonstration is required by this subpart, the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(10) of this section shall be used in determining initial compliance with the provisions of this subpart.


(1) EPA Method 24 of appendix A of part 60 is used to determine the VOC content in coatings. If it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator that plant coating formulation data are equivalent to EPA Method 24 results, formulation data may be used. In the event of any inconsistency between an EPA Method 24 test and an affected source's formulation data, the EPA Method 24 test will govern. For EPA Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-liter sample taken into a 1-liter container at a location and time such that the sample will be representative of the coating applied to the base substrate (i.e., the sample shall include any dilution solvent or other VOC added during the manufacturing process). The container must be tightly sealed immediately after the sample is taken. Any solvent or other VOC added after the sample is taken must be measured and accounted for in the calculations that use EPA Method 24 results.


(2) Formulation data is used to determine the HAP content of coatings.


(3) Either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A of appendix A of part 60, as appropriate to the conditions at the site, shall be used to determine HAP or VOC concentration of air exhaust streams as required by § 63.705(c). The owner or operator shall submit notice of the intended test method to the Administrator for approval along with the notification of the performance test required under § 63.7(b). Method selection shall be based on consideration of the diversity of organic species present and their total concentration and on consideration of the potential presence of interfering gases. Except as indicated in paragraphs (b)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section, the test shall consist of three separate runs, each lasting a minimum of 30 minutes.


(i) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all the individual carbon adsorber vessels pursuant to § 63.705(c) (2) or (4), the test shall consist of three separate runs, each coinciding with one or more complete sequences through the adsorption cycles of all of the individual carbon adsorber vessels.


(ii) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each carbon adsorber vessel pursuant to § 63.705(c) (3) or (4), each carbon adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each carbon adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles.


(4) EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 is used for sample and velocity traverses.


(5) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.


(6) EPA Method 3 of appendix A of part 60 is used for gas analysis.


(7) EPA Method 4 of appendix A of part 60 is used for stack gas moisture.


(8) EPA Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 3, and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test period.


(9) Wastewater analysis shall be conducted in accordance with paragraph (b)(9)(i) or (b)(9)(ii) of this section.


(i) Use Method 305 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A and the equations in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) (A) and (B) of this section to determine the total VOHAP concentration of a wastewater stream.


(A) The following equation shall be used to calculate the VOHAP concentration of an individually speciated HAP.


(B) Total VOHAP concentration (stream) can be determined by summing the VOHAP concentrations of all individually speciated organic HAP in the wastewater. 


(ii) Use a test method or results from a test method that measures organic HAP concentrations in the wastewater, and that has been validated according to section 5.1 or 5.3 of Method 301 of appendix A of this part. The specific requirement of Method 305 of appendix A of this part to collect the sample into polyethylene glycol would not be applicable.


(A) If measuring the total VOHAP concentration of the exit stream in accordance with §§ 63.703(g)(1)(ii) and 63.705(h)(2), the concentrations of the individual organic HAP measured in the water shall be corrected to their concentrations had they been measured by Method 305 of appendix A of this part. This is done by multiplying each concentration by the compound-specific fraction measured factor (F_M_) listed in table 34 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G. 


(B) If measuring the total HAP concentration of an inlet and outlet wastewater stream to demonstrate compliance with § 63.703(g)(1)(i) and following the procedures of § 63.705(h)(3), the concentrations of the individual organic HAP measured in the water do not need to be corrected. 


(10) EPA Method 22 of appendix A of part 60 is used to determine visible emissions. Visible emissions testing shall be conducted for a minimum of 6 minutes during a time when particulate HAP transfer, as defined in this subpart, is occurring. 


(c) *Initial compliance demonstrations.* Except as stipulated in § 63.705(a), each owner or operator subject to the requirements of § 63.703(c) must demonstrate initial compliance with the requirements of this subpart by following the procedures of paragraphs (c)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) and paragraph (d) of this section, as applicable. Each owner or operator subject to § 63.703(d), (e), (f), and (g) must demonstrate initial compliance with the requirements of this subpart by following the procedures of paragraphs (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section, as appropriate. 


(1) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with § 63.703(c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4) when emissions from only the affected coating operations are controlled by a dedicated solvent recovery device, each owner or operator of the affected coating operation may perform a liquid-liquid HAP or VOC material balance over rolling 7-day periods in lieu of demonstrating compliance through the methods in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) of this section. Results of the material balances calculation performed to demonstrate initial compliance shall be submitted to the Administrator with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) and § 63.707(d). When demonstrating compliance by this procedure, § 63.7(e)(3) of subpart A does not apply. The amount of liquid HAP or VOC applied and recovered shall be determined as discussed in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. The overall HAP or VOC emission reduction (R) is calculated using equation 1: 


(i) The value of RS_i_ is zero unless the owner or operator submits the following information to the Administrator for approval of a measured RS_i_ value that is greater than zero: 


(A) Measurement techniques; and 


(B) Documentation that the measured value of RS_i_ exceeds zero. 


(ii) The measurement techniques of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section shall be submitted to the Administrator for approval with the notification of performance test required under § 63.7(b). 


(iii) Each owner or operator demonstrating compliance by the test method described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall: 


(A) Measure the amount of coating applied at the coater; 


(B) Determine the VOC or HAP content of all coating applied using the test method specified in § 63.705(b) (1) or (2); 


(C) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the amount of HAP or VOC recovered by the solvent recovery device over rolling 7-day periods; the device shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent, and this certification shall be kept on record; 


(D) Measure the amount of HAP or VOC recovered; and 


(E) Calculate the overall HAP or VOC emission reduction (R) for rolling 7-day periods using Equation 1. 


(iv) Compliance is demonstrated if the value of R is equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4). 


(2) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) when affected HAP emission points are controlled by an emission control device other than a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each carbon adsorber vessel, each owner or operator of an affected source shall perform a gaseous emission test using the following procedures. 


(i) Construct the overall HAP emission reduction system so that all volumetric flow rates and total HAP or VOC emissions can be accurately determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in § 63.705(b) (3) through (8). 


(ii) Determine capture efficiency from the HAP emission points by capturing, venting, and measuring all HAP emissions from the HAP emission points. During a performance test, the owner or operator of affected HAP emission points located in an area with other gaseous emission sources not affected by this subpart shall isolate the affected HAP emission points from all other gaseous emission points by one of the following methods: 


(A) Build a temporary total enclosure (see § 63.702) around the affected HAP emission point(s); or 


(B) Shut down all gaseous emission points not affected by this subpart and continue to exhaust fugitive emissions from the affected HAP emission points through any building ventilation system and other room exhausts such as drying ovens. 


All ventilation air must be vented through stacks suitable for testing. 


(iii) Operate the emission control device with all affected HAP emission points connected and operating. 


(iv) Determine the efficiency (E) of the control device using equation 2: 


(v) Determine the efficiency (F) of the capture system using equation 3: 


(vi) For each HAP emission point subject to § 63.703, compliance is demonstrated if either of the following conditions are met: 


(A) The product of (E) × (F) is equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.703(c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4); or 


(B) When the owner or operator is subject to § 63.703(c)(2), the value of F is equal to 1 and the value of C_aj_ at the outlet of the incinerator is demonstrated to be no greater than 20 ppmv by compound, on a dry basis. 


(3) To demonstrate compliance with § 63.703(c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4) when affected HAP emission points are controlled by a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each carbon adsorber vessel, each owner or operator of an affected source shall perform a gaseous emission test using the following procedures: 


(i) Construct the overall HAP emission reduction system so that each volumetric flow rate and the total HAP emissions can be accurately determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in § 63.705(b) (3) through (8); 


(ii) Assure that all HAP emissions from the affected HAP emission point(s) are segregated from gaseous emission points not affected by this subpart and that the emissions can be captured for measurement, as described in § 63.705(c)(2)(ii) (A) and (B); 


(iii) Operate the emission control device with all affected HAP emission points connected and operating; 


(iv) Determine the efficiency (H_v_) of each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) using equation 4: 


(v) Determine the efficiency of the carbon adsorption system (H_sys_) by computing the average efficiency of the individual carbon adsorber vessels as weighted by the volumetric flow rate (Q_hv_) of each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) using equation 5: 


(vi) Determine the efficiency (F) of the capture system using equation (3). 


(vii) For each HAP emission point subject to § 63.703(c), compliance is demonstrated if the product of (H_sys_) × (F) is equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.703(c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4). 


(4) An alternative method of demonstrating compliance with § 63.703(c)(1) through (c)(4) is the installation of a total enclosure around the affected HAP emission point(s) and the ventilation of all HAP emissions from the total enclosure to a control device with the efficiency or outlet concentration specified in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section. If this method is selected, the compliance test methods described in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section are not required. Instead, each owner or operator of an affected source shall: 


(i) Demonstrate that a total enclosure is installed. An enclosure that meets the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) (A) through (D) of this section shall be considered a total enclosure. The owner or operator of an enclosure that does not meet these requirements may apply to the Administrator for approval of the enclosure as a total enclosure on a case-by-case basis. The enclosure shall be considered a total enclosure if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator that all HAP emissions from the affected HAP emission point(s) are contained and vented to the control device. The requirements for automatic approval are as follows: 


(A) Total area of all natural draft openings shall not exceed 5 percent of the total surface area of the total enclosure's walls, floor, and ceiling; 


(B) All sources of emissions within the enclosure shall be a minimum of four equivalent diameters away from each natural draft opening; 


(C) Average inward face velocity (FV) across all natural draft openings shall be a minimum of 3,600 meters per hour as determined by the following procedures: 


(*1*) All forced makeup air ducts and all exhaust ducts are constructed so that the volumetric flow rate in each can be accurately determined by the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.705(b) (4) and (5); volumetric flow rates shall be calculated without the adjustment normally made for moisture content; and 


(*2*) Determine FV by equation 6:


(D) The air passing through all natural draft openings shall flow into the enclosure continuously. If FV is less than or equal to 9,000 meters per hour, the continuous inward flow of air shall be verified by continuous observation using smoke tubes, streamers, tracer gases, or other means approved by the Administrator over the period that the volumetric flow rate tests required to determine FV are carried out. If FV is greater than 9,000 meters per hour, the direction of airflow through the natural draft openings shall be presumed to be inward at all times without verification.


(ii) Determine the control device efficiency using equation (2) or equations (4) and (5), as applicable, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.705(b) (3) through (8).


(iii) Be in compliance if either of the following criteria are met:


(A) The installation of a total enclosure is demonstrated and the value of E determined from equation (2) (or the value of H_sys_ determined from equations (4) and (5), as applicable) is equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4); or


(B) When the owner or operator is subject to § 63.703(c)(2), the installation of a total enclosure is demonstrated and the value of C_aj_ at the outlet of the incinerator is demonstrated to be no greater than 20 ppmv by compound, on a dry basis.


(5) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with § 63.703(c)(5), each owner or operator of an affected source shall determine the mass of HAP contained in the coating per volume of coating solids applied for each batch of coating applied, according to the procedures of paragraphs (c)(5) (i) through (iii) of this section. If a batch of coating is identical to a previous batch of coating applied, the original calculations can be used to demonstrate the compliance of subsequent identical batches. The calculation of the HAP content of the coating used to demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(c)(5) shall be submitted to the Administrator with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) and § 63.707(e). When demonstrating compliance by this procedure, § 63.7(e)(3) of subpart A does not apply.


(i) Determine the weight fraction of HAP in each coating applied using formulation data as specified in § 63.705(b)(2);


(ii) Determine the volume of coating solids in each coating applied from the facility records; and


(iii) Compute the mass of HAP per volume of coating solids by equation 7:


(iv) The owner or operator of an affected source is in compliance with § 63.703(c)(5) if the value of G is less than or equal to 0.18 kilogram of HAP per liter of coating solids applied.


(6) When nonregenerative carbon adsorbers are used to comply with § 63.703(c)(1), the owner or operator may conduct a design evaluation to demonstrate initial compliance in lieu of following the compliance test procedures of paragraph (c) (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section. The design evaluation shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature, and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, capacity of the carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for the carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and the emission point operating schedule.


(d)(1) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(c) when hard piping or ductwork is used to direct HAP emissions from a HAP source to the control device, each owner or operator shall demonstrate upon inspection that the criteria of paragraph (d)(1)(i) and paragraph (d)(1) (ii) or (iii) are met.


(i) The equipment must be vented to a control device.


(ii) The control device efficiency (E or H_sys_, as applicable) determined using equation (2) or equations (4) and (5), respectively, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.705(b) (3) through (8), must be equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4), or the outlet concentration must be no greater than 20 ppmv by compound, on a dry basis, as required by § 63.703(c)(2).


(iii) When a nonregenerative carbon adsorber is used, the ductwork from the affected emission point(s) must be vented to the control device and the carbon adsorber must be demonstrated, through the procedures of § 63.705(c) (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) to meet the requirements of § 63.703(c)(1).


(2) To demonstrate initial compliance with provisions for mix preparation equipment, owners or operators shall, in addition to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, ensure that covers are closed at all times except when adding ingredients, withdrawing samples, transferring the contents, or making visual inspection when such activities cannot be carried out with the cover in place. Such activities shall be carried out through ports of the minimum practical size.


(e) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(e), the owner or operator of a wash sink subject to the provisions of this standard shall:


(1) If complying with § 63.703(e)(1)(ii), maintain at least the required minimum freeboard ratio at all times; or


(2) If complying with § 63.703(e)(1)(i), the owner or operator of an existing wash sink that vents emissions from the wash sink to a control device prior to March 11, 1994 must demonstrate that the control device is at least 95-percent efficient in accordance with § 63.705(c) (2), (3), (4), or (6); or


(3) If complying with § 63.703(e)(1)(i), each owner or operator that vents emissions from the wash sink, through a capture device, and to a control device starting on or after March 11, 1994, must demonstrate that the overall HAP control efficiency is at least 88 percent using the test methods and procedures in § 63.705(c) (2), (3), (4), or (6).


(f) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(f), the owner or operator shall:


(1) If complying with § 63.703(f)(1)(ii), install and use a closed system for flushing fixed lines; or


(2) If complying with § 63.703(f)(1)(i), each owner or operator that vents emissions from the flushing operation, through a capture device, and to a control device must demonstrate that the overall HAP control efficiency is at least 95 percent using the test methods and procedures in § 63.705(c) (2), (3), (4), or (6).


(g) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(d), the owner or operator shall:


(1) If complying with § 63.703(d)(1), install an enclosed transfer device for conveying particulate HAP, and use this device, following manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures developed for the device; or


(2) If complying with § 63.703(d)(2):


(i) Test the baghouse or fabric filter to demonstrate that there are no visible emissions using the test method in § 63.705(b)(10); and


(ii) provide engineering calculations in accordance with § 63.707(h) of this subpart with the performance test results required by § 63.7(g)(1) and § 63.9(h) of subpart A, to demonstrate that the ventilation rate from the particulate transfer activity to the control device is sufficient for capturing the particulate HAP.


(h) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(g), the owner or operator of an affected source shall follow the compliance procedures of either paragraph (h)(1), paragraph (h)(2), or paragraph (h)(3) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the permitting authority with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) and § 63.707(f) the design specifications demonstrating that the control technique meets the required efficiency for each HAP compound. For steam strippers, these specifications shall include at a minimum: feed rate, steam rate, number of theoretical trays, number of actual trays, feed composition, bottoms composition, overheads composition, and inlet feed temperature.


(2) The owner or operator shall demonstrate the compliance of a treatment process with the parts per million by weight (ppmw) wastewater stream concentration limits specified in § 63.703(g)(1)(ii) by measuring the concentration of total VOHAP at the outlet of the treatment process using the method specified in § 63.705(b)(9) (i) or (ii). A minimum of three representative samples of the wastewater stream exiting the treatment process, which are representative of normal flow and concentration conditions, shall be collected and analyzed. Wastewater samples shall be collected using the sampling procedures specified in Method 25D of appendix A of part 60. Where feasible, samples shall be taken from an enclosed pipe prior to the wastewater being exposed to the atmosphere. When sampling from an enclosed pipe is not feasible, a minimum of three representative samples shall be collected in a manner that minimizes exposure of the sample to the atmosphere and loss of organic HAP prior to analysis.


(3) The owner or operator shall demonstrate the compliance of a treatment process with the HAP fraction removed requirement specified in § 63.703(g)(1)(i) by measuring the concentration of each HAP at the inlet and outlet of the treatment process using the method specified in § 63.705(b)(9) (i) or (ii) and the procedures of paragraphs (h)(3) (i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The same test method shall be used to analyze the wastewater samples from both the inlet and outlet of the treatment process. 


(ii) The HAP mass flow rate of each individually speciated HAP compound entering the treatment process (E_b_) and exiting the treatment process (E_a_) shall be determined by computing the product of the flow rate of the wastewater stream entering or exiting the treatment process, and the HAP concentration of each individual HAP compound of the entering or exiting wastewater streams, respectively. 


(A) The flow rate of the entering and exiting wastewater streams shall be determined using inlet and outlet flow meters, respectively. 


(B) The average HAP concentration of each individual HAP of the entering and exiting wastewater streams shall be determined according to the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A) or (b)(9)(ii)(B) of this section. If measuring the VOHAP concentration of an individual HAP in accordance with § 63.705(b)(9)(i)(A), the concentrations of the individual organic VOHAP measured in the water shall be corrected to a HAP concentration by dividing each VOHAP concentration by the compound-specific fraction measured factor (F_M_) listed in table 34 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G. 


(C) Three grab samples of the entering wastewater stream shall be taken at equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of three runs. 


(D) Three grab samples of the exiting wastewater stream shall be taken at equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of three runs conducted over the same 3-hour period at which the total HAP mass flow rate entering the treatment process is determined. 


(E) The HAP mass flow rates of each individual HAP compound entering and exiting the treatment process are calculated as follows: 


(iii) The fraction removed across the treatment process for each individually speciated HAP compound shall be calculated as follows: 


(i) Startups and shutdowns are normal operation for this source category. Emissions from these activities are to be included when determining if the standards specified in § 63.703 are being attained. 


(j) An owner or operator who uses compliance techniques other than those specified in this subpart shall submit a description of those compliance procedures, subject to the Administrator's approval, in accordance with § 63.7(f) of subpart A. 




