# § 63.1450   What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and design standards?

(a) *Filterable particulate matter emission limits.* Before November 12, 2024, you must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the filterable particulate matter emission limits in § 63.1444 or § 63.1446 that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in § 63.7(e)(1) and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. On or after November 12, 2024, you must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the filterable particulate matter emission limits in § 63.1444 or § 63.1446 that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Determine the concentration of filterable particulate matter according to the test methods in appendices A-1 through A-8 to 40 CFR part 60 as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.


(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.


(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The ANSI/ASME PTC 19-10-1981 Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B manual portion only but not the instrumental portion.


(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(v) Method 5, 5D, or 17, as applicable, to determine the concentration of filterable particulate matter.


(2) As an alternative to using the applicable method specified in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section, you may determine filterable particulate matter emissions from the control device using Method 29 in appendix A-8 to 40 CFR part 60 provided that you follow the procedures and precautions prescribed in Method 29. If the control device is a positive pressure baghouse, you must also follow the measurement procedure specified in sections 8.1 through 8.3 of Method 5D in appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60.


(3) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. Each test run must have a minimum sampling time of 60 minutes and a minimum sampling volume of 0.85 dscm. For the purpose of determining compliance with the applicable filterable particulate matter emission limit, the arithmetic mean of the results for the three separate test runs is used.


(4) For a venturi wet scrubber applied to emissions from an affected source and subject to emission limits and work practice standards in § 63.1444(j) or § 63.1446(d) for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate, you must establish site-specific operating limits according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Using the continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) required in § 63.1452, measure and record the pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate during each run of the particulate matter performance test.


(ii) Compute and record the hourly average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate for each individual test run. Your operating limits are the lowest average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate value in any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.


(5) For a control device other than a baghouse or venturi wet scrubber applied to emissions from an affected source and subject to work practice standards and emission limit(s) in § 63.1444(k) or § 63.1446(e) for appropriate, site-specific operating parameters that are representative and reliable indicators of the control device performance, you must establish a site-specific operating limit(s) according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Select one or more operating parameters, as appropriate for the control device design, that can be used as representative and reliable indicators of the control device operation.


(ii) Using the CPMS required in § 63.1452, measure and record the selected operating parameters for the control device during each run of the filterable particulate matter performance test.


(iii) Compute and record the hourly average value for each of the selected operating parameters for each individual test run. Your operating limits are the lowest value or the highest value, as appropriate for the selected operating parameter, measured in any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.


(iv) You must prepare written documentation to support your selection of the operating parameters used for the control device. This documentation must include a description of each selected parameter, a rationale for why you chose the parameter, a description of the method used to monitor the parameter, and the data recorded during the performance test and used to set the operating limit(s).


(6) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test of the process shall invalidate the performance test. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(b) *Nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emission limits.* Before November 12, 2024, you must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emission limits in § 63.1444 that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in § 63.7(e)(1) and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. On or after November 12, 2024, you must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emission limits in § 63.1444 that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Determine the concentration of nonsulfuric acid particulate matter according to the test methods in appendices A-1 through A-8 to 40 CFR part 60 as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.


(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.


(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The ANSI/ASME PTC 19-10-1981 Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B manual portion only but not the instrumental portion.


(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(v) Method 5B to determine the nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emissions.


(2) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. Each test run must have a minimum sampling time of 240 minutes and a minimum sampling volume of 3.4 dscm. For the purpose of determining compliance with the nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emission limit, the arithmetic mean of the results for the three separate test runs is used.


(3) For a control device applied to emissions from an affected source and subject to work practice standards and emission limit(s) in § 63.1444(i), (j), or (k) or § 63.1446(e) for appropriate, site-specific operating parameters that are representative and reliable indicators of the control device performance, you must establish a site-specific operating limit(s) according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(4) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test of the process shall invalidate the performance test. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.




(c) *Copper converter department capture system opacity limit.* You must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the opacity limit in § 63.1444 using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section and during the particulate matter performance test.


(1) You must conduct the performance test during the period when the primary copper smelter is operating under conditions representative of the smelter's normal blister copper production rate. You may not conduct a performance test during a malfunction. Before conducting the performance test, you must prepare a written test plan specifying the copper production conditions to be maintained throughout the opacity observation period and including a copy of the written documentation you have prepared according to paragraph (a)(3) of this section to support the established operating limits for the copper converter department capture system. You must submit a copy of the test plan for review and approval by the Administrator or delegated authority. During the observation period, you must collect appropriate process information and copper converter department capture system operating information to prepare documentation sufficient to verify that all opacity observations were made during the copper production and capture system operating conditions specified in the approved test plan.


(2) You must notify the Administrator or delegated authority before conducting the opacity observations to allow the Administrator or delegated authority the opportunity to have authorized representatives attend the test. Written notification of the location and scheduled date for conducting the opacity observations must be received by the Administrator on or before 30 calendar days before this scheduled date.


(3) You must gather the data needed for determining compliance with the opacity limit using qualified visible emission observers and process monitors as described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Opacity observations must be performed by a sufficient number of qualified visible emission observers to obtain two complete concurrent sets of opacity readings for the required observation period. Each visible emission observer must be certified as a qualified observer by the procedure specified in section 3 of Method 9 in appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60. The entire set of readings during the required observation period does not need to be made by the same two observers. More than two observers may be used to allow for substitutions and provide for observer rest breaks. The owner or operator must obtain proof of current visible emission reading certification for each observer. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).


(B) You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.


(C) You must follow the record keeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.


(D) You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15% opacity of anyone reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5% opacity.


(E) This approval does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 and this letter is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.


(ii) A person (or persons) familiar with the copper production operations conducted at the smelter must serve as the indoor process monitor. The indoor process monitor is stationed at a location inside the building housing the batch copper converters such that he or she can visually observe and record operations that occur in the batch copper converter aisle during the times that the visible emission observers are making opacity readings. More than one indoor process monitor may be used to allow for substitutions and provide for rest breaks.


(4) You must make all opacity observations using Method 9 in appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60 and following the procedures described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.


(i) Each visible emission observer must make his or her readings at a position from the outside of the building that houses the copper converter department such that the observer's line-of-sight is approximately perpendicular to the longer axis of the converter building, and the observer has an unobstructed view of the building roof monitor sections or roof exhaust fan outlets that are positioned over each of the batch copper converters inside the building. Opacity readings can only be made during those times when the observer's position meets the sun orientation and other conditions specified in section 2.1 of Method 9 in appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60.


(ii) At 15-second intervals, each visible emission observer views the building roof monitor sections or roof exhaust fan outlets that are positioned over each of the batch copper converters inside the building and reads the opacity of the visible plumes. If no plume is visible, the observer records zero as the opacity value for the 15-second interval. In situations when it is possible for an observer to distinguish two or more visible emission plumes from the building roof monitor sections or roof exhaust fan outlets, the observer must identify, to the extent feasible, the plume having the highest opacity and record his or her opacity reading for that plume as the opacity value for the 15-second interval.


(5) You must make opacity observations for a period of sufficient duration to obtain a minimum of 120 1-minute intervals during which at least one copper converter is blowing and no interferences have occurred from other copper production events, as specified in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, which generate visible emissions inside the building that potentially can interfere with the visible emissions from the converter capture systems as seen by the outside observers. To obtain the required number of 1-minute intervals, the observation period may be divided into two or more segments performed on the same day or on different days if conditions prevent the required number of opacity readings from being obtained during one continuous time period. Examples of these conditions include, but are not limited to, changes in the sun's orientation relative to visible emission observers' positions such that the conditions in Method 9 in appendix A-4 to 40 CFR part 60 are no longer met or an unexpected thunderstorm. If the total observation period is divided into two or more segments, all opacity observations must be made during the same set of copper production conditions described in your approved test plan as required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(6) You must gather indoor process information during all times that the visible emission observers are making opacity readings outside the building housing the copper converter department. The indoor process monitor must continually observe the operations occurring in the copper converter department and prepare a written record of his or her observations using the procedure specified in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) At the beginning of each observation period or segment, the clock time setting on the watch or clock to be used by the indoor process monitor must be synchronized with the clock time settings for the timepieces to be used by the outdoor opacity observers.


(ii) During each period or segment when opacity readings are being made by the visible emission observers, the indoor process monitor must continuously observe the operations occurring in the copper converter department and record his or her observations in a log book, on data sheets, or other type of permanent written format.


(iii) When a batch copper converter is blowing, a record must be prepared for the converter that includes, but is not limited to, the clock times for when blowing begins and when blowing ends and the converter blowing rate. This information may be recorded by the indoor process monitor or by a separate, automated computer data system.


(iv) The process monitor must record each event other than converter blowing that occurs in or nearby the converter aisle that he or she observes to generate visible emissions inside the building. The recorded entry for each event must include, but is not limited to, a description of the event and the clock times when the event begins and when the event ends.


(7) You must prepare a summary of the data for the entire observation period using the information recorded during the observation period by the outdoor visible emission observers and the indoor process monitor and the procedure specified in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Using the field data sheets, identify the 1-minute clock times for which a total of eight opacity readings were made and recorded by both observers at 15-second intervals according to the test procedures (i.e., a total of four opacity values have been recorded for the 1-minute interval by each of the two observers). Calculate the average of the eight 15-second interval readings recorded on the field data sheets by the two observers during the clock time minute interval (add the four consecutive 15-second interval opacity readings made by Observer A during the specified clock time minute, plus the four consecutive 15-second interval opacity readings made by Observer B during the same clock time minute, and divide the resulting total by eight). Record the clock time and the opacity average for the 1-minute interval on a data summary sheet. Figure 1 to this subpart shows an example of the format for the data summary sheet you may use, but are not required to use.


(ii) Using the data summary sheets prepared according to paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section and the process information recorded according to paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section, identify those 1-minute intervals for which at least one of the batch copper converters was blowing.


(iii) Using the data summary sheets prepared according to paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section and the process information recorded according to paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section, identify the 1-minute intervals during which at least one copper converter was blowing but none of the interference events listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section occurred. Other ancillary activities not listed but conducted in or adjacent to the converter aisle during the opacity observations are not considered to be interference events (e.g., converter aisle cleaning, placement of smoking ladles or skulls on the converter aisle floor).


(A) Charging of copper matte, reverts, or other materials to a batch copper converter;


(B) Skimming slag or other molten materials from a batch copper converter;


(C) Pouring of blister copper or other molten materials from a batch copper converter;


(D) Return of slag or other molten materials to the flash smelting vessel or slag cleaning vessel;


(E) Roll-out or roll-in of the batch copper converter; or


(F) Smoke and fumes generated inside the converter building by operation of the smelting vessel, the slag cleaning vessel (if used), anode refining and casting processes that drift into the copper converter department.


(iv) Using the data summary sheets prepared according to paragraph (c)(7)(iii) of this section, up to five 1-minute intervals following an interference event may be eliminated from data used for the compliance determination calculation specified in paragraph (c)(8) of this section by applying a time delay factor. The time delay factor must be a constant number of minutes not to exceed 5 minutes that is added to the clock time recorded when cessation of the interference event occurs. The same time delay factor must be used for all interference events (i.e., a constant time delay factor for the smelter of 1 minute, 2 minutes, 3 minutes, 4 minutes, or 5 minutes). The number of minutes to be used for the time delay factor is determined based on the site-specific equipment and converter building configuration. An explanation of the rationale for selecting the value used for the time delay factor must be prepared and included in the test report.


(8) You must use the data summary prepared in paragraph (c)(7) of this section to calculate the average opacity value for a minimum of 120 1-minute intervals during which at least one copper converter was blowing with no interference events as determined according to paragraphs (c)(7)(iii) and (iv) of this section. Average opacity is calculated using equation 1 to this paragraph (c)(8):


(9) You must certify that the copper converter department capture system operated during the performance test at the operating limits established in your capture system operation and maintenance plan using the procedure specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Concurrent with all opacity observations, measure and record values for each of the operating limit parameters in your capture system operation and maintenance plan according to the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.1452(a).


(ii) For any dampers that are manually set and remain in the same position at all times the capture system is operating, the damper position must be visually checked and recorded at the beginning and end of each opacity observation period segment.


(iii) Review the recorded monitoring data. Identify and explain any times during batch copper converter blowing when the capture system operated outside the applicable operating limits.


(iv) Certify in your performance test report that during all observation period segments, the copper converter department capture system was operating at the values or settings established in your capture system operation and maintenance plan.


(d) *Mercury emissions.* You must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the mercury emission limits in § 63.1444 that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Determine the concentration of mercury according to the test methods in appendices A-1 through A-8 to 40 CFR part 60 as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.


(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.


(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The ANSI/ASME PTC 19-10-1981 Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B manual portion only but not the instrumental portion.


(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(v) Method 29, 30A, or 30B, as applicable, to determine the concentration of mercury. You can also use ASTM D6784-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) or equivalent.


(2) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. Duration of sampling is at least two hours per run. If performing measurements using Method 29 in appendix A-8 to 40 CFR part 60, you must collect a minimum sample volume of 1.7 dscm (60 dscf). For the purpose of determining compliance with the applicable mercury emission limit, the arithmetic mean of the results for the three separate test runs is used.


(3) For a control device or process operating parameter applied to emissions from an affected source and subject to site-specific operating limit(s) in § 63.1444(n) for appropriate, site-specific operating parameters that are representative and reliable indicators of the control device performance, you must establish a site-specific operating limit(s) according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Select one or more operating parameters, as appropriate for the control device design or process parameter *(i.e.,* mercury content of concentrate feed), that can be used as representative and reliable indicators of the control device or process operation.


(ii) Using the CPMS required in § 63.1452, measure and record the selected operating parameters for the control device during each run of the mercury performance test.


(iii) Compute and record the hourly average value for each of the selected operating parameters for each individual test run. Your operating limits are the lowest value or the highest value, as appropriate for the selected operating parameter, measured in any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.


(iv) You must prepare written documentation to support your selection of the operating parameters used for the control device. This documentation must include a description of each selected parameter, a rationale for why you chose the parameter, a description of the method used to monitor the parameter, and the data recorded during the performance test and used to set the operating limit(s).


(4) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test of the process shall invalidate the performance test. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(e) *Anode refining department, copper converter department, slag cleaning vessels, and smelting vessels process fugitive roofline vent filterable particulate matter emission limit.* You must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the roofline vent process fugitive filterable particulate matter emission limits in § 63.1444 that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Determine the concentration of anode refining department, copper converter department, slag cleaning vessels, and smelting vessels process fugitive roofline vent filterable particulate matter according to the test methods in appendices A-1 through A-8 to 40 CFR part 60 as specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere. Use Method 5D, section 8.1.3, Roof Monitor or Monovent, or approved sample locations by EPA Office of Air and Radiation (OAR), OAQPS, Measurement Technology Group or delegated authority.


(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas or calibrated anemometer.


(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The ANSI/ASME PTC 19-10-1981 Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B manual portion only but not the instrumental portion.


(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(v) Method 17 to determine in-stack mass volume of the anode refining, converter and smelting process fugitive roof vent filterable particulate matter emissions. Isokinetic calculations are waived due to low flow rates and high variability. Use the filter specified in section 7.2.1 of Method 29. An approved Federal reference method (FRM)/Federal equivalent method (FEM) may be used if it can tolerate the 150 °F temperatures on the roof vents. Tapered element oscillating microbalances (TEOMs) are not appropriate for this sampling. An alternative test method may be requested to EPA OAR, OAQPS, Measurement Technology Group.


(vi) Method 9 to establish opacity as an operating parameter, if appropriate. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.


(2) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. Each test run must have a minimum sampling time of 12 hours. For the purpose of determining compliance with the filterable particulate matter emission limit, the arithmetic mean of the results for the three separate test runs for each roofline vent (i.e., anode refining department, copper converter department, smelting vessels, slag cleaning vessels) is used. The three test run average of the filterable particulate matter emission rates from each vent should be summed to compare to the emission limit in § 63.1444.


(3) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test of the process shall invalidate the performance test. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(f) *Benzene, toluene, chlorine, hydrogen chloride, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons excluding naphthalene, naphthalene, and dioxins/furans emissions.* You must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the benzene, toluene, chlorine, hydrogen chloride, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons excluding naphthalene, naphthalene, and dioxins/furans emission limits in table 2 to this subpart that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in paragraph (f)(8) of this section and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) Use the test methods in appendices A-1 through A-8 to 40 CFR part 60 as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points and to determine the volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and moisture content of the stack gas.


(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.


(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.


(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The ANSI/ASME PTC 19-10-1981 Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B manual portion only but not the instrumental portion.


(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(2) Determine the concentration of benzene and toluene for each stack using Method 18 in to appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine the concentration of benzene and toluene; or as an alternative ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), may be used provided that the target compound(s) are those listed in section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2010) as measurable; the target compounds do not include methane and ethane because their atomic mass is less than 35; and the test results are not a total VOC method. Each test must consist of three separate runs. The duration of sampling must be at least two hours per run.


(3) Determine the concentration of chlorine and hydrogen chloride for each stack using Method 26A in appendix A-8 to 40 CFR part 60. Each test must consist of three separate runs. The minimum sample volume must be at least 2 dry cubic meters per run. Each run must be conducted for a minimum of 1 hour.


(4) Determine the concentration of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons excluding naphthalene, naphthalene, and dioxins/furans for each stack using Method 23 in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60. Each test must consist of three separate runs. The test duration must be at least 3 hours and the must be at least 3 dscm (106 dscf). Method 23 complete list of PAHs and dioxin and furan congeners must be analyzed and reported.


(5) During each stack test run, measure the weight of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel and calculate the emissions rate in pounds of pollutant per ton of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel (lb/ton), except for dioxins/furans which should be calculated in nanograms of pollutant Toxicity Equivalent Quotient (TEQ) per megagram of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel (ng/Mg) for each test run. To calculate the TEQ, multiply each D/F congener emission concentration times the appropriate Toxicity Equivalent Factor (TEF) in table 3 to this subpart. If any measurement result is reported as below the method detection limit, use the method detection limit for that value when calculating the emission rate. Calculate the total emissions rate for each test run by summing the emissions across all stacks, as shown in equation 2 to this paragraph (f)(5).


(6) Calculate the average emissions rate for each facility using the three test runs, as shown in equation 3 to this paragraph (f)(6). For the purposes of determining compliance with the applicable emission limits in table 2 to this subpart, the arithmetic mean of the results for the three separate test runs is used as calculated using equation 3.


(7) For a control device applied to emissions from an affected source and subject to work practice standards and emission limit(s) in § 63.1444(o) for appropriate, site-specific operating parameters that are representative and reliable indicators of the control device performance, you must establish a site-specific operating limit(s) according to the procedures in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Select one or more operating parameters, as appropriate for the control device design, that can be used as representative and reliable indicators of the control device operation.


(ii) Using the CPMS required in § 63.1452, measure and record the selected operating parameters for the control device during each run of the benzene, toluene, chlorine, hydrogen chloride, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons excluding naphthalene, naphthalene and dioxins/furans performance test.


(iii) Compute and record the hourly average value for each of the selected operating parameters for each individual test run. Your operating limits are the lowest value or the highest value, as appropriate for the selected operating parameter, measured in any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.


(iv) You must prepare written documentation to support your selection of the operating parameters used for the control device. This documentation must include a description of each selected parameter, a rationale for why you chose the parameter, a description of the method used to monitor the parameter, and the data recorded during the performance test and used to set the operating limit(s).


(8) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. You may not conduct a performance test during a malfunction. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test of the process shall invalidate the performance test. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(g) *Peirce-Smith converter department, Inco flash furnace, and anode refining department process fugitive roofline vent lead.* For facilities using a combination of Peirce-Smith converter department, Inco flash furnace, and anode refining department, you must conduct each performance test to determine compliance with the roofline vent process fugitive lead emission limits in § 63.1444(p)(1) that apply to you according to the requirements for representative test conditions specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section and using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. You must also comply with establishing operating parameters in paragraphs (g)(4) through (7) of this section.


(1) Determine the concentration of Peirce-Smith converter department, Inco flash furnace, and anode refining department process fugitive roofline vent lead according to the test methods in appendices A-1 through A-8 to 40 CFR part 60 as specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere. Use Method 5D section 8.1.3 Roof Monitor or Monovent or approved sample locations by MTG or delegated authority.


(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas or calibrated anemometer.


(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The ANSI/ASME PTC 19-10-1981 Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B manual portion only but not the instrumental portion.


(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(v) Method 17 to determine in-stack mass volume of the anode refining, converter and smelting process fugitive roof vent lead emissions. Isokinetic calculations are waived due to low flow rates and high variability. Use the filter specified in section 7.2.1 of Method 29. An approved FRM/FEM may be used if it can tolerate the 150 F temperatures on the roof vents. TEOMs are not appropriate for this sampling. An alternative test method may be requested to EPA OAR, OAQPS, Measurement Technology Group.


(vi) Method 29 filter analysis by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) for lead.


(vii) Method 9 to establish opacity as an operating parameter, if appropriate. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.


(2) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. Each test run must have a minimum sampling time of 12 hours. For the purpose of determining compliance with the lead emission limit, the arithmetic mean of the results for the three separate test runs for each roofline vent (*i.e.,* anode refining department, copper converter department, smelting vessels, slag cleaning vessels) is used. The three test run average of the lead emission rates from each vent should be summed to compare to the emission limit in § 63.1444.


(3) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test of the process shall invalidate the performance test. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(4) Establish a site-specific operating limit for a parameter, like opacity, based on values measured during the performance test.


(5) For your flash furnace capture system you must establish site specific operating parameters as specified in § 63.1444(p)(2)(i).


(6) For your fuming ladle capture system, you must establish site specific operating parameters as specified in § 63.1444(p)(2)(ii).


(7) For your anode furnace secondary capture and control system, you must establish site specific operating parameters as specified in § 63.1444(p)(2)(iii).






