# § 27.7   Availability, submission and use of data.

(a) Each bank shall make all information collected under §§ 27.3 and 27.4 available for review at the bank to national bank examiners upon request. 


(b) Prior to a scheduled bank examination, the Comptroller may request the information maintained under § 27.3(a). A bank required to maintain information under § 27.3(a)(2) shall submit the information to the Comptroller on the form prescribed in appendix I of this part. A bank which is exempt from maintaining the information required under § 27.3(a) shall notify the Comptroller of this fact in writing within 30 calendar days of its receipt of the Comptroller's request. 


(c) If, upon review of the information maintained under § 27.3(a), the Comptroller determines that statistical analysis prior to examination is warranted, the bank will be notified. 


(1) Within 30 calendar days after receipt of notification from the Comptroller, the bank shall submit, for application records specified by the Comptroller, completed Home Loan Data Submission Forms (set forth as appendix IV). The Comptroller may, upon the request of a bank and for good reason, extend the 30-day period. 


(2) The number of Home Loan Data Submission Forms requested by the Comptroller will not exceed 250 per *decision center,* or 2,000 per bank with multiple *decision centers,* unless there is cause to believe that a bank is not in compliance with fair housing laws based on examination findings or substantiated complaints, among other factors. 


(3) A bank with fewer than 75 home loan applications in the preceding year will not be required to submit such forms unless: 


(i) The home loan activity is concentrated in the few months preceding the request for data, indicating the likelihood of increased activity over the subsequent year, or 


(ii) There is cause to believe that a bank is not in compliance with the fair housing laws based on prior examinations and/or complaints, among other factors. 


(d) If there is cause to believe that a bank is in noncompliance with fair housing laws, the Comptroller may require submission of additional Home Loan Data Submission Forms. The Comptroller may also require submission of the information maintained under § 27.3(a) and Home Loan Data Submission Forms at more frequent intervals than specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.



---

[N] [44 FR 63089, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 26415, May 20, 1994]





