# ยง 244.9   Evidence.

(a) *Documentation.* Applicants shall submit all documentation as required in the instructions or requested by the Service. The Service may require proof of unsuccessful efforts to obtain documents claimed to be unavailable. If any required document is unavailable, an affidavit or other credible evidence may be submitted.


(1) *Evidence of identity and nationality.* Each application must be accompanied by evidence of the applicant's identity and nationality, if available. If these documents are unavailable, the applicant shall file an affidavit showing proof of unsuccessful efforts to obtain such identity documents, explaining why the consular process is unavailable, and affirming that he or she is a national of the designated foreign state. A personal interview before an immigration officer shall be required for each applicant who fails to provide documentary proof of identity or nationality. During this interview, the applicant may present any secondary evidence that he or she feels would be helpful in showing nationality. Acceptable evidence in descending order of preference may consist of:


(i) Passport;


(ii) Birth certificate accompanied by photo identification; and/or


(iii) Any national identity document from the alien's country of origin bearing photo and/or fingerprint.


(2) *Proof of residence.* Evidence to establish proof of continuous residence in the United States during the requisite period of time may consist of any of the following:


(i) Employment records, which may consist of pay stubs, W-2 Forms, certification of the filing of Federal, State, or local income tax returns; letters from employer(s) or, if the applicant has been self employed, letters from banks, and other firms with whom he or she has done business. In all of the above, the name of the alien and the name of the employer or other interested organization must appear on the form or letter, as well as relevant dates. Letters from employers must be in affidavit form, and shall be signed and attested to by the employer under penalty of perjury. Such letters from employers must include:


(A) Alien's address(es) at the time of employment;


(B) Exact period(s) of employment;


(C) Period(s) of layoff; and


(D) Duties with the company.


(ii) Rent receipts, utility bills (gas, electric, telephone, etc.), receipts, or letters from companies showing the dates during which the applicant received service;


(iii) School records (letters, report cards, etc.) from the schools that the applicant or his or her children have attended in the United States showing name of school and period(s) of school attendance;


(iv) Hospital or medical records showing medical treatment or hospitalization of the applicant or his or her children, showing the name of the medical facility or physician as well as the date(s) of the treatment or hospitalization;


(v) Attestations by churches, unions, or other organizations of the applicant's residence by letter which:


(A) Identifies applicant by name;


(B) Is signed by an official whose title is also shown;


(C) Shows inclusive dates of membership;


(D) States the address where applicant resided during the membership period;


(E) Includes the seal of the organization impressed on the letter or is on the letterhead of the organization, if the organization has letterhead stationery;


(F) Establishes how the attestor knows the applicant; and


(G) Establishes the origin of the information being attested to.


(vi) Additional documents to support the applicant's claim, which may include:


(A) Money order receipts for money sent in or out of the country;


(B) Passport entries;


(C) Birth certificates of children born in the United States;


(D) Bank books with dated transactions;


(E) Correspondence between the applicant and other persons or organizations;


(F) Social Security card;


(G) Selective Service card;


(H) Automobile license receipts, title, vehicle registration, etc.;


(I) Deeds, mortgages, contracts to which applicant has been a party;


(J) Tax receipts;


(K) Insurance policies, receipts, or letters; and/or


(L) Any other relevant document.


(3) *Evidence of eligibility under section 244(c)(2) of the Act.* An applicant has the burden of showing that he or she is eligible for benefits under this part.


(4) *Evidence of valid immigrant or nonimmigrant status.* In the case of an alien described in ยง 244.2(f)(2), evidence of admission for lawful permanent residence or nonimmigrant status must be submitted by the applicant.


(b) *Sufficiency of evidence.* The sufficiency of all evidence will be judged according to its relevancy, consistency, credibility, and probative value. To meet his or her burden of proof the applicant must provide supporting documentary evidence of eligibility apart from his or her own statements.


(c) *Failure to timely respond.* Failure to timely respond to a request for information, or to appear for a scheduled interview, without good cause, will be deemed an abandonment of the application and will result in a denial of the application for lack of prosecution. Such failure shall be excused if the request for information, or the notice of the interview was not mailed to the applicant's most recent address provided to the Service.



---

[N] [56 FR 619, Jan. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 23497, May 22, 1991; 58 FR 58937, Nov. 5, 1993. Redesignated at 62 FR 10367, 10382, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 63596, Nov. 16, 1998; 76 FR 53791, Aug. 29, 2011]




