# § 704.95   Phosphonic acid, [1,2-ethanediyl-bis[nitrilobis-(methylene)]]tetrakis- (EDTMPA) and its salts.

(a) *Substances for which reporting is required.* The chemical substances for which reporting is required under this section are: 


(b) *Persons who must report.* Unless exempt as provided in § 704.5, reports must be submitted by: 


(1) Persons who manufacture or import any of the substances identified in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(2) Persons who propose to manufacture or propose to import any of the substances identified in paragraph (a) of this section. For the purposes of importer reporting under this section, an import site is the operating unit within the person's organization which is directly responsible for importing the substance and which controls the import transaction; the import site may in some cases be the organization's headquarters office in the United States. 


(c) *What information to report.* Persons identified in paragraph (b) of this section must report to EPA, for each of the substances identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the following information to the extent known to or reasonably ascertainable by them. 


(1) Initial Report: 


(i) Name and Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number of the substance for which the report is submitted. 


(ii) Company name and headquarters address. 


(iii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical contact. 


(iv) The total quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance manufactured or imported for the person's most recently completed corporate fiscal year. 


(v) A description of the commercial uses of the substance during the person's most recently completed corporate fiscal year, including the production volume for each use. 


(vi) The estimated quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance proposed to be manufactured or imported in the person's current corporate fiscal year. 


(vii) A description of the intended commercial uses of the substance during the person's current corporate fiscal year, including the estimated production volume for each use. 


(2) Follow-up Report: 


(i) Name and Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number of the substance for which the report is submitted. 


(ii) Company name and headquarters address. 


(iii) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal technical contact. 


(iv) The estimated quantity (by weight in pounds) of the substance proposed to be manufactured or imported in the person's current corporate fiscal year. 


(v) A description of the intended commercial uses of the substance during the person's current corporate fiscal year, including the estimated production volume for each use. 


(d) *When to report.* (1) Persons specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section who are manufacturing or importing the substance as of December 5, 1988 must submit an initial report described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section by January 3, 1989. 


(2) Persons specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must submit an initial report within 30 days after making the management decision described in § 704.3 or by January 3, 1989, whichever is later. 


(3) Persons specified in paragraph (b) of this section, who submitted a report described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, must submit a follow-up report described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section within 30 days of making the management decision, described at § 704.3, to do either of the following events: 


(i) Manufacture or import the substance in a quantity 50 percent greater than the quantity reported in the most recently submitted report. 


(ii) Manufacture or import the substance for a use not reported for that substance in any previous report. 


(e) *Certification.* Persons subject to this section must attach the following statement to any information submitted to EPA in response to this section: “I hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the attached information is complete and accurate.” This statement must be signed and dated by the company's principal technical contact. 


(f) *Recordkeeping.* Persons subject to the reporting requirements of this section must retain documentation of information contained in their reports for a period of 5 years from the date of the submission of the report.



---

[N] [53 FR 41337, Oct. 21, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




