# ยง 204.121   Bankers' banks.

(a)(1) The Federal Reserve Act, as amended by the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (title I of Pub. L. 96-221), imposes Federal reserve requirements on depository institutions that maintain transaction accounts or nonpersonal time deposits. Under section 19(b)(9), however, a depository institution is not required to maintain reserves if it:


(i) Is organized solely to do business with other financial institutions; 


(ii) Is owned primarily by the financial institutions with which it does business; and


(iii) Does not do business with the general public.


(2) In its application of these requirements to specific institutions, the Board will use the following standards:


(i) A depository institution may be regarded as organized solely to do business with other depository institutions even if, as an incidental part to its activities, it does business to a limited extent with entities other than depository institutions. The extent to which the institution may do business with other entities and continue to be regarded as a bankers' bank is specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. 


(ii) A depository institution will be regarded as being owned primarily by the institutions with which it does business if 75 per cent or more of its capital is owned by other depository institutions. The 75 per cent or more ownership rule applies regardless of the type of depository institution. 


(iii) A depository institution will not be regarded as doing business with the general public if it meets two conditions. First, the range of customers with which the institution does business must be limited to depository institutions, including subsidiaries or organizations owned by depository institutions; directors, officers or employees of the same or other depository institutions; individuals whose accounts are acquired at the request of the institution's supervisory authority due to the actual or impending failure of another depository institution; share insurance funds; depository institution trade associations; and such others as the Board may determine on a case-by-case basis consistent with the purposes of the Act and the bankers' bank exemption. Second, the extent to which the depository institution makes loans to, or investments in, the above entities (other than depository institutions) cannot exceed 10 per cent of total assets, and the extent to which it receives deposits (or shares if the institution does not receive deposits) from or issues other liabilities to the above entities (other than depository institutions) cannot exceed 10 per cent of total liabilities (or net worth if the institution does not receive deposits).


(b) (1) Section 19(c)(1) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended by the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (title I of Pub. L. 96-221) provides that Federal reserve requirements may be satisfied by the maintenance of vault cash or balances in a Federal Reserve Bank. Depository institutions that are not members of the Federal Reserve System may also satisfy reserve requirements by maintaining a balance in another depository institution that maintains required reserve balances at a Federal Reserve Bank, in a Federal Home Loan Bank, or in the National Credit Union Administration Central Liquidity Facility if the balances maintained by such institutions are subsequently passed through to the Federal Reserve Bank.


(2) On August 27, 1980, the Board announced the procedures that will apply to such pass-through arrangements (45 FR 58099). Section 204.3(i)(1) provides that the Board may permit, on a case-by-case basis, depository institutions that are not themselves required to maintain reserves (*bankers' banks*) to act as pass-through correspondents if certain criteria are satisfied. The Board has determined that a bankers' bank may act as a pass-through correspondent if it enters into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to accept responsibility for the maintenance of pass-through reserve accounts in accordance with Regulation D (12 CFR 204.3(i)) and if the Federal Reserve is satisfied that the quality of management and financial resources of the institution are adequate in order to enable the institution to serve as a pass-through correspondent in accordance with Regulation D. Satisfaction of these criteria will assure that pass-through arrangements are maintained properly without additional financial risk to the Federal Reserve.


(3) In order to determine uniformly the adequacy of managerial and financial resources, the Board will consult with the Federal supervisor for the type of institution under consideration. Because the Board does not possess direct experience with supervising depository institutions other than commercial banks, and does not intend to involve itself in the direct supervision of such institutions, it will request the National Credit Union Administration to review requests from credit unions that qualify as bankers' banks and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to review requests from savings and loan associations that qualify as bankers' banks, regardless of charter or insurance status. (The Board, itself, will consider requests from all commercial banks that qualify as bankers' banks.) If the Federal supervisor does not find the institution's managerial or financial resources to be adequate, the Board will not permit the institution to act as a pass-through correspondent. In order to assure the continued adequacy of managerial and financial resources, it is anticipated that the appropriate Federal supervisor will, on a periodic basis, review and evaluate the managerial and financial resources of the institution in order to determine whether it should continue to be permitted to act as a pass-through correspondent. It is anticipated that, with respect to state chartered institutions, the Federal supervisor may discuss the request with the institute State supervisor. The Board believes that this procedure will promote uniformity of treatment for all types of bankers' banks, and provide consistent advice concerning managerial ability and financial strength from supervisory authorities that are in a better position to evaluate these criteria for depository institutions that are not commercial banks.


(4) Requests for a determination as to whether a depository institution will be regarded as a bankers' bank for purposes of the Federal Reserve Act or for permission to act as a pass-through correspondent may be addressed to the Federal Reserve Bank in whose District the main office of the depository institution is located or to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. The Board will act promptly on all requests received directly or through Federal Reserve Banks.



---

[N] [45 FR 69879, Oct. 22, 1980, as amended by Reg. D, 72 FR 16990, Apr. 6, 2007] 




