# ยง 214.210   Annual numerical limit.

(a) *5,000 per fiscal year.* DHS may not grant T-1 nonimmigrant status to more than 5,000 principal applicants in any fiscal year.


(b) *Waiting list.* If the numerical limit prevents further grants of T-1 nonimmigrant status, USCIS will place applicants who receive a bona fide determination pursuant to ยง 214.205 on a waiting list. USCIS:


(1) Will assign priority on the waiting list based on the date the application was properly filed, with the oldest applications receiving the highest priority for processing;


(2) Will in the next fiscal year, issue a number to each application on the waiting list, in the order of the highest priority; and


(3) After T-1 nonimmigrant status has been issued to eligible applicants on the waiting list, USCIS will issue any remaining T-1 nonimmigrant numbers for that fiscal year to new eligible applicants in the order the applications were filed.


(c) *Unlawful presence.* While an applicant for T nonimmigrant status in the United States is on the waiting list, the applicant will not accrue unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act.


(d) *Removal from the waiting list.* An applicant may be removed from the waiting list consistent with law and policy. Applicants on the waiting list must remain admissible to the United States and otherwise eligible for T nonimmigrant status. If at any time prior to final adjudication USCIS receives information that an applicant is no longer eligible for T nonimmigrant status, the applicant may be removed from the waiting list. USCIS will provide notice to the applicant of that decision.






