# ยง 7.28   Test for flame resistance of rigid ventilation tubing.

(a) *Test procedures.* (1) Prepare 6 samples of ventilation tubing 48 inches in length with all flared or thickened ends removed. Any sample with a cross-sectional dimension greater than 24 inches must be tested in a 24-inch size. 


(2) For each test, suspend the sample in the center of the gallery by running a wire through the 48-inch length of tubing. 


(3) Use a front exhaust system to remove smoke escaping from the gallery. The exhaust system must remain on during all testing but not affect the air flow in the gallery. 


(4) Set the methane-fueled impinged jet burner to yield a flame height of 12 inches as measured at the outermost tip of the flame. 


(5) Apply the burner to the front lower edge of the tubing so that two-thirds of the burner is under the tubing and the remaining third is exposed to allow the flames to curl onto the inside of the tubing. Keep the burner in contact with the material for 60 seconds. If melting material might clog the burner orifices, rotate the burner slightly during application of the flame. 


(6) Test 3 samples in still air and 3 samples with an average of 125 ft./min. of air flowing past the sample. 


(7) Record the propagation length and duration of burning for each of the 6 samples. The duration of burn is the total burning time of the specimen during the flame test. This includes the burning time of any material that falls on the floor of the test gallery during the igniting period. However, the suspended specimen is considered burning only after the burner is removed. Should the burning time of a suspended specimen and a specimen on the floor coincide, count the coinciding burn time only once. 


(8) Calculate the average duration of burning for the first 3 samples (still air) and the second 3 samples (125 ft./min. air flow). 


(b) *Acceptable performance.* The ventilation tubing shall meet each of the following criteria:


(1) Flame propagation of less than 4 feet in each of the 6 tests.


(2) An average duration of burning of less than 1 minute in both groups of 3 tests.


(3) A duration of burning not exceeding 2 minutes in each of the 6 tests.



---

[N] [53 FR 23500, June 22, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]




