# § 1962.6   Liens and assignments on chattel property.

(a) *Chattel property not covered by Agency lien.* (1) When additional chattel property not presently covered by an Agency lien is available and needed to protect the Government's interest, the County Supervisor will obtain one or more of the following:


(i) A lien on such property.


(ii) An assignment of the proceeds from the sale of agricultural products when such products are not covered by the lien instruments.


(iii) An assignment of other income, including FSA Farm Programs (formerly ASCS) payments.


(2) When a current loan is not being made to a borrower, a crop lien will be taken as additional security when the County Supervisor determines in individual cases that it is needed to protect the Government's interests. However, a crop lien will not be taken as additional security for Farm Ownership (FO), Rural Housing (RH), Labor Housing (LH), and Soil and Water (SW) loans. When a new security agreement or chattel mortgage is taken, all existing security items will be described on it.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Assignments of upland cotton, rice, wheat and feed grain payments.* Borrowers may assign FSA Farm Programs (formerly ASCS) payments under upland cotton, rice, wheat and feed grain programs.


(1) *Obtaining assignments.* Assignments will be obtained as follows: 


(i) Only when it appears necessary to collect operating-type loans.


(ii) Only for the crop year for which operating-type loans are made, and


(iii) For only the amount anticipated for payments as indicated on Form RD 1962-1, “Agreement for the Use of Proceeds/Release of Chattel Security,” of the applicable upland cotton, rice, wheat and feed grain programs.


(2) *Selecting counties.* The County Supervisor then will:


(i) Determine, at the time of loan processing for indebted borrowers and new applicants, who must give assignments and obtain them no later than loan closing. Special efforts will be made to obtain the bulk of assignments before the sign-up period for enrolling in the annual Feed Grain and Wheat set aside programs.


(ii) Obtain assignments from selected borrowers on Form ASCS-36, “Assignments of Payment,” which will be obtained from FSA Farm Programs.


(3) *Releasing assignments and handling checks.* (i) The County Supervisor will inform FSA Farm Programs that releasing its assignment whenever a borrower pays the amount due for the year on the operating-type loan debt or pays the debt in full.


(ii) Checks obtained as a result of an assignment will be made only to the Agency, and the proceeds used as indicated on Form RD 1962-1.



---

[N] [61 FR 35929, July 9, 1996]




