# § 1054.115   What other requirements apply?

The following requirements apply with respect to engines that are required to meet the emission standards of this part:


(a) *Crankcase emissions.* Crankcase emissions may not be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere from any engine throughout its useful life, except as follows:


(1) Snowthrower engines may discharge crankcase emissions to the ambient atmosphere if the emissions are added to the exhaust emissions (either physically or mathematically) during all emission testing. If you take advantage of this exception, you must do the following things:


(i) Manufacture the engines so that all crankcase emissions can be routed into the applicable sampling systems specified in 40 CFR part 1065.


(ii) Account for deterioration in crankcase emissions when determining exhaust deterioration factors.


(2) For purposes of this paragraph (a), crankcase emissions that are routed to the exhaust upstream of exhaust aftertreatment during all operation are not considered to be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere.


(b) *Adjustable parameters.* Engines that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the practically adjustable range. We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the practically adjustable range during any testing, including certification testing, production-line testing, or in-use testing. You may ask us to limit idle-speed or carburetor adjustments to a smaller range than the practically adjustable range if you show us that the engine will not be adjusted outside of this smaller range during in-use operation without significantly degrading engine performance. General provisions for adjustable parameters apply as specified in 40 CFR 1068.50.


(c) *Altitude adjustments.* Engines must meet applicable emission standards for valid tests conducted under the ambient conditions specified in 40 CFR 1065.520. Except as specified in § 1054.145(c), engines must meet applicable emission standards at all specified atmospheric pressures, except that for atmospheric pressures below 94.0 kPa you may rely on an altitude kit for all testing if you meet the requirements specified in § 1054.205(r). If you rely on an altitude kit for certification, you must identify in the owners manual the altitude range for which you expect proper engine performance and emission control with and without the altitude kit; you must also state in the owners manual that operating the engine with the wrong engine configuration at a given altitude may increase its emissions and decrease fuel efficiency and performance. See § 1054.145(c) for special provisions that apply for handheld engines.


(d) *Prohibited controls.* You may not design your engines with emission control devices, systems, or elements of design that cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety while operating. For example, an engine may not emit a noxious or toxic substance it would otherwise not emit that contributes to such an unreasonable risk.


(e) *Defeat devices.* You may not equip your engines with a defeat device. A defeat device is an auxiliary emission control device that reduces the effectiveness of emission controls under conditions that the engine may reasonably be expected to encounter during normal operation and use. This does not apply for altitude kits installed or removed consistent with § 1054.655. This also does not apply to auxiliary emission control devices you identify in your application for certification if any of the following is true:


(1) The conditions of concern were substantially included in the applicable duty-cycle test procedures described in subpart F of this part.


(2) You show your design is necessary to prevent engine (or equipment) damage or accidents.


(3) The reduced effectiveness applies only to starting the engine.



---

[N] [73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]




