# ยง 50.12   What documentation is required to demonstrate how the Native Hawaiian community determined who could participate in ratifying the governing document?

The written narrative thoroughly describing how the Native Hawaiian community determined who could participate in ratifying the governing document must explain how the Native Hawaiian community prepared its list of eligible voters consistent with paragraph (a) of this section. The narrative must explain the processes the Native Hawaiian community used to verify that the potential voters were Native Hawaiians consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, and to verify which of those potential voters were also HHCA Native Hawaiians, consistent with paragraph (c) of this section, and were therefore eligible to vote. The narrative must explain the processes, requirements, and conditions for use of any sworn statements and explain how those processes, requirements, and conditions were reasonable and reliable for verifying Native Hawaiian descent.


(a) *Preparing the voter list for the Ratification Referendum.* The Native Hawaiian community must prepare a list of Native Hawaiians eligible to vote in the ratification referendum.


(1) The list of Native Hawaiians eligible to vote in the ratification referendum must:


(i) Be based on reliable proof of Native Hawaiian descent;


(ii) Be made available for public inspection;


(iii) Be compiled in a manner that allows individuals to contest their exclusion from or inclusion on the list;


(iv) Include adults who demonstrated that they are Native Hawaiians in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section;


(v) Include adults who demonstrated that they are HHCA Native Hawaiians in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section;


(vi) Identify voters who are HHCA Native Hawaiians;


(vii) Not include persons who will be younger than 18 years of age on the last day of the ratification referendum; and


(viii) Not include persons who requested to be removed from the list.


(2) The community must make reasonable and prudent efforts to ensure the integrity of its list.


(3) Subject to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, the community may rely on a roll of Native Hawaiians prepared by the State under State law.


(b) *Verifying that a potential voter is a Native Hawaiian.* A potential voter may meet the definition of a Native Hawaiian by:


(1) Enumeration on a roll or other list prepared by the State under State law, where enumeration is based on documentation that verifies Native Hawaiian descent;


(2) Meeting the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;


(3) A sworn statement by the potential voter that he or she:


(i) Is enumerated on a roll or other list prepared by the State under State law, where enumeration is based on documentation that verifies Native Hawaiian descent;


(ii) Is identified as Native Hawaiian (or some equivalent term) on a birth certificate issued by a state or territory;


(iii) Is identified as Native Hawaiian (or some equivalent term) in a Federal, state, or territorial court order determining ancestry;


(iv) Can provide records documenting current or prior enrollment as a Native Hawaiian in a Kamehameha Schools program; or


(v) Can provide records documenting generation-by-generation descent from a Native Hawaiian ancestor;


(4) A sworn statement from a sponsor who meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section that the potential voter is Native Hawaiian; or


(5) Other similarly reliable means of establishing generation-by-generation descent from a Native Hawaiian ancestor.


(c) *Verifying that a potential voter is an HHCA Native Hawaiian.* A potential voter may meet the definition of an HHCA Native Hawaiian by:


(1) Records of DHHL, including enumeration on a roll or other list prepared by DHHL, documenting eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7);


(2) A sworn statement by the potential voter that he or she:


(i) Is enumerated on a roll or other list prepared by DHHL, documenting eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7);


(ii) Is identified as eligible under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7) in specified State or territorial records;


(iii) Is identified as eligible under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7) in a Federal, state, or territorial court order; or


(iv) Can provide records documenting eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7) through generation-by-generation descent from a Native Hawaiian ancestor or ancestors;


(3) A sworn statement from a sponsor who meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section that the potential voter is an HHCA Native Hawaiian; or


(4) Other similarly reliable means of establishing eligibility under HHCA sec. 201(a)(7).




