# § 618.780   Disqualifications.

(a) *General rule.* Except as stated in paragraph (b)(1) or (c) of this section and in § 618.832(b)(2) (overpayments; penalties for fraud), an AAW may not be paid TRA for any week of unemployment such worker is or would be disqualified from receiving UI under the disqualification provisions of the applicable State law, including the provisions of the applicable State law that apply to EB claimants and are consistent with EUCA.


(b) *Disqualification of trainees*—(1) *State law inapplicable.* A State law may not be applied to disqualify an AAW from receiving UI or TRA because:


(i) Such worker is enrolled in or participating in an approved training program;


(ii) Such worker refuses work to which the State referred such worker because such work either would require discontinuation of approved training or interfere with successful participation in TAA approved training, except that this paragraph (b)(1)(ii) does not apply to an AAW who is ineligible under paragraph (b)(2) of this section;


(iii) Such worker quits work that was not suitable employment and it was reasonable and necessary to quit in order to begin or continue approved training. This includes temporary employment the worker may have engaged in during a break in training;


(iv) Such worker continues full-time or part-time employment while participating in approved training; or


(v) Such worker leaves OJT within the first 30 days because the OJT is not meeting requirements of section 236(c)(1)(B) of the Act.


(2) *Disqualifications.* An AAW who, without justifiable cause (as described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section), fails to begin participation (as described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section) in approved training, or ceases participation (as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section) in such training, or for whom a waiver is revoked under § 618.735(f) (waiver of training requirement for Basic TRA), may not receive Basic TRA for any week in which such failure, cessation, or revocation occurred. The disqualification will continue for any succeeding week thereafter until the week in which such worker begins or resumes participation in an approved training program. A worker who has justifiable cause (as described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section) for such failure to begin, or for ceasing, participation in training may receive Basic TRA for any week in which such failure or cessation occurred if the worker otherwise meets the requirements of this subpart. Such failure, cessation, or revocation normally does not change the eligibility periods defined in §§ 618.755, 618.760(b), and 618.765(b) and (c).


(3) *Disqualification conditions.* For determining the disqualification of trainees for all TAA approved training, the following provisions apply:


(i) *Failed to begin participation.* A worker will be determined to have failed to begin participation in an approved training program when the worker fails to attend one or more scheduled training classes and other training activities in the first week of the approved training program, without justifiable cause.


(ii) *Ceased participation.* A worker will be determined to have ceased participation in an approved training program when the worker fails to attend all scheduled training classes and other training activities scheduled by the training provider in any week of the approved training program, without justifiable cause.


(iii) *Justifiable cause.* For purposes of this section, justifiable cause has the same meaning as good cause under § 618.730, except that good cause for absence also includes an absence excused under a training provider's written policy.


(c) *Disqualification while in OJT.* An AAW may not be paid any TRA for any week during which such worker is engaged in OJT, in accordance with § 618.635.


(d) *Disqualification while in part-time training.* An AAW may not be paid any TRA for any week in which the worker is participating in approved training that is part-time. Part-time training is any approved training that does not meet the definition of “full-time training” as defined in § 618.110.




