# ยง 2569.412   Where can I go for help with filling out an application?

You can receive help with your application at:


(a) The BIA or a Realty Service Provider for your home area or where you plan to apply. To find the list of the Realty Service Providers, go to *https://www.bia.gov/regional-offices/alaska/real-estate-services/tribal-service-providers* or call 907-271-4104 or 1-800-645-8465.


(b) The BLM Public Rooms:


(1) The Anchorage Public Room located at 222 West 7th Avenue, Anchorage, Alaska 99513-7504, by email at *AK_AKSO_Public_Room@blm.gov,* by telephone at 907-271-5960, Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. excluding Federal Holidays.


(2) The Fairbanks Public Room located at 222 University Ave, Fairbanks, Alaska 99709, by email at *BLM_AK_FDO_generaldelivery@blm.gov* or by telephone at 907-474-2252 or 2200, Monday through Friday from 7:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. excluding Federal Holidays.


(c) The following BLM Field Offices:


(1) Anchorage Field Office located at 4700 BLM Road, Anchorage, Alaska, by email at *blm_ak_afo_general_delivery@blm.gov,* by phone 907-267-1246, Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. excluding Federal Holidays.


(2) Glennallen Field Office located at Mile Post 186.5 Glenn Highway, by email at *blm_ak_gfo_general_delivery@blm.gov,* by phone 907-822-3217, Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. excluding Federal Holidays.


(3) Nome Field Station located at the U.S. Post Office Building, by phone 907-443-2177, Monday through Friday excluding Federal holidays.


(d) (d) Online at the BLM website which gives answers to frequently asked questions and a mapping tool which will show the available Federal lands and provide online tools for identifying and printing your selection: *https://www.blm.gov/alaska/2019AKNativeVetsLand.*

