# § 402.210   Notices.

(a) *Notice of proposed determination to exclude.* When the initiating agency proposes to exclude a person from participation in a Federal health care program in accordance with this part, notice of the proposed determination to exclude must be given in writing, and delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested. The written notice must include, at a minimum—


(1) Reference to the statutory basis for the exclusion.


(2) A description of the claims, requests for payment, or incidents for which the exclusion is proposed.


(3) The reason why those claims, requests for payments, or incidents subject the person to an exclusion.


(4) The length of the proposed exclusion.


(5) A description of the circumstances that were considered when determining the period of exclusion.


(6) Instructions for responding to the notice, including a specific statement of the person's right to submit documentary evidence and a written response concerning whether the exclusion is warranted, and any related issues such as potential mitigating circumstances. The notice must specify that—


(i) The person has the right to request an opportunity to meet with an official of the initiating agency to make an oral presentation; and


(ii) The request to make an oral presentation must be submitted within 30 days of the receipt of the notice of intent to exclude.


(7) If a person fails, within the time permitted under § 402.212, to exercise the right to respond to the notice of proposed determination to exclude, the initiating agency may initiate actions for the imposition of the exclusion.


(b) *Notice of exclusion.* Once the initiating agency determines that the exclusion is warranted, a written notice of exclusion is sent to the person in the same manner as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The exclusion is effective 20 days from the date of the notice. The written notice must include, at a minimum, the following:


(1) The basis for the exclusion.


(2) The length of the exclusion and, when applicable, the factors considered in setting the length.


(3) The effect of exclusion.


(4) The earliest date on which the initiating agency considers a request for reinstatement.


(5) The requirements and procedures for reinstatement.


(6) The appeal rights available to the excluded person under part 1005 of this title.


(c) *Amendment to the notice of exclusion.* No later than 15 days before the final exhibit exchanges required under § 1005.8 of this title, the initiating agency may amend the notice of exclusion if information becomes available that justifies the imposition of a period of exclusion other than the one proposed in the original written notice.




