# § 14.52   Clearance of imported wildlife.

(a) Except as otherwise provided by this subpart, a Service officer must clear all wildlife imported into the United States prior to release from detention by Customs officers. A Service officer must clear all wildlife to be exported from the United States prior to the physical loading of the merchandise on a vehicle or aircraft, or the containerization or palletizing of such merchandise for export, unless a Service officer expressly authorizes otherwise. Such clearance does not constitute a certification of the legality of an importation or exportation under the laws or regulations of the United States.


(b) An importer/exporter or his/her agent may obtain clearance by a Service officer only at designated ports (§ 14.12), at border ports (§ 14.16), at special ports (§ 14.19), or at a port where importation or exportation is authorized by a permit issued under subpart C of this part. An importer/exporter must return forthwith any wildlife released without a Service officer's clearance or clearance by Customs for the Service under authority of § 14.54 to a port where clearance may be obtained pursuant to this subpart.


(c) To obtain clearance, the importer, exporter, or the importer's or exporter's agent will make available to a Service officer or a Customs officer acting under § 14.54:


(1) All shipping documents (including bills of lading, waybills and packing lists or invoices);


(2) All permits, licenses or other documents required by the laws or regulations of the United States;


(3) All permits or other documents required by the laws or regulations of any foreign country;


(4) The wildlife being imported or exported; and


(5) Any documents and permits required by the country of export or re-export for the wildlife.



---

[N] [45 FR 56673, Aug. 25, 1980; 45 FR 64953, Oct. 1, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 52889, Dec. 26, 1985; 61 FR 31869, June 21, 1996]




