# § 810.4   Definitions.

(a) Except as otherwise provided terms defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) are used in this subpart as so defined.


(b) The following terms, where used in the regulations in this subpart have the following meanings:


(1) Exclusive or preferential high occupancy vehicle, truck, or emergency vehicle lanes-one or more lanes of a highway facility or an entire highway facility where high occupancy vehicles, trucks or emergency vehicles or any combination thereof, are given, at all times or at any regularly scheduled times, a priority or preference over some or all other vehicles moving in the general stream of mixed highway traffic. Carpool lane(s)—is any high occupancy vehicle lane which allows use by carpools.


(2) Fringe and transportation corridor parking facilities—those facilities which are intended to be used for the temporary storage of vehicles and which are located and designed so as to facilitate the safe and convenient transfer of persons traveling in such vehicles to and from high occupancy vehicles and/or public mass transportation systems including rail. The term *parking facilities* includes but is not limited to access roads, buildings, structures, equipment, improvements and interests in land.


(3) High occupancy vehicle—a bus or other motorized passenger vehicle such as a carpool or vanpool vehicle used for ridesharing purposes and occupied by a specified minimum number of persons.


(4) Highway traffic control devices—traffic control devices as defined by the currently approved “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.” 
1

(5) Metropolitan Planning Organization—that organization designated as being responsible, together with the State, for carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 134, as required by 23 U.S.C. 104(f)(3), and capable of meeting the requirements of sections 3(e)(1), 5(1), 8 (a) and (c) and 9(e)(3)(G) of the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 1602(e)(1), 1604(1), 1607 (a) and (c) and 1607a(e)(3)(G). This organization shall be the forum for cooperative transportation decisionmaking.


(6) Nonhighway public mass transit project—a project to develop or improve public mass transit facilities or equipment. A project need not be physically located or operated on a route designated as part of the Federal-aid urban system, but must be included in and related to a program for the development or improvement of an urban public mass transit system which includes the purchase and rehabilitation of passenger buses and rolling stock for fixed rail facilities, and the purchase, construction, reconstruction or improvement of fixed rail passenger operating facilities. Such projects may also include the construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation of passenger loading and unloading facilities for either bus or rail passengers.


(7) Passenger loading areas and facilities (including shelters)—areas and facilities located at or near passenger loading points for safety, protection, comfort, or convenience of high occupancy vehicle passengers. The term *areas and facilities* includes but is not limited to access roads, buildings, structures, equipment, improvements, and interest in land.


(8) Responsible local officials—(i) In areas under 50,000 population, the principal elected officials of general purpose local governments; or (ii) In urbanized areas, the principal elected officials of general purpose local governments acting through the Metropolitan Planning Organization.



---

[N] [50 FR 33917, Aug. 22, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 16834, May 7, 1986]




