# ยง 10.21   Claims.

(a) *Claims permitted.* All claims must be specific to the parties identified in the claims and are limited to the following:


(1) Claims by a covered entity that it has been overcharged by a manufacturer for a covered outpatient drug, including claims that a manufacturer has limited the covered entity's ability to purchase covered outpatient drugs at or below the 340B ceiling price; and


(2) Claims by a manufacturer, after it has conducted an audit of a covered entity pursuant to section 340B(a)(5)(C) of the PHS Act, that the covered entity has violated section 340B(a)(5)(A) of the PHS Act, regarding the prohibition of duplicate discounts, or section 340B(a)(5)(B) of the PHS Act, regarding the prohibition of the resale or transfer of covered outpatient drugs to a person who is not a patient of the covered entity.


(b) *Requirements for filing a claim.* (1) Absent extenuating circumstances, a covered entity or manufacturer must file a claim under this section in writing to OPA within 3 years of the date of the alleged violation. Any file, document, or record associated with the claim that is the subject of a dispute must be maintained by the covered entity and manufacturer until the date of the final agency decision.


(2) A covered entity filing a claim described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must provide the basis, including all available supporting documentation, for its belief that it has been overcharged by a manufacturer, in addition to any other documentation as may be requested by OPA. A covered entity claim against multiple manufacturers is not permitted.


(3) A manufacturer filing a claim under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must provide documents sufficient to support its claim that a covered entity has violated the prohibition on diversion and/or duplicate discounts, in addition to any other documentation as may be requested by OPA.


(4) A covered entity or manufacturer filing a claim must provide documentation of good faith efforts, including for example, documentation demonstrating that the initiating party has made attempts to contact the opposing party regarding the specific issues cited in the ADR claim.


(c) *Combining claims.* (1) Two or more covered entities may jointly file claims of overcharges by the same manufacturer for the same drug or drugs if each covered entity consents to the jointly filed claim and meets the filing requirements.


(i) For covered entity joint claims, the claim must list each covered entity, its 340B ID and include documentation as described in paragraph (b) of this section, which demonstrates that each covered entity meets all of the requirements for filing the ADR claim.


(ii) For covered entity joint claims, a letter requesting the combining of claims must accompany the claim at the time of filing and must document that each covered entity consents to the combining of the claims, including signatures of individuals representing each covered entity and a point of contact for each covered entity.


(2) An association or organization may file on behalf of one or more covered entities representing their interests if:


(i) Each covered entity is a member of the association or the organization representing it and each covered entity meets the requirements for filing a claim;


(ii) The joint claim filed by the association or organization must assert overcharging by a single manufacturer for the same drug(s); and


(iii) The claim includes a letter from the association or organization attesting that each covered entity agrees to the organization or association asserting a claim on its behalf, including a point of contact for each covered entity.


(3) A manufacturer or manufacturers may request to consolidate claims brought by more than one manufacturer against the same covered entity if each manufacturer could individually file a claim against the covered entity, consents to the consolidated claim, meets the requirements for filing a claim, and the 340B ADR Panel determines that such consolidation is appropriate and consistent with the goals of fairness and economy of resources. Consolidated claims filed on behalf of manufacturers by associations or organizations representing their interests are not permitted.


(d) *Deadlines and procedures for filing a claim.* (1) Covered entities and manufacturers must file claims in writing with OPA, in the manner set forth by OPA.


(2) OPA will conduct an initial review of all information submitted by the party filing the claim and will make a determination as to whether the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are met. The OPA staff conducting the initial review of a claim may not be appointed to serve on the 340B ADR Panel reviewing that specific claim.


(3) Additional information to substantiate a claim may be submitted by the initiating party and may be requested by OPA. If additional information is requested, the initiating party will have 20 business days from the receipt of OPA's request to respond. If the initiating party does not respond to a request for additional information within the specified time frame or request and receive an extension, the claim will not move forward to the 340B ADR Panel for review.


(4) OPA will provide written notification to the initiating party that the claim is complete. Once the claim is complete, OPA will also provide written notification to the opposing party that the claim was submitted. This written notification will provide a copy of the initiating party's claim, and additional instructions regarding the 340B ADR process, including timelines and information on how to submit their response in accordance with the procedures for responding to a claim as outlined in paragraph (e) of this section.


(5) If OPA finds that the claim meets the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section, and once OPA receives the opposing party's response in accordance with the procedures outlined in paragraph (e) of this section, additional written notification will be sent to both parties advising that the claim will be forwarded to the 340B ADR Panel for review.


(6) If OPA finds that the claim does not meet the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section, written notification will be sent to both parties stating the reasons that the claim did not move forward.


(7) For any claim that does not move forward for review by the 340B ADR Panel, the claim may be revised and refiled if there is new information to support the alleged statutory violation and the claim meets the criteria set forth in this section.


(e) *Responding to a submitted claim.* (1) Upon receipt of notification by OPA that a claim is deemed complete and has met the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, the opposing party in alleged violation will have 30 business days to submit a written response to OPA.


(2) A party may submit a request for an extension of the initial 30 business days response period and OPA will make a determination to approve or disapprove such request and notify both parties.


(3) OPA will provide a copy of the opposing party's response to the initiating party and will notify both parties that the claim has moved forward for review by the 340B ADR Panel.


(4) If an opposing party does not respond or elects not to participate in the 340B ADR process, OPA will notify both parties that the claim has moved forward for review by the 340B ADR Panel and the 340B ADR Panel will render its decision after review of the information submitted in the claim.






