# ยง 515.12   Application for license.

(a) *Application and forms.*(1) Any person who wishes to obtain a license to operate as an ocean transportation intermediary shall submit electronically a completed application Form FMC-18 (Application for a License as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary) in accordance with the automated FMC-18 filing system and corresponding instructions. 

A filing fee shall be paid, as required under ยง 515.5(c). Notice of filing of each application shall be published on the Commission's Web site *www.fmc.gov* and shall state the name and address of the applicant and the name of the QI. If the applicant is a corporation or partnership, the names of the officers or partners thereof may be published. For an LLC, the names of the managers, members or officers, as applicable, may be published.


(2) An individual who is applying for a license as a sole proprietor must complete the following certification:


(b) *Rejection.* Any application which appears upon its face to be incomplete or to indicate that the applicant fails to meet the licensing requirements of the Act, or the Commission's regulations, may be rejected and a notice shall be sent to the applicant, together with an explanation of the reasons for rejection, and the filing fee shall be refunded in full. Persons who have had their applications rejected may submit a new Form FMC-18 at any time, together with the required filing fee.


(c) *Failure to provide necessary information and documents.* In the event an applicant fails to provide documents or information necessary to complete processing of its application, notice will be sent to the applicant identifying the necessary information and documents and establishing a date for submission by the applicant. Failure of the applicant to submit the identified materials by the established date will result in the closing of its application without further processing. In the event an application is closed as a result of the applicant's failure to provide information or documents necessary to complete processing, the filing fee will not be returned. Persons who have had their applications closed under this section may reapply at any time by submitting a new application with the required filing fee.


(d) *Investigation.* Each applicant shall be investigated in accordance with ยง 515.13.


(e) *Changes in fact.* Each applicant shall promptly advise the Commission of any material changes in the facts submitted in the application. Any unreported change may delay the processing and investigation of the application and result in rejection, closing, or denial of the application.



---

[N] [80 FR 68733, Nov. 5, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 62467, Nov. 15, 2019]




