# ยง 339.2   Monthly reports.

(a) *Oath administration ceremonies.* Clerks of court will on the first day of each month or immediately following each oath ceremony submit to USCIS a report listing all oath administration ceremonies held and the total number of persons issued the oath at each ceremony, in accordance with USCIS instructions. The report will include a list of persons attending naturalization oath ceremonies during the month, and certified copies of any court orders granting changes of name.


(b) *Petitions filed for de novo hearings.* The clerk of court must submit to USCIS a monthly report of all persons who have filed *de novo* review petitions before the court. The report shall include each petitioner's name, alien registration number, date of filing of the petition for a *de novo* review, and, once an order has been entered, the disposition.


(c) *Other proceedings and orders.* The clerk of court must forward to USCIS copies of the records of such other proceedings and other orders instituted on or issued by the court affecting or relating to the naturalization of any person as may be required from time to time.


(d) *Use of reports for accounting purposes.* State and federal courts may use the reports as a monthly billing document, submitted to USCIS for reimbursement in accordance with section 344(f)(1) of the Act. USCIS will use the information submitted to calculate costs incurred by courts in performing their naturalization functions. State and federal courts will be reimbursed pursuant to terms set forth in annual agreements entered into between DHS and the Administrative Office of United States Courts.



---

[N] [76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011]




