# § 721.9460   Tall oil fatty acids, reaction products with polyamines, alkyl substituted.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tall oil fatty acids, reaction products with polyamines, alkyl substituted (PMN P-91-225) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). 


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q) and any use in a manner that will result in overspray over or into waters of the United States. 


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), or use in any manner that will result in overspray over or into waters of the United States.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (f) through (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 44074, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




