# § 63.363   Compliance and performance provisions.

(a) *Continuous compliance.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission standard(s) using an EtO CEMS, including a shared EtO CEMS, installed and operated in accordance with the requirements of Performance Specification 19 in appendix B and Procedure 7 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter. Alternatively, if you own or operate a facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds/yr, you may demonstrate continuous compliance by conducting annual performance tests using the performance testing requirements in § 63.7, according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, the procedures listed in this section, and the test methods listed in § 63.365. If you elect to demonstrate compliance through periodic performance testing, you must also demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required under this section according to the methods specified in § 63.364. If you own or operate an area source facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds/yr where an existing collection of Group 2 room air emission is operated in accordance with the PTE requirements of EPA Method 204 of appendix M to part 51 of this chapter, you may instead conduct these performance tests once every three years.


(b) *Initial compliance for Facilities that use EtO CEMS.* To demonstrate initial compliance with an emission standard using a CEMS that measures HAP concentrations directly (*i.e.,* an EtO CEMS), the initial performance test must consist of the first 30 operating days after the certification of the CEMS according to Performance Specification 19 in Appendix B to part 40 of this chapter. The initial compliance demonstration period must be completed on or before the date that compliance must be demonstrated (*i.e.,* 180 days after the applicable compliance date). You must follow the procedures in appendix A to this subpart.


(1) The CEMS performance test must demonstrate compliance with the applicable EtO standards in tables 1 through 5 to this subpart. Alternatively, the CEMS performance test may demonstrate compliance with § 63.362(i) or (j).


(i) You may time-share your CEMS among different measurement points provided that:


(A) The measurement points are approximately equidistant from the CEMS;


(B) The sampling time at each measurement point is at least 3 times as long as the CEMS response time;


(C) The CEMS completes at least one complete cycle of operation for each shared measurement point within a 15-minute period; and


(D) The CEMS meets the other requirements of PS 19.


(2) You must collect hourly data from auxiliary monitoring systems during the performance test period, to convert the pollutant concentrations to pounds per hour.


(c) *Initial compliance demonstration where facility EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year.* If you own or operate an affected source that is both subject to an emission standard in § 63.362 and located within a facility where EtO use is less than 100 pounds per year, you may comply with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section:


(1) Conduct an initial compliance demonstration using the procedures listed in § 63.7 of this part according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, the procedures listed in this section, and the test methods listed in § 63.365;


(2) Complete the initial compliance demonstration within 180 days after the compliance date for the affected source as determined in § 63.360(j).


(d) *Operating limits for facility where EtO use is less than 100 lb/yr.* If annual EtO use at the facility is less than 100 lb, the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section may be used to determine compliance with the standard(s) under § 63.362(c) through (g) and to establish operating limits for each of the control devices, as applicable:


(1) You must determine the percent emission reduction of the control system used to comply with § 63.362(c) through (g) using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(d)(1).


(2) If an acid-water scrubber(s) is used to comply with a standard, then you must establish as an operating limit:


(i) The maximum ethylene glycol concentration using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(1)(i);


(ii) The maximum liquor tank level using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(1)(ii); or


(iii) The maximum scrubber liquor pH using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(1)(iii).


(3) If a thermal oxidizer(s) is used to comply with a standard, you must establish as an operating limit the minimum temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(2).


(4) If a catalytic oxidizer(s) is used to comply with the standard, you must establish as operating limits both:


(i) The minimum temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(3); and


(ii) The minimum temperature difference across the catalyst bed using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(3).


(5) If a gas/solid reactor(s) is used to comply with the standard, you must establish as an operating limit the pressure drop across the media beds and conduct weekly sampling and analysis of the media. Determine the maximum gas/solid reactor pressure drop using the procedures described in § 63.365(e)(4).


(e) *Other control technology for facility where EtO use is less than 100 lb/yr.* If you are conducting a performance test using a control technology other than an acid-water scrubber, catalytic oxidizer, thermal oxidizer, or gas/solid reactor, you must provide to the Administrator information describing the design and operation of the air pollution control system, including recommendations for the parameters to be monitored that will demonstrate continuous compliance. Based on this information, the Administrator will determine the parameter(s) to be measured during the performance test. During the performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section, using the methods approved in § 63.365(e)(5), you must determine the site-specific operating limit(s) for the operating parameters approved by the Administrator. You must submit the information at least sixty days before the performance test is scheduled to begin. The information on the control technology must include the five items listed in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this section:


(1) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to use as additional operating limits;


(2) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and emissions of regulated pollutants, identifying how emissions of regulated pollutants change with changes in these parameters and how limits on these parameters will serve to limit emissions of regulated pollutants;


(3) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values which will establish the operating limits for these parameters;


(4) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments; and


(5) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.


(f) *Other emission streams.* If the emission stream does not consist only of an SCV(s), the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section shall be used to determine initial compliance with the emission limits under § 63.362(d) through (g), as applicable:


(1) You must comply with paragraph (c) of this section, as applicable.


(2) If you are complying with a percent emission reduction standard as specified in tables 1 through 5 to this subpart, you must determine compliance with § 63.362(c) through (g), as applicable, using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(d)(1).


(3) If you are required to operate any portion of the facility under PTE, you must initially demonstrate that the PTE meets the requirements of Method 204 of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M, and that all exhaust gases from the enclosure are delivered to a control system or stack(s). You must also meet the requirements in § 63.363(f)(3)(i) and either § 63.363(f)(3)(ii) or (iii):


(i) Maintain direction of the airflow into the enclosure at all times, verifying daily using the procedures described in § 63.364(f)(5) and meet either of the requirements.


(ii) Establish as an operating limit the *minimum volumetric flow rate through the affected stack(s)* using the procedures described in § 63.365(f)(1); or


(iii) Install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous pressure differential monitoring system using the procedures described in § 63.364(f)(4).








