# ยง 514.110   Reasons for refusing to file applications.

(a) The date of receipt of an application for a new animal drug shall be the date on which the application shall be deemed to be filed. 


(b) An application for a new animal drug shall not be considered acceptable for filing for any of the following reasons: 


(1) It does not contain complete and accurate English translations of any pertinent part in a foreign language. 


(2) Fewer than three copies are submitted. 


(3) It is incomplete on its face in that it is not properly organized and indexed. 


(4) On its face the information concerning required matter is so inadequate that the application is clearly not approvable. 


(5) The new animal drug is to be manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed in whole or in part in any State in an establishment that has not been registered or exempted from registration under the provisions of section 510 of the act. 


(6) The sponsor does not reside or maintain a place of business within the United States and the application has not been countersigned by an attorney, agent, or other representative of the applicant, which representative resides in the United States and has been duly authorized to act on behalf of the applicant and to receive communications on all matters pertaining to the application. 


(7) The new animal drug is a drug subject to licensing under the animal virus, serum, and toxin law of March 4, 1913 (37 Stat. 832; 21 U.S.C. 151 *et seq.* ). Such applications will be referred to the U.S. Department of Agriculture for action.


(8) It fails to include, with respect to each nonclinical laboratory study contained in the application, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reasons for the noncompliance.


(9) [Reserved]


(10) The applicant fails to submit a complete environmental assessment under ยง 25.40 of this chapter or fails to provide sufficient information to establish that the requested action is subject to categorical exclusion under ยง 25.30 or ยง 25.33 of this chapter.


(c) If an application is determined not to be acceptable for filing, the applicant shall be notified within 30 days of receipt of the application and shall be given the reasons therefore. 


(d) If the applicant disputes the findings that his application is not acceptable for filing, he may make written request that the application be filed over protest, in which case it will be filed as of the day originally received.



---

[N] [40 FR 13825, Mar. 27, 1975, as amended at 50 FR 7517, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 16668, Apr. 26, 1985; 62 FR 40600, July 29, 1997] 




