# ยง 285.706   How do I nominate a CVA for BSEE approval?

(a) A CVA must be nominated by the lessee and approved by BSEE before conducting any verification or certification activities for which they have been nominated. If you intend to use multiple CVAs, you must nominate a general project CVA who will manage the overall project verification and certification approach and who will ensure consistency and oversight among the CVAs, especially in transition areas between different CVAs. The general project CVA must be nominated no later than COP submission.


(b) For each CVA that you nominate, you must submit to BSEE a list of documents used in your design that you will forward to the CVA and a qualification statement that includes the following:


(1) Previous experience in third-party verification or experience in the design, fabrication, installation, or major modification of offshore energy facilities;


(2) Technical capabilities of the individual or the primary staff for the specific project, including relevant professional licenses, certifications, and accreditations;


(3) Size and type of organization or corporation;


(4) In-house availability of, or access to, appropriate technology (including computer programs, hardware, and testing materials and equipment);


(5) Ability to perform the CVA functions for the specific project considering current commitments;


(6) Previous experience with BOEM and BSEE requirements and procedures, if any; and


(7) The scope and level of work to be performed by the CVA, including all relevant reports and facilities that the CVA will verify or certify.


(c) Individuals or organizations acting as CVAs must not function in any capacity that will create a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest. The CVA must not have prepared, or been directly involved in, any work related to the preparation of design, fabrication, installation, modification, or repair plans for which they will provide verification or certification services.


(d) The verification and certification must be conducted by or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer.


(e) BSEE will approve or disapprove your CVA as part of BOEM's review of your COP or, when required, of your SAP or GAP.


(f) You must nominate a new CVA for BSEE approval if the previously approved CVA:


(1) Is no longer able to serve in a CVA capacity for the project; or


(2) No longer meets the requirements for a CVA set forth in this subpart.



---

[N] [88 FR 6413, Jan. 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]








