# § 245.7   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the FRA or the Administrator's delegate.


*Alcohol* means ethyl alcohol (ethanol) and includes use or possession of any beverage, mixture, or preparation containing ethyl alcohol.


*Blocking device* means a method of control that either prohibits the operation of a switch or signal or restricts access to a section of track.


*Controlled substance* has the meaning assigned by 21 U.S.C. 802 and includes all substances listed on Schedules I through V as they may be revised from time to time (21 CFR parts 1301 through 1316).


*Dispatch* means:


(1) To perform a function that would be classified as a duty of a “dispatching service employee,” as that term is defined by the hours of service laws at 49 U.S.C. 21101(2), if the function were to be performed in the United States. The term dispatch includes, but is not limited to, by the use of an electrical or mechanical device:


(i) Controlling the movement of a train or other on-track equipment by the issuance of a written or verbal authority or permission affecting a railroad operation, or by establishing a route through the use of a railroad signal or train control system but not merely by aligning or realigning a switch; or


(ii) Controlling the occupancy of a track by a roadway worker or stationary on-track equipment, or both; or


(iii) Issuing a mandatory directive, including, but not limited to, speed restrictions, highway-rail grade crossing protections, or those which establish working limits for roadway workers.


(2) The term *dispatch* does not include the actions of personnel in the field:


(i) Effecting implementation of a written or verbal authority or permission for a railroad operation, including an authority for working limits to a roadway worker (*e.g.,* initiating an interlocking timing device, authorizing a train to enter working limits); or


(ii) Operating a function of a signal system designed for use by those personnel; or


(iii) Sorting and grouping rail cars inside a railroad yard to assemble or disassemble a train.


*Dispatcher* means any individual who dispatches.


*Dispatcher Pilot* means a dispatcher qualified on assigned territory, tasked with overseeing a non-qualified employee who has not successfully completed all instruction, training and examination programs for the physical characteristics of the territory or position.


*Drug* means any substance (other than alcohol) that has known mind or function-altering effects on a human subject, specifically including any psychoactive substance and including, but not limited to, controlled substances.


*Drug and alcohol counselor (DAC)* means a person who meets the credentialing and qualification requirements of a “Substance Abuse Professional” (SAP), as provided in 49 CFR part 40.


*File, filed,* and *filing* mean submission of a document under this part on the date when the Docket Clerk receives it, or if sent by mail, the date mailing was completed.


*FRA* means the Federal Railroad Administration.


*FRA representative* means the FRA Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety/Chief Safety Officer and the Associate Administrator's delegate, including any safety inspector employed by the Federal Railroad Administration and any qualified State railroad safety inspector acting under part 212 of this chapter.


*Ineligible* or *ineligibility* means that a person is legally disqualified from serving as a certified dispatcher. The term covers a number of circumstances in which a person may not serve as a certified dispatcher. Revocation of certification pursuant to § 245.307 and denial of certification pursuant to § 245.301 are two examples in which a person would be ineligible to serve as a dispatcher. A period of ineligibility may end when a condition or conditions are met, such as when a person meets the conditions to serve as a dispatcher following an alcohol or drug violation pursuant to § 245.115.


*Knowingly* means having actual knowledge of the facts giving rise to the violation or that a reasonable person acting in the circumstances, exercising due care, would have had such knowledge.


*Main track* means a track upon which the operation of trains is governed by one or more of the following methods of operation: Timetable; mandatory directive; signal indication; or any form of absolute or manual block system.


*Mandatory directive* means any movement authority or speed restriction that affects a railroad operation.


*Medical examiner* means a person licensed as a doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathy. A medical examiner can be a qualified full-time salaried employee of a railroad, a qualified practitioner who contracts with the railroad on a fee-for-service or other basis, or a qualified practitioner designated by the railroad to perform functions in connection with medical evaluations of employees. As used in this part, the medical examiner owes a duty to make an honest and fully informed evaluation of the condition of an individual.


*On-the-job training* means job training that occurs in the workplace, *i.e.,* the employee learns the job while doing the job.


*Person* means an entity of any type covered under 1 U.S.C. 1, including but not limited to the following: a railroad; a manager, supervisor, official, or other employee or agent of a railroad; any owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee of railroad equipment, track, or facilities; any independent contractor providing goods or services to a railroad; and any employee of such owner, manufacturer, lessor, lessee, or independent contractor.


*Physical characteristics* means the actual track profile of and physical location for points within a specific yard or route that affect the movement of a locomotive or train. Physical characteristics includes *main track physical characteristics* (see definition of “main track” in this section) and other than main track physical characteristics.


*Plant railroad* means a plant or installation that owns or leases a locomotive, uses that locomotive to switch cars throughout the plant or installation, and is moving goods solely for use in the facility's own industrial processes. The plant or installation could include track immediately adjacent to the plant or installation if the plant railroad leases the track from the general system railroad and the lease provides for (and actual practice entails) the exclusive use of that trackage by the plant railroad and the general system railroad for purposes of moving only cars shipped to or from the plant. A plant or installation that operates a locomotive to switch or move cars for other entities, even if solely within the confines of the plant or installation, rather than for its own purposes or industrial processes, will not be considered a plant railroad because the performance of such activity makes the operation part of the general railroad system of transportation.


*Qualified* means a person who has successfully completed all instruction, training and examination programs required by the employer, and the applicable parts of this chapter and that the person therefore may reasonably be expected to be proficient on all safety related tasks the person is assigned to perform.


*Qualified instructor* means a person who has demonstrated, pursuant to the railroad's written program, an adequate knowledge of the subjects under instruction and, where applicable, has the necessary dispatching experience to effectively instruct in the field, and has the following qualifications:


(1) Is a certified dispatcher under this part; and


(2) Has been selected as such by a designated railroad officer, in concurrence with the designated employee representative, where present; or


(3) In absence of concurrence provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, has a minimum of one year of service working as a dispatcher.


If a railroad does not have designated employee representation, then a person need not comply with paragraph (2) or (3) of this definition to be a *qualified instructor.*

*Railroad* means any form of nonhighway ground transportation that runs on rails or electromagnetic guideways and any entity providing such transportation, including:


(1) Commuter or other short-haul railroad passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area and commuter railroad service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation on January 1, 1979; and


(2) High speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether those systems use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads; but does not include rapid transit operations in an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation.


*Railroad officer* means any supervisory employee of a railroad.


*Roadway worker in charge (RWIC)* means a roadway worker who is qualified under § 214.353 of this chapter to establish on-track safety for roadway work groups, and lone workers qualified under § 214.347 of this chapter to establish on-track safety for themselves.


*Serve or service,* in the context of serving documents, has the meaning given in Rule 5 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as amended. Similarly, the computation of time provisions in Rule 6 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as amended are also applicable in this part. *See also* the definition of “filing” in this section.


*Substance abuse disorder* refers to a psychological or physical dependence on alcohol or a drug, or another identifiable and treatable mental or physical disorder involving the abuse of alcohol or drugs as a primary manifestation. A substance abuse disorder is “active” within the meaning of this part if the person is currently using alcohol or other drugs, except under medical supervision consistent with the restrictions described in § 219.103 of this chapter or has failed to successfully complete primary treatment or successfully participate in aftercare as directed by a DAC or SAP.


*Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)* means a person who meets the qualifications of a substance abuse professional, as provided in 49 CFR part 40.


*Territorial qualifications* means possessing the necessary knowledge concerning a railroad's operating rules and timetable special instructions including familiarity with applicable *main track* and other than *main track physical characteristics* of the territory over which the locomotive or train movement will occur as well as the characteristics of the position to include, and not limited to, the operation and capabilities of dispatch control systems.


*Tourist, scenic, historic, or excursion operations that are not part of the general railroad system of transportation* means a tourist, scenic, historic, or excursion operation conducted only on track used exclusively for that purpose (*i.e.,* there is no freight, intercity passenger, or commuter passenger railroad operation on the track).






