# § 190.236   Emergency orders: Procedures for issuance and rescision.

(a) *Determination of imminent hazard.* When the Administrator determines that an unsafe condition or practice, or a combination of unsafe conditions and practices, constitutes or is causing an imminent hazard, as defined in § 190.3, the Administrator may issue or impose an emergency order, without advance notice or an opportunity for a hearing, but only to the extent necessary to abate the imminent hazard. The order will contain a written description of:


(1) The violation, condition, or practice that constitutes or is causing the imminent hazard;


(2) Those entities subject to the order;


(3) The restrictions, prohibitions, or safety measures imposed;


(4) The standards and procedures for obtaining relief from the order;


(5) How the order is tailored to abate the imminent hazard and the reasons the authorities under 49 U.S.C. 60112 and 60117(l) are insufficient to do so; and


(6) How the considerations listed in paragraph (c) of this section were taken into


account.


(b) *Consultation.* In considering the factors under paragraph (c) of this section, the Administrator shall consult, as the Administrator determines appropriate, with appropriate Federal agencies, State agencies, and other entities knowledgeable in pipeline safety or operations.


(c) *Considerations.* Prior to issuing an emergency order, the Administrator shall consider the following, as appropriate:


(1) The impact of the emergency order on public health and safety;


(2) The impact, if any, of the emergency order on the national or regional economy or national security;


(3) The impact of the emergency order on the ability of owners and operators of pipeline facilities to maintain reliability and continuity of service to customers; and


(4) The results of any consultations with appropriate Federal agencies, State agencies, and other entities knowledgeable in pipeline safety or operations.


(d) *Service.* The Administrator will provide service of emergency orders in accordance with § 190.5 to all operators of gas and hazardous liquid pipeline facilities that the Administrator reasonably expects to be affected by the emergency order. In addition, the Administrator will publish emergency orders in the _Federal Register_ and post them on the PHMSA website as soon as practicable upon issuance. Publication in the _Federal Register_ will serve as general notice of an emergency order. Each emergency order must contain information specifying how pipeline operators and owners may respond to the emergency order, filing procedures, and service requirements, including the address of DOT Docket Operations and the names and addresses of all persons to be served if a petition for review is filed.


(e) *Rescission.* If an emergency order has been in effect for more than 365 days, the Administrator will make an assessment regarding whether the unsafe condition or practice, or combination of unsafe conditions and practices, constituting or causing an imminent hazard, as defined in § 190.3, continues to exist. If the imminent hazard does not continue to exist, the Administrator will rescind the emergency order and follow the service procedures set forth in § 190.236(d). If the imminent hazard underlying the emergency order continues to exist, PHMSA will initiate a rulemaking action as soon as practicable.



---

[N] [Amdt. 190-21, 84 FR 52027, Oct. 1, 2019]




