# § 1263.4   Requirements for labeling of button cell or coin battery packaging.

(a) *General requirements for labeling of button cell or coin battery packaging.* (1) All warning statements must be clearly visible, prominent, legible, and permanently marked.


(2) Warning statements must be in contrasting color to the background onto which the warning statement is printed.


(3) Warning statements must be in English.


(4) The safety alert symbol, an exclamation mark in a triangle, when used with the signal word, must precede the signal word. The base of the safety alert symbol must be on the same horizontal line as the base of the letters of the signal word. The height of the safety alert symbol must equal or exceed the signal word letter height.


(5) The signal word “WARNING” and safety alert symbol must be in black letters on an orange background unless this would conflict with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section or only one color is present, in which case, the signal word and safety alert symbol must contrast to the background on which they are printed. The signal word must appear in sans serif letters in upper case only.


(6) Certain text in the message panel must be in bold and in capital letters as shown in the example warning labels (figure 1 to paragraph (b)(1) and figure 3 to paragraph (b)(2)) to get the attention of the reader.


(7) For labels that are required to be on the packaging of button cell and coin batteries, text size must be dependent on the area of the principal display panel. Text size must be determined based on table 1 to this paragraph (a)(7).




(b) *Warning label requirements for button cell or coin battery packaging.* (1) The principal display panel of the packaging must include the warning label in figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(1). The icon must be at least 8 mm (0.3 inches) in diameter. The text must state the following warnings as shown in figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(1).


(2) If space prohibits the full warning label shown in figure 1 to paragraph (b)(1), place the icon shown in figure 2 to this paragraph (b)(2) on the principal display panel with the text shown in figure 3 to this paragraph (b)(2) on the secondary display panel. The icon must be at least 20 mm in diameter. The text must state the following warnings as shown on figure 3 to this paragraph (b)(2).


(3) The following safety-related statements must be addressed on the principal display panel or secondary display panel:


(i) Keep in original package until ready to use.


(ii) Immediately dispose of used batteries and keep away from children. Do NOT dispose of batteries in household trash.


(4) For button cell or coin battery packaging included separately with a consumer product, only paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section apply.





---

[N] [88 FR 65303, Sept. 21, 2023]




