# ยง 266.70   Applicability and requirements.

(a) The regulations of this subpart apply to recyclable materials that are reclaimed to recover economically significant amounts of gold, silver, platinum, palladium, iridium, osmium, rhodium, ruthenium, or any combination of these.


(b) Persons who generate, transport, or store recyclable materials that are regulated under this subpart are subject to the following requirements:


(1) Notification requirements under section 3010 of RCRA;


(2) Subpart B of part 262 (for generators), 40 CFR 263.20 and 263.21 (for transporters), and 40 CFR 265.71 and 265.72 (for persons who store) of this chapter; and


(3) For precious metals exported to or imported from other countries for recovery, 40 CFR part 262, subpart H and 265.12.


(c) Persons who store recycled materials that are regulated under this subpart must keep the following records to document that they are not accumulating these materials speculatively (as defined in ยง 261.1(c) of this chapter);


(1) Records showing the volume of these materials stored at the beginning of the calendar year;


(2) The amount of these materials generated or received during the calendar year; and


(3) The amount of materials remaining at the end of the calendar year.


(d) Recyclable materials that are regulated under this subpart that are accumulated speculatively (as defined in ยง 261.1(c) of this chapter) are subject to all applicable provisions of parts 262 through 265, 267, 270, and 124 of this chapter.



---

[N] [50 FR 666, Jan. 4, 1985, as amended at 61 FR 16315, Apr. 12, 1996; 71 FR 40277, July 14, 2006; 75 FR 13007, Mar. 18, 2010; 81 FR 85727, Nov. 28, 2016]




