# ยง 1926.700   Scope, application, and definitions applicable to this subpart.

(a) *Scope and application.* This subpart sets forth requirements to protect all construction employees from the hazards associated with concrete and masonry construction operations performed in workplaces covered under 29 CFR part 1926. In addition to the requirements in subpart Q, other relevant provisions in parts 1910 and 1926 apply to concrete and masonry construction operations.


(b) *Definitions applicable to this subpart.* In addition to the definitions set forth in ยง 1926.32, the following definitions apply to this subpart.


(1) *Bull float* means a tool used to spread out and smooth concrete.


(2) *Formwork* means the total system of support for freshly placed or partially cured concrete, including the mold or sheeting (form) that is in contact with the concrete as well as all supporting members including shores, reshores, hardware, braces, and related hardware.


(3) *Lift slab* means a method of concrete construction in which floor, and roof slabs are cast on or at ground level and, using jacks, lifted into position.


(4) *Limited access zone* means an area alongside a masonry wall, which is under construction, and which is clearly demarcated to limit access by employees.


(5) *Precast concrete* means concrete members (such as walls, panels, slabs, columns, and beams) which have been formed, cast, and cured prior to final placement in a structure.


(6) *Reshoring* means the construction operation in which shoring equipment (also called reshores or reshoring equipment) is placed, as the original forms and shores are removed, in order to support partially cured concrete and construction loads.


(7) *Shore* means a supporting member that resists a compressive force imposed by a load.


(8) *Vertical slip forms* means forms which are jacked vertically during the placement of concrete.


(9) *Jacking operation* means the task of lifting a slab (or group of slabs) vertically from one location to another (e.g., from the casting location to a temporary (parked) location, or from a temporary location to another temporary location, or to its final location in the structure), during the construction of a building/structure where the lift-slab process is being used.



---

[N] [53 FR 22643, June 16, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 42328, Oct. 18, 1990]




