# ยง 245.11   Penalties and consequences for noncompliance.

(a) Any person (including a railroad; any manager, supervisor, official, or other employee or agent of a railroad; any owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee of railroad equipment, track, or facilities; any employee of such owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee; or any independent contractor or subcontractor of a railroad) who violates any requirement of this part or causes the violation of any such requirement is subject to a civil penalty of at least the minimum civil monetary penalty and not more than the ordinary maximum civil monetary penalty per violation. However, penalties may be assessed against individuals only for willful violations, and a penalty not to exceed the aggravated maximum civil monetary penalty per violation may be assessed, where:


(1) A grossly negligent violation, or a pattern of repeated violations, has created an imminent hazard of death or injury to persons; or


(2) A death or injury has occurred. *See* 49 CFR part 209, appendix A.


(b) Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate offense.


(c) A person who violates any requirement of this part or causes the violation of any such requirement may be subject to disqualification from all safety-sensitive service in accordance with part 209 of this chapter.


(d) A person who knowingly and willfully falsifies a record or report required by this part may be subject to criminal penalties under 49 U.S.C. 21311.


(e) In addition to the enforcement methods referred to in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, FRA may address violations of this part by use of the emergency order, compliance order, and/or injunctive provisions of the Federal rail safety laws.


(f) FRA's website at *https://railroads.dot.gov/* contains a schedule of civil penalty amounts used in connection with this part.






