# § 248.415   Delivery of assistance through intermediaries.

(a) *General.* The Commissioner shall approve and disburse assistance under § 248.405 and § 248.410 through eligible intermediaries selected by the Commissioner under paragraph (b) of this section. If the Commissioner does not receive an acceptable proposal from an intermediary offering to administer assistance under this section in a given State, the Commissioner shall administer the program in such State directly.


(b) *Selection of eligible intermediaries*—(1) *In General.* The Commission shall invite applications from and shall select eligible intermediaries to administer assistance under subpart E of this part through Notices of Funding Availability published in the _Federal Register._ The process shall include provision for a reasonable administrative fee.


(2) *Priority.* With respect to all forms of grants available under § 248.405, the criteria for selecting eligible intermediaries shall give priority to applications from eligible intermediaries with demonstrated expertise under subpart B or subpart C of this part.


(3) *Criteria.* The criteria developed under this section shall:


(i) Not assign any preference or priority to applications from eligible intermediaries based on their previous participation in administering or receiving Federal grants or loans (but may exclude applicants who have failed to perform under prior contracts of a similar nature);


(ii) Require an applicant to prepare a proposal that demonstrates adequate staffing, qualifications, prior experience, and a plan for participation; and


(iii) Permit an applicant to serve as the administrator of assistance made available under § 248.405(d) and (e), based on the applicant's suitability and interest.


(4) *Geographic coverage.* The Commissioner may select more than one State or regional intermediary for a single State or region. The number of intermediaries chosen for each State or region may be based on the number of eligible low income housing projects in the State or region, provided there is no duplication of geographic coverage by intermediaries in the administration of the direct assistance grant program.


(5) *National nonprofit intermediaries.* National nonprofit intermediaries shall be selected to administer the assistance made available under § 248.405 only with respect to State or regions for which no other eligible intermediary, acceptable to the Commissioner, has submitted a proposal to participate.


(6) *Preference.* With respect to assistance made available under § 248.410, preference shall be given to eligible regional, State and local intermediaries, over national nonprofit organizations.


(c) *Conflicts of interest.* Eligible intermediaries selected under paragraph (b) of this section to disburse assistance under § 248.405 shall certify that they will serve only as delegated program administrators, charged with the responsibility for reviewing and approving grant applications on behalf of the Commissioner. Selected intermediaries shall:


(1) Establish appropriate procedures for grant administration and fiscal management, pursuant to standards established by the Commissioner; and


(2) Receive a reasonable administrative fee, except that they may not provide other services to grant recipients with respect to projects that are the subject of the grant application and may not receive payment, directly or indirectly, from the proceeds of grants they have approved.




