# § 301.55-1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Cactus plants.* Any of various fleshy-stemmed plants of the botanical family Cactaceae.


*Certificate.* A document in which an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement affirms that a specified regulated article is free of South American cactus moth and may be moved interstate to any destination.


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between APHIS and a person engaged in growing, handling, or moving regulated articles, wherein the person agrees to comply with this subpart.


*Departmental permit.* A document issued by the Administrator in which he or she affirms that interstate movement of the regulated article identified on the document is for scientific or experimental purposes and that the regulated article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.55-4(c).


*Infestation.* The presence of the South American cactus moth or the existence of circumstances that makes it reasonable to believe that the South American cactus moth may be present.


*Inspector.* Any employee of APHIS or other person authorized by the Administrator to perform the duties required under this subpart.


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State.


*Limited permit.* A document in which an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement affirms that the regulated article identified on the document is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.55-5(b) only to a specified destination and only in accordance with specified conditions.


*Moved (move, movement).* Shipped, offered for shipment, received for transportation, transported, carried, or allowed to be moved, shipped, transported, or carried.


*Person.* Any association, company, corporation, firm, individual, joint stock company, partnership, society, or other entity.


*Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ).* The Plant Protection and Quarantine program of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.


*Quarantined area.* Any State, or any portion of a State, listed in accordance with § 301.55-3(a) or otherwise designated as a quarantined area in accordance with § 301.55-3(b).


*Regulated article.* Any article identified as a regulated article under § 301.55-2 as follows: listed as of January 30, 2023, added in accordance with § 301.55-2(b), or otherwise designated in accordance with § 301.55-2(c).




*South American cactus moth.* The live insect known as the South American cactus moth, *Cactoblastis cactorum,* in any life stage (egg, larva, pupa, adult).


*State.* The District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any State, territory, or possession of the United States.





---

[N] [74 FR 27073, June 8, 2009, as amended at 87 FR 80007, Dec. 29, 2022]








