# ยง 62.12125   Identification of plan.

(a) West Virginia 111(d) plan for municipal solid waste landfills, including delegation of Federal plan compliance schedule and reporting requirements, as submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency on May 29, 1998, and as amended on May 15, 2000, and December 20, 2000, to implement 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc.


(b)(1) Control of landfill gas emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills, submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on September 13, 2018, to implement 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf. The Plan includes regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (c) of this section, which the EPA incorporates by reference.


(2) After December 23, 2019, the substantive requirements of the municipal solid waste landfills state plan are contained in paragraph (b) of this section and owners and operators of municipal solid waste landfills in West Virginia must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.


(c) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A copy of the material is available electronically through *www.regulations.gov,* Docket No. EPA-R03-OAR-2019-0187, or at the EPA Region III office, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, 215-814-5000. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of West Virginia, Secretary of State, Code of State Regulations.


(i) 45 CSR 23: West Virginia legislative rule; Title 45, Department of Environmental Protection, Air Quality; Series 23, Control of Air Pollution from Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, effective June 1, 2018.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [84 FR 64431,  Nov. 2, 2019]






