# ยง 28.11   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart: 


(a) *Affiliate* means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity. 


(b) *Agreement corporation* means a corporation having an agreement or undertaking with the FRB under section 25 of the FRA, 12 U.S.C. 601 through 604a. 


(c) *Capital equivalency deposit* means a deposit by a Federal branch or agency in a member bank as described in section 4 of the IBA, 12 U.S.C. 3102(g). 


(d) *Control.* An entity controls another entity if the entity directly or indirectly controls or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other entity or controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other entity. 


(e) *Edge corporation* means a corporation that is organized under section 25A of the FRA, 12 U.S.C. 611 through 631. 


(f) *Establish a Federal branch or agency* means to: 


(1) Open and conduct business through an initial or additional Federal branch or agency; 


(2) Acquire directly or indirectly through merger, consolidation, or similar transaction with another foreign bank, the operations of a Federal branch or agency that is open and conducting business; 


(3) Acquire a Federal branch or agency through the acquisition of a foreign bank subsidiary that will cease to operate in the same corporate form following the acquisition; 


(4) Convert a state branch or agency operated by a foreign bank, or a commercial lending company controlled by a foreign bank, into a Federal branch or agency; 


(5) Relocate a Federal branch or agency within a state or from one state to another; or 


(6) Convert a Federal agency or a limited Federal branch into a Federal branch. 


(g) *Federal agency* means an office or place of business, licensed by the OCC and operated by a foreign bank in any state, that may engage in the business of banking, including maintaining credit balances, cashing checks, and lending money, but may not accept deposits from citizens or residents of the United States. Obligations may not be considered credit balances unless they are: 


(1) Incidental to, or arise out of the exercise of, other lawful banking powers; 


(2) To serve a specific purpose; 


(3) Not solicited from the general public; 


(4) Not used to pay routine operating expenses in the United States such as salaries, rent, or taxes; 


(5) Withdrawn within a reasonable period of time after the specific purpose for which they were placed has been accomplished; and 


(6) Drawn upon in a manner reasonable in relation to the size and nature of the account. 


(h) *Federal branch* means an office or place of business, licensed by the OCC and operated by a foreign bank in any state, that may engage in the business of banking, including accepting deposits, that is not a Federal agency as defined in paragraph (h) of this section. Unless otherwise provided, the references in this subpart B of part 28 to a Federal branch include a limited Federal branch. 


(i) *Foreign bank* means an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country, a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands, and that engages directly in the business of banking in a foreign country. 


(j) *Foreign business* means any entity, including a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, foundation or trust that is organized under the laws of a foreign country, or any United States entity that is controlled by a foreign entity or foreign national. 


(k) *Foreign country* means one or more foreign nations, and includes the overseas territories, dependencies, and insular possessions of those nations and of the United States, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 


(l) *Home country* means the country in which the foreign bank is chartered or incorporated. 


(m) *Home country supervisor* means the governmental entity or entities in the foreign bank's home country responsible for supervising and regulating the foreign bank. 


(n) *Home state* of a foreign bank means the state in which the foreign bank has a branch, agency, subsidiary commercial lending company, or subsidiary bank. If a foreign bank has an office in more than one state, the home state of the foreign bank is the state that is selected to be the home state by the foreign bank or, in default of the foreign bank's selection, by the FRB. 


(o) *Immediate family member of an individual* means the spouse, father, mother, brother, sister, son, or daughter of that individual. 


(p) *Initial deposit* means the first deposit transaction between a depositor and the Federal branch made on or after July 1, 1996. The initial deposit may be placed into different deposit accounts or into different kinds of deposit accounts, such as demand, savings, or time accounts. Deposit accounts that are held by a depositor in the same right and capacity may be added together for the purpose of determining the dollar amount of the initial deposit. *First deposit* means the deposit made when there is no current deposit relationship between the depositor and the Federal branch. 


(q) *International banking facility* means a set of asset and liability accounts segregated on the books and records of a depository institution, a United States branch or agency of a foreign bank, or an Edge corporation or Agreement corporation, that includes only international banking facility time deposits and extensions of credit. 


(r) *Large United States business* means any business entity including a corporation, company, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, foundation or trust that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, and has: 


(1) Securities registered on a national securities exchange or quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System; or 


(2) More than $1 million in annual gross revenues for the fiscal year immediately preceding the year of the initial deposit. 


(s) *Limited Federal branch* means a Federal branch that may receive only those deposits permissible for an Edge corporation to receive. 


(t) *Managed or controlled* by a Federal branch or agency means that a majority of the responsibility for business decisions, including decisions with regard to lending, asset management, funding, or liability management, or the responsibility for recordkeeping of assets or liabilities for a non-United States office, resides at the Federal branch or agency. For purposes of this definition, forwarding data or information of offshore operations gathered or compiled by the United States office in the normal course of business to the parent foreign bank does not constitute recordkeeping. 


(u) *Manual* has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 5.2(c). 


(v) *Parent foreign bank senior management* means individuals at the executive level of the parent foreign bank who are responsible for supervising and authorizing activities of the Federal branch or agency. 


(w) *Person* means an individual or a corporation, government, partnership, association, or any other entity. 


(x) *State* means any state of the United States and the District of Columbia. 


(y) *United States bank* means a bank organized under the laws of the United States or any state. 



---

[N] [61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 60387, Nov. 27, 1996; 68 FR 70699, Dec. 19, 2003; 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]




