# ยง 39.62   Space criteria for support facilities.

These criteria are based on a projected average burial rate of one to six per day, staffing by position, and a defined complement of maintenance and service equipment. For cemeteries with less than one or more than six burials per day, support facilities are considered on an individual basis in accordance with ยง 39.60(d). In converting Net Square Feet (NSF) to Gross Square Feet (GSF), a conversion factor of 1.5 is the maximum allowed. The applicant shall, in support of the design, include the following as an attachment to the application: A list of all grounds maintenance supplies and equipment and the number of Full Time Employees (FTE) by job assignment for the next 10 years.


(a) *Administrative building.* The administrative building should be approximately 1,600 NSF in total, providing space, as needed, for the following:


(1) Cemetery director's office;


(2) Other offices (as needed);


(3) Administrative staff (lobby/office area);


(4) Operations (file/office/equipment/work area);


(5) Family/conference room;


(6) Military honors team;


(7) Refreshment unit;


(8) Housekeeping aide's closet; and


(9) Restroom facilities.


(b) *Maintenance/service building.* The maintenance/service building may be combined with the administrative building. The maintenance/service building should be approximately 2,200 NSF in total, providing heated and air conditioned space, as needed, for the following:


(1) Foreman's office;


(2) Lunch room;


(3) Kitchen unit;


(4) Toilet and locker room facilities;


(5) Housekeeping aide's closet; and


(6) Vehicle and equipment maintenance and storage.


(c) *Vehicle and equipment storage.* Approximately 275 NSF/Bay as needed. Not all types of vehicles and equipment require storage in heated space. Based on climatic conditions, it may be justified to rely completely on open structures rather than heated structures to protect the following types of vehicles and equipment: Dump trucks, pickup trucks, cemetery automobiles, gang and circular mowers.


(d) *Interment/committal service shelter.* One permanent shelter is authorized for every five interments per day. The shelter may include a covered area to provide seating for approximately 20 people and an uncovered paved area to provide space for approximately 50 additional people. The shelter may also include a small, enclosed equipment/storage area. Provisions must be made for the playing of Taps by recorded means.


(e) *Public Information Center.* One permanent Public Information Center is authorized per facility. A Public Information Center is used to orient visitors and funeral corteges. It should include the gravesite locator. The public restrooms may also be combined with this structure. Space determinations for separate structures for public restrooms shall be considered on an individual basis. The Public Information Center, including public restrooms, may be combined with the administrative building.


(f) *Other interment structures.* Space determinations for other support facilities such as columbaria, preplaced graveliners (or crypts), garden niches, etc., will be considered on an individual basis in accordance with ยง 39.60(d).


