# ยง 1641.24   Appeal and reconsideration of debarring official decisions.

(a) *Appeal and reconsideration generally.* A debarred, suspended or removed IPA may submit the debarring official's decision for appeal or reconsideration in accordance with this section. Within 60 days, IPAs shall be given notice of decisions on appeal and reconsideration. The relief, if any, granted upon appeal or reconsideration shall be limited to the relief stated in the decision on the appeal or reconsideration.


(b) *Appeal.* (1) A debarred, suspended or removed IPA may appeal the decision to the Inspector General, who may uphold, reverse or modify the debarring official's decision.


(2) The appeal shall be filed in writing:


(i) By a debarred or removed IPA, within 30 days of receipt of the decision;


(ii) By a suspended IPA, within 15 days of receipt of the decision.


(3) The Inspector General, at his or her discretion and after determining that a compelling reason exists, may stay the effect of the debarment, suspension or removal pending conclusion of his or her review of the matter.


(c) *Reconsideration.* (1) A debarred, suspended or removed IPA may submit a request to the debarring official to reconsider the debarment, suspension or removal decision, reduce the period of debarment or removal, or terminate the suspension.


(2) Such requests shall be in writing and supported by documentation that the requested action is justified by:


(i) In the case of suspension, reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which the suspension was based;


(ii) Newly discovered material evidence;


(iii) Bona fide change in ownership or management;


(iv) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment, suspension or removal was imposed; or


(v) Other reasons the debarring official deems appropriate.


(3) A request for reconsideration of a suspension which was based a conviction, civil judgment, or sanction that has been reversed may be filed at any time.


(4) Requests for reconsideration based on other grounds may only be filed during the period commencing 60 days after the debarring official's decision imposing the debarment or suspension. Only one such request may be filed in any twelve month period.


(5) The debarring official's decision on a request for reconsideration is subject to the appeal procedure set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.




