# § 441.740   Self-directed services.

(a) *State option.* The State may choose to offer an election for self-directing HCBS. The term “self-directed” means, with respect to State plan HCBS listed in § 440.182 of this chapter, services that are planned and purchased under the direction and control of the individual, including the amount, duration, scope, provider, and location of the HCBS. For purposes of this paragraph, individual means the individual and, if applicable, the individual's representative as defined in § 441.735.


(b) *Service plan requirement.* Based on the independent assessment required in § 441.720, the State develops a service plan jointly with the individual as required in § 441.725. If the individual chooses to direct some or all HCBS, the service plan must meet the following additional requirements:


(1) Specify the State plan HCBS that the individual will be responsible for directing.


(2) Identify the methods by which the individual will plan, direct or control services, including whether the individual will exercise authority over the employment of service providers and/or authority over expenditures from the individualized budget.


(3) Include appropriate risk management techniques that explicitly recognize the roles and sharing of responsibilities in obtaining services in a self-directed manner and assure the appropriateness of this plan based upon the resources and support needs of the individual.


(4) Describe the process for facilitating voluntary and involuntary transition from self-direction including any circumstances under which transition out of self-direction is involuntary. There must be state procedures to ensure the continuity of services during the transition from self-direction to other service delivery methods.


(5) Specify the financial management supports, as required in paragraph (e) of this section, to be provided.


(c) *Employer authority.* If the person-centered service plan includes authority to select, manage, or dismiss providers of the State plan HCBS, the person-centered service plan must specify the authority to be exercised by the individual, any limits to the authority, and specify parties responsible for functions outside the authority the individual exercises.


(d) *Budget authority.* If the person-centered service plan includes an individualized budget (which identifies the dollar value of the services and supports under the control and direction of the individual), the person-centered service plan must meet the following requirements:


(1) Describe the method for calculating the dollar values in the budget, based on reliable costs and service utilization.


(2) Define a process for making adjustments in dollar values to reflect changes in an individual's assessment and service plan.


(3) Provide a procedure to evaluate expenditures under the budget.


(4) Not result in payment for medical assistance to the individual.


(e) *Functions in support of self-direction.* When the State elects to offer self-directed State plan HCBS, it must offer the following individualized supports to individuals receiving the services and their representatives:


(1) Information and assistance consistent with sound principles and practice of self-direction.


(2) Financial management supports to meet the following requirements:


(i) Manage Federal, State, and local employment tax, labor, worker's compensation, insurance, and other requirements that apply when the individual functions as the employer of service providers.


(ii) Make financial transactions on behalf of the individual when the individual has personal budget authority.


(iii) Maintain separate accounts for each individual's budget and provide periodic reports of expenditures against budget in a manner understandable to the individual.


(3) Voluntary training on how to select, manage, and dismiss providers of State plan HCBS.




