# ยง 1305.13   Procedure for filling DEA Forms 222.

(a) A purchaser must make a copy of the original DEA Form 222 for its records and then submit the original to the supplier. The copy retained by the purchaser may be in paper or electronic form.


(b) A supplier may fill the order, if possible and if the supplier desires to do so, and must record on the original DEA Form 222 its DEA registration number (if not previously entered by the purchaser) and the number of commercial or bulk containers furnished on each item and the date on which containers are shipped to the purchaser. If an order cannot be filled in its entirety, it may be filled in part and the balance supplied by additional shipments within 60 days following the date of the DEA Form 222. No DEA Form 222 is valid more than 60 days after its execution by the purchaser, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(c) The controlled substances must be shipped only to the purchaser and the location printed by the Administration on the DEA Form 222, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(d) The supplier must retain the original DEA Form 222 for the supplier's files in accordance with ยง 1305.17(c). Any supplier who is not required to report acquisition/disposition transactions to the Automation of Reports and Consolidated Orders System (ARCOS) under ยง 1304.33(c) (such as a practitioner) must make and submit a copy of the original DEA Form 222 to DEA, either by mail to the Registration Section, or by email to *DEA.Orderforms@usdoj.gov.* The copy must be forwarded at the close of the month during which the order is filled. If an order is filled by partial shipments, the copy must be forwarded at the close of the month during which the final shipment is made or the 60-day validity period expires.


(e) The purchaser must record on its copy of the DEA Form 222 the number of commercial or bulk containers furnished on each item and the dates on which the containers are received by the purchaser.


(f) DEA Forms 222 submitted by registered procurement officers of the Defense Supply Center of the Defense Logistics Agency for delivery to armed services establishments within the United States may be shipped to locations other than the location printed on the DEA Form 222, and in partial shipments at different times not to exceed six months from the date of the order, as designated by the procurement officer when submitting the order.



---

[N] [70 FR 16911, Apr. 1, 2005, as amended at 84 FR 51374, Sept. 30, 2019; 86 FR 38232, July 20, 2021]




