# ยง 59.652   Other procedures.

(a) *Your testing.* The procedures in this subpart apply for all testing you do to show compliance with emission standards, with certain exceptions listed in this section.


(b) *Our testing.* These procedures generally apply for testing that we do to determine if your portable fuel containers complies with applicable emission standards. We may perform other testing as allowed by the Act.


(c) *Exceptions.* We may allow or require you to use procedures other than those specified in this subpart as follows:


(1) You may request to use special procedures if your portable fuel containers cannot be tested using the specified procedures. We will approve your request if we determine that it would produce emission measurements that represent in-use operation and we determine that it can be used to show compliance with the requirements of ยง 59.611.


(2) You may ask to use emission data collected using other procedures, such as those of the California Air Resources Board. We will approve this only if you show us that using these other procedures do not affect your ability to show compliance with the applicable emission standards. This generally requires emission levels to be far enough below the applicable emission standards so that any test differences do not affect your ability to state unconditionally that your containers will meet all applicable emission standards when tested using the specified test procedures.


(3) You may request to use alternate procedures that are equivalent to allowed procedures, or more accurate or more precise than allowed procedures.


(4) You may not use other procedures under this paragraph (c) until we approve your request.




