# § 160.135-3   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in the IMO LSA Code (incorporated by reference, see § 160.135-5 of this subpart), in this subpart, the term:


*Commandant* means the Chief of the Lifesaving and Fire Safety Standards Division. Address: Commandant (CG-ENG-4), Attn: Lifesaving and Fire Safety Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509; telephone 202-372-1392 or fax 202-372-1924.


*Fiberglass Reinforced Plastic (FRP)* means a composite structural material formed by electrical-grade glass fibers in Coast Guard accepted catalyst activated resin.


*Full load* means the weight of the complete lifeboat including all required equipment, provisions, fuel, and the number of persons for which it is approved. This is also known as the “condition B” weight.


*Independent laboratory* has the same meaning as 46 CFR 159.001-3. A list of accepted independent laboratories is available from the Commandant and online at *http://cgmix.uscg.mil.*

*Light load* means the weight of the complete lifeboat empty and does not include fuel, required equipment, or the equivalent weight of persons. This is also known as the “condition A” weight.


*Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI)* means an officer of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant and who fulfills the duties described in 46 CFR 1.01-15(b). The “cognizant OCMI” is the OCMI who has immediate jurisdiction over a vessel or geographic area for the purpose of performing the duties previously described.


*Positive Stability* means the condition of a lifeboat such that when it is displaced a small amount in any direction from upright, it returns on its own to the position before displacement.


*SOLAS* means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended.



---

[N] [USCG-2010-0048, 76 FR 62987, Oct. 11, 2011, as amended by USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60159, Sept. 30, 2013]




