# ยง 1090.297   Procedures for reinstating the 1.0 psi RVP allowance for E10.

(a) EPA may approve a request from a State asking to reinstate the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver specified in ยง 1090.215(b)(1) for any area (or portion of an area) specified in ยง 1090.215(b)(3)(ii) if it meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. If EPA approves such a request, an effective date will be set as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. EPA will notify the State in writing of EPA's action on the request and the effective date of the reinstatement upon approval of the request.


(b) The request must be signed by the Governor of the State, or the Governor's authorized representative, and must include all the following:


(1) A geographic description of each area (or portion of such area) that is covered by the request.


(2) A description of all the means in which emissions reduction from the removal of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver are relied upon in any approved SIP or in any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved by EPA, if applicable.


(3) For any area covered by the request where emissions reductions from the removal of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver are relied upon as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the request must include the following information:


(i) Identify whether the State is withdrawing any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved.


(ii)(A) Identify whether the State intends to submit a SIP revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, which relies on emissions reductions from the removal of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver, and describe any control measures that the State plans to submit to EPA for approval to replace the emissions reductions from the removal of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver.


(B) A description of the State's plans and schedule for adopting and submitting any revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved.


(iii) If the State is not withdrawing any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved and does not intend to submit a revision to any approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, describe why no revision is necessary.


(4) A requested effective date of the reinstatement of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver.


(5) The Governor of a State, or the Governor's authorized representative, must submit additional information needed to administer the reinstatement of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver upon request by EPA.


(c)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, EPA will set an effective date of the reinstatement of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver as requested by the Governor, or the Governor's authorized representative, but no less than 90 days from EPA's written notification to the State approving the reinstatement request.


(2) Where emissions reductions from the removal of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver are included in an approved SIP or any submitted SIP that has not yet been approved, EPA will set an effective date of the reinstatement of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver as requested by the Governor, or the Governor's authorized representative, but no less than 90 days from the effective date of EPA approval of the SIP revision that removes the emissions reductions from the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver, and, if necessary, provides emissions reductions to make up for those from the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver reinstatement.


(d) EPA will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ announcing the approval of any ethanol 1.0 psi waiver reinstatement request and its effective date.


(e) Upon the effective date for the reinstatement of the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver in a subject area (or portion of a subject area) included in an approved request, the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver will apply in such subject area.



---

[N] [89 FR 14774, Feb. 29, 2024]






