# § 86.108-00   Dynamometer.

(a) The dynamometer shall simulate the road load force and inertia specified for the vehicle being tested, and shall determine the distance traveled during each phase of the test procedure.


(b) Two types of dynamometer roll configurations are currently approved by the Administrator:


(1) A small twin-roll dynamometer that has a nominal roll diameter of 8.65 inches and a nominal roll spacing of 17 inches; and


(2)(i) An electric dynamometer that has a single roll with a nominal diameter of 48 inches (1.20 to 1.25 meters).


(ii)(A) The dynamometer must be capable of dynamically controlling inertia load during the US06 test cycle as a function of a vehicle throttle position signal if a manufacturer desires using the following test option. Any time the duration of throttle operation greater than or equal to 85% of wide open throttle (WOT) is greater than or equal to eight seconds, the test inertia load may be adjusted during any of five EPA specified acceleration events by an amount of load that will eliminate additional throttle operation greater than or equal to 85% of WOT.


(B)(*1*) The specific US06 schedule accelerations time periods where inertia load adjustments may be applied are:


(*i*) 49 through 69 seconds;


(*ii*) 83 through 97 seconds;


(*iii*) 135 through 165 seconds;


(*iv*) 315 through 335 seconds; and


(*v*) 568 through 583 seconds.


(*2*) During these five time intervals when inertia load adjustment is occurring, inertia load adjustment is discontinued when throttle operation is less than 85% of WOT or at the end of the specified time interval.


(C) Each type of generic application for implementing this concept must receive the Administrator's approval before a manufacturer may use these inertia adjustments for official US06 schedule certification tests.


(c) Other dynamometer configurations may be used for testing if it can be demonstrated that the simulated road load power and inertia are equivalent, and if approved in advance by the Administrator.


(d) An electric dynamometer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a dynamometer approved as equivalent under paragraph (c) of this section, must be used for all types of emission testing in the following situations.


(1)(i) Gasoline vehicles which are part of an engine family which is designated to meet the phase-in of SFTP compliance required under the implementation schedule of table A00-1 of § 86.000-08, or table A00-3, or table A00-5 of § 86.000-09.


(ii) Diesel LDVs and LDT1s which are part of an engine family which is designated to meet the phase-in of SFTP compliance required under the implementation schedule of table A00-1 of § 86.000-08, or table A00-3, or table A00-5 of § 86.000-09.


(2) Starting with the 2002 model year, any light-duty vehicle or light light-duty truck which uses any regulated fuel.


(3) Starting with the 2004 model year, any heavy light-duty truck which uses any regulated fuel.



---

[N] [61 FR 54890, Oct. 22, 1996]




