# § 382.3   What do the terms in this rule mean?

In this regulation, the terms listed in this section have the following meanings:


*Air Carrier Access Act or ACAA* means the Air Carrier Access Act of 1986, as amended, the statute that provides the principal authority for this part.


*Air transportation* means interstate or foreign air transportation or the transportation of mail by aircraft, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102. Generally this refers to transportation by aircraft within, to or from the United States.


*Assistive device* means any piece of equipment that assists a passenger with a disability to cope with the effects of his or her disability. Such devices are intended to assist a passenger with a disability to hear, see, communicate, maneuver, or perform other functions of daily life, and may include medical devices and medications.


*Automated airport kiosk* means a self-service transaction machine that a carrier owns, leases, or controls and makes available at a U.S. airport to enable customers to independently obtain flight-related services.


*Battery-powered mobility aid* means an assistive device that is used by individuals with mobility impairments such a wheelchair, a scooter, or a Segway when it is used as a mobility device by a person with a mobility-related disability.


*Carrier* means a U.S. citizen (“U.S. carrier”) or foreign citizen (“foreign carrier”) that undertakes, directly or indirectly, or by a lease or any other arrangement, to engage in air transportation.


*Commuter carrier* means an air taxi operator as defined in 14 CFR part 298 that carries passengers on at least 5 round trips per week on at least one route between two or more points according to its published flight schedules that specify the times, days of the week and places between which those flights are performed.


*Conforming alternate version* means a Web page that allows a corresponding non-conforming Web page on the primary Web site to be included within the scope of conformance as long as it meets the WCAG 2.0 Level AA success criteria, is up-to-date and contains the same information and functionality in the same language as the non-conforming page. At least one of the following applies to a conforming alternative version:


(1) The conforming version can be reached from the non-conforming page via an accessibility-supported mechanism; or


(2) The non-conforming version can only be reached from the conforming version; or


(3) The non-conforming version can only be reached from a conforming page that also provides a mechanism to reach the conforming version.


*CPAP machine* means a continuous positive airway pressure machine.


*Custody* means the time period when a passenger has checked a wheelchair, scooter, or other assistive device with a carrier and the carrier has control of a passenger's wheelchair, scooter, or other assistive device.


(1) An airline's custody begins when the passenger hands the device to an airline's representative or agent or leaves the wheelchair, scooter, or other assistive device at a location as instructed by the airline.


(2) An airline's custody ends when the passenger, or someone acting on behalf of the passenger, or another airline takes physical possession of the wheelchair, scooter, or other assistive device.






*Department or DOT* means the United States Department of Transportation.




*Dignified* means assistance provided in a manner that respects a passenger's independence, autonomy, and privacy, which includes but is not limited to: airline personnel providing transfer assistance in a manner that ensures the passenger's clothing is not removed; airline personnel not unduly delaying requests for access to a restroom such that the individual soils himself or herself; and, to the maximum extent possible, airline personnel communicating directly with the individual with disability (*e.g.,* rather than his or her companion or another individual) when the individual with disability is interacting with them.




*Direct threat* means a significant risk to the health or safety of others that cannot be eliminated by a modification of policies, practices, or procedures, or by the provision of auxiliary aids or services.


*Equivalent alternative* means a policy, practice, or other accommodation that provides substantially equivalent accessibility to passengers with disabilities, compared to compliance with a provision of this Part.


*Expected maximum flight duration* means the carrier's best estimate of the total duration of the flight from departure gate to arrival gate, including taxi time to and from the terminals, based on the scheduled flight time and factors such as (a) wind and other weather conditions forecast; (b) anticipated traffic delays; (c) one instrument approach and possible missed approach at destination; and (d) any other conditions that may delay arrival of the aircraft at the destination gate.


*FAA* means the Federal Aviation Administration, an operating administration of the Department of Transportation.


*Facility* means a carrier's aircraft and any portion of an airport that a carrier owns, leases, or controls (e.g., structures, roads, walks, parking lots, ticketing areas, baggage drop-off and retrieval sites, gates, other boarding locations, loading bridges) normally used by passengers or other members of the public.


*Flight-related services* mean functions related to air travel including, but not limited to, ticket purchase, rebooking cancelled flights, seat selection, and obtaining boarding passes or bag tags.


*Hands-on training* means in-person training that is received by an employee or contractor where the employee or contractor can learn and practice real-life scenarios in a safe and controlled environment without the possibility of real-life consequences to passengers with disabilities and with the use of a suitable life-sized model or equipment, as appropriate.








*High-contrast captioning* means captioning that is at least as easy to read as white letters on a consistent black background.


*Indirect carrier* means a person not directly involved in the operation of an aircraft who sells air transportation services to the general public other than as an authorized agent of a carrier.


*Individual with a disability* means any individual who has a physical or mental impairment that, on a permanent or temporary basis, substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:


(a) *Physical or mental impairment* means:


(1) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: neurological, musculoskeletal, special sense organs, respiratory including speech organs, cardio-vascular, reproductive, digestive, genito-urinary, hemic and lymphatic, skin, and endocrine; or


(2) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities.


The term *physical or mental impairment* includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments; cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction, and alcoholism.


(b) *Major life activities* means functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.


(c) *Has a record of such impairment* means has a history of, or has been classified, or misclassified, as having a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.


(d) *Is regarded as having an impairment* means:


(1) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but that is treated by an air carrier as constituting such a limitation;


(2) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits a major life activity only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such an impairment; or


(3) Has none of the impairments set forth in this definition but is treated by an air carrier as having such an impairment.




*Mishandled* means lost, delayed, damaged, or pilfered.








*On-demand air taxi* means an air taxi operator that carries passengers or property and is not a commuter carrier as defined in this section.


*PHMSA* means the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an operating administration of the Department of Transportation.


*POC* means portable oxygen concentrator.


*Primary (or Main) Web site* means the Web site that is accessed upon entering the uniform resource locator (e.g., *www.carrier name.com,**www.airline designator code.com*) in an Internet browser from a standard desktop or laptop computer where the carrier advertises or sells air transportation to the public.


*Qualified individual with a disability* means an individual with a disability—


(a) Who, as a passenger (referred to as a “passenger with a disability”),


(1) With respect to obtaining a ticket for air transportation on a carrier, offers, or makes a good faith attempt to offer, to purchase or otherwise validly to obtain such a ticket;


(2) With respect to obtaining air transportation, or other services or accommodations required by this Part,


(i) Buys or otherwise validly obtains, or makes a good faith effort to obtain, a ticket for air transportation on a carrier and presents himself or herself at the airport for the purpose of traveling on the flight to which the ticket pertains; and


(ii) Meets reasonable, nondiscriminatory contract of carriage requirements applicable to all passengers; or


(b) Who, with respect to accompanying or meeting a traveler, using ground transportation, using terminal facilities, or obtaining information about schedules, fares, reservations, or policies, takes those actions necessary to use facilities or services offered by an air carrier to the general public, with reasonable accommodations, as needed, provided by the carrier.


*Safe* means assistance provided to individuals with disabilities that does not put them at heightened risk of bodily injury, which may include loss or damage to wheelchairs and other assistive devices that result in bodily injury.








*Scheduled service* means any flight scheduled in the current edition of the Official Airline Guide, the carrier's published schedule, or the computer reservation system used by the carrier.


*Service animal* means a dog, regardless of breed or type, that is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of a qualified individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability. Animal species other than dogs, emotional support animals, comfort animals, companionship animals, and service animals in training are not service animals for the purposes of this part.


A *Service animal handler* is a passenger in air transportation who is a qualified individual with a disability who receives assistance from a service animal(s) that does work or performs tasks that are directly related to the individual's disability, or a third party who accompanies the individual with a disability traveling with a service animal such as a parent of a minor child or a caretaker. The service animal handler is responsible for keeping the animal under control at all times, and caring for and supervising the service animal, which includes toileting and feeding.


*Shared-use automated airport kiosk* means a self-service transaction machine that is jointly owned, controlled or leased by an airport operator and carriers and/or an independent service provider and that provides carrier software applications which enable customers to independently access flight-related services.


*TSA* means the Transportation Security Administration, an agency of the Department of Homeland Security.


*United States or U.S.* means the United States of America, including its territories and possessions.



---

[N] [Doc. No. DOT-OST-2004-19482, 73 FR 27665, May 13, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 67914, Nov. 12, 2013; Doc. No. DOT-OST-2018-0068, 85 FR 79774, Dec. 10, 2020; DOT-OST-2022-0144, 89 FR 102441, Dec. 17, 2024]




