# § 165.T05-1053   Safety Zone, Delaware River; Pipeline Removal; Marcus Hook, PA.

(a) *Location.* The following areas are safety zones: All navigable waters within 250 yards of the towing vessel JOKER, Commerce Construction crane barge KELLY, and associated diving and pipe removal vessels, as well as any associated equipment, operating in Marcus Hook Range and Anchorage No. 7 near Marcus Hook, PA, on the Delaware River.


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Captain of the Port* means the Commander, Sector Delaware Bay or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port to act on his behalf.


(2) *Designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port, Delaware Bay, to assist with the enforcement of safety zones described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Regulations.* The general safety zone regulations found in 33 CFR part 165 subpart C apply to the safety zone created by this section.


(1) Entry into or transiting within either safety zone is prohibited unless vessels obtain permission from the Captain of the Port via VHF-FM channel 16, or make satisfactory passing arrangements via VHF-FM channels 13 or 80 with the towing vessel JOKER per this section and the rules of the Road (33 CFR subchapter E). Vessels requesting to transit shall contact the towing vessel JOKER on channel 13 or 80 at least 1 hour, as well as 30 minutes, prior to arrival.


(2) Vessels granted permission to enter and transit the safety zone must do so in accordance with any directions or orders of the Captain of the Port, his designated representative, or the towing vessel JOKER. No person or vessel may enter or remain in a safety zone without permission from the Captain of the Port or the towing vessel JOKER.


(3) There are three sections of pipeline that will be removed. The first two sections of pipeline to be removed are in Anchorage No. 7, Marcus Hook Anchorage, in the Delaware River. During removal of these sections of pipeline, the safety zone will restrict vessels from anchoring in the lower portion of Anchorage No. 7.


(4) During removal of the third section of pipeline, operations will be conducted within the main navigational channel and vessels will be required to transit through the lower portion of Anchorage No. 7. The Coast Guard will issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners via VHF-FM marine channel 16, Local Notice to Mariners, and Marine Safety Information Bulletin further defining specific work locations and traffic patterns.


(5) All vessels must operate at the minimum safe speed necessary to maintain steerage and reduce wake.


(6) This section applies to all vessels that intend to transit through the safety zone except vessels that are engaged in the following operations: enforcement of laws, service of aids to navigation, and emergency response.


(d) *Enforcement periods.* This section will be enforced from December 8, 2017, through February 28, 2018. Enforcement will generally be between the hours of 5 a.m. and 7 p.m., Monday through Sunday, while the zone is in effect.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-1053, 82 FR 58744, Dec. 14, 2017]








