# § 31.6051-3   Statements required in case of sick pay paid by third parties.

(a) *Statements required from payor.* (1) Every payor of sick pay shall furnish to the employer of the payee of the sick pay a written statement. The written statement must contain the following information:


(i) The name and, if there is withholding from sick pay under section 3402(o) and the regulations in this part under section 3402(o), the social security account number of the payee (the payee's social security number may not be truncated to appear in the form of an IRS truncated taxpayer identification number (TTIN)),


(ii) The total amount of sick pay paid to the payee during the calendar year, and


(iii) The total amount (if any) deducted and withheld from sick pay under section 3402(o) and the regulations thereunder.


(2) These reporting requirements are in lieu of the requirements of sections 6051(a) (relating to written statements for employees) and 6041 (relating to information returns). Statements required to be furnished by this paragraph shall be treated as statements required under section 6051 to be furnished to employees for purposes of sections 6674 (relating to fraudulent statement or failure to furnish statement to employee) and 7204 (relating to fraudulent statement or failure to make statement to employees).


(3) A multiemployer plan paying sick pay pursuant to a collectively bargained agreement may furnish the statement required to be furnished by this paragraph, which shall include the total amount of sick pay paid to the employee under the plan regardless of the identity or number of employers for whom the employee worked during the calendar year under the plan, to one of the following:


(i) The employer for whom the employee worked the most hours during the calendar year for which the statement is to be furnished,


(ii) The employer for whom the employee first worked during such year,


(iii) The employer for whom the employee last worked during such year,


(iv) The employer for whom the employee worked immediately preceding his absence for which sick pay was paid,


(v) The employer for whom the employee worked immediately following his absence for which sick pay was paid,


(vi) The employer designated through the operation of a specific clause of the collective bargaining agreement, or


(vii) The employer designated through the operation of a specific system of designation chosen by the payor.


(b) *Information required to be furnished by employer.* Every employer of a payee of sick pay who receives a statement under paragraph (a) from a payor of sick pay shall furnish to each payee of sick pay a written statement, which must be furnished on Form W-2. The written statement must contain the following information:


(1) All of the information required to be furnished under paragraph (a) of this section, but the employer may truncate the payee's social security number to appear in the form of a TTIN on copies of Forms W-2 that are furnished to the payee (for provisions relating to the use of TTINs, see § 301.6109-4 of this chapter (Procedure and Administration Regulations)).


(2) The name, the address, and the Employer Identification Number (EIN) of the employer,


(3) The words “sick pay”, which shall be written in the box labelled “Employer's use”, and


(4) If any portion of the sick pay is excludable from gross income under section 104(a)(3), the amount of the portion which is not so excludable and of the portion which is so excludable. Only sick pay payments includable in gross income shall be reported in the box labelled “Wages, tips, other compensation” on Form W-2. Any amount excludable from gross income under section 104(a)(3) shall be reported in the box labelled “Employer's use” on Form W-2 and any amount so reported shall be described as “Nontaxable”. The information required to be furnished by this paragraph may be furnished either on the same Form W-2 that is required to be furnished under section 6051(a) or on a separate Form W-2. To the extent practicable, this statement should be furnished to the payee along with the statement (if any) required under section 6051(a) (relating to written statements for employees). The statement must be furnished to the payee on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which any sick pay was paid. The employer shall file copy A of Form W-2 and Form W-3 with the Social Security Administration in accordance with section 6051(d) (relating to statements to constitute information returns) and the regulations thereunder.


(c) *Optional rule.* The payor and the employer may at their option enter into an agency agreement valid under local law whereby the employer designates the payor to be the employer's agent for purposes of fulfilling the requirements of this section. This agreement must specify what portion, if any, of the sick pay is excludable from gross income under section 104(a)(3). If they enter into such an agreement, the payor shall not provide the statement required by paragraph (a) but shall instead furnish statements that meet all of the requirements of paragraph (b), except that the agreement must provide that the payor will furnish the statements with the payor's, rather than the employer's name, address, and Employer Identification Number (EIN) if “Sick Pay Statement Furnished under an Agency Agreement with Your Employer” appears in the box labelled “Employer's Use” on Form W-2. Paragraph (a)(2) remains applicable to statements furnished under this paragraph. In the case of sick pay paid under a multiemployer plan pursuant to a collectively bargained agreement, an amendment to either the multiemployer plan or the collectively bargained agreement designating the payor to be the employers' agent for purposes of fulfilling the requirements of this section shall be deemed an agency agreement that fulfills the requirements of the first sentence of this paragraph.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the terms “payor”, “payee”, and “sick pay” shall have the same meaning as ascribed thereto in section 3402(o) and the regulations thereunder. For purposes of this section, the term “employer” shall have the same meaning as ascribed thereto in section 3401(d) and the regulations thereunder, except that the term “employer” shall not include the payor for purposes of this section.


(e) *Additional requirements.* (1) Statements furnished to payees under this section must also comply with all requirements of section 6051 (c) and (d) and the regulations thereunder.


(2) The provisions of § 1.9101-1 (relating to permission to submit information required by certain returns and statements on magnetic tape) shall be applicable to the information required by this section to be furnished on Form W-2 if the employer properly complies with those provisions.


(3) The provisions of section 6109 (relating to identifying numbers) and the regulations in this part and part 301 under section 6109 shall be applicable to Form W-2 and to any payee of sick pay to whom a statement on Form W-2 is required by this section to be furnished. The employer must include the social security number of the payee on all copies of Forms W-2. The employer may truncate the payee's social security number to appear in the form of a TTIN on copies of Forms W-2 that are furnished to the payee. For provisions relating to the use of TTINs, see § 301.6109-4 of this chapter.


(f) *Applicability date.* This section is applicable for statements required to be furnished under section 6051 after December 31, 2020.





---

[N] [T.D. 7814, 47 FR 11277, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended by T.D. 9861, 84 FR 31720, July 3, 2019]




