# 452.204-70   Modification for Contract Closeout.

As prescribed in AGAR 404.804, 413.302-5, and 416.102, insert the following clause:


“Upon contract closeout for contracts utilizing anything other than cost reimbursement:


(a) If unliquidated funds in the amount of $1000 or less remain on the contract, the Contracting Officer (CO) shall issue a unilateral modification for deobligation. The contractor will receive a copy of the modification but will not be required to provide a signature. The CO shall immediately proceed with contract closeout upon completion of the period of performance, receipt and acceptance of supplies or services, and final payment.


(b) Upon contract closeout for contracts utilizing SAP: if unliquidated funds of more than $1000 remain on the contract, the CO shall issue a bilateral modification for deobligation. The contractor will receive a copy of the modification and will be required to provide a signature. (The CO may also request a “Contractor Release of Claims” be completed by the contractor, although not required for contracts and orders using SAP.) If the bilateral modification and Release of Claims are not returned to the CO within 60 days, the CO shall release the modification as unilateral and proceed with contract closeout upon completion of the period of performance, receipt and acceptance of supplies or services, and final payment.


(c) Upon contract closeout for contracts utilizing anything other than cost reimbursement, if unliquidated funds of more than $1000 remain on the contract, the CO shall issue a bilateral modification for deobligation. The contractor will receive a copy of the modification and a “Contractor Release of Claims” and will be required to provide a signature on both forms. If the bilateral modification and Release of Claims are not returned to the CO within 120 days, the CO shall release the modification as unilateral and proceed with contract closeout upon completion of the period of performance, receipt and acceptance of supplies or services, and final payment.


