# § 842.2   Definitions.

(a) *Authorized agent.* Any person or corporation, including a legal representative, empowered to act on a claimant's behalf.


(b) *Civilian personnel.* Civilian employees of the Air Force who are paid from appropriated or nonappropriated funds. They include prisoners of war, interned enemy aliens performing paid labor, and volunteer workers except for claims under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act.


(c) *Claim.* Any signed written demand made on or by the Air Force for the payment of a sum certain. It does not include any obligations incurred in the regular procurement of services, supplies, equipment, or real estate. An oral demand made under Article 139, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) is sufficient.


(d) *Claimant.* An individual, partnership, association, corporation, country, state, territory, or its political subdivisions, and the District of Columbia. The U.S. Government or any of its instrumentalities may be a claimant in admiralty, tort, carrier recovery and hospital recovery claims in favor of the United States.


(e) *Geographic area of claims responsibility.* The base Staff Judge Advocate's (SJA's) jurisdiction for claims. CONUS jurisdictional areas are designated by AFLOA/JACC on maps distributed to the field. HQ PACAF, HQ USAFE, and HQ 9AF SJAs designate these areas within their jurisdictions. DOD assigns areas of single service responsibility to each military department.


(f) *AFLOA/JACC.* Claims and Tort Litigation Division, 1500 West Perimeter Road, Suite 1700, Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762.


(g) *Owner.* A holder of a legal title or an equitable interest in certain property. Specific examples include:


(1) *For real property.* The mortgagor, and the mortgagee if that individual can maintain a cause of action in the local courts involving a tort to that specific property.


(2) *For personal property.* A bailee, lessee, mortgagee and a conditional vendee. A mortgagor, conditional vendor, title loan company or someone else other than the owner, who has the title for purposes of security are not owners.


(h) *HQ PACAF.* Headquarters, Pacific Air Forces, Hickam AFB, HI 96853-5001.


(i) *Personal injury.* The term “personal injury” includes both bodily injury and death.


(j) *Property damage.* Damage to, loss of, or destruction of real or personal property.


(k) *Settle.* To consider and pay, or deny a claim in full or in part.


(l) *Single Base General Court-Martial Jurisdiction (GCM).* For claims purposes, a base legal office serving the commander who exercises GCM authority over that base, or that base and other bases.


(m) *Subrogation.* The act of assuming the legal rights of another after paying a claim or debt, for example, an insurance company (subrogee) paying its insured's (subrogor's) claim, thereby assuming the insured's right of recovery.


(n) *HQ USAFE.* Headquarters, United States Air Forces in Europe, Ramstein Air Base, Germany, APO NY 09012-5001.



---

[N] [55 FR 2809, Jan. 29, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 1574, Jan. 16, 1991; 81 FR 83688, Nov. 22, 2016]




