# ยง 904.240   Discovery generally.

(a) *Initial Disclosures.* Prior to hearing, the Judge shall require the parties to submit Initial Disclosures and set a deadline for their submission. Except for information regarding a respondent's ability to pay an assessed civil penalty, these Initial Disclosures will normally obviate the need for further discovery.


(1) The Initial Disclosures shall include the following information: A factual summary of the case; a summary of all factual and legal issues in dispute; a list of all defenses that will be asserted, together with a summary of all factual and legal bases supporting each defense; a list of all potential witnesses, together with a summary of their anticipated testimony; and a list of all potential exhibits.


(2) The Initial Disclosures must be signed by the parties or their attorneys and must be served on all parties in conformance with ยง 904.3, along with a copy of each potential exhibit listed therein.


(3) A party has the affirmative obligation to supplement their Initial Disclosures as available information or documentation relevant to the stated charges or defenses becomes known to the party.


(b) *Additional discovery.* Upon written motion by a party, the Judge may allow additional discovery only upon a showing of relevance, need, and reasonable scope of the evidence sought, by one or more of the following methods: Deposition upon oral examination or written questions, written interrogatories, production of documents or things for inspection and other purposes, and requests for admission. With respect to information regarding a respondent's ability to pay an assessed civil penalty, the Agency may serve any discovery request (*i.e.,* deposition, interrogatories, admissions, production of documents) directly upon the respondent in conformance with ยง 904.3 of this part without first seeking an order from the Judge.


(c) *Time limits.* Motions for depositions, interrogatories, admissions, or production of documents or things may not be filed within 20 days of the hearing except on order of the Judge for good cause shown. Oppositions to a discovery motion must be filed within 10 days of service unless otherwise provided in these rules or by the Judge. 


(d) *Oppositions.* Oppositions to any discovery motion or portion thereof must state with particularity the grounds relied upon. Failure to object in a timely fashion constitutes waiver of the objection. 


(e) *Scope of discovery.* The Judge may limit the scope, subject matter, method, time, or place of discovery. Unless otherwise limited by order of the Judge, the scope of discovery is as follows: 


(1) *In general.* As allowed under paragraph (b) of this section, parties may obtain discovery of any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the allegations of the charging document, to the proposed relief, or to the defenses of any respondent, or that appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 


(2) *Hearing preparation: Materials.* A party may not obtain discovery of materials prepared in anticipation of litigation except upon a showing that the party seeking discovery has a substantial need for the materials in preparation of his or her case and is unable without undue hardship to obtain the substantial equivalent of the materials by other means. Mental impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of an attorney or other representative of a party are not discoverable under this section. 


(3) *Hearing preparation: Experts.* A party may discover the substance of the facts and opinions to which an expert witness is expected to testify and a summary of the grounds for each opinion. A party may also discover facts known or opinions held by an expert consulted by another party in anticipation of litigation but not expected to be called as a witness upon a showing of exceptional circumstances making it impracticable for the party seeking discovery to obtain such facts or opinions by other means. 


(f) *Failure to comply.* If a party fails to comply with any provision of this section, including with respect to their Initial Disclosures, a subpoena, or an order concerning discovery, the Judge may, in the interest of justice:


(1) Infer that the admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have been adverse to the party; 


(2) Rule that the matter or matters covered by the order or subpoena are established adversely to the party; 


(3) Rule that the party may not introduce into evidence or otherwise rely upon, in support of any claim or defense, testimony by such party, officer, or agent, or the documents or other evidence; 


(4) Rule that the party may not be heard to object to introduction and use of secondary evidence to show what the withheld admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have shown; or 


(5) Strike part or all of a pleading (except a request for hearing), a motion or other submission by the party, concerning the matter or matters covered by the order or subpoena. 



---

[N] [71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38938, June 30, 2022]




