# ยง 3560.457   Negotiated debt settlement.

(a) *Borrower proposals to settle debt.* A borrower who cannot pay the full amount of loan payments may propose an offer to settle an outstanding debt for less than the full amount of that debt. The Agency may approve a negotiated debt settlement only in cases where a default is evident and doing so is in the best interest of the Federal Government and tenants.


(b) *Required information.* Borrowers requesting debt settlement must submit complete and accurate information from which a full determination of financial condition can be made. Debt settlement offers will not be approved by the Agency unless the financial information submitted by the borrower indicates that the borrower will be able to make the debt settlement payments as proposed.


(c) *Effective date of approval.* Debt settlement offers will not be accepted until the borrower receives written approval from the Agency.


(d) *Appraisal requirement.* No debt settlement offer will be accepted for less than the net recovery value of the security as determined by a licensed appraiser or other qualified official, and concurred in by the Agency's qualified appraisal review official or other qualified official.


(e) *Disposition of security prior to offer.* Borrowers are not required to dispose of security prior to making a debt settlement offer. However, if a borrower has disposed of security prior to making a debt settlement offer, the proceeds from the disposed security must be applied to the borrower's account prior to any negotiations on the debt settlement offer.


(f) *Final release condition.* Upon full payment of the approved debt settlement, the Agency will release the borrower from liability. 




