# § 330.101   Definitions.

(a) In this part:


*Agency* means:


(1) An Executive department listed at 5 U.S.C. 101;


(2) A military department listed at 5 U.S.C. 102;


(3) A Government owned corporation in the executive branch;


(4) An independent establishment in the executive branch as described at 5 U.S.C. 104; and


(5) The Government Printing Office.


*Component* means the first major subdivision of an agency, separately organized, and clearly distinguished in work function and operation from other agency subdivisions (e.g., the Internal Revenue Service under the Department of the Treasury or the National Park Service under the Department of the Interior).


*Local commuting area* has the meaning given that term in § 351.203 of this chapter.


*Permanent competitive service workforce* and *permanent competitive service employees* mean agency employees serving under career or career-conditional appointments, in tenure group I or II, respectively.


*Position change* has the meaning given that term in § 210.102 of this chapter.


*Rating of record* has the meaning given that term in § 351.203 of this chapter.


*Representative rate* has the meaning given that term in § 351.203 of this chapter.


*Tenure groups* are described in § 351.501 of this chapter.


(b) In this subpart:


*Vacancy* means a vacant position in the competitive service, regardless of whether the position will be filled by permanent or time-limited appointment, for which an agency is seeking applications from outside its current permanent competitive service workforce.




