# § 4231.16   Participant census data for financial assistance merger.

A request for a financial assistance merger must include a copy of the census data used for the projections described in § 4231.15(c) through (e), including:


(a) Participant type (retiree, beneficiary, disabled, terminated vested, active, alternate payee).


(b) Gender.


(c) Date of birth.


(d) Credited service for guarantee calculation (*i.e.,* number of years of participation).


(e) Vested accrued monthly benefit.


(f) Monthly benefit guaranteed by PBGC.


(g) Benefit commencement date (for participants in pay status and others for which the reported benefit will not be payable at normal retirement age).


(h) For each participant in pay status—


(1) Form of payment, and


(2) Data relevant to the form of payment, including:


(i) For a joint-and-survivor benefit, the beneficiary's benefit amount and the beneficiary's date of birth;


(ii) For a Social Security level income benefit, the date of any change in the benefit amount, and the benefit amount after such change;


(iii) For a 5-year certain or 10-year certain benefit (or similar benefit), the relevant defined period; or


(iv) For a form of payment not otherwise described in this section, the data necessary for the valuation of the form of payment.


(i) If an actuarial increase for postponed retirement applies, or if the form of annuity is a Social Security level income benefit, the monthly vested benefit payable at normal retirement age in normal form of annuity.




