# § 1240.11   Ancillary matters, applications.

(a) *Creation of the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.* (1) In a removal proceeding, an alien may apply to the immigration judge for cancellation of removal under section 240A of the Act, adjustment of status under section 1 of the Act of November 2, 1966 (as modified by section 606 of Pub. L. 104-208), section 101 or 104 of the Act of October 28, 1977, section 202 of Pub. L. 105-100, or section 902 of Pub. L. 105-277, or for the creation of a record of lawful admission for permanent residence under section 249 of the Act. The application shall be subject to the requirements of § 1240.20, and 8 CFR parts 1245 and 1249. The approval of any application made to the immigration judge under section 245 of the Act by an alien spouse (as defined in section 216(g)(1) of the Act) or by an alien entrepreneur (as defined in section 216A(f)(1) of the Act) shall result in the alien's obtaining the status of lawful permanent resident on a conditional basis in accordance with the provisions of section 216 or 216A of the Act, whichever is applicable. However, the Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence required by section 216(c) of the Act, or the Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions required by section 216A(c) of the Act shall be made to the director in accordance with 8 CFR part 1216.


(2) In conjunction with any application for creation of status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence made to an immigration judge, if the alien is inadmissible under any provision of section 212(a) of the Act, and believes that he or she meets the eligibility requirements for a waiver of the ground of inadmissibility, he or she may apply to the immigration judge for such waiver. The immigration judge shall inform the alien of his or her apparent eligibility to apply for any of the benefits enumerated in this chapter and shall afford the alien an opportunity to make application during the hearing, in accordance with the provisions of § 1240.8(d). In a relevant case, the immigration judge may adjudicate the sufficiency of an Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A (Form I-864), executed on behalf of an applicant for admission or for adjustment of status, in accordance with the provisions of section 213A of the Act and 8 CFR part 213a. 


(3) In exercising discretionary power when considering an application for status as a permanent resident under this chapter, the immigration judge may consider and base the decision on information not contained in the record and not made available for inspection by the alien, provided the Commissioner has determined that such information is relevant and is classified under the applicable Executive Order as requiring protection from unauthorized disclosure in the interest of national security. Whenever the immigration judge believes that he or she can do so while safeguarding both the information and its source, the immigration judge should inform the alien of the general nature of the information in order that the alien may have an opportunity to offer opposing evidence. A decision based in whole or in part on such classified information shall state that the information is material to the decision.


(b) *Voluntary departure.* The alien may apply to the immigration judge for voluntary departure in lieu of removal pursuant to section 240B of the Act and subpart C of this part. The immigration judge shall advise the alien of the consequences of filing a post-decision motion to reopen or reconsider prior to the expiration of the time specified by the immigration judge for the alien to depart voluntarily.


(c) *Applications for asylum and withholding of removal.* (1) If the alien expresses fear of persecution or harm upon return to any of the countries to which the alien might be removed pursuant to § 1240.10(f), and the alien has not previously filed an application for asylum or withholding of removal that has been referred to the immigration judge by an asylum officer in accordance with § 1208.14 of this chapter, the immigration judge shall:


(i) Advise the alien that he or she may apply for asylum in the United States or withholding of removal to those countries;


(ii) Make available the appropriate application forms; and


(iii) Advise the alien of the privilege of being represented by counsel at no expense to the government and of the consequences, pursuant to section 208(d)(6) of the Act, of knowingly filing a frivolous application for asylum. The immigration judge shall provide to the alien a list of persons who have indicated their availability to represent aliens in asylum proceedings on a *pro bono* basis.


(2) An application for asylum or withholding of removal must be filed with the Immigration Court, pursuant to § 1208.4(b) of this chapter. Upon receipt of an application, the Immigration Court may forward a copy to the Department of State pursuant to § 1208.11 of this chapter and shall calendar the case for a hearing. The reply, if any, from the Department of State, unless classified under an applicable Executive Order, shall be given to both the alien and to DHS counsel and shall be included in the record.


(3) Applications for asylum and withholding of removal so filed will be decided by the immigration judge pursuant to the requirements and standards established in 8 CFR part 1208 of this chapter after an evidentiary hearing to resolve factual issues in dispute. An evidentiary hearing extending beyond issues related to the basis for a mandatory denial of the application pursuant to § 1208.14 or § 1208.16 of this chapter is not necessary once the immigration judge has determined that such a denial is required.


(i) Evidentiary hearings on applications for asylum or withholding of removal will be open to the public unless the alien expressly requests that the hearing be closed pursuant to § 3.27 of this chapter. The immigration judge shall inquire whether the alien requests such closure.


(ii) Nothing in this section is intended to limit the authority of the immigration judge to properly control the scope of any evidentiary hearing.


(iii) During the removal hearing, the alien shall be examined under oath on his or her application and may present evidence and witnesses in his or her own behalf. The alien has the burden of establishing that he or she is a refugee as defined in section 101(a)(42) of the Act pursuant to the standards set forth in § 1208.13 of this chapter.


(iv) DHS counsel may call witnesses and present evidence for the record, including information classified under the applicable Executive Order, provided the immigration judge or the Board has determined that such information is relevant to the hearing. When the immigration judge receives such classified information, he or she shall inform the alien. The agency that provides the classified information to the immigration judge may provide an unclassified summary of the information for release to the alien, whenever it determines it can do so consistently with safeguarding both the classified nature of the information and its sources. The summary should be as detailed as possible, in order that the alien may have an opportunity to offer opposing evidence. A decision based in whole or in part on such classified information shall state whether such information is material to the decision.


(4) The decision of an immigration judge to grant or deny asylum or withholding of removal shall be communicated to the alien and to the DHS counsel. An adverse decision shall state why asylum or withholding of removal was denied.


(d) *Application for relief under sections 237(a)(1)(H) and 237(a)(1)(E)(iii) of the Act.* The respondent may apply to the immigration judge for relief from removal under sections 237(a)(1)(H) and 237(a)(1)(E)(iii) of the Act.


(e) *General.* An application under this section shall be made only during the hearing and shall not be held to constitute a concession of alienage or deportability in any case in which the respondent does not admit his or her alienage or deportability. However, nothing in this section shall prohibit DHS from using information supplied in an application for asylum or withholding of deportation or removal submitted to DHS on or after January 4, 1995, as the basis for issuance of a charging document or to establish alienage or deportability in a case referred to an immigration judge under § 1208.14(b) of this chapter. The alien shall have the burden of establishing that he or she is eligible for any requested benefit or privilege and that it should be granted in the exercise of discretion. Nothing contained in this section is intended to foreclose the respondent from applying for any benefit or privilege that he or she believes himself or herself eligible to receive in proceedings under this part. Nothing in this section is intended to limit the Attorney General's authority to remove an alien to any country permitted by section 241(b) of the Act.


(f) *Fees.* The alien shall not be required to pay a fee on more than one application within paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, provided that the minimum fee imposed when more than one application is made shall be determined by the cost of the application with the highest fee. When a motion to reopen or reconsider is made concurrently with an application for relief seeking one of the immigration benefits set forth in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section, only the fee set forth in § 1103.7(b)(1) of this chapter for the motion must accompany the motion and application for relief. If such a motion is granted, the appropriate fee for the application for relief, if any, set forth in § 1103.7(b)(4) of this chapter, must be paid within the time specified in order to complete the application.


(g) *U.S.-Canada safe third country agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022.* (1) The immigration judge has authority to apply section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act, relating to a determination that an alien may be removed to Canada pursuant to the 2002 U.S.-Canada Agreement (“Agreement”), in the case of an alien who is subject to the terms of the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, and is placed in proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act. In an appropriate case, the immigration judge shall determine whether under that Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, the alien should be returned to Canada, or whether the alien should be permitted to pursue asylum or other protection in the United States.


(2) An alien described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section is ineligible to apply for asylum, pursuant to section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act, unless the immigration judge determines, by preponderance of the evidence, that:


(i) The Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, does not apply to the alien or does not preclude the alien from applying for asylum in the United States; or


(ii) The alien qualifies for an exception to the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, as set forth in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.


(3) The immigration judge shall apply the applicable regulations in deciding whether the alien qualifies for any exception under the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, that would permit the United States to exercise authority over the alien's asylum claim. The exceptions under the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, are codified at 8 CFR 208.30(e)(6)(iii). The immigration judge shall not review, consider, or decide any issues pertaining to any discretionary determination on whether the alien should be permitted to pursue an asylum claim in the United States notwithstanding the general terms of the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, as such discretionary public interest determinations are reserved to DHS. However, an alien in removal proceedings who is otherwise ineligible to apply for asylum under the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, may apply for asylum if DHS files a written notice in the proceedings before the immigration judge that it has decided in the public interest to allow the alien to pursue claims for asylum or withholding of removal.


(4) An alien who is found to be ineligible to apply for asylum under section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act is ineligible to apply for withholding of removal pursuant to section 241(b)(3) of the Act and the Convention Against Torture. However, the alien may apply for any other relief from removal for which the alien may be eligible. If an alien who is subject to the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, and section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act is ordered removed, the alien shall be ordered removed to Canada, in which the alien will be able to pursue his or her claims for asylum or protection against persecution or torture under the laws of Canada.


(h) *Other asylum cooperative agreements.* (1) The immigration judge has authority to apply section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act, relating to a determination that an alien may be removed to a third country pursuant to a bilateral or multilateral agreement—other than the 2002 U.S.-Canada Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022—in the case of an alien who is subject to the terms of the relevant agreement and is placed in proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act. In an appropriate case, the immigration judge shall determine whether under the relevant agreement the alien should be removed to the third country, or whether the alien should be permitted to pursue asylum or other protection claims in the United States. If more than one agreement applies to the alien and the alien is ordered removed, the immigration judge shall enter alternate orders of removal to each relevant country.


(2) An alien described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section is ineligible to apply for asylum pursuant to section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act, or for withholding of removal or CAT protection in the United States, unless the immigration judge determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that:


(i) The relevant agreement does not apply to the alien or does not preclude the alien from applying for asylum in the United States;


(ii) The alien qualifies for an exception to the relevant agreement as set forth in paragraph (h)(3) of this section and the _Federal Register_ document specifying the exceptions particular to the relevant agreement; or


(iii) The alien has demonstrated that it is more likely than not that he or she would be persecuted on account of a protected ground or tortured in the third country.


(3) The immigration judge shall apply the applicable regulations in deciding whether an alien described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section qualifies for an exception under the relevant agreement that would permit the United States to exercise authority over the alien's asylum claim. The exceptions for agreements with countries other than Canada are further explained by the applicable published _Federal Register_ document setting out each Agreement and its exceptions. The immigration judge shall not review, consider, or decide any issues pertaining to any discretionary determination on whether an alien described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section should be allowed to pursue an application for asylum in the United States notwithstanding the general terms of an agreement, as section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act reserves to the Secretary or his delegates the determination whether it is in the public interest for the alien to receive asylum in the United States. However, an alien in removal proceedings who is otherwise ineligible to apply for asylum under an agreement may apply for asylum if DHS files a written notice in the proceedings before the immigration judge that DHS has decided in the public interest that the alien may pursue an application for asylum or withholding of removal in the United States.


(4) If the immigration judge determines that an alien described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section is subject to the terms of agreements formed pursuant to section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act, and that the alien has failed to demonstrate that it is more likely than not that the alien would be persecuted on account of a protected ground or tortured in those third countries, then the alien is ineligible to apply for withholding of removal pursuant to section 241(b)(3) of the Act and the Convention Against Torture notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter. However, the alien may apply for any other relief from removal for which the alien may be eligible. If an alien who is subject to section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act is ordered removed, the alien shall be ordered removed to the relevant third country in which the alien will be able to pursue his or her claims for asylum or protection against persecution or torture under the laws of that country.



---

[N] [62 FR 10367, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 45150, Aug. 26, 1997; 63 FR 27829, May 21, 1998; 64 FR 25766, May 12, 1999; 69 FR 69497, Nov. 29, 2004; 71 FR 35757, June 21, 2006; 73 FR 76937, Dec. 18, 2008; 78 FR 19080, Mar. 29, 2013; 84 FR 64010, Nov. 19, 2019; 85 FR 82794, Dec. 18, 2020; 86 FR 70724, Dec. 13, 2021; 88 FR 18240, Mar. 28, 2023]




