# ยง 760.1516   Calculating payments for tree, bush, and vine losses.

(a) Payments will be calculated separately based on the growth stage of the trees, bushes, or vines, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.


(b) Payments made under this subpart to a participant for a loss on a unit with respect to tree, bush, and vine losses are determined by:


(1) Multiplying the expected value (see paragraph (c) of this section) of the trees, bushes, or vines immediately before the qualifying disaster event by the *2017* WHIP factor or WHIP+ factor specified in ยง 760.1511(b);


(2) Subtracting the actual value (see paragraph (d) of this section) of the trees, bushes, or vines immediately after the qualifying disaster event from the result of paragraph (b)(1) of this section;


(3) Multiplying the result of paragraph (b)(2) of this section by the participant's share;


(4) Subtracting the amount of any insurance indemnity received from the result of paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and


(5) Subtracting the value of any secondary use or salvage value from the result of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(c) Expected value is determined by multiplying the total number of trees, bushes, or vines that were damaged or destroyed by a qualifying disaster event by the price.


(d) Actual value is determined by:


(1) Multiplying the number of trees, bushes, or vines damaged by a qualifying disaster event by the damage factor;


(2) Adding the result of paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the number of trees, bushes, or vines destroyed by a qualifying disaster event;


(3) Multiplying the result of paragraph (d)(2) of this section by the price; and


(4) Subtracting the result of paragraph (d)(3) of this section from the expected value from paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) The FSA county committee will adjust the number of damaged and destroyed trees, bushes, and vines, if it determines that the number of damaged or destroyed trees, bushes, or vines certified by the participant is inaccurate.


(f) Citrus trees located in Florida are ineligible for payment under 2017 WHIP.



---

[N] [83 FR 33801, July 18, 2018, as amended 84 FR 48532, Sept. 13, 2019] 

 




