# § 611.3   On-road advanced technology vehicle.

In order to demonstrate that a light duty vehicle is an “on-road advanced technology vehicle”, an automobile manufacturer must provide the following:




(a) Emissions certification. An automobile manufacturer must certify in writing that the vehicle meets, or will meet, the emissions requirements specified in the definition of “on-road advanced technology vehicle”; and




(b) Demonstration of fuel economy performance. An automobile manufacturer must demonstrate that the vehicle has a combined average fuel economy of at least 125 percent of the average combined fuel economy for vehicles with substantially similar attributes for model year 2005.


(1) A combined average fuel economy calculation required under this paragraph for a vehicle that is a dual fueled automobile for the purpose of CAFE is calculated as if the vehicle were not a dual fueled automobile.


(2) The average combined fuel economy for vehicles with substantially similar attributes is a harmonic production weighted average of the combined average fuel economy of all vehicles with substantially similar attributes in model year 2005, as published by DOE.


(3) In the case of an electric drive vehicle with the ability to recharge from an off-board source, an automobile manufacturer must provide DOE with a test procedure and sufficient data to demonstrate that the vehicle meets or exceeds the applicable average combined fuel economy of vehicles with substantially similar attributes.



---

[N] [73 FR 66731, Nov. 12, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 33203, Apr. 29, 2024]




