# § 721.11279   Substituted propanoic acid, polymer with alkylisocyanate-substituted carbomonocycle, dialkyl carbonate, hydroxyl alkyl substituted alkanediol, alkanediol, isocyanato substituted carbomonocycle, alkanol substituted amines-blocked, compds. with (alkylamino)alkanol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted propanoic acid, polymer with alkylisocyanate-substituted carbomonocycle, dialkyl carbonate, hydroxyl alkyl substituted alkanediol, alkanediol, isocyanato substituted carbomonocycle, alkanol substituted amines-blocked, compds. with (alkylamino)alkanol (PMN P-17-394) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to use the substance for any use other than as a coating to improve chemical resistance. It is a significant new use to import the substance with average molecular weight greater than 1,000 daltons, containing greater than 0.1% residual isocyanate by weight, or with greater than 4% of the confidential chemical component specified in the Order.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46142, Aug. 18, 2021]




