# ยง 902.44   Adjustment for physical condition and neighborhood environment.

(a) *General.* In accordance with section 6(j)(1)(I)(2) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(j)(1)(I)(2)), the overall management operations score for a project will be adjusted upward to the extent that negative conditions are caused by situations outside the control of the project. These situations are related to the poor physical condition of the project or the overall depressed condition of the major census tract in which a project is located. The intent of this adjustment is to avoid penalizing such projects, through appropriate application of the adjustment.


(b) *Definitions.* Definitions and application of physical condition and neighborhood environment factors are:


(1) Physical condition adjustment applies to projects at least 28 years old, based on the unit-weighted average Date of Full Availability (DOFA) date.


(2) Neighborhood environment adjustment applies to projects located in census tracts where at least 40 percent of the families have an income below the poverty rate, as documented by the most recent census data. If a project is located in more than one census tract, the census data for the census tract where the majority of the project's units are located shall be used.


(c) *Adjustment for physical condition and neighborhood environment.* HUD will adjust the management operations score of a project, subject to one or both of the physical condition and neighborhood environment conditions. The adjustments will be made to the overall management operations score for each project so as to reflect the difficulty in managing the projects. In each instance where the actual management operations score is rated below the maximum score of 25 points, one point each will be added for physical condition and neighborhood environment, but not to exceed the maximum number of 25 points available for the management operations indicator.


(d) *Application of adjustment.* The adjustment for physical condition and neighborhood environment will be calculated by HUD and applied to all eligible projects.




