# § 165.554   Security Zone; Three Mile Island Generating Station, Susquehanna River, Dauphin County, Pennsylvania.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a security zone: the waters of the Susquehanna River in the vicinity of the Three Mile Island Generating Station bounded by a line beginning at 40°09′14.74″ N, 076°43′40.77″ W; thence to 40°09′14.74″ N, 076°43′42.22″ W, thence to 40°09′16.67″ N, 076°43′42.22″ W, thence to 40°09′16.67″ N, 076°43′40.77″ W; thence back to the beginning point 40°09′14.74″ N, 076°43′40.77″ W. All coordinates reference Datum: NAD 1983.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) All persons are required to comply with the general regulations governing security zones in § 165.33 of this part.


(2) No person or vessel may enter or navigate within this security zone unless authorized to do so by the Coast Guard or designated representative. Any person or vessel authorized to enter the security zone must operate in strict conformance with any directions given by the Coast Guard or designated representative and leave the security zone immediately if the Coast Guard or designated representative so orders.


(3) The Coast Guard or designated representative enforcing this section can be contacted on VHF Marine Band Radio, channels 13 and 16. The Captain of the Port can be contacted at (215) 271-4807. The Security Manager at Three Mile Island can be contacted at (717) 948-8208 or (717) 948-8039.


(4) The Captain of the Port will notify the public of any changes in the status of this security zone by Marine Safety Radio Broadcast on VHF-FM marine band radio, channel 22 (157.1 MHZ).


(c) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section, *Captain of the Port* means the Commanding Officer of the Coast Guard Sector Delaware Bay, Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port to act as a designated representative on his behalf.



---

[N] [CGD05-03-116, 69 FR 46103, Aug. 2, 2004]




