# ยง 1000.58   Are there limitations on the investment of IHBG funds?

(a) A recipient may invest IHBG funds for the purposes of carrying out affordable housing activities in investment securities and other obligations as provided in this section.


(b) The recipient may invest IHBG funds so long as it demonstrates to HUD:


(1) That there are no unresolved significant and material audit findings or exceptions in the most recent annual audit completed under the Single Audit Act or in an independent financial audit prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing principles; and


(2) That it is a self-governance Indian tribe or that it has the administrative capacity and controls to responsibly manage the investment. For purposes of this section, a self-governance Indian tribe is an Indian tribe that participates in tribal self-governance as authorized under Public Law 93-638, as amended (25 U.S.C. 450 *et seq.*).


(c) Recipients shall invest IHBG funds only in:


(1) Obligations of the United States; obligations issued by Government sponsored agencies; securities that are guaranteed or insured by the United States; mutual (or other) funds registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and which invest only in obligations of the United States or securities that are guaranteed or insured by the United States; or


(2) Accounts that are insured by an agency or instrumentality of the United States or fully collateralized to ensure protection of the funds, even in the event of bank failure.


(d) IHBG funds shall be held in one or more accounts separate from other funds of the recipient. Each of these accounts shall be subject to an agreement in a form prescribed by HUD sufficient to implement the regulations in this part and permit HUD to exercise its rights under ยง 1000.60.


(e) Expenditure of funds for affordable housing activities under section 204(a) of NAHASDA shall not be considered investment.


(f) A recipient may invest its IHBG annual grant in an amount equal to the annual formula grant amount.


(g) Investments under this section may be for a period no longer than 5 years.



---

[N] [63 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 77 FR 71524, Dec. 3, 2012]




