# ยง 408.220   Do you have other benefit income?

(a) *Description of other benefit income.* Other benefit income is any regular periodic payment (such as an annuity, pension, retirement or disability benefit) that you receive. For other benefit income to affect your SVB eligibility, you must have been receiving the other benefit income in any part of the 12-month period before the month in which you filed your application for SVB. Payments received after you become entitled to SVB can be included as other benefit income only if you received a similar payment from the same or a related source during any part of the 12-month period before the month in which you filed your application for SVB. 


(b) *When other benefit payments are considered to be similar payments from the same or a related source.* Payments are similar payments from the same or a related source if they are received from sources substantially related to the sources of income received before you became entitled to SVB. For example, if you received U.S. Social Security spouse's benefits in the 12-month period before you filed your application for SVB and these were changed to widower's benefits after you became entitled to SVB, we would consider this to be from the same or a related source. 


(c) *Examples of other benefit income.* Other benefit income can come from a source inside or outside the United States. It includes, but is not limited to, any of the following: 


(1) Veterans' compensation or pension, 


(2) Workers' compensation, 


(3) U.S. or foreign Social Security benefits (not including SSI payments from the U.S.), 


(4) Railroad retirement annuity or pension,


(5) Retirement or disability pension, 


(6) Individual Retirement Account (IRA) payments, and 


(7) Unemployment insurance benefit. 


(d) *If you receive a lump-sum payment.* Regular periodic payments can also include lump-sum payments made at your request or as an administrative convenience or practice in place of more frequent payments. See ยง 408.224(e) for an explanation of how we determine the monthly amount of your benefit income if you receive a lump-sum payment. 




