# § 721.11238   Substituted carbomonocycle, polymer with substituted heteromonocycle and substituted polyalkylene glycol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted carbomonocycle, polymer with substituted heteromonocycle and substituted polyalkylene glycol (PMN P-18-17) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (2)(i), (iii) and (iv), (3) through (6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 0.1%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health assigned protection factor of at least 1000.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1%), (f), (g)(1)(i) through (vii) and (ix) (irritation to eyes, lungs, and mucus membranes), (2)(i) through (v) (avoid eye contact), and (5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), It is a significant new use to import the substance if the average molecular weight is less than or equal to 1000 Daltons, more than 10% is less than 500 Daltons, or more than 25% is less than 1000 Daltons. It is a significant new use to use the substance other than for primer coating for corrosion protection.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 66604, Dec. 5, 2019]




