# § 747.3004   Review of order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.

(a) *Service of directive to dismiss and notice.* When the Board issues and serves a directive on a corporate credit union requiring it to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer under §§ 704.4(g) and 704.4(k)(3) of this chapter, the Board will also serve upon the person the corporate credit union is directed to dismiss (Respondent) a copy of the directive (or the relevant portions, where appropriate) and notice of the Respondent's right to seek reinstatement.


(b) *Contents of notice of right to seek reinstatement.* A notice of a Respondent's right to seek reinstatement will state:


(1) That a request for reinstatement (including a request for a hearing) must be filed with the Board within 14 calendar days after the Respondent receives the directive and notice under paragraph (a) of this section, unless the Board grants the Respondent's request for further time;


(2) The reasons for dismissal of the Respondent; and


(3) That the Respondent's failure to—


(i) Request reinstatement will be deemed a waiver of any right to seek reinstatement;


(ii) Request a hearing will be deemed a waiver of any right to a hearing; and


(iii) Request the opportunity to present witness testimony will be deemed a waiver of the right to present such testimony.


(c) *Contents of request for reinstatement.* A request for reinstatement in response to a notice under paragraph (b) of this section must:


(1) Explain why the Respondent should be reinstated;


(2) Include any relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the Respondent's position;


(3) If desired, request an informal hearing before the Board under this section; and


(4) If a hearing is requested, identify any witness whose testimony the Respondent wishes to present and the general nature of each witness's expected testimony.


(d) *Order to hold informal hearing.* Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring a corporate credit union to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the Board will issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the Respondent requests a later date. The hearing will be held in Alexandria, Virginia, or at such other place as may be designated by the Board, before a presiding officer designated by the Board to conduct the hearing and recommend a decision.


(e) *Procedures for informal hearing.* (1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent will have the right to introduce relevant documents and to present oral argument at the hearing. A Respondent may introduce witness testimony only if expressly authorized by the Board or by the presiding officer. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 747) apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the Board orders otherwise.


(2) The informal hearing will be recorded, and a transcript will be furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness.


(3) The presiding officer may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period following completion of witness testimony or oral argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.


(4) A Respondent will bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the corporate credit union would materially strengthen the corporate credit union's ability to —


(i) Become “adequately capitalized,” to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the corporate credit union's capital classification category or its failure to submit or implement a capital restoration plan; and


(ii) Correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of reclassification of the corporate credit union pursuant to § 704.4(d)(3) of this chapter.


(5) Within 20 calendar days following the date of closing of the hearing and the record, the presiding officer will make a recommendation to the Board concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the corporate credit union.


(f) *Time for final decision.* Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed, or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the Board will grant or deny the request for reinstatement and will notify the Respondent of its decision. If the Board denies the request for reinstatement, it will set forth in the notification the reasons for its decision. The decision of the Board will be final.


(g) *Effective date.* Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, the Respondent's dismissal will take and remain in effect pending a final decision on the request for reinstatement.




