# ยง 1808.101   Summary.

This section provides a summary overview of certain key provisions of the interim rule, the detailed requirements of which are set forth in subsequent subparts.


(a) *Guarantee.* Through the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program, the Guarantor will provide a Guarantee for Bonds issued by Qualified Issuers as part of a Bond Issue.


(b) *Bonds.* Pursuant to the Act at 12 U.S.C. 4713a(e), a Bond Issue shall comprise Bonds having a minimum aggregate principal amount of $100,000,000 and a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000. The principal amount of each Bond (or series of Bonds) shall not be less than $10,000,000. A Bond Rate for each advance of funds under a Bond will be established by the Bond Purchaser as of the date of the respective advance, as provided in the Bond.


(c) *Bond Loans to Eligible CDFIs.* The Qualified Issuer will use Bond Proceeds to make Bond Loans to Eligible CDFIs for Eligible Purposes, as those terms are defined in section 1808.102. The CDFI Fund will evaluate each Eligible CDFI using standard Bond Loan Requirements to assess their creditworthiness and capacity to receive a Bond Loan. Each Eligible CDFI may borrow a Bond Loan in an amount that is at least $10,000,000. The Bond Loan Rate shall be the same as the Bond Rate on the particular advance of funds under the Bond that funds the Bond Loan. The aggregate of the principal amounts of the Bond Loans must not exceed the maximum principal amount of the corresponding Bond Issue. The Qualified Issuer must execute Bond Loan documents for 100 percent of the principal amount of each Bond on the Bond Issue Date. Bond Loan proceeds may not be drawn down from the Qualified Issuer until the Eligible CDFI has an immediate use for the Bond Loan proceeds. Five percent, or such other amount that is determined by the CDFI Fund in its sole discretion, of Bond Loan proceeds may be used by an Eligible CDFI to capitalize Loan Loss Reserves.


(d) *Secondary Loans to Secondary Borrowers.* If the Eligible CDFI uses Bond Loan proceeds to make Secondary Loans, the Eligible CDFI must execute Secondary Loan documents (in the form of promissory notes) with Secondary Borrowers as follows:


(1) Not later than 12 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing at least 50 percent of such Eligible CDFI's Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans; and


(2) Not later than 24 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing 100 percent of such Eligible CDFI's Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans (excluding any amounts used for payment of Bond Issuance Fees pursuant to section 1808.304(b)).


(e) *Terms and conditions.* Bonds, Bond Loans and Secondary Loans shall have terms and conditions as set forth in Subpart F of this interim rule including at a minimum, that:


(1) Each Bond shall be a nonrecourse obligation of the Qualified Issuer, payable solely from amounts available pursuant to the Bond Documents. Each promissory note evidencing a Bond Loan shall be a general recourse obligation of the Eligible CDFI and secured by a first lien on collateral. Each Secondary Loan shall be secured by a first lien on collateral and payable solely from amounts available pursuant to the Secondary Loan documents;


(2) The maturity date of a Bond shall not be later than 30 years after the Bond Issue Date. The maturity date of Bond Loans and Secondary Loans may be earlier than, but may not be later than, the maturity date of the corresponding Bond;


(3) The Bonds shall be purchased by the Bond Purchaser on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Bond Purchaser, the Guarantor, and the CDFI Fund (under specific requirements set forth in ยง 1808.302 and the Bond Documents); and


(4) The Guarantor shall guarantee payments on Bonds issued as part of a Bond Issue in such forms and on such terms and conditions and subject to such covenants, representations, warranties and requirements (including requirements for audits) as set forth in this interim rule in Subpart F. These requirements may be expanded upon through the program's Notice of Guarantee Availability, the Bond Documents, and the Bond Loan documents. The Qualified Issuer shall enter into the applicable Bond Documents to evidence its acceptance of the terms and conditions of the Guarantee.




