# ยง 1304.2   Application.

(a) If the facility is to be built on TVA land, the applicant must, in addition to the other requirements of this part, own the fee interest in or have an adequate leasehold or easement interest of sufficient tenure to cover the normal useful life of the proposed facility in land immediately adjoining the TVA land. If the facility is to be built on private land, the applicant must own the fee interest in the land or have an adequate leasehold or easement interest in the property where the facility will be located. If the facility is an existing floating cabin, it must meet the requirements of subpart B. TVA recognizes, however, that in some cases private property has been subdivided in a way that left an intervening strip of land between the upland boundary of a TVA flowage easement and the waters of the reservoir, or did not convey to the adjoining landowner the land underlying the waters of the reservoir. In some of these situations, the owner of the intervening strip or underlying land cannot be identified or does not object to construction of water-use facilities by the adjacent landowner. In these situations, TVA may exercise its discretion to permit the facility, provided there is no objection from the fee owner of the intervening strip or underlying land. A TVA permit conveys no property interest. The applicant is responsible for locating the proposed facility on qualifying land and ensuring that there is no objection from any owner of such land. TVA may require the applicant to provide appropriate verification of ownership and lack of objection, but TVA is not responsible for resolving ownership questions. In case of a dispute, TVA may require private parties requesting TVA action to grant or revoke a TVA permit to obtain a court order declaring respective ownership and/or land rights. TVA may exercise its discretion to permit a facility on TVA land that is located up or downstream from the land which makes the applicant eligible for consideration to receive a permit.




(b) Applications shall be submitted on TVA's online application system or addressed to the Tennessee Valley Authority, at the appropriate location as listed on the application and on TVA's website. 

 To contact an office, call 1-800-882-5263 or email *plic@tva.gov.* Applications are available on TVA's website.






(c) *Submittal of section 26a application.* Applicants must submit certain required information depending upon whether a proposed facility is a minor or major facility. Examples of the two categories are provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. Most residential related facilities are minor facilities. Commercial or community facilities generally are major facilities. TVA shall determine whether a proposed facility is minor or major. An application shall not be complete until payment of the appropriate fee as determined in accordance with 18 CFR part 1310, and disclosed to the applicant in the materials provided with the application package or by such other means of disclosure as TVA shall from time to time adopt. For purposes of the information required to be submitted under this section and the determination of fees, a request for a variance to the size limitations for a residential-related facility (other than a waiver request under ยง 1304.212 or ยง 1304.300(a)) shall be regarded as an application for a major facility. In addition to the information required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, TVA may require the applicant to provide such other information as TVA deems necessary for adequate review of a particular application. 


(1) *Information required for review of minor facility.* By way of example only, minor facilities may include: boat docks, piers, rafts, boathouses, fences, steps, gazebos, and floating cabins. One copy of the application shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with the instructions included in the section 26a Applicant's Package. The application shall include: 




(i) *Completed application form.* One copy of the application shall be prepared and submitted. Application forms are available on TVA's website. The application shall include a project description which indicates what is to be built, removed, or modified, and the sequence of the work. Applications for floating cabins shall include written evidence that the floating cabin was located or moored on the Tennessee River System as of December 16, 2016, and detailed descriptions of mooring method, how electrical service is provided, and how wastewater is managed. An application to relocate a floating cabin to a marina shall include evidence of approval from the accepting marina operator.








(ii) *Project, plan, or drawing.* The project plan/drawing shall: 




(A) Be prepared electronically or on paper suitable for reproduction (no larger than 11 by 17 inches).








(B) Identify the kind of structure, purpose/intended use; 


(C) Show principal dimensions, size, and location in relation to shoreline; 


(D) Show the elevation of the structure above the full summer pool; and 


(E) Indicate the river or reservoir name, river mile, locator landmarks, and direction of water flow if known. 


(iii) *A site photograph.* The photograph shall be at least 3 by 5 inches in size and show the location of the proposed structure or alteration and the adjacent shoreline area. 


(iv) *Location map.* The location map shall clearly show the location of the proposed facility and the extent of any site disturbance for the proposed project. An 8
1/2 by 11-inch copy of one of the following is ideal: a TVA land map, a subdivision map, or a portion of a United States Geological Survey topographic map. The subdivision name and lot number and the map number or name shall be included, if available. 


(v) *Environmental consultations and permits.* To the fullest extent possible the applicant shall obtain or apply for other required environmental permits and approvals before or at the same time as applying for section 26a approvals. Consultations under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and the Endangered Species Act of 1973 shall take place, and permits from the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers and State agencies for water or air regulation shall be obtained or applied for at the same time as or before application for section 26a approval. The applicant shall provide TVA with copies of any such permits or approvals that are issued. 


(2) *Information required for a major facility.* One (1) copy of the application shall be prepared and submitted according to instructions included in the section 26a Applicant's Package. By way of example only, major projects and facilities may include: marinas, community docks, barge terminals, utility crossings, bridges, culverts, roads, wastewater discharges, water intakes, dredging, and placement of fill. The application shall include:


(i) *Completed application form.* Application forms are available on TVA's website. The application shall include a narrative project description which indicates what is to be built, removed, or modified, and the sequence of the work. 


(ii) *Project plan or drawing.* Adequate project plans or drawings shall accompany the application. They shall: 




(A) Be prepared electronically or on paper suitable for reproduction (no larger than 11 by 17 inches).








(B) Contain the date; applicant name; stream; river or reservoir name; river mile; locator landmarks; and direction of water flow, if known;


(C) Identify the kind of structure, purpose/intended use; 


(D) Include a plan and profile view of the structure; 


(E) Show principal dimensions, size, and location in relation to shoreline; 


(F) Show the elevations of the structure above full summer pool if located on a TVA reservoir or above the normal high water elevation if on a free-flowing stream or river; and 


(G) Show the north arrow. 


(iii) *Location map.* The location map must clearly indicate the exact location and extent of site disturbance for the proposed project. An 8
1/2- by 11-inch copy of the appropriate portion of a United States Geological Survey topographic map is recommended. The map number or name shall be included. In addition, recent photos of the location are helpful for TVA's review and may be included. 


(iv) *Other information where applicable.* The location of any material laydown or assembly areas, staging areas, equipment storage areas, new access roads, and road/access closure required by the project or needed for construction; the location of borrow or spoil areas on or off TVA land; the extent of soil and vegetative disturbance; and information on any special reservoir operations needed for the project, such as drawdown or water discharge restrictions. 


(v) *Site plans.* Some projects, particularly larger ones, may require a separate site plan which details existing and proposed changes to surface topography and elevations (cut and fill, clearing, etc.), location of all proposed facilities, and erosion control plans. 


(vi) *Environmental consultations and permits.* To the fullest extent possible the applicant shall obtain or apply for other required environmental permits and approvals before or at the same time as applying for section 26a approvals. Consultations under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and the Endangered Species Act of 1973 shall take place, and permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and State agencies for water or air regulation shall be obtained or applied for at the same time as or before application for section 26a approval. The applicant shall provide TVA with copies of any such permits or approvals that are issued. TVA, in its sole discretion, may proceed with the review of an application in the absence of some materials listed in this section.






(d) Discharges into navigable waters of the United States. If construction, maintenance, or operation of the proposed structure or any part thereof, or the conduct of the activity in connection with which approval is sought may result in any discharge into navigable waters of the United States, applicant shall also submit with the application, in addition to the material required by paragraph (c) of this section, a copy of the request for certification from the state in which such discharge would originate, or if appropriate, from the interstate water pollution control agency having jurisdiction over the navigable waters at the point where the discharge would originate, or from the Environmental Protection Agency, that such state or interstate agency or the Environmental Protection Agency has determined that the applicant's proposed activity will be conducted in a manner that will comply with applicable water quality standards. The applicant shall further submit such supplemental and additional information as TVA may deem necessary for the review of the application, including, without limitation, information concerning the amounts, chemical makeup, temperature differentials, type and quantity of suspended solids, and proposed treatment plans for any proposed discharges. No section 26a permit will be granted until required certification has been obtained or has been waived. If a certifying agency has not acted within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed one year, of an applicant's request for certification from the respective agency and certification is waived, TVA will proceed with processing of the section 26a permit application.








(e) TVA's issuance of a permit does not mean that TVA has determined a facility or obstruction is safe for any purpose or that TVA has any duty to make such a determination. In issuing a permit, TVA assumes no liability to the applicant or to any third party for any damages to property or personal injuries arising out of or in any way connected with applicant's construction, operation, or maintenance of the permitted facility.









---

[N] [68 FR 46936, Aug. 7, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 4621, Jan. 29, 2014; 86 FR 50632, Sept. 10, 2021; 89 FR 104881, Dec. 26, 2024] 


