# ยง 601.70   Annual progress reports of postmarketing studies.

(a) *General requirements.* This section applies to all required postmarketing studies (e.g., accelerated approval clinical benefit studies, pediatric studies) and postmarketing studies that an applicant has committed, in writing, to conduct either at the time of approval of an application or a supplement to an application, or after approval of an application or a supplement. Postmarketing studies within the meaning of this section are those that concern: 


(1) Clinical safety; 


(2) Clinical efficacy; 


(3) Clinical pharmacology; and 


(4) Nonclinical toxicology. 


(b) *What to report.* Each applicant of a licensed biological product shall submit a report to FDA on the status of postmarketing studies for each approved product application. The status of these postmarketing studies shall be reported annually until FDA notifies the applicant, in writing, that the agency concurs with the applicant's determination that the study commitment has been fulfilled, or that the study is either no longer feasible or would no longer provide useful information. Each annual progress report shall be accompanied by a completed transmittal Form FDA-2252, and shall include all the information required under this section that the applicant received or otherwise obtained during the annual reporting interval which ends on the U.S. anniversary date. The report must provide the following information for each postmarketing study: 


(1) *Applicant's name.*

(2) *Product name.* Include the approved product's proper name and the proprietary name, if any. 


(3) *Biologics license application (BLA) and supplement number.*

(4) *Date of U.S. approval of BLA.*

(5) *Date of postmarketing study commitment.*

(6) *Description of postmarketing study commitment.* The description must include sufficient information to uniquely describe the study. This information may include the purpose of the study, the type of study, the patient population addressed by the study and the indication(s) and dosage(s) that are to be studied. 


(7) *Schedule for completion and reporting of the postmarketing study commitment.* The schedule should include the actual or projected dates for submission of the study protocol to FDA, completion of patient accrual or initiation of an animal study, completion of the study, submission of the final study report to FDA, and any additional milestones or submissions for which projected dates were specified as part of the commitment. In addition, it should include a revised schedule, as appropriate. If the schedule has been previously revised, provide both the original schedule and the most recent, previously submitted revision. 


(8) *Current status of the postmarketing study commitment.* The status of each postmarketing study should be categorized using one of the following terms that describes the study's status on the anniversary date of U.S. approval of the application or other agreed upon date: 


(i) *Pending.* The study has not been initiated, but does not meet the criterion for delayed. 


(ii) *Ongoing.* The study is proceeding according to or ahead of the original schedule described under paragraph (b)(7) of this section. 


(iii) *Delayed.* The study is behind the original schedule described under paragraph (b)(7) of this section. 


(iv) *Terminated.* The study was ended before completion but a final study report has not been submitted to FDA. 


(v) *Submitted.* The study has been completed or terminated and a final study report has been submitted to FDA. 


(9) *Explanation of the study's status.* Provide a brief description of the status of the study, including the patient accrual rate (expressed by providing the number of patients or subjects enrolled to date, and the total planned enrollment), and an explanation of the study's status identified under paragraph (b)(8) of this section. If the study has been completed, include the date the study was completed and the date the final study report was submitted to FDA, as applicable. Provide a revised schedule, as well as the reason(s) for the revision, if the schedule under paragraph (b)(7) of this section has changed since the previous report. 


(c) *When to report.* Annual progress reports for postmarketing study commitments entered into by applicants shall be reported to FDA within 60 days of the anniversary date of the U.S. approval of the application for the product. 


(d) *Where to report.* Submit two copies of the annual progress report of postmarketing studies to the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research or Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (see mailing addresses in ยง 600.2(a) or (b) of this chapter).


(e) *Public disclosure of information.* Except for the information described in this paragraph, FDA may publicly disclose any information concerning a postmarketing study, within the meaning of this section, if the agency determines that the information is necessary to identify an applicant or to establish the status of the study including the reasons, if any, for failure to conduct, complete, and report the study. Under this section, FDA will not publicly disclose trade secrets, as defined in ยง 20.61 of this chapter, or information, described in ยง 20.63 of this chapter, the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.



---

[N] [65 FR 64618, Oct. 30, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 14984, Mar. 24, 2005; 80 FR 18092, Apr. 3, 2015]




