# § 40.42   Where does a urine collection for a DOT drug test take place?

(a) A urine collection for a DOT drug test must take place in a collection site meeting the requirements of this section. 


(b) If you are operating a collection site, you must ensure that it meets the security requirements of § 40.43. 


(c) If you are operating a collection site, you must have all necessary personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and supervision to provide for the collection, temporary storage, and shipping of urine specimens to a laboratory, and a suitable clean surface for writing. 


(d) Your collection site must include a facility for urination described in either paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of this section. 


(e) The first, and preferred, type of facility for urination that a collection site may include is a single-toilet room, having a full-length privacy door, within which urination can occur. 


(1) No one but the employee may be present in the room during the collection, except for the observer in the event of a directly observed collection. 


(2) You must have a source of water for washing hands, that, if practicable, should be external to the closed room where urination occurs. If an external source is not available, you may meet this requirement by securing all sources of water and other substances that could be used for adulteration and substitution (*e.g.,* water faucets, soap dispensers) and providing moist towelettes outside the closed room. 


(f) The second type of facility for urination that a collection site may include is a multistall restroom. 


(1) Such a site must provide substantial visual privacy (*e.g.,* a toilet stall with a partial-length door) and meet all other applicable requirements of this section. 


(2) If you use a multi-stall restroom, you must either—


(i) Secure all sources of water and other substances that could be used for adulteration and substitution (*e.g.,* water faucets, soap dispensers) and place bluing agent in all toilets or secure the toilets to prevent access; or 


(ii) Conduct all collections in the facility as monitored collections (see § 40.69 for procedures). This is the only circumstance in which you may conduct a monitored collection. 


(3) No one but the employee may be present in the multistall restroom during the collection, except for the monitor in the event of a monitored collection or the observer in the event of a directly observed collection. 


(g) A collection site may be in a medical facility, a mobile facility (*e.g.,* a van), a dedicated collection facility, or any other location meeting the requirements of this section. 



---

[N] [65 FR 79526, Dec. 19, 2000. Redesignated at 88 FR 27639, May 2, 2023]




