# § 238.121   Emergency communication.

(a) *PA system (public address system).* (1) *Existing Tier I passenger cars.* On or after January 1, 2012, each Tier I passenger car shall be equipped with a PA system that provides a means for a train crewmember to communicate by voice to passengers of his or her train in an emergency situation.


(2) *New Tier I and all Tier II passenger cars.* Each Tier I passenger car ordered on or after April 1, 2008, or placed in service for the first time on or after April 1, 2010, and all Tier II passenger cars shall be equipped with a PA system that provides a means for a train crewmember to communicate by voice to passengers of his or her train in an emergency situation. The PA system shall also provide a means for a train crewmember to communicate by voice in an emergency situation to persons in the immediate vicinity of his or her train (*e.g.*, persons on the station platform). The PA system may be part of the same system as the intercom system.


(b) *Intercom system.* (1) *New Tier I and all Tier II passenger cars.* Each Tier I passenger car ordered on or after April 1, 2008, or placed in service for the first time on or after April 1, 2010, and all Tier II passenger cars shall be equipped with an intercom system that provides a means for passengers and crewmembers to communicate by voice with each other in an emergency situation. Except as further specified, at least one intercom that is accessible to passengers without using a tool or other implement shall be located in each end (half) of each car. If any passenger car does not exceed 45 feet in length, or if a Tier II passenger car was ordered prior to May 12, 1999, only one such intercom is required. The intercom system may be part of the same system as the PA system.


(2) *Marking and instructions.* The following requirements apply to each passenger car:


(i) Prior to January 28, 2016, the location of each intercom intended for passenger use shall be conspicuously marked with luminescent material and legible and understandable operating instructions shall be posted at or near each such intercom.


(ii) On or after January 28, 2016, each intercom intended for passenger use shall be marked in accordance with section 5.4.2 of APTA PR-PS-S-002-98, Rev. 3, “Standard for Emergency Signage for Egress/Access of Passenger Rail Equipment,” Authorized October 7, 2007, or an alternative standard providing at least an equivalent level of safety, if approved by FRA pursuant to § 238.21. Legible and understandable operating instructions shall be posted at or near each such intercom. The incorporation by reference of this APTA standard was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the incorporated document from the American Public Transportation Association, 1666 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20006, *www.aptastandards.com.* You may inspect a copy of the document at the Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) *Back-up power.* PA and intercom systems in Tier I passenger cars ordered on or after April 1, 2008, or placed in service for the first time on or after April 1, 2010, and in all Tier II passenger cars shall have a back-up power system capable of—


(1) Operating in all equipment orientations within 45 degrees of vertical;


(2) Operating after the initial shock of a collision or derailment resulting in the following individually applied accelerations:


(i) Longitudinal: 8g;


(ii) Lateral: 4g; and


(iii) Vertical: 4g; and


(3) Powering each system to allow intermittent emergency communication for a minimum period of 90 minutes. Intermittent communication shall be considered equivalent to continuous communication during the last 15 minutes of the 90-minute minimum period.



---

[N] [73 FR 6402, Feb. 1, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 71814, Nov. 29, 2013]




