# § 248.105   Notice of intent.

(a) *Eligibility for filing.* An owner of eligible low income housing intending to prepay the mortgage or voluntarily terminate the mortgage insurance contract pursuant to § 248.141, extend the low income affordability restrictions of the housing in accordance with § 248.153, or transfer the housing to a qualified purchaser under § 248.157, may file a notice of intent unless the mortgage covering the project—


(1) Continued in default or fell into default on or after the November 28, 1990, and the mortgage has been assigned to the Commissioner as a result of such default; 


(2) Continued in default or fell into default on or after November 28, 1990, while the mortgage was held by the Commissioner; 


(3) Fell into default prior to November 28, 1990, if the owner entered into a workout agreement prior to that date, and on or after that date, the owner has defaulted under the workout agreement (and, if the agreement was with an insured mortgagee, the mortgage has been assigned to the Commissioner as a result of the default under the workout agreement); or 


(4) Fell into default prior to November 28, 1990, but has been current since that date and the owner has not agreed to recompense the appropriate insurance fund for losses sustained by the fund as a result of any work-out or other arrangement agreed to by the Commissioner and the owner with respect to the defaulted mortgage. 


(b) *Filing with the Commissioner.* The notice of intent shall be filed with the HUD Field Office in whose jurisdiction the project is located. The notice of intent shall identify the project by name, project number and location. It shall contain a statement indicating whether the owner intends to extend the affordability restrictions on the project by retaining ownership of the project or transferring it to a qualified purchaser, or whether the owner intends to terminate the affordability restrictions on the project through prepayment of the mortgage or termination of the mortgage insurance contract. The notice of intent shall also request the tenants to notify the owner, the Commissioner, and the State or local officer identified in the notice of intent of any individual or organization that has been designated or retained by the tenants to represent the tenants with respect to the actions to be taken under subpart B of this part. 


(c) *Filing with the State or local government and tenants.* The owner simultaneously shall file the notice of intent with the chief executive officer of the appropriate State or local government in which the project is located, or any officer designated by executive order or State or local law to receive such information, and with the mortgagee. In addition, the owner shall deliver a copy of the notice of intent to each occupied unit in the project and to any tenant representative, if any, known to the owner, and shall post a copy of the notice of intent in readily accessible locations within each affected building of the project. The copies of the notice of intent delivered to the tenants and the tenant representative shall include a summary of possible outcomes of the filing which shall be furnished by the Commissioner. Upon the request of any non-English speaking tenants residing in the affected project, the owner shall tabulate the number and type of translations needed by the tenants and request the local HUD field office to provide the appropriate translations. The owner shall deliver a copy of the translated notice of intent to all of the tenants who requested such translation. The failure of an owner to comply with any non-federal notice requirements shall not invalidate the notice of intent.




