# § 76.564   Restricted indirect cost rate formula.

(a) An indirect cost rate for a grant covered by §§ 76.563 or 75.563 is determined by the following formula: Restricted indirect cost rate = (General management costs + Fixed costs) ÷ (Other expenditures).


(b) General management costs, fixed costs, and other expenditures must be determined under §§ 76.565 through 76.567.


(c) Under the programs covered by § 76.563, a grantee or subgrantee that is not a State or local government agency—


(1) Must use a negotiated restricted indirect cost rate computed under paragraph (a) of this section or cost allocation plan that complies with the formula in paragraph (a) of this section; or


(2) May elect to use an indirect cost rate of 8 percent of the modified total direct costs (MTDC) base if the grantee or subgrantee does not have a negotiated restricted indirect cost rate. MTDC is defined in 2 CFR 200.1. If the Secretary determines that the grantee or subgrantee would have a lower rate as calculated under paragraph (a) of this section, the lower rate must be used for the affected program.


(3) If the grantee has established a threshold for equipment that is lower than the amount specified in the Uniform Guidance, the grantee must use that threshold to exclude equipment from the MTDC base.


(4) For purposes of the MTDC base and application of the 8 percent rate, MTDC includes up to the amount specified in the definition of MTDC in the Uniform Guidance of each subaward, each year.


(d) Indirect costs that are unrecovered as a result of these restrictions may not be charged directly, used to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements, or charged to another Federal award.



---

[N] [89 FR 70338, Aug. 29, 2024]






