# § 418.202   Covered services.

All services must be performed by appropriately qualified personnel, but it is the nature of the service, rather than the qualification of the person who provides it, that determines the coverage category of the service. The following services are covered hospice services: 


(a) Nursing care provided by or under the supervision of a registered nurse. 


(b) Medical social services provided by a social worker under the direction of a physician. 


(c) Physicians' services performed by a physician as defined in § 410.20 of this chapter except that the services of the hospice medical director or the physician member of the interdisciplinary group must be performed by a doctor of medicine or osteopathy. 


(d) Counseling services provided to the terminally ill individual and the family members or other persons caring for the individual at home. Counseling, including dietary counseling, may be provided both for the purpose of training the individual's family or other caregiver to provide care, and for the purpose of helping the individual and those caring for him or her to adjust to the individual's approaching death. 


(e) Short-term inpatient care provided in a participating hospice inpatient unit, or a participating hospital or SNF, that additionally meets the standards in § 418.202 (a) and (e) regarding staffing and patient areas. Services provided in an inpatient setting must conform to the written plan of care. Inpatient care may be required for procedures necessary for pain control or acute or chronic symptom management.


(f) *Medical appliances and supplies, including drugs and biologicals.* Only drugs as defined in section 1861(t) of the Act and which are used primarily for the relief of pain and symptom control related to the individual's terminal illness are covered. Appliances may include covered durable medical equipment as described in § 410.38 of this chapter as well as other self-help and personal comfort items related to the palliation or management of the patient's terminal illness. Equipment is provided by the hospice for use in the patient's home while he or she is under hospice care. Medical supplies include those that are part of the written plan of care and that are for palliation and management of the terminal or related conditions.


(g) *Home health or hospice aide services furnished by qualified aides as designated in § 418.76 and homemaker services.* Home health aides (also known as hospice aides) may provide personal care services as defined in § 409.45(b) of this chapter. Aides may perform household services to maintain a safe and sanitary environment in areas of the home used by the patient, such as changing bed linens or light cleaning and laundering essential to the comfort and cleanliness of the patient. Aide services must be provided under the general supervision of a registered nurse. Homemaker services may include assistance in maintenance of a safe and healthy environment and services to enable the individual to carry out the treatment plan.


(h) Physical therapy, occupational therapy and speech-language pathology services in addition to the services described in § 409.33 (b) and (c) of this chapter provided for purposes of symptom control or to enable the patient to maintain activities of daily living and basic functional skills.


(i) Effective April 1, 1998, any other service that is specified in the patient's plan of care as reasonable and necessary for the palliation and management of the patient's terminal illness and related conditions and for which payment may otherwise be made under Medicare.



---

[N] [48 FR 56026, Dec. 16, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 41351, Nov. 14, 1986; 55 FR 50835, Dec. 11, 1990; 59 FR 65498, Dec. 20, 1994; 70 FR 70547, Nov. 22, 2005; 73 FR 32220, June 5, 2008; 74 FR 39413, Aug. 6, 2009; 76 FR 47331, Aug. 4, 2011]




