# § 300.111   Child find.

(a) *General.* (1) The State must have in effect policies and procedures to ensure that—


(i) All children with disabilities residing in the State, including children with disabilities who are homeless children or are wards of the State, and children with disabilities attending private schools, regardless of the severity of their disability, and who are in need of special education and related services, are identified, located, and evaluated; and


(ii) A practical method is developed and implemented to determine which children are currently receiving needed special education and related services.


(b) *Use of term developmental delay.* The following provisions apply with respect to implementing the child find requirements of this section:


(1) A State that adopts a definition of *developmental delay* under § 300.8(b) determines whether the term applies to children aged three through nine, or to a subset of that age range (*e.g.*, ages three through five).


(2) A State may not require an LEA to adopt and use the term *developmental delay* for any children within its jurisdiction.


(3) If an LEA uses the term *developmental delay* for children described in § 300.8(b), the LEA must conform to both the State's definition of that term and to the age range that has been adopted by the State.


(4) If a State does not adopt the term *developmental delay*, an LEA may not independently use that term as a basis for establishing a child's eligibility under this part.


(c) *Other children in child find.* Child find also must include—


(1) Children who are suspected of being a child with a disability under § 300.8 and in need of special education, even though they are advancing from grade to grade; and


(2) Highly mobile children, including migrant children.


(d) *Construction.* Nothing in the Act requires that children be classified by their disability so long as each child who has a disability that is listed in § 300.8 and who, by reason of that disability, needs special education and related services is regarded as a child with a disability under Part B of the Act.


