# § 1955.117   Processing credit sales on program terms (housing).

The following provisions apply to all credit sales on program terms:


(a) *Offers.* Form RD 1955-45 will be used to document the offer and acceptance for regular Rural Development sales. The contract is accepted prior to processing Form RD 410-4, “Application for Rural Housing Assistance (Non-Farm Tract),” for SFH property with the provision that acceptance is subject to program approval. MFH property sales require an application package comparable to that submitted for the respective loan program application.


(b) *Processing.* Rural Development regulations pertaining to the type of credit being extended will be followed in making credit sales on program terms except as modified by the provisions of this section. All MFH credit sales may be made for up to 100 percent of the current market value of the security, less any prior lien. However, if a profit or limited profit applicant desires to earn a return, the applicant will be required to contribute at least 3 percent of the purchase price as a cash downpayment. All credit sales of RRH, RCH, and LH properties will be subject to prepayment and restrictive-use provisions specified by the respective program requirements.


(c) *Approval.* Forms RD 1940-1 or RD 3560-51, as appropriate, will be used to approve a credit sale even though no obligation of funds is required.


(d) *Downpayment.* When a downpayment is made, it will be collected at closing.


(e) *Interest rate.* Upon request of the applicant, the interest rate charged by Rural Development will be the lower of the interest rate in effect at the time of loan approval or closing. If the applicant does not indicate a choice, the loan will be closed at the rate in effect at the time of loan approval.


(f) *Closing costs.* MFH purchasers will pay closing costs from their own funds. Where necessary, SFH purchasers who qualify may be made a subsequent loan to pay closing costs in an amount not to exceed 1 percent of the sale price of the dwelling. Any closing costs which are legally or customarily paid by the seller will be paid by Rural Development and charged to the inventory account as a nonrecoverable cost items.


(g) *Closing sale.* Title clearance, loan closing and property insurance requirements for a credit sale, and any loan closed simultaneously with the credit sale, are the same as for a program loan of the same type except:


(1) The property will be conveyed in accordance with § 1955.141(a) of this subpart.


(2) Earnest money, if any, will be used to pay purchaser's closing costs with any balance of closing costs being paid from the purchaser's personal funds except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. For SFH credit sales and MFH credit sales to nonprofit organizations or public bodies, any excess deposit will be refunded to the purchaser. For MFH credit sales to profit or limited profit buyers, any excess earnest money deposit will be credited to the purchase price and recognized as a part of the purchaser's initial investment.


(3) The County Supervisor or District Director will provide the closing agent with the necessary information for closing the sale. The assistance of OGC will be requested to provide closing instructions in exceptional or complex cases and for all MFH sales.


(h) *Reporting.* After the sale is closed, it will be reported according to § 1955.142 of this subpart.



---

[N] [53 FR 27834, July 25, 1988; 54 FR 6875, Feb. 15, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 38928, July 21, 1993; 68 FR 61332, Oct. 28, 2003; 69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004]






