# § 4233.11   Notice of application for partition.

(a) *When to file.* Not later than 30 days after receipt of the written notice described in § 4233.10(c) that an application for partition is complete, the plan sponsor must provide notice of such application to each interested party and PBGC, in accordance with the rules in part 4000, subpart B of this chapter.


(b) *Form of notice.* The notice must be readable and written in a matter calculated to be understood by the average plan participant. The Model Notices in appendix A to this part (when properly completed) are examples of notices meeting the requirements of this section.


(c) *Information required.* A notice of completed application for partition must include the following information:


(1) *Identifying information.* The name of the plan, the name, address, and phone number of the plan sponsor, the Employer Identification Number (EIN), and three-digit Plan Number (PN).


(2) *Relevant partition application dates.* A brief statement that the plan sponsor has submitted an application for partition to PBGC, the date of the completed application under § 4233.10(c), and a statement that PBGC must issue its decision not later than 270 days after the date on which PBGC notified the plan sponsor that the application was complete.


(3) *Application for suspension of benefits.* If applicable, a statement of whether the plan sponsor has submitted an application for suspension of benefits under section 305(e)(9)(G) of ERISA, and, if so, information on how to obtain a copy of the application and notice required by section 305(e)(9)(F) of ERISA.


(4) *Description of statutory partition provisions.* A brief description of the requirements under section 4233 of ERISA, and other related statutory requirements, including:


(i) The interrelationship between the partition rules under section 4233 of ERISA and suspensions of benefits under section 305(e)(9) of ERISA (if applicable).


(ii) The multiemployer guarantee under section 4022A of ERISA.


(iii) The eligibility requirements for a partition under section 4233(b) of ERISA, including the Advocate consultation requirement.


(5) *Impact of partition on interested parties.* A brief description of how the proposed partition may impact affected participants, beneficiaries, and alternate payees including:


(i) A statement describing the benefit payment obligations of the original plan and the successor plan.


(ii) A statement explaining that the Board of Trustees of the original plan will also administer the successor plan, but the successor plan will be funded solely by PBGC financial assistance payments.


(6) *Partition application contents summary.* A brief summary of the content of the plan sponsor's application for partition, including the following information:


(i) The plan's critical and declining status and projected insolvency date.


(ii) A statement that the plan sponsor has taken (or is taking) all reasonable measures to avoid insolvency, including the maximum benefit suspensions under section 305(e)(9), if applicable.


(iii) If known, a brief statement on the proposed total estimated amount and percentage of liabilities to be partitioned.


(iv) If known, a brief statement summarizing the proposed class or classes of participants whose benefits would be partially or wholly transferred if the application for partition is granted, including a summary of the factors considered by the plan sponsor in preparing its application.


(7) *Contact information for plan sponsor.* The name, address, and telephone number of the plan sponsor or other person designated by the plan sponsor to answer inquiries concerning the application for partition.


(8) *Contact information for PBGC.* Multiemployer Program Division, PBGC, 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024-2101, *Multiemployerprogram@pbgc.gov.*

(9) *Contact information for Participant and Plan Sponsor Advocate.* PBGC Participant and Plan Sponsor Advocate, 445 12th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024-2101, *Advocate@pbgc.gov.*

(d) *Model notice.* The appendix to this section contains two model notices—one for plan sponsors that submit coordinated applications for partition with PBGC and for benefit suspensions with Treasury, and one for plans sponsors who apply for partition only. The model notices are intended to assist plan sponsors in discharging their notice obligations under section 4233(a)(2) of ERISA and this part. Use of the model notices is not mandatory, but will be deemed to satisfy the requirements of section 4233(a)(2) of ERISA and this part.


(e) *Foreign languages.* The plan sponsor of a plan that covers the numbers or percentages in § 2520.104b-10(e) of this title of participants literate only in the same non-English language must, for any notice to interested parties—


(1) Include a prominent legend in that common non-English language advising them how to obtain assistance in understanding the notice; or


(2) Provide the notice in that common non-English language to those interested parties literate only in that language.





---

[N] [80 FR 35229, June 19, 2015, as amended at 87 FR 57825, Sept. 22, 2022]




