# ยง 133.145   Marine evacuation system launching arrangements.

(a) *Arrangements.* Each marine evacuation system must have the following arrangements:


(1) Each marine evacuation system must be capable of being deployed by one person.


(2) Each marine evacuation system must enable the total number of persons for which it is designed, to be transferred from the OSV into the inflated liferafts within a period of 10 minutes from the time an abandon-ship signal is given.


(3) Each marine evacuation system must be arranged so that liferafts may be securely attached to the platform and released from the platform by a person either in the liferaft or on the platform.


(4) Each marine evacuation system must be capable of being deployed from the OSV under unfavorable conditions of trim of up to 10 degrees either way and of list of up to 20 degrees either way.


(5) If the marine evacuation system has an inclined slide, the angle of the slide from horizontal must be within a range of 30 to 35 degrees when the OSV is upright and in the lightest seagoing condition.


(6) Each marine evacuation system platform must be capable of being restrained by a bowsing line or other positioning system that is designed to deploy automatically, and if necessary, be capable of being adjusted to the position required for evacuation.


(b) *Stowage.* Each marine evacuation system must be stowed as follows:


(1) There must not be any openings between the marine evacuation system's embarkation station and the OSV's side at the OSV's waterline in the lightest seagoing condition.


(2) The marine evacuation system's launching positions must be arranged, as far as practicable, to be straight down the OSV's side and safely clear the propeller and any steeply overhanging positions of the hull.


(3) The marine evacuation system must be protected from any projections of the OSV's structure or equipment.


(4) The marine evacuation system's passage and platform, when deployed; its stowage container; and its operational arrangement must not interfere with the operation of any other lifesaving appliance at any other launching station.


(5) Where appropriate, the marine evacuation system's stowage area must be protected from damage by heavy seas.


(c) *Stowage of associated liferafts.* Inflatable liferafts used in conjunction with the marine evacuation system must be stowed as follows:


(1) Each inflatable liferaft used in conjunction with the marine evacuation system must be close to the system container, but capable of dropping clear of the deployed chute and boarding platform.


(2) Each inflatable liferaft used in conjunction with the marine evacuation system must be capable of individual release from its stowage rack.


(3) Each inflatable liferaft used in conjunction with the marine evacuation system must be stowed in accordance with ยง 133.130.


(4) Each inflatable liferaft used in conjunction with the marine evacuation system must be provided with preconnected or easily connected retrieving lines to the platform.




