# § 332.8   Extended terms and yield for outstanding bonds.

(a) *Extended maturity period*—(1) *General.* The terms *extended maturity period,* and *second extended maturity period,* when used herein, refer to 10-year intervals after the original maturity dates during which owners may retain their bonds and continue to earn interest thereon. No special action is required of owners desiring to take advantage of any extensions heretofore or herein granted.


(2) *Two extensions.* All Series H bonds may be retained for two extended maturity periods of 10 years each. All Series H bonds cease to earn interest upon reaching final maturity. Final maturities are shown below:


(b) *Investment yields for outstanding bonds—General—interest rates.* The investment yields on outstanding Series H bonds are as set out below:


(1) For Series H bonds that were in original or extended maturity periods prior to November 1, 1982, the investment yield was 8.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, effective for the period from the first semiannual interest payment date occurring on or after May 1, 1981, through the end of such periods. For bonds that entered extensions, see paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(4) of this section.


(2) For Series H bonds that entered extended maturity periods from November 1, 1982, through October 1, 1986, the investment yield was 7.5 percent per annum, paid semiannually, for such periods, including bonds that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:


(3) For Series H bonds that entered extended maturity periods from November 1, 1986, through February 1, 1993, the investment yield was 6 percent per annum, paid semiannually, for such periods, including bonds that entered into an extended maturity period, as shown below:


(4) For Series H bonds that entered or enter extended maturity periods on or after March 1, 1993, the guaranteed minimum investment yield is 4 percent per annum, paid semiannually, or the investment yield in effect at the beginning of such periods, including bonds that enter into an extended maturity period, as shown below:


(c) *Tables of interest payments and investment yields.* Tables of interest payments and investment yields are available from the Bureau of Fiscal Service and Federal Reserve Banks and Branches.



---

[N] [57 FR 14281, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 60937, Nov. 18, 1993]




