# ยง 303.15   Required label and method of affixing.

(a) A label is required to be affixed to each textile product and, where required, to its package or container in a secure manner. Such label shall be conspicuous and shall be of such durability as to remain attached to the product and its package throughout any distribution, sale, resale and until sold and delivered to the ultimate consumer.


(b) Each textile fiber product with a neck must have a label disclosing the country of origin affixed to the inside center of the neck midway between the shoulder seams or in close proximity to another label affixed to the inside center of the neck. The fiber content and RN or name of the company may be disclosed on the same label as the country of origin or on another conspicuous and readily accessible label or labels on the inside or outside of the garment. On all other textile products, the required information shall be disclosed on a conspicuous and readily accessible label or labels on the inside or outside of the product. The country of origin disclosure must always appear on the front side of the label. Other required information may appear either on the front side or the reverse side of a label, provided that the information is conspicuous and readily accessible.


(c) In the case of hosiery products, this section shall not be construed as requiring the affixing of a label to each hosiery product contained in a package if, 


(1) Such hosiery products are intended for sale to the ultimate consumer in such package, 


(2) Such package has affixed to it a label bearing the required information for the hosiery products contained in the package, and 


(3) The information on the label affixed to the package is equally applicable to each textile fiber product contained therein.


(d) Socks provided for in subheading 6115.92.90, 6115.93.90, 6115.99.18, 6111.20.60, 6111.30.50, or 6111.90.50 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, as in effect on September 1, 2003, shall be marked, as legibly, indelibly, and permanently as the nature of the article or package will permit, to disclose the English name of the country of origin. This disclosure shall appear on the front of the package, adjacent to the size designation of the product, and shall be set forth in such a manner as to be clearly legible, conspicuous, and readily accessible to the ultimate consumer. *Provided, however,* any package that contains several different types of goods and includes socks classified under subheading 6115.92.90, 6115.93.90, 6115.99.18, 6111.20.60, 6111.30.50, or 6111.90.50 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, as in effect on September 1, 2003, shall not be subject to the requirements of this subsection.



---

[N] [50 FR 15106, Apr. 17, 1985, as amended at 63 FR 7518, Feb. 13, 1998; 70 FR 73369, Dec. 12, 2005]




