# ยง 3555.306   Liquidation.

(a) *General.* (1) When a lender determines that a borrower is unable or unwilling to meet loan obligations with servicing options under this subpart, the lender must accelerate the guaranteed loan and, if necessary, foreclose.


(2) Prior to acceleration the lender must have advised the borrower, in writing, of available foreclosure avoidance options and the borrower must have failed to request such options.


(3) The lender must accelerate the guaranteed loan, with a demand letter, when the account is three scheduled payments past due unless there is a reasonable prospect of resolving the delinquency through another method.


(4) The borrower is responsible for all expenses associated with liquidation and acquisition.


(b) *Foreclosure.* (1) The lender must initiate foreclosure within 90 calendar days of the decision to liquidate unless Federal, State, or local law requires that foreclosure action be delayed. When there is a legal delay (such as bankruptcy), foreclosure must be initiated within 90 calendar days after it becomes possible to do so. Foreclosure initiation begins with the first public action required by law such as filing a complaint or petition, recording a notice of default, or publication of a notice of sale.


(2) Lenders must exercise due diligence in completing the liquidation process to ensure the foreclosure is cost effective, expeditious, and completed in an efficient manner, as otherwise provided by the Agency. The lender must choose the foreclosure method representing the best interest of the Federal Government.


(3) The lender's decision to bid at foreclosure and any bid amount will be based upon the property value, whether the property value is sufficient to cover the existing debt and incurred costs, and any potential to recover a deficiency. The lender will encourage third party bidding at a foreclosure sale when the total debt, including the cost of acquiring, managing and disposing of the property, if acquired, is greater than the gross proceeds expected from a foreclosure sale at market value.


(c) Unless State law imposes other requirements, the lender may reinstate an accelerated account if the borrower pays, or makes acceptable arrangements to pay, all past-due amounts, any protective advances, and any foreclosure-related costs incurred by the lender.


(d) *Bankruptcy.* (1) When a borrower files a petition in bankruptcy, the lender must suspend collection and foreclosure actions in accordance with Title 11 of the United States Code.


(2) The lender may accept conveyance of security property by the trustee in the bankruptcy, or the borrower, if the bankruptcy court has approved the transaction, and the lender will acquire title free of all liens and encumbrances except the lender's liens.


(3) Whenever possible after the borrower has filed for protection under Chapter 7 of Title 11 of the United States Code, a reaffirmation agreement will be signed by the borrower and approved by the bankruptcy court prior to discharge, if the lender and the borrower decide to continue with the loan.


(4) The lender must protect the guaranteed loan debt and all collateral securing the loan in bankruptcy proceedings.


(5) The lender can include principal and interest lost as a result of bankruptcy proceedings in any claim filed in accordance with ยง 3555.354.


(e) *Maintain condition of security property.* The lender must make reasonable and prudent efforts to ensure that the condition of the security property is maintained during any liquidation, acquisition, and sale of the property. These efforts include, but are not limited to, periodic inspections, performing necessary repairs, winterization, securing the property, removing debris, yard maintenance and ensuring the continuance of property insurance. The lender must identify, determine the cause, and document any environmental hazard affecting the value of the security property. The lender must retain a record of all efforts to maintain the condition of the security property.


(f) *Lender acquisition of title.* If at liquidation, the title to the property is conveyed to the lender, the lender will submit a loss claim package, including a market value appraisal, within 60 days of the foreclosure sale date or the date the lender acquires title. If eviction action is required in order to obtain a market value appraisal, the lender must submit the loss claim package, including the market value appraisal, within 60 days of the date the occupants clear the premises. The lender must submit the loss claim request, including the market value appraisal, in accordance with subpart H.


(g) *Debt settlement reporting.* The lender must report to the IRS and all national credit reporting repositories any debt settled through liquidation.



---

[N] [78 FR 73941, Dec. 9, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 6430, Feb. 8, 2016; 81 FR 31164, May 18, 2016; 84 FR 70886, Dec. 26, 2019]




