# § 346.1   Purpose and scope of this part.

(a) *General.* This part implements section 711 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (12 U.S.C. 1831y). That section requires any nongovernmental entity or person, insured depository institution, or affiliate of an insured depository institution that enters into a covered agreement to—


(1) Make the covered agreement available to the public and the appropriate Federal banking agency; and


(2) File an annual report with the appropriate Federal banking agency concerning the covered agreement.


(b) *Scope of this part.* The provisions of this part apply to—


(1) State nonmember insured banks;


(2) Subsidiaries of state nonmember insured banks;


(3) Nongovernmental entities or persons that enter into covered agreements with any company listed in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (4) and (5) of this section.


(4) State savings associations; and


(5) Subsidiaries of State savings associations.


(c) *Relation to Community Reinvestment Act.* This part does not affect in any way the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*) or the FDIC's Community Reinvestment regulation found at 12 CFR part 345, or the FDIC's interpretations or administration of that Act or regulation.


(d) *Examples.* (1) The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this part.


(2) Examples in a paragraph illustrate only the issue described in the paragraph and do not illustrate any other issues that may arise in this part.




