# § 1271.150   Current good tissue practice requirements.

(a) *General.* This subpart D and subpart C of this part set forth current good tissue practice (CGTP) requirements. You must follow CGTP requirements to prevent the introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable diseases by HCT/Ps (e.g., by ensuring that the HCT/Ps do not contain communicable disease agents, that they are not contaminated, and that they do not become contaminated during manufacturing). Communicable diseases include, but are not limited to, those transmitted by viruses, bacteria, fungi, parasites, and transmissible spongiform encephalopathy agents. CGTP requirements govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture of HCT/Ps, including but not limited to all steps in recovery, donor screening, donor testing, processing, storage, labeling, packaging, and distribution. The CGTP provisions specifically governing determinations of donor eligibility, including donor screening and testing, are set out separately in subpart C of this part.


(b) *Core CGTP requirements.* The following are core CGTP requirements:


(1) Requirements relating to facilities in § 1271.190(a) and (b);


(2) Requirements relating to environmental control in § 1271.195(a);


(3) Requirements relating to equipment in § 1271.200(a);


(4) Requirements relating to supplies and reagents in § 1271.210(a) and (b);


(5) Requirements relating to recovery in § 1271.215;


(6) Requirements relating to processing and process controls in § 1271.220;


(7) Requirements relating to labeling controls in § 1271.250(a) and (b);


(8) Requirements relating to storage in § 1271.260 (a) through (d);


(9) Requirements relating to receipt, predistribution shipment, and distribution of an HCT/P in § 1271.265(a) through (d); and


(10) Requirements relating to donor eligibility determinations, donor screening, and donor testing in §§ 1271.50, 1271.75, 1271.80, and 1271.85.


(c) *Compliance with applicable requirements*—(1) *Manufacturing arrangements* (i) If you are an establishment that engages in only some operations subject to the regulations in this subpart and subpart C of this part, and not others, then you need only comply with those requirements applicable to the operations that you perform.


(ii) If you engage another establishment (e.g., a laboratory to perform communicable disease testing, or an irradiation facility to perform terminal sterilization), under a contract, agreement, or other arrangement, to perform any step in manufacture for you, that establishment is responsible for complying with requirements applicable to that manufacturing step.


(iii) Before entering into a contract, agreement, or other arrangement with another establishment to perform any step in manufacture for you, you must ensure that the establishment complies with applicable CGTP requirements. If, during the course of this contract, agreement, or other arrangement, you become aware of information suggesting that the establishment may no longer be in compliance with such requirements, you must take reasonable steps to ensure the establishment complies with those requirements. If you determine that the establishment is not in compliance with those requirements, you must terminate your contract, agreement, or other arrangement with the establishment.


(2) If you are the establishment that determines that an HCT/P meets all release criteria and makes the HCT/P available for distribution, whether or not you are the actual distributor, you are responsible for reviewing manufacturing and tracking records to determine that the HCT/P has been manufactured and tracked in compliance with the requirements of this subpart and subpart C of this part and any other applicable requirements.


(3) With the exception of §§ 1271.150(c) and 1271.155 of this subpart, the regulations in this subpart are not being implemented for reproductive HCT/Ps described in § 1271.10 and regulated solely under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and the regulations in this part, or for the establishments that manufacture them.


(d) *Compliance with parts 210, 211, and 820 of this chapter.* With respect to HCT/Ps that are drugs (subject to review under an application submitted under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or under a biological product license application under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act) or that are devices (subject to premarket review or notification under the device provisions of the act or under a biological product license application under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act), the procedures contained in this subpart and in subpart C of this part and the current good manufacturing practice regulations in parts 210 and 211 of this chapter and the quality system regulations in part 820 of this chapter supplement, and do not supersede, each other unless the regulations explicitly provide otherwise. In the event that a regulation in part 1271 of this chapter is in conflict with a requirement in parts 210, 211, or 820 of this chapter, the regulations more specifically applicable to the product in question will supersede the more general.


(e) *Where appropriate.* When a requirement is qualified by “where appropriate,” it is deemed to be “appropriate” unless you can document justification otherwise. A requirement is “appropriate” if nonimplementation of the requirement could reasonably be expected to result in the HCT/P not meeting its specified requirements related to prevention of introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable diseases, or in your inability to carry out any necessary corrective action.




