# ยง 2002.23   Administrative review.

(a) Review is available only from a written determination denying a request for a record and only if a written request for review is filed within 90 days after issuance of the written determination. If mailed, the requester's letter of appeal must be postmarked within 90 calendar days of the date of the letter of determination. If the letter of appeal is transmitted electronically or by a means other than the United States Postal Service, it must be received in the appropriate office by the close of business on the 90th calendar day after the date of the letter of determination. Before seeking court review of an adverse determination, a requester must exhaust their administrative remedies under this section.


(b) A review may be initiated by sending a request for review to the Office of Inspector General; Department of Housing and Urban Development; 451 Seventh Street SW, Room 8256, Washington, DC 20410 or to *FOIArequests@hudoig.gov.* In order to enable the OIG to comply with the time limitations set forth in ยง 2002.17, both the envelope containing the request for review and the letter itself should clearly indicate that the subject is a Freedom of Information Act request for review. Each request for review must contain the following:


(1) A copy of the original request;


(2) A copy of the written denial; and


(3) A statement of the circumstances, reasons, or arguments advanced in support of disclosure of the original records requested.


(c) Review will be made promptly by the Deputy Inspector General, or designee, on the basis of the written record. The OIG will decide an appeal of a denial of a request to expedite processing of a FOIA request within 10 working days of receipt of the appeal. The OIG will make a determination on all other appeals within 20 working days of receipt, unless unusual circumstances require the OIG to extend the time for an additional 10 working days.


(d) The time of receipt for processing of a request is the time it is received by the Inspector General. If a request is misdirected by the requester and is received by one other than the Inspector General, the OIG official who receives the request will forward it promptly to the Inspector General and will advise the requester about the delayed time of receipt.


(e) The decision after review will be in writing, will constitute final agency action on the request, and, if the denial of the request for records is in full or in part upheld, the Inspector General will notify the person making the request of his or her right to seek judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4).


(f) Adverse decisions will include the name and contact information of dispute resolution services that offer mediation services to resolve disputes between FOIA requesters and Federal agencies as a nonexclusive alternative to litigation.






