# § 201.39   Notice to Libraries and Archives of Normal Commercial Exploitation or Availability at Reasonable Price.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes rules under which copyright owners or their agents may provide notice to qualified libraries and archives (including a nonprofit educational institution that functions as such) that a published work in its last 20 years of copyright protection is subject to normal commercial exploitation, or that a copy or phonorecord of the work can be obtained at a reasonable price, for purposes of section 108(h)(2) of title 17 of the United States Code.


(b) *Format.* The Copyright Office provides a required format for a Notice to Libraries and Archives of Normal Commercial Exploitation or Availability at Reasonable Price, and for continuation sheets for group notices. The required format is set out in Appendix A to this section, and is available from the Copyright Office website (*http://lcweb.loc.gov/copyright*). The Copyright Office does not provide printed forms. The Notice shall be in English (except for an original title, which may be in another language), typed or printed legibly in dark ink, and shall be provided on 8
1/2 × 11 inch white paper with a one-inch margin.


(c) *Required content.* A “Notice to Libraries and Archives of Normal Commercial Exploitation or Availability at Reasonable Price” shall be identified as such by prominent caption or heading, and shall include the following:


(1) The acronym NLA in capital, and preferably bold, letters in the top right-hand corner of the page;


(2) A check-box just below the acronym NLA indicating whether continuation sheets for additional works are attached;


(3) The title of the work, or if untitled, a brief description of the work;


(4) The author(s) of the work;


(5) The type of work (e.g., music, motion picture, book, photograph, illustration, map, article in a periodical, painting, sculpture, sound recording, etc.);


(6) The edition, if any (e.g., first edition, second edition, teacher's edition) or version, if any (e.g., orchestral arrangement, translation, French version). If there is no information relating to the edition or version of the work, the notice should so state;


(7) The year of first publication;


(8) The year the work first secured federal copyright through publication with notice or registration as an unpublished work;


(9) The copyright renewal registration number (except this information is not required for foreign works in which copyright is restored pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 104A);


(10) The name of the copyright owner (or the owner of exclusive rights);


(11) If the copyright owner is not the owner of all rights, a specification of the rights owned (e.g., the right to reproduce/distribute/publicly display/publicly perform the work or to prepare a derivative work);


(12) The name, address, telephone number, fax number (if any) and e-mail address (if any) of the person or entity that the Copyright Office should contact concerning the Notice;


(13) The full legal name, address, telephone number, fax number (if any) and e-mail address (if any) of the person or entity that Libraries and Archives may contact concerning the work's normal commercial exploitation or availability at reasonable price; and


(14) A declaration made under penalty of perjury that the work identified is subject to normal commercial exploitation, or that a copy or phonorecord of the work is available at a reasonable price.


(d) *Additional content.* A Notice to Libraries and Archives of Normal Commercial Exploitation or Availability at Reasonable Price may include the following:


(1) The original copyright registration number of the work; and


(2) Additional information concerning the work's normal commercial exploitation or availability at a reasonable price.


(e) *Signature.* The Notice to Libraries and Archives of Normal Commercial Exploitation or Availability at Reasonable Price shall include the signature of the copyright owner or its agent. The signature shall be accompanied by the printed or typewritten name and title of the person signing the Notice, and by the date of signature.


(f) *Multiple works.* A Notice to Libraries and Archives may be filed for more than one work. The first work shall be identified using the format required for all Notices to Libraries and Archives. Each additional work in the group must be identified on a separate continuation sheet. The required format for the continuation sheet is set out in Appendix B to this section, and is available from the Copyright Office website (*http://lcweb.loc.gov/copyright*). A group filing is permitted provided that:


(1) All the works are by the same author;


(2) All the works are owned by the same copyright owner or owner of the exclusive rights therein. If the claimant is not owner of all rights, the claimant must own the same rights with respect to all works in the group;


(3) All the works first secured federal copyright in the same year, through either publication with notice or registration as unpublished works;


(4) All the works were first published in the same year;


(5) The person or entity that the Copyright Office should contact concerning the Notice is the same for all the works; and


(6) The person or entity that Libraries and Archives may contact concerning the work's normal commercial exploitation or availability at reasonable price is the same for all the works.


(g) *Filing*—(1) *Method of filing.* The Notice to Libraries and Archives of Normal Commercial Exploitation or Availability at Reasonable Price should be addressed to NLA, in the manner prescribed in § 201.1.


(2) *Amount.* The filing fee for recording Notice to Libraries and Archives is prescribed in § 201.3(d).





---

[N] [63 FR 71787, Dec. 30, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 34373, June 28, 2001; 71 FR 31092, June 1, 2006; 73 FR 37839, July 2, 2008; 78 FR 42874, July 18, 2013; 82 FR 9359, Feb. 6, 2017; 85 FR 19667, Apr. 8, 2020; 87 FR 59308, Sept. 30, 2022]




