# ยง 123.700   What is the Immediate Disaster Assistance Program?

(a) The Immediate Disaster Assistance Program (IDAP) is a guaranteed disaster loan program for small businesses that have suffered physical damage or economic injury due to a Declared Disaster. An IDAP loan is an interim loan in an amount not to exceed $25,000 made by an IDAP Lender to meet the immediate business needs of an IDAP Borrower while approval of long-term financing from a Disaster Loan is pending with SBA.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart, the terms below are defined as follows:


*Contiguous Counties* means the counties or other political subdivisions identified in the IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration as abutting the Primary Counties.


*Credit Elsewhere* means that the IDAP Borrower is able to address disaster losses using available personal or business resources or access to nonfederal lending sources at reasonable rates and terms.


*Declared Disaster* is a disaster event for which an IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration has been issued.


*Declared Disaster Area* means the Primary Counties and the Contiguous Counties identified for a particular Declared Disaster.


*Disaster Loan* means a disaster loan authorized by Section 7(b) of the Small Business Act.


*IDAP Borrower* is the obligor of an IDAP loan.


*IDAP Lender* is a financial institution participating in the IDAP loan program, subject to the requirements of this subpart.


*IDAP Loan Program Requirements* are requirements imposed upon an IDAP Lender by statute, SBA regulations, any agreement the IDAP Lender has executed with SBA, SBA SOPs, SBA procedural guidance, official SBA notices and forms applicable to the IDAP loan program, and loan authorizations, as such requirements are issued and revised by SBA from time to time.


*IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration* means a Major Disaster Declaration, SBA Administrative Disaster Declaration or SBA EIDL-Only Disaster Declaration in which SBA has indicated that IDAP loans are available.


*Initial Period* is the IDAP loan repayment period that begins upon the initial disbursement of an IDAP loan and ends upon (i) full repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan; (ii) SBA notice to the IDAP Lender of decline of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan Application; or (iii) receipt by the IDAP Lender of partial repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan; provided that if the IDAP loan has not been fully disbursed at such time, the Initial Period shall not end until the IDAP loan is fully disbursed.


*Major Disaster Declaration* means a disaster declaration issued under ยง 123.3(a)(1) of this part.


*Other Recoveries* are other compensation for disaster losses and include, but are not limited to: Proceeds of policies of insurance or other indemnifications; grants or other reimbursement (including loans) from government agencies or private organizations; claims for civil liability against other individuals, organizations or governmental entities; gifts; condemnation awards; and salvage (including any sale or re-use) of items of disaster-damaged property. If an IDAP Borrower has voluntarily paid insurance recoveries to a recorded lienholder, the amount paid is considered to be Other Recoveries.


*Primary Counties* means the counties or other political subdivisions identified in the IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration as having been adversely affected by the disaster.


*SBA Administrative Disaster Declaration* means a disaster declaration issued under ยง 123.3(a)(3) of this part.


*SBA EIDL-Only Disaster Declaration* means a disaster declaration issued under ยง 123.3(a)(5) of this part.


*Substantial Economic Injury* exists when a business concern is unable to meet its obligations as they mature or to pay its ordinary and necessary operating expenses. Loss of anticipated profits or a drop in sales is not considered substantial economic injury.


*Term Period* is the repayment period that begins following:


(i) SBA notice to the IDAP Lender of decline of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application;


(ii) Receipt by the IDAP Lender of partial repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan; or


(iii) Final disbursement of the IDAP loan, whichever is later, and ends when the IDAP loan is repaid in full.




