# § 37.91   Definitions.

Definitions provided in § 37.2 will have the same meaning in this subpart. Any term defined in the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (Pub. L. 95-164, as amended) and not defined in § 37.2 or this section will have the meaning given it in the Act. As used in this subpart:


*ATS* means American Thoracic Society.


*ERS* means European Respiratory Society.


*FET* means forced expiratory time, which is the time from the beginning of a forced exhalation (the back-extrapolated “time zero”) maneuver to the end of expiration.


*FEV1* means forced expiratory volume in one second, which is the greatest volume of air that can be forcibly blown out within the first second, after full inspiration.


*FEV1/FVC* means the ratio between the largest acceptable FEV1 and the largest acceptable FVC following the forced vital capacity maneuver. It is usually reported as a percentage.


*FEV6* means forced expiratory volume in six seconds, which is the greatest volume of air that can forcibly be blown out in six seconds, after full inspiration.


*FVC* means forced vital capacity, which is the greatest volume of air that can forcibly be blown out after full inspiration.


*PEF* means peak expiratory flow, which is the maximal airflow generated during a forced vital capacity maneuver.


*Spirometry test* means a pulmonary function test that measures expiratory volume and airflow rates and may determine the presence and severity of lung function impairments, if such are present.



---

[N] [81 FR 73286, Oct. 24, 2016]




