# § 599.3   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions of “HUD” and “Secretary” found in 24 CFR 5.100, the following definitions apply to this part: 


*Census tract* means a census tract, as the term is used by the Bureau of the Census, or, if census tracts are not defined for the area, a block numbering area. 


*Designation* means the process by which the Secretary designates areas as Renewal Communities eligible for tax incentives and credits established by Subchapter X of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1400E, *et seq.*) and for any additional assistance that may be made available. 


*Empowerment Zone* (EZ) means an area so designated by the Secretary in accordance with 24 CFR part 597 or 24 CFR part 598. 


*Enterprise Community* (EC) means an area so designated by the Secretary in accordance with 24 CFR part 597. 


*Local government* means any county, city, town, township, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State, and any combination of these political subdivisions that is recognized by the Secretary. 


*Metropolitan Area* (MA) means an area as defined to be a Metropolitan Statistical Area or Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area by the Office of Management and Budget on June 30, 1999. 


*Nominated area* means an area with a population of not more than 200,000 that is nominated by one or more local governments and the State or States in which it is located, or the governing body of the Indian reservation in which it is located, for designation in accordance with this part. 


*Renewal Community* (RC) means an area so designated by HUD in accordance with this part. 


*Rural area* means a nominated area: 


(1) Which is within a local government jurisdiction or jurisdictions with a population of less than 50,000; or


(2) Which is outside of an MA; or


(3) Which is determined by HUD, after consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, to be a rural area. An area may qualify as a rural area under this paragraph (3) of this definition if: 


(i) It is a nominated area that crosses jurisdictional boundaries; 


(ii) The total population of the nominated area does not exceed 200,000; 


(iii) The nominated area as a whole would not satisfy the requirements of either paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition;


(iv) Each portion of the nominated area that is located within a separate jurisdiction meets the requirements of either paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition; and


(v) The area is specifically nominated as a rural area; or


(4) Which does not meet the requirements of either paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition but which is determined by HUD on a case-by-case basis, after consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, to be a rural area based on information submitted to demonstrate that the nominated area should be considered as a rural area.


*State* means any State of the United States. 


*Urban area* means a nominated area that is not a rural area. 




