# § 600.304-12   Fuel economy label—special requirements for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.

Fuel economy labels for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles must meet the specifications described in § 600.302, with the following modifications:


(a) Include the following statement instead of the statement specified in § 600.302-12(b)(4): “Actual results will vary for many reasons, including driving conditions and how you drive and maintain your vehicle. The average new vehicle gets *a* MPG and costs $*b* to fuel over 5 years. Cost estimates are based on *c* miles per year at $*d* per kilogram of hydrogen. Vehicle emissions are a significant cause of global warming and smog.” For *a, b,**c,* and *d,* insert the appropriate values established by EPA.


(b) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in § 600.302-12(c)(1):


(1) The heading “Fuel Economy” near the top left corner of the field.


(2) The combined fuel economy value as determined in § 600.311 below the heading. Include the expression “combined city/hwy” below this number.


(3) The logo specified in § 600.302-12(b)(3)(ii) to the left of the combined fuel economy value.


(4) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:


(i) Include the term “MPGe” in the upper portion of the designated space.


(ii) Include the city fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower left portion of the designated space. Include the expression “city” below this number.


(iii) Include the highway fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower right portion of the designated space. Include the expression “highway” below this number.


(5) The fuel consumption rate determined in § 600.311, to the right of the fuel economy information. Include the expression “kg H_2_ per 100 miles” below the numerical value.


(6) The sub-heading “Driving Range” below the combined fuel economy value. Below this sub-heading, insert a horizontal range bar nominally 80 mm long to show how far the vehicle can drive when fully fueled. Include a vehicle logo at the right end of the range bar. Include the following left-justified expression inside the range bar: “When fully fueled, vehicle can travel about * * *”. Below the right end of the range bar, include the expression “*x* miles”; complete the expression by identifying the appropriate value for total driving range from § 600.311. Include numbers below the bar showing the scale, with numbers starting at 0 and increasing in equal increments. Use good engineering judgment to divide the range bar into four, five, or six increments.



---

[N] [76 FR 39561, July 6, 2011]




