# § 416.1202   Deeming of resources.

(a) *Married individual.* In the case of an individual who is living with a person not eligible under this part and who is considered to be the husband or wife of such individual under the criteria in §§ 416.1802 through 416.1835 of this part, such individual's resources shall be deemed to include any resources, not otherwise excluded under this subpart, of such spouse whether or not such resources are available to such individual. In addition to the exclusions listed in § 416.1210, we also exclude the following items:


(1) Pension funds that the ineligible spouse may have. *Pension funds* are defined as funds held in individual retirement accounts (IRA), as described by the Internal Revenue Code, or in work-related pension plans (including such plans for self-employed persons, sometimes referred to as Keogh plans);


(2) For 9 months beginning with the month following the month of receipt, the unspent portion of any retroactive payment of special pay an ineligible spouse received from one of the uniformed services pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 310; and


(3) For 9 months beginning with the month following the month of receipt, the unspent portion of any retroactive payment of family separation allowance an ineligible spouse received from one of the uniformed services pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 427 as a result of deployment to or service in a combat zone (as defined in § 416.1160(d)).


(b) *Child*—(1) *General.* In the case of a child (as defined in § 416.1856) who is under age 18, we will deem to that child any resources, not otherwise excluded under this subpart, of his or her ineligible parent who is living in the same household with him or her (as described in § 416.1851). We also will deem to the child the resources of his or her ineligible stepparent. As used in this section, the term “parent” means the natural or adoptive parent of a child, and the term “stepparent” means the spouse (as defined in § 416.1806) of such natural or adoptive parent who is living in the same household with the child and parent. We will deem to a child the resources of his or her parent and stepparent whether or not those resources are available to him or her. We will deem to a child the resources of his or her parent and stepparent only to the extent that those resources exceed the resource limits described in § 416.1205. (If the child is living with only one parent, we apply the resource limit for an individual. If the child is living with both parents, or the child is living with one parent and a stepparent, we apply the resource limit for an individual and spouse.) We will not deem to a child the resources of his or her parent or stepparent if the child is excepted from deeming under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In addition to the exclusions listed in § 416.1210, we also exclude the following items:


(i) Pension funds of an ineligible parent (or stepparent). *Pension funds* are defined as funds held in IRAs, as described by the Internal Revenue Code, or in work-related pension plans (including such plans for self-employed persons, sometimes referred to as Keogh plans);


(ii) For 9 months beginning with the month following the month of receipt, the unspent portion of any retroactive payment of special pay an ineligible parent (or stepparent) received from one of the uniformed services pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 310; and


(iii) For 9 months beginning with the month following the month of receipt, the unspent portion of any retroactive payment of family separation allowance an ineligible parent (or stepparent) received from one of the uniformed services pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 427 as a result of deployment to or service in a combat zone (as defined in § 416.1160(d)).


(2) *Disabled child under age 18.* In the case of a disabled child under age 18 who is living in the same household with his or her parents, the deeming provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply if such child—


(i) Previously received a reduced SSI benefit while a resident of a medical treatment facility, as described in § 416.414;


(ii) Is eligible for medical assistance under a Medicaid State home care plan approved by the Secretary under the provisions of section 1915(c) or authorized under section 1902(e)(3) of the Act; and


(iii) Would otherwise be ineligible because of the deeming of his or her parents' resources or income.


(c) *Applicability.* When used in this subpart L, the term *individual* refers to an eligible aged, blind, or disabled person, and also includes a person whose resources are deemed to be the resources of such individual (as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section).



---

[N] [40 FR 48915, Oct. 20, 1975, as amended at 50 FR 38982, Sept. 26, 1985; 52 FR 8888, Mar. 20, 1987; 52 FR 29841, Aug. 12, 1987; 52 FR 32240, Aug. 26, 1987; 60 FR 361, Jan. 4, 1995; 62 FR 1056, Jan. 8, 1997; 65 FR 16815, Mar. 30, 2000; 72 FR 50875, Sept. 5, 2007; 73 FR 28036, May 15, 2008; 75 FR 7554, Feb. 22, 2010]




