# ยง 1005.427   Refinancing.

(a) *Refinance eligibility.* HUD may permit a Borrower to refinance any qualified mortgage, including an existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, so long as the Borrower and property meet all Section 184 Program requirements.


(b) *Types of refinances.* HUD may guarantee a Rate and Term refinance, a Streamline refinance, or a Cash-Out refinance, consistent with paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.


(c) *General requirements.* All types of refinances are subject to the following requirements:


(1) The term of the refinancing may not exceed a term of 30 years.


(2) The Borrower must have a payment history on the existing mortgage that is acceptable to HUD.


(3) The Direct Guarantee Lender may not require a minimum principal amount to be outstanding on the loan secured by the existing mortgage.


(4) If an Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee was financed as part of the existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, no refund will be given. However, the maximum amount of the refinancing loan computed in accordance with ยง 1005.443 may be increased by the amount of the Up-Front Loan Guarantee Fee associated with the new refinancing loan and exceed the applicable Section 184 Guaranteed Loan limit as established by HUD for an area pursuant to ยง 1005.441.


(5) The new loan must meet all other applicable Section 184 requirements, including maximum loan to value ratios, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(d) *Rate and Term Refinance Transaction.* (1) Rate and term refinance is the refinancing of an existing mortgage for the purpose of changing the interest rate or term, or both, of a loan without advancing new funds on the loan, with the exception of allowable closing costs.


(2) A Rate and Term Refinance Transaction must meet the following requirements:


(i) The new loan must be in an amount that does not exceed the lesser of the original principal amount of the existing mortgage; or the sum of the unpaid principal balance of the existing mortgage plus loan closing charges and allowable fees approved by HUD.


(ii) The new loan must result in a reduction in regular monthly payments by the Borrower, except when refinancing a mortgage for a shorter term will result in an increase in the Borrower's regular monthly payments.


(iii) The new Loan is not subject to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section for an existing mortgage used to construct the property and where the property has been completed for less than one year. The new loan must be in an amount not to exceed the unpaid principal balance plus loan closing charges and allowable fees approved by HUD, plus, at Borrower's option, additional construction costs paid in cash by the Borrower, that were not included in the original construction contract.


(e) *Streamline Refinance Transaction.* Streamline Refinance Transaction refers to the refinance of an existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan requiring limited Borrower credit documentation and underwriting.


(1) The new loan must be in an amount that does not exceed the unpaid principal balance of the existing Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.


(2) The new loan with an appraisal may be in the amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the existing mortgage plus Loan closing charges and allowable fees approved by HUD. The new loan must be subject to an appraisal.


(f) *Cash-out refinance transaction.* (1) A Cash-out refinance transaction is when the new Loan is made for an amount larger than the existing mortgage's unpaid principal balance, utilizing the property's equity.


(2) A Cash-out refinance Loan amount cannot exceed a maximum loan to value ratio, as established by HUD.


(3) A Borrower may elect to receive a portion of equity in the form of cash in an amount up to a maximum allowed amount as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(4) All cash advances, except cash amounts to the Borrower, must be used for approved purposes in accordance with HUD and BIA requirements, and must be supported by verified documentation.


(5) The Cash-out refinance must meet all other applicable Section 184 Program requirements.






