# § 80.110   RNG producers, RNG importers, and biogas closed distribution system RIN generators.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Any RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator that generates RINs must comply with the requirements of this section.


(2) The RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must also comply with all other applicable requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 1090.


(3) If the RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator meets the definition of more than one type of regulated party under this part or 40 CFR 1090, the RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must comply with the requirements applicable to each of those types of regulated parties.


(4) The RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must comply with all applicable requirements of this part, regardless of whether the requirements are identified in this section.


(5) The transfer and batch segregation limits specified in § 80.1476(g) do not apply.


(b) *Registration.* The RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must register with EPA under §§ 80.135, 80.1450, and 40 CFR part 1090, subpart I, as applicable.


(c) *Reporting.* The RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must submit reports to EPA under §§ 80.140, 80.1451, and 80.1452, as applicable.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* The RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must create and maintain records under §§ 80.145 and 80.1454.


(e) *PTDs.* On each occasion when the RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator transfers RNG, renewable fuel, or RINs to another party, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under §§ 80.150 and 80.1453, as applicable.


(f) *Sampling, testing, and measurement.* (1) All sampling, testing, and measurements must be done in accordance with § 80.155.


(2)(i) An RNG producer must measure the volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, prior to injection of RNG from the RNG production facility into a natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(ii) An RNG producer that trucks RNG from the RNG production facility to a pipeline interconnect must measure the volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, upon loading and unloading of each truck.


(iii) An RNG producer that injects RNG from an RNG production facility into a natural gas commercial pipeline system must sample and test a representative sample of all the following at least once per calendar year, as applicable:


(A) Biogas used to produce RNG.


(B) RNG before blending with non-renewable components.


(C) RNG after blending with non-renewable components.


(iv) A party that upgrades biogas to treated biogas must separately measure all the following, as applicable:


(A) The volume of biogas, in Btu HHV, used to produce treated biogas, a biogas-derived renewable fuel, or as a biointermediate.


(B) The volume of treated biogas, in Btu HHV, prior to addition of any non-renewable components.


(C) The volume of biointermediate or biogas-derived renewable fuel produced from the biogas or treated biogas. If the biogas-derived renewable fuel is renewable CNG/LNG, then this volume must be measured in both Btu HHV and Btu LHV.


(3) A biogas closed distribution RIN generator must measure renewable CNG/LNG in Btu LHV.


(g) *Foreign RNG producer, RNG importer, and foreign biogas closed distribution system RIN generator requirements.* (1)(i) A foreign RNG producer must meet all the requirements that apply to an RNG producer under this part, as well as the additional requirements for foreign RNG producers specified in § 80.160.


(ii) A foreign RNG producer must either generate RINs under § 80.125 or enter into a contract with an RNG importer as specified in § 80.160(e).


(2) An RNG importer must meet all the requirements specified in § 80.160(h).


(3) A foreign biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must meet all the requirements that apply to a biogas closed distribution system RIN generator under this part, as well as the additional requirements for foreign biogas closed distribution system RIN generators specified in § 80.160 and for RIN-generating foreign renewable fuel producers specified in § 80.1466.


(h) *Attest engagements.* The RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must submit annual attest engagement reports to EPA under §§ 80.165 and 80.1464 using procedures specified in 40 CFR 1090.1800 and 1090.1805.


(i) *QAP.* Prior to the generation of a Q-RIN for RNG or biogas-derived renewable fuel, the RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must meet all applicable requirements specified in § 80.170.


(j) *Batches.* (1) A batch of RNG is the total volume of RNG produced at an RNG production facility under a single batch pathway for the calendar month, in Btu LHV, as determined under paragraph (j)(4) of this section.


(2) A batch of biogas-derived renewable fuel must comply with the requirements specified in § 80.1426(d).


(3) The RNG producer, RNG importer, or biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must assign a number (the “batch number”) to each batch of RNG or biogas-derived renewable fuel consisting of their EPA-issued company registration number, the EPA-issued facility registration number, the last two digits of the calendar year in which the batch was produced, and a unique number for the batch, beginning with the number one for the first batch produced each calendar year and each subsequent batch during the calendar year being assigned the next sequential number (*e.g.,* 4321-54321-23-000001, 4321-54321-23-000002, etc.).


(4) The batch volume of RNG must be calculated as follows:


