# 47.207-3   Description of shipment, origin, and destination.

(a) *Origin of shipments.* The contracting officer shall include in solicitations full details regarding the location from which the freight is to be shipped. For example, if a single location is shown, furnish the shipper's name, street address, city, State, and ZIP code. If several or indefinite locations are involved, as in the case of multiple shippers or drayage contracts, describe the area of origin including boundaries and ZIP codes.


(b) *Destination of shipments.* The contracting officer shall include full details regarding delivery points. For example, if a single delivery point is shown, furnish the consignee's name, street address, city, State, and ZIP code. If several or indefinite delivery points are involved, describe the delivery area, including boundaries and ZIP codes.


(c) *Description of the freight.* The contracting officer shall include in solicitations—


(1) An inventory if the freight consists of nonbulk items; and


(2) The freight classification description, which should be obtained from the transportation office. If a freight classification description is not available, use a clear nontechnical description. Include additional details necessary to ensure that the prospective offerors have complete information about the freight; e.g., size, weight, hazardous material, whether packed for export, or unusual value.


(d) *Exclusion of freight.* The contracting officer shall (1) clearly identify any freight or types of shipments that are subject to exclusion; e.g., bulk freight, hazardous commodities, or shipments under or over specified weights; and (2) insert a clause substantially the same as the clause at 52.247-7, Freight Excluded, when any commodities or types of shipments have been identified for exclusion.


(e) *Quantity.* (1) The contracting officer shall state the actual weight of the freight or a reasonably accurate estimate. The following are examples:


(i) If the contract covers transportation services required over an extended period of time, include a schedule of actual or estimated tonnage or number of items to be transported per week, month, or other time period.


(ii) If the contract covers a group movement of household goods, give an estimate of the aggregate weights and the basis for determining the aggregate weight.


(2) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.247-8, Estimated Weights or Quantities Not Guaranteed, when weights or quantities are estimates.




