# § 438.505   General rule and applicability.

(a) *General rule.* As part of its quality assessment and improvement strategy for its managed care program, each State contracting with an applicable managed care plan, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, to furnish services to Medicaid beneficiaries—


(1)(i) Must adopt the QRS framework developed by CMS, which must implement either the MAC QRS methodology developed by CMS or an alternative MAC QRS rating methodology approved by CMS in accordance with § 438.515(c) of this subpart.


(ii) May, in addition to the MAC QRS framework adopted under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, implement website features in addition to those identified in § 438.520(a), as described in § 438.520(c).


(2) Must implement such managed care quality rating system by the end of the fourth calendar year following July 9, 2024, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.


(3) Must use the State's beneficiary support system implemented under § 438.71 to provide the services identified at § 438.71(b)(1)(i) and (ii) to beneficiaries, enrollees, or both seeking assistance using the managed care quality rating system implemented by the State under this subpart.


(b) *Applicability.* The provisions of this subpart apply to States contracting with MCOs, PIHPs, and PAHPs for the delivery of services covered under Medicaid. The provisions of this subpart do not apply to Medicare Advantage Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans that contract with States for only Medicaid coverage of Medicare cost sharing.


(c) *Continued alignment.* To maintain the QRS framework, CMS aligns the mandatory measure set and methodology described in §§ 438.510 and 438.515 of this subpart, to the extent appropriate, with the qualified health plan quality rating system developed in accordance with 45 CFR 156.1120, the MA and Part D quality rating system, and other similar CMS quality measurement and rating initiatives.






