# ยง 1102.6   Definitions.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part.


(b) For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Additional information* means any information that the Commission determines is in the public interest to include in the Publicly Available Consumer Product Safety Information Database.


(2) *Commission or CPSC* means the Consumer Product Safety Commission.


(3) *Consumer product* means a consumer product as defined in section 3(a)(5) of the CPSA, and also includes any other products or substances regulated by the Commission under any other act it administers.


(4) *Harm* means injury, illness, or death; or risk of injury, illness, or death, as determined by the Commission.


(5) *Mandatory recall notice* means any notice to the public required of a firm pursuant to an order issued by the Commission under section 15(c) of the CPSA.


(6) *Manufacturer comment* means a comment made by a manufacturer or private labeler of a consumer product in response to a report of harm transmitted to such manufacturer or private labeler.


(7) *Publicly Available Consumer Product Safety Information Database,* also referred to as the Database, means the database on the safety of consumer products established and maintained by the CPSC as described in section 6A of the CPSA.


(8) *Report of harm* means any information submitted to the Commission through the manner described in ยง 1102.10(b), regarding any injury, illness, or death; or any risk of injury, illness, or death, as determined by the Commission, relating to the use of a consumer product.


(9) *Submitter of a report of harm* means any person or entity that submits a report of harm.


(10) *Voluntary recall notice* means any notice to the public by the Commission relating to a voluntary corrective action, including a voluntary recall of a consumer product, taken by a manufacturer in consultation with the Commission.




