# ยง 337.2   Oath administered by USCIS or EOIR.

(a) *Public ceremony.* An applicant for naturalization who has elected to have his or her oath of allegiance administered by USCIS or an immigration judge and is not subject to the exclusive oath administration authority of an eligible court pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act must appear in person in a public ceremony, unless such appearance is specifically excused under the terms and conditions set forth in this part. Such ceremony will be held at a time and place designated by USCIS or EOIR within the United States (or abroad as permitted for certain applicants in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1443a) and within the jurisdiction where the application for naturalization was filed, or into which the application for naturalization was transferred pursuant to 8 CFR 335.9. Naturalization ceremonies will be conducted at regular intervals as frequently as necessary to ensure timely naturalization, but in all events at least once monthly where it is required to minimize unreasonable delays. Naturalization ceremonies will be presented in such a manner as to preserve the dignity and significance of the occasion.


(b) *Authority to administer oath of allegiance.* The Secretary may delegate authority to administer the oath of allegiance prescribed in section 337 of the Act to such officials of DHS and to immigration judges or officials designated by the Attorney General as may be necessary for the efficient administration of the naturalization program.


(c) *Execution of questionnaire.* Immediately prior to being administered the oath of allegiance, each applicant must complete the questionnaire on the form designated by USCIS. USCIS will review each completed questionnaire and may further question the applicant regarding the responses provided. If derogatory information is revealed, USCIS will remove the applicant's name from the list of eligible persons as provided in 8 CFR 335.5 and he or she will not be administered the oath.



---

[N] [76 FR 53802, Aug. 29, 2011]




