# § 721.11051   Waste plastics, poly(ethylene terephthalate), depolymd. with polypropylene glycol ether with glycerol (3:1), polymers with alkenoic and alkanoic acids (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as waste plastics, poly(ethylene terephthalate), depolymd. with polypropylene glycol ether with glycerol (3:1), polymers with alkenoic and alkanoic acids (PMN P-16-579) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3) and (4), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(5) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50), (a)(6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set 1.0%), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1) (required label statements: This substance may cause respiratory and dermal irritation. This substance may cause irritation of the mucous membranes. This substance may cause respiratory and dermal sensitization. This substance may cause mutagenicity), (g)(2)(i) through (v), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (an ultraviolet curable coating resin). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance with an average molecular weight less than 1,100 Daltons.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 43297, Aug. 20, 2019]




