# § 9.44   Solano County Green Valley.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Green Valley” qualified by the words “Solano County” in direct conjunction with the name “Green Valley.” On a label the words “Solano County” may be reduced in type size to the minimum allowed in 27 CFR 4.38(b).


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the Green Valley viticultural area are two U.S.G.S. maps. They are titled:


(1) “Mt. George Quadrangle, California”, 7.5 minute series (1968); and


(2) “Cordelia Quadrangle, California”, 7.5 minute series (1968).


(c) *Boundaries.* The Green Valley viticultural area is located in Solano County, California. The beginning point is the intersection of the township line identified as T6N/T5N with the westernmost point of the Solano County/Napa County line on the north border of Section 4, located on U.S.G.S. map “Mt. George Quadrangle.”


(1) From the beginning point, the boundary runs in a southerly direction along the Napa/Solano County border to State Road 12;


(2) Thence east along State Road 12 to where it intersects with Interstate 80;


(3) Thence southwest on Interstate 80 to where it intersects with the Southern Pacific Railroad track;


(4) Thence in an easterly direction along the Southern Pacific Railroad track to where it intersects with range line “R3W/R2W”;


(5) Thence due north on range line “R3W/R2W” to where it intersects with the Solano County/Napa County line;


(6) Thence due west along the Solano County/Napa County line to the point of beginning.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-122, 47 FR 37922, Dec. 29, 1982]




