# ยง 334.860   San Diego Bay, Calif., Naval Amphibious Base; restricted area.

(a) *The Area.* The water of the Pacific Ocean in Middle San Diego Bay in an area extending from the northern and eastern boundary of the Naval Amphibious Base about 0.1 nautical miles and 0.6 nautical miles from the southern shoreline and basically outlined as follows:


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Swimming, fishing, waterskiing, mooring or anchoring shall not be allowed within the restricted area.


(2) A portion of the restricted area extending 120 feet from pierheads and from the low water mark on shore where piers do not exist is closed to all persons and vessels except those owned by, under hire to, or performing work for, the Naval Amphibious Base.


(3) All vessels entering the restricted area shall proceed across the area by the most direct route and without unnecessary delay. For vessels under sail, necessary tacking shall constitute a direct route.


(4) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Naval Amphibious Base, Coronado, California, and such agencies as he/she shall designate. Organized activities (such as sail races and regattas) within the restricted area may be allowed providing that a request has been made to the Commanding Officer, Naval Amphibious Base, Coronado, San Diego, California 92155 or by calling, telephone number (619) 522-4833 at least 10 days prior to the event.



---

[N] [49 FR 49453, Dec. 20, 1984. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985]




