# § 63.1574   What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) Except as allowed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, you must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.6(h), 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), 63.8(f)(4), 63.8(f)(6), and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you by the dates specified. 


(1) You must submit the notification of your intention to construct or reconstruct according to § 63.9(b)(5) unless construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before April 11, 2002. In this case, you must submit the notification as soon as practicable before startup but no later than July 10, 2002. This deadline also applies to the application for approval of construction or reconstruction and approval of construction or reconstruction based on State preconstruction review required in §§ 63.5(d)(1)(i) and 63.5(f)(2).


(2) You must submit the notification of intent to conduct a performance test required in § 63.7(b) at least 30 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin (instead of 60 days). 


(3) If you are required to conduct an initial performance test, performance evaluation, design evaluation, opacity observation, visible emission observation, or other initial compliance demonstration, you must submit a notification of compliance status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). You can submit this information in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submission, or in any combination. In a State with an approved operating permit program where delegation of authority under section 112(l) of the CAA has not been requested or approved, you must provide a duplicate notification to the applicable Regional Administrator. If the required information has been submitted previously, you do not have to provide a separate notification of compliance status. Just refer to the earlier submissions instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information.


(i) For each initial compliance demonstration that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 30 calendar days following completion of the initial compliance demonstration. 


(ii) For each initial compliance demonstration that includes a performance test, you must submit the notification of compliance status no later than 150 calendar days after the compliance date specified for your affected source in § 63.1563. For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results in accordance with § 63.1575(k)(1)(i) by the date that you submit the Notification of Compliance Status, and you must include the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted in the Notification of Compliance Status. For performance evaluations of continuous monitoring systems (CMS) measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results in accordance with § 63.1575(k)(2)(i) by the date that you submit the Notification of Compliance Status, and you must include the process unit where the CMS is installed, the parameter measured by the CMS, and the date that the performance evaluation was conducted in the Notification of Compliance Status. All other performance test and performance evaluation results (*i.e.,* those not supported by EPA's ERT) must be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status.


(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you startup your new affected source before April 11, 2002, you must submit the initial notification no later than August 9, 2002, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(c) If you startup your new or reconstructed affected source on or after April 11, 2002, you must submit the initial notification no later than 120 days after you become subject to this subpart.


(d) You also must include the information in Table 42 of this subpart in your notification of compliance status. 


(e) If you request an extension of compliance for an existing catalytic cracking unit as allowed in § 63.1563(c), you must submit a notification to your permitting authority containing the required information by October 13, 2003. 


(f) As required by this subpart, you must prepare and implement an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan for each control system and continuous monitoring system for each affected source. The purpose of this plan is to detail the operation, maintenance, and monitoring procedures you will follow. 


(1) You must submit the plan to your permitting authority for review and approval along with your notification of compliance status. While you do not have to include the entire plan in your permit under part 70 or 71 of this chapter, you must include the duty to prepare and implement the plan as an applicable requirement in your part 70 or 71 operating permit. You must submit any changes to your permitting authority for review and approval and comply with the plan as submitted until the change is approved.


(2) Each plan must include, at a minimum, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (xii) of this section.


(i) Process and control device parameters to be monitored for each affected source, along with established operating limits. 


(ii) Procedures for monitoring emissions and process and control device operating parameters for each affected source.


(iii) Procedures that you will use to determine the coke burn-rate, the volumetric flow rate (if you use process data rather than direct measurement), and the rate of combustion of liquid or solid fossil fuels if you use an incinerator-waste heat boiler to burn the exhaust gases from a catalyst regenerator.


(iv) Procedures and analytical methods you will use to determine the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration, the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration monthly rolling average, and the hourly or hourly average Ni operating value.


(v) Procedures you will use to determine the pH of the water (or scrubbing liquid) exiting a wet scrubber if you use pH strips.


(vi) Procedures you will use to determine the HCl concentration of gases from a catalytic reforming unit when you use a colormetric tube sampling system, including procedures for correcting for pressure (if applicable to the sampling equipment) and the sampling locations that will be used for compliance monitoring purposes.


(vii) Procedures you will use to determine the gas flow rate for a catalytic cracking unit if you use the alternative procedure based on air flow rate and temperature.


(viii) Monitoring schedule, including when you will monitor and when you will not monitor an affected source (e.g., during the coke burn-off, regeneration process).


(ix) Quality control plan for each continuous opacity monitoring system and continuous emission monitoring system you use to meet an emission limit in this subpart. This plan must include procedures you will use for calibrations, accuracy audits, and adjustments to the system needed to meet applicable requirements for the system.


(x) Maintenance schedule for each monitoring system and control device for each affected source that is generally consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance.


(xi) If you use a fixed-bed gas-solid adsorption system to control emissions from a catalytic reforming unit, you must implement corrective action procedures if the HCl concentration measured at the selected compliance monitoring sampling location within the bed exceeds the operating limit. These procedures must require, at minimum, repeat measurement and recording of the HCl concentration in the adsorption system exhaust gases and at the selected compliance monitoring sampling location within the bed. If the HCl concentration at the selected compliance monitoring location within the bed is above the operating limit during the repeat measurement while the HCl concentration in the adsorption system exhaust gases remains below the operating limit, the adsorption bed must be replaced as soon as practicable. Your procedures must specify the sampling frequency that will be used to monitor the HCl concentration in the adsorption system exhaust gases subsequent to the repeat measurement and prior to replacement of the sorbent material (but not less frequent than once every 4 hours during coke burn-off). If the HCl concentration of the adsorption system exhaust gases is above the operating limit when measured at any time, the adsorption bed must be replaced within 24 hours or before the next regeneration cycle, whichever is longer.


(xii) Procedures that will be used for purging the catalyst if you do not use a control device to comply with the organic HAP emission limits for catalytic reforming units. These procedures will include, but are not limited to, specification of the minimum catalyst temperature and the minimum cumulative volume of gas per mass of catalyst used for purging prior to uncontrolled releases (i.e., during controlled purging events); the maximum purge gas temperature for uncontrolled purge events; and specification of the monitoring systems that will be used to monitor and record data during each purge event.



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 6941, Feb. 9, 2005; 80 FR 75278, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 60724, Nov. 26, 2018; 85 FR 73901, Nov. 19, 2020]




