# § 147.1500   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of New Hampshire, except those wells on Indian lands, is the program administered by the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, approved by the EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the FR on September 21, 1982 (47 FR 41561); the effective date of this program is October 21, 1982. This program consists of the following elements: 


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of New Hampshire. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated section 149:8 III(a) (1978);


(2) New Hampshire Code of Administrative Rules, Part Wc 410 (Protection of Groundwaters of the State, sections Ws 410.1 through Ws 410.16) (Issue Ws 3-82).


(b)(1) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the New Hampshire Water Supply and Pollution Control Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on August 23, 1982;


(2) Amendment No. 1 to the Memorandum of Agreement, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on July 16, 1982.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) Letter from Attorney General of New Hampshire to Regional Administrator, EPA Region I, “Re: Attorney General's Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” March 23, 1982;


(2) Letter from Attorney General of New Hampshire to Regional Administrator, EPA Region I, “Re: Attorney General's Statement—Underground Injection Control Program,” July 1, 1982.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]




