# § 206.10   What types of services may be provided?

(a) *General.* A grantee may use funds under HEP or CAMP to support approved projects designed to provide academic and supporting services and financial assistance to eligible participants as described in § 206.3. 


(b) *Types of services*—(1) *HEP projects.* A HEP project may provide the following types of services to assist participants in obtaining the equivalent of a secondary school diploma, and as needed, to assure the success of the participants in meeting the project's objectives and in succeeding at the secondary school level and beyond:


(i) Recruitment services to reach persons who are eligible under § 206.3 (a) and (b). 


(ii) Educational services that provide instruction designed to help students pass an examination and obtain a certificate that meets the guidelines for high school equivalency established by the State in which the project is located.


(iii) Supportive services that include the following:


(A) Personal, vocational, and academic counseling;


(B) Placement services designed to place students in a university, college, or junior college program (including preparation for college entrance examinations), or in military services or career positions; and


(C) Health services.


(iv) Information concerning and assistance in obtaining available student financial aid.


(v) Stipends for high school equivalency program participants. 


(vi) Housing for those enrolled in residential programs.


(vii) Exposure to cultural events, academic programs, and other educational and cultural activities usually not available to migrant youth.


(viii) Other essential supportive services, (such as transportation and child care) as needed, to ensure the success of eligible students.


(ix) Other activities to improve persistence and retention in postsecondary education.


(2) *CAMP projects.* A CAMP project may provide the following types of services to assist the participants in meeting the project's objectives and in succeeding in an academic program of study at the IHE: 


(i) Outreach and recruitment services to reach persons who are eligible under § 206.3 (a) and (c). 


(ii) Supportive and instructional services to improve placement, persistence, and retention in postsecondary education, including:


(A) Personal, academic, career economic education, or personal finance counseling as an ongoing part of the program;


(B) Tutoring and academic-skillbuilding instruction and assistance;


(C) Assistance with special admissions;


(D) Health services; and


(E) Other services as necessary to assist students in completing program requirements.


(iii) Assistance in obtaining student financial aid that includes, but is not limited to, the following:


(A) Stipends.


(B) Scholarships.


(C) Student travel.


(D) Career-oriented work-study.


(E) Books and supplies.


(F) Tuition and fees.


(G) Room and board.


(H) Other assistance necessary to assist students in completing their first year of college or university.


(iv) Housing support for students living in institutional facilities and commuting students.


(v) Exposure to cultural events, academic programs, and other activities not usually available to migrant youth.


(vi) Internships.


(vii) Other essential supportive services (such as transportation and child care) as necessary to ensure the success of eligible students.


(c) The health services, and other financial support services provided to participating students must:


(1) Be necessary to ensure their participation in the HEP or CAMP; and


(2) Not detract, because of the amount, from the basic educational services provided under those programs.



---

[N] [46 FR 35075, July 6, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 24920, July 1, 1987; 57 FR 60407, Dec. 18, 1992; 75 FR 65770, Oct. 26, 2010] 




