# ยง 611.1265   Retirement of a terminating association's investment in its affiliated bank.

(a) *Safety and soundness restrictions.* Notwithstanding anything in this subpart to the contrary, we may prohibit a bank from retiring the equities you hold in the bank if the retirement would cause the bank to fall below its regulatory capital requirements after retirement, or if we determine that the bank would be in an unsafe or unsound condition after retirement.


(b) *Retirement agreement.* Your affiliated bank may retire the purchased and allocated equities held by your institution in the bank according to the terms of the bank's capital revolvement plan or an agreement between you and the bank.


(c) *Retirement in absence of agreement.* Your affiliated bank must retire any equities not subject to an agreement or revolvement plan no later than when you or the successor institution pays off your loan from the bank.


(d) *No retirement of unallocated surplus.* When your bank retires equities you own in the bank, the bank must pay par or face value for purchased and allocated equities, less any impairment. The bank may not pay you any portion of its unallocated surplus.


(e) *Exclusion of equities from capital ratios.* If another Farm Credit institution makes an agreement to retire equities you hold in that institution after termination, we may require that institution to exclude part or all of those equities from assets and capital when the institution calculates its regulatory capital under parts 615 and 628 of this chapter.



---

[N] [71 FR 44420, Aug. 4, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 49772, July 28, 2016]




