# ยง 80.1470   RIN replacement mechanisms for Option A independent third party auditors.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to independent third-party auditors using a QAP approved under Option A pursuant to ยง 80.1469(a) and (d) during the interim period.


(b) *Requirements.* An independent third party auditor must establish or participate in the establishment of a RIN replacement mechanism. The RIN replacement mechanism must fulfill, at a minimum, all the following conditions:


(1) The RIN replacement mechanism must be capable of fulfilling the independent third party auditor's RIN replacement responsibility, as described in ยง 80.1474(b)(5)(i).


(2) The independent third party auditor is responsible for calculating and maintaining the minimum coverage afforded by the RIN replacement mechanism at all times.


(3) RINs held by the RIN replacement mechanism (if any) must be identified in a unique EMTS account designated for the exclusive use of the replacement mechanism.


(4) Distribution and removal of RINs from the replacement mechanism may not be under the sole operational control of the third-party auditor.


(5) An originally signed duplicate of the agreement or contract establishing the RIN replacement mechanism must be submitted to the EPA by the independent third party auditor in accordance with ยง 80.1450(g)(7).


(6) Any substantive change to the agreement establishing the RIN replacement mechanism must be submitted to the EPA within 30 days of the change.


(c) *Cap on RIN replacement for independent third party auditors of A-RINs.* (1) If required to replace invalid A-RINs pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the independent third party auditor shall be required to replace no more than the percentage specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section of each D code of A-RINs verified by the auditor in the current calendar year and four previous calendar years.


(2) The cap on RIN replacement for auditors of A-RINs shall be two percent for A-RINs generated in the interim period.


(3) The auditor's potential replacement responsibility for a given RIN will expire at the end of the fourth calendar year after the calendar year in which the RIN was verified.


(d) *Applicability of the RIN replacement cap.* The cap on RIN replacement does not apply when invalid verified RINs are a result of auditor error, omission, negligence, fraud, collusion with the renewable fuel producer, or a failure to implement the QAP properly or fully.



---

[N] [79 FR 42121, July 18, 2014]




