# ยง 75.351   Subrecipient and contractor determinations.

The non-Federal entity may concurrently receive Federal awards as a recipient, a subrecipient, and a contractor, depending on the substance of its agreements with HHS awarding agencies and pass-through entities. Therefore, a pass-through entity must make case-by-case determinations whether each agreement it makes for the disbursement of Federal program funds casts the party receiving the funds in the role of a subrecipient or a contractor. The HHS awarding agency may supply and require recipients to comply with additional guidance to support these determinations provided such guidance does not conflict with this section.


(a) *Subrecipients.* A subaward is for the purpose of carrying out a portion of a Federal award and creates a Federal assistance relationship with the subrecipient. See ยง 75.2 *Subaward.* Characteristics which support the classification of the non-Federal entity as a subrecipient include when the non-Federal entity:


(1) Determines who is eligible to receive what Federal assistance;


(2) Has its performance measured in relation to whether objectives of a Federal program were met;


(3) Has responsibility for programmatic decision making;


(4) Is responsible for adherence to applicable Federal program requirements specified in the Federal award; and


(5) In accordance with its agreement, uses the Federal funds to carry out a program for a public purpose specified in authorizing statute, as opposed to providing goods or services for the benefit of the pass-through entity.


(b) *Contractors.* A contract is for the purpose of obtaining goods and services for the non-Federal entity's own use and creates a procurement relationship with the contractor. See ยง 75.2 *Contract.* Characteristics indicative of a procurement relationship between the non-Federal entity and a contractor are when the contractor:


(1) Provides the goods and services within normal business operations;


(2) Provides similar goods or services to many different purchasers;


(3) Normally operates in a competitive environment;


(4) Provides goods or services that are ancillary to the operation of the Federal program; and


(5) Is not subject to compliance requirements of the Federal program as a result of the agreement, though similar requirements may apply for other reasons.


(c) *Use of judgment in making determination.* In determining whether an agreement between a pass-through entity and another non-Federal entity casts the latter as a subrecipient or a contractor, the substance of the relationship is more important than the form of the agreement. All of the characteristics listed above may not be present in all cases, and the pass-through entity must use judgment in classifying each agreement as a subaward or a procurement contract.



---

[N] [79 FR 75889, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 3016, Jan. 20, 2016]




