# § 400.13   General conditions, prohibitions and restrictions applicable to authorized zones.

(a) *In general.* Grants of authority issued by the Board for the establishment of zones and any authority subsequently approved for such zones, including those already issued, are subject to the Act and this part and the following general conditions or limitations:


(1) Prior to activation of a zone, the zone grantee or operator shall obtain all necessary permits from federal, state and local authorities, and except as otherwise specified in the Act or this part, shall comply with the requirements of those authorities.


(2) A grant of authority approved under this part includes authority for the grantee to permit the erection of buildings necessary to carry out the approved zone (subject to concurrence of CBP for an activated area of a zone).


(3) Approvals from the grantee (or other party acting on behalf of the grantee, where applicable) and CBP, pursuant to 19 CFR part 146, are required prior to the activation of any portion of an approved zone.


(4) Authority for a zone or a subzone shall lapse unless the zone (in case of subzones, the subzone facility) is activated, pursuant to 19 CFR part 146, and in operation not later than five years from the authorization of the zone or subzone, subject to the provisions of Board Order 849 (61 FR 53305, October 11, 1996).


(5) Zone grantees, operators, and users (and persons undertaking zone-related functions on behalf of grantees, where applicable) shall permit federal government officials acting in an official capacity to have access to the zone and records during normal business hours and under other reasonable circumstances.


(6) Activity involving production is subject to the specific provisions in § 400.14.


(7) A grant of authority may not be sold, conveyed, transferred, set over, or assigned (FTZ Act, section 17; 19 U.S.C. 81q).


(8) Private ownership of zone land and facilities is permitted, provided the zone grantee retains the control necessary to implement the approved zone. Such permission shall not constitute a vested right to zone designation, nor interfere with the Board's regulation of the grantee or the permittee, nor interfere with or complicate the revocation of the grant by the Board. Grantees shall retain a level of control which allows the grantee to carry out its responsibilities as grantee. The sale of zone-designated land/facility for more than its fair market value without zone designation could, depending on the circumstances, be subject to the prohibitions set forth in section 17 of the Act (19 U.S.C. 81q).




(b) *Board authority to restrict or prohibit activity.* Pursuant to section 15(c) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 81o(c)), the Board has authority to “order the exclusion from [a] zone of any goods or process of treatment that in its judgment is detrimental to the public interest, health, or safety.” In approvals of proposed production authority pursuant to § 400.14(a), the Board may adopt restrictions to protect the public interest, health, or safety. When evaluating production activity, either as proposed in an application or as part of a review of an operation, the Board shall determine whether the activity is in the public interest by reviewing it in relation to the evaluation criteria contained in § 400.27.


(c) *Restrictions on items subject to antidumping and countervailing duty actions*—(1) *Board policy.* Zone procedures shall not be used to circumvent antidumping duty (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) actions under 19 CFR part 351.


(2) *Admission of items subject to AD/CVD actions.* Items subject to AD/CVD orders, or items which would be otherwise subject to suspension of liquidation under AD/CVD procedures if they entered U.S. customs territory, shall be placed in privileged foreign status (19 CFR 146.41) upon admission to a zone or subzone. Upon entry for consumption, such items shall be subject to duties under AD/CVD orders or to suspension of liquidation, as appropriate, under 19 CFR part 351.


(d) *Additional conditions, prohibitions and restrictions.* Other conditions/requirements, prohibitions and restrictions under Federal, State or local law may apply to authorized zones and subzones.



---

[N] [77 FR 12139, Feb. 28, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 8527, Feb. 8, 2024]




