# ยง 308.170   Filing, content, and service of documents.

(a) *Time to file.* An application and any other pleading or document related to the application shall be filed with the Administrative Officer within 30 days after service of the final order of the Board of Directors in disposition of the proceeding whenever:


(1) The applicant seeks an award pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 504(a)(1) as the prevailing party in the adversary adjudication or in a discrete significant substantive portion of the proceeding; or


(2) The applicant, in an adversary adjudication arising from an action to enforce compliance with a statutory or regulatory requirement, asserts pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 504(a)(4) that the demand by the FDIC is substantially in excess of the decision of the administrative law judge and is unreasonable when compared with such decision under the facts and circumstances of the case.


(b) *Content.* The application and related documents shall conform to the requirements of ยง 308.10(b) and (c) of the Uniform Rules.


(c) *Service.* The application and related documents shall be served on all parties to the adversary adjudication in accordance with ยง 308.11 of the Uniform Rules, except that statements of net worth shall be served only on counsel for the FDIC. 


(d) *Referral.* Upon receipt of an application, the Administrative Officer shall refer the matter to the administrative law judge who heard the underlying adversary proceeding, provided that if the original administrative law judge is unavailable, or the Administrative Officer determines, in his or her sole discretion, that there is cause to refer the matter to a different administrative law judge, the matter shall be referred to a different administrative law judge. 



---

[N] [56 FR 37975, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 62102, Nov. 16, 1999; 86 FR 2250, Jan. 12, 2021]




