# ยง 107.660   Other items required to be filed by Licensee with SBA.

(a) *Reports to owners.* You must give SBA a copy of any report you furnish to your investors, including any prospectus, quarterly or annual valuation data, materials presented to investors during any meetings (including any annual meeting), fund management demographic information, letter, or other publication concerning your financial operations or those of any Portfolio Concern no later than 30 calendar days after you submit the report to your private investors.


(b) *Documents filed with SEC.* You must give SBA a copy of any report, application or document you file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 


(c) *Litigation reports.* When you become a party to litigation or other proceedings, you must give SBA a report within 30 days that describes the proceedings and identifies the other parties involved and your relationship to them. 


(1) The proceedings covered by this paragraph (c) include any action by you, or by your security holder(s) in a personal or derivative capacity, against an officer, director, Investment Adviser or other Associate of yours for alleged breach of official duty. 


(2) SBA may require you to submit copies of the pleadings and other documents SBA may specify. 


(3) Where proceedings have been terminated by settlement or final judgment, you must promptly advise SBA of the terms. 


(4) This paragraph (c) does not apply to collection actions or proceedings to enforce your ordinary creditors' rights. 


(d) *Notification of criminal charges.* If any officer, director, or general partner of the Licensee, or any other person who was required by SBA to complete a personal history statement in connection with your license, is charged with or convicted of any criminal offense other than a misdemeanor involving a minor motor vehicle violation, you must report the incident to SBA within 5 calendar days. Such report must fully describe the facts which pertain to the incident.


(e) *Other reports.* You must file any other reports that SBA may require by written directive. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 5866, Feb. 5, 1998; 88 FR 46011, July 18, 2023]




