# § 110.52   Documentation a survivor must submit for the Secretary to make a determination of eligibility for death benefits.

(a) A requester who is a survivor under § 110.11 must submit the following documentation in order for a determination of eligibility for a death benefit to be made:


(1) All of the documentation required for individuals in § 110.51. There is no need to duplicate documentation already submitted to satisfy the requirements of other subparts in this part. For example, if the deceased injured countermeasure recipient had previously filed, the documentation submitted does not have to be re-submitted; and


(2) A death certificate for the deceased countermeasure recipient. If a death certificate is unavailable, the requester must submit a letter providing the reasons for its unavailability. The Secretary has the discretion to accept other documentation as evidence that the injured countermeasure recipient is deceased; and


(3) Medical records sufficient to establish that the deceased injured countermeasure recipient died as the result of the covered injury or its health complications. Such medical records may be the same as those required under § 110.50. If an autopsy was performed, the requester must submit a complete copy of the final autopsy report; and


(4) Documentation showing that the requester is an eligible survivor, pursuant to § 110.11 (*e.g.,* birth certificate or marriage certificate); and


(5) Verification, on the place provided on the Request Form, either that there are no other eligible survivors (*e.g.,* for surviving eligible children, that there is no surviving spouse, no other surviving eligible children, and no other surviving dependents younger than the age of 18 who may be eligible for the death benefit under the alternative calculation) or that other eligible survivors exist (along with the information known about such survivors). Section 110.11 describes eligible survivors and the priorities of survivorship; and


(6) Even if a Request Form had previously been filed by the injured countermeasure recipient, the survivor(s) must submit a new Request Form.


(b) [Reserved]




