# § 711.15   Reporting information to EPA.

Any person who must report under this part, as described in § 711.8, must submit the information described in this section for each chemical substance described in § 711.5 that the person manufactured (including imported) for commercial purposes in an amount of 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more (or in an amount of 2,500 lb (1,134 kg) or more for chemical substances subject to the rules, orders, or actions described in § 711.8(b)) at any one site during any calendar year since the last principal reporting year (*e.g.,* for the 2020 submission period, consider calendar years 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019, because 2015 was the last principal reporting year). The principal reporting year for each submission period is the previous calendar year (*e.g.,* the principal reporting year for the 2020 submission period is calendar year 2019). For all submission periods, a separate report must be submitted for each chemical substance at each site for which the submitter is required to report. A submitter of information under this part must report information as described in this section to the extent that such information is known to or reasonably ascertainable by that person.


(a) *Reporting information to EPA.* Any person who reports information to EPA must complete a Form U using the e-CDRweb reporting tool provided by EPA at the address set forth in § 711.35. The submission must include all information described in paragraph (b) of this section. Persons must submit the chemical reports on a separate single Form U for each site for which the person is required to report. The e-CDRweb reporting tool is described in the instructions available from EPA at the website set forth in § 711.35.


(b) *Information to be reported.* The information described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section must be reported for each chemical substance manufactured (including imported) in an amount of 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more (or in an amount of 2,500 lb (1,134 kg) or more for chemical substances subject to the rules, orders, or actions described in § 711.8(b)) at any one site during any calendar year since the last principal reporting year. The requirement to report information described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section is subject to exemption as described in § 711.6.


(1) *A certification statement signed and dated by an authorized official of the submitter company.* The authorized official must certify that the submitted information has been completed in compliance with the requirements of this part and that the confidentiality claims made on the Form U are true and correct. The certification must be signed and dated by the authorized official for the submitter company, and provide that person's name, official title, and email address.


(2) *Company and site information.* The following currently correct parent company and site information at the date of CDR submission must be reported for each site at which a reportable chemical substance is manufactured (including imported) above the applicable production volume threshold, as described in this section (see § 711.3 for the “site” for importers and special situations).


(i) The legal name, address, and Dun and Bradstreet D-U-N-S® (D&B) number for the highest-level parent company located in the United States and, if one exists, for the highest-level foreign-based parent company. A submitter under this part must obtain a D&B number for the parent company if none exists and must report using the standardized conventions for the naming of a parent company as provided in the CDR Instructions for Reporting identified in § 711.35.


(ii) The name of a person who will serve as technical contact for the submitter company who will be able to answer questions about the information submitted by the company to EPA, and that technical contact person's full mailing address, telephone number, and email address.


(iii) The legal name and full street address of each site. A submitter under this part must include the appropriate D&B number for each site reported, and the county or parish (or other jurisdictional indicator) in which the site is located. A submitter under this part must obtain a D&B number for the site reported if none exists. For a co-manufacturing situation in which the contracting company initiates the report, the contracting company must report both the site controlling the contract and the producing company's site information.


(iv) The six-digit NAICS code for the site. A submitter under this part must include the appropriate six-digit NAICS code for each site reported.


(3) *Chemical-specific information.* The following chemical-specific information must be reported for each reportable chemical substance manufactured (including imported) above the applicable production volume threshold, as described in paragraph (b) of this section:


(i) The specific, currently correct CA Index name as used to list the chemical substance on the TSCA Inventory and the correct corresponding CASRN for each reportable chemical substance at each site. Submitters who wish to report chemical substances listed on the confidential portion of the TSCA Inventory will need to report the chemical substance using the corresponding TSCA Accession Number that is listed on the public portion of the Inventory. In addition to reporting the chemical identifying number itself, submitters must specify the type of number they are reporting by selecting from among the codes in Table 1 to paragraph (b)(3)(i).


(A) If an importer submitting a report cannot provide the information specified in this paragraph (b)(3)(i) because it is unknown to the importer and claimed as confidential by the supplier of the chemical substance or mixture, the importer must use e-CDRweb to ask the supplier to provide the correct chemical identity and, in the case of a mixture, the percentage of formulation and chemical function information directly to EPA in a joint submission. Such request must include instructions for submitting chemical identity information electronically, using e-CDRweb and CDX (see § 711.35), and for clearly referencing the importer's submission. Contact information for the supplier, a trade name or other designation for the chemical substance or mixture, and a copy of the request to the supplier must be included with the importer's submission.


(B) If a manufacturer submitting a report cannot provide the information specified in this paragraph (b)(3)(i) because the reportable chemical substance is manufactured using a reactant having a specific chemical identity that is unknown to the manufacturer and claimed as confidential by its supplier, the manufacturer must use e-CDRweb to ask the supplier of the confidential reactant to provide the correct chemical identity of the confidential reactant directly to EPA in a joint submission. Such request must include instructions for submitting chemical identity information electronically using e-CDRweb and CDX (see § 711.35), and for clearly referencing the manufacturer's submission. Contact information for the supplier, a trade name or other designation for the chemical substance, and a copy of the request to the supplier must be included with the importer's submission.


(C) EPA will accept only joint submissions that are submitted electronically using e-CDRweb and CDX (see § 711.35) and that clearly reference the primary submission to which they refer.


(ii) For the principal reporting year only, a statement indicating, for each reportable chemical substance at each site, whether the chemical substance is manufactured in the United States, imported into the United States, or both manufactured in the United States and imported into the United States.


(iii) For the principal reporting year only, the total annual volume (in pounds) of each reportable chemical substance domestically manufactured or imported at each site. The total annual domestically manufactured volume (not including imported volume) and the total annual imported volume must be separately reported. These amounts must be reported to two significant figures of accuracy. In addition, the total annual volume (domestically manufactured plus imported volumes in pounds) of each reportable chemical substance at each site for each complete calendar year since the last principal reporting year.


(iv) For the principal reporting year only, the volume used on site and the volume directly exported of each reportable chemical substance domestically manufactured or imported at each site. These amounts must be reported to two significant figures of accuracy.


(v) For the principal reporting year only, a designation indicating, for each imported reportable chemical substance at each site, whether the imported chemical substance is physically present at the reporting site.


(vi) For the principal reporting year only, a designation indicating, for each reportable chemical substance at each site, whether the chemical substance is being recycled or otherwise used for a commercial purpose instead of being disposed of as a waste or included in a waste stream.


(vii) For the principal reporting year only, the total number of workers reasonably likely to be exposed to each reportable chemical substance at each site. For each reportable chemical substance at each site, the submitter must select from among the ranges of workers listed in Table 2 to paragraph (b)(3)(vii) and report the corresponding code (*i.e.,* W1 through W8):


(viii) For the principal reporting year only, the maximum concentration, measured by percentage of weight, of each reportable chemical substance at the time it is sent off-site from each site. If the chemical substance is site-limited, you must report the maximum concentration, measured by percentage of weight of the reportable chemical substance at the time it is reacted on-site to produce a different chemical substance. This information must be reported regardless of the physical form(s) in which the chemical substance is sent off-site/reacted on-site. For each chemical substance at each site, select the maximum concentration of the chemical substance from among the ranges listed in Table 3 to paragraph (b)(3)(viii) and report the corresponding code (*i.e.,* M1 through M5):


(ix) For the principal reporting year only, the physical form(s) of the reportable chemical substance as it is sent off-site from each site. If the chemical substance is site-limited, you must report the physical form(s) of the reportable chemical substance at the time it is reacted on-site to produce a different chemical substance. For each chemical substance at each site, the submitter must report as many physical forms as applicable from among the physical forms listed in this Unit:


(A) Dry powder.


(B) Pellets or large crystals.


(C) Water- or solvent-wet solid.


(D) Other solid.


(E) Gas or vapor.


(F) Liquid.


(x) For the principal reporting year only, submitters must report the percentage, rounded off to the closest 10 percent, of total production volume of the reportable chemical substance, reported in response to paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, that is associated with each physical form reported under paragraph (b)(3)(ix) of this section.


(4) *Chemical-specific information related to processing and use.* The following chemical-specific information must be reported for each reportable chemical substance manufactured (including imported) above the applicable production volume threshold, as described in this section. Persons subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section must report the information described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section for each reportable chemical substance at sites under their control and at sites that receive a reportable chemical substance from the submitter directly or indirectly (including through a broker/distributor, from a customer of the submitter, *etc.*). Information reported in response to this paragraph must be reported for the principal reporting year only and only to the extent that it is known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. Information required to be reported under this paragraph is limited to domestic (*i.e.,* within the customs territory of the United States) processing and use activities. If information responsive to a given data requirement under this paragraph, including information in the form of an estimate, is not known or reasonably ascertainable, the submitter is not required to respond to the requirement.


(i) *Industrial processing and use information.* (A) A designation indicating the type of industrial processing or use operation(s) at each site that receives a reportable chemical substance from the submitter site directly or indirectly (whether the recipient site(s) are controlled by the submitter site or not). For each chemical substance, report the letters which correspond to the appropriate processing or use operation(s) listed in Table 4 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A). A particular designation may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one sector (under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section) that applies to a given designation under this paragraph.


(B) A code indicating the sector(s) that best describe the industrial activities associated with each industrial processing or use operation reported under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) of this section. For each chemical substance, report the code that corresponds to the appropriate sector(s) listed in Table 5 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B). A particular sector code may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one function code (under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) of this section) that applies to a given sector code under this paragraph.


(C) For each sector reported under paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section, the applicable code(s) from Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) must be selected to designate the function category(ies) that best represents the specific manner in which the chemical substance is used. For the 2020 submission period:


(*1*) Use column A in Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) for chemical substances designated in 2019 as high priority for risk evaluation (those chemicals listed in Table 7 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C)); and


(*2*) Use either column A or B in Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) for chemical substances not listed in Table 7 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C). For the 2024 and future submission periods, use only column A in Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C). A particular function category may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one industrial processing or use operation/sector combination (under paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) and (B) of this section) that applies to a given function category under this paragraph. If more than 10 unique combinations of industrial processing or use operations/sector/function categories apply to a chemical substance, submitters need only report the 10 unique combinations for the chemical substance that cumulatively represent the largest percentage of the submitter's production volume for that chemical substance, measured by weight. If none of the listed function categories accurately describes a use of a chemical substance, the category “Other” may be used, and must include a description of the use.


(D) The estimated percentage, rounded off to the closest 10 percent, of total production volume of the reportable chemical substance associated with each combination of industrial processing or use operation, sector, and function category. Where a particular combination of industrial processing or use operation, sector, and function category accounts for less than 5 percent of the submitter's site's total production volume of a reportable chemical substance, the percentage must not be rounded off to 0 percent if the production volume attributable to that industrial processing or use operation, sector, and function category combination is 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more during the reporting year. Instead, in such a case, submitters must report the percentage, rounded off to the closest 1 percent, of the submitter's site's total production volume of the reportable chemical substance associated with the particular combination of industrial processing or use operation, sector, and function category.


(E) For each combination of industrial processing or use operation, sector, and function category, the submitter must estimate the number of sites at which each reportable chemical substance is processed or used. For each combination associated with each chemical substance, the submitter must select from among the ranges of sites listed in Table 8 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(E) and report the corresponding code (*i.e.,* S1 through S7):


(F) For each combination of industrial processing or use operation, sector, and function category, the submitter must estimate the number of workers reasonably likely to be exposed to each reportable chemical substance. For each combination associated with each chemical substance, the submitter must select from among the worker ranges listed in paragraph (b)(3)(vii) of this section and report the corresponding code (*i.e.,* W1 though W8).


(ii) *Consumer and commercial use information.* (A) Using the applicable codes listed in Table 9 to paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A), submitters must designate the consumer and commercial product category(ies) that best describe the consumer and commercial products in which each reportable chemical substance is used (whether the recipient site(s) are controlled by the submitter site or not). For the 2020 submission period:


(*1*) Use column A in Table 9 to paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) for chemical substances designated in 2019 as high priority for risk evaluation (those chemicals listed in Table 7 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C); and


(*2*) Use either column A or B in Table 9 to paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) for chemical substances not listed in Table 7 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C). For the 2024 and future submission periods, use only column A in Table 9 to paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A). If more than 10 codes apply to a chemical substance, submitters need only report the 10 codes for the chemical substance that cumulatively represent the largest percentage of the submitter's production volume for that chemical, measured by weight. If none of the listed consumer and commercial product categories accurately describes the consumer and commercial products in which each reportable chemical substance is used, the category “Other” may be used, and must include a description of the use.


(B) For each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, the applicable code(s) described in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) of this section must be selected to designate the function category(ies) that best represents the specific manner in which the chemical substance is used. For the 2020 submission period:


(*1*) Use column A in Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) for chemical substances designated in 2019 as high priority for risk evaluation (those chemicals listed in Table 7 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C); and


(*2*) Use either column A or B in Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C) for chemical substances not listed in Table 7 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C). For the 2024 and future submission periods, use only column A in Table 6 to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(C). A particular function category may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one consumer or commercial product category (under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section) that applies to a given function category under this paragraph. If none of the listed function categories accurately describes a use of a chemical substance, the category “Other” may be used, and must include a description of the use.


(C) An indication, within each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, whether the use is a consumer or a commercial use.


(D) Submitters must determine, within each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, whether any amount of each reportable chemical substance manufactured (including imported) by the submitter is present in (for example, a plasticizer chemical substance used to make pacifiers) or on (for example, as a component in the paint on a toy) any consumer products intended for use by children age 14 or younger, regardless of the concentration of the chemical substance remaining in or on the product. Submitters must select from the following options: The chemical substance is used in or on any consumer products intended for use by children; the chemical substance is not used in or on any consumer products intended for use by children; or information as to whether the chemical substance is used in or on any consumer products intended for use by children is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter.


(E) The estimated percentage, rounded off to the closest 10 percent, of the submitter's site's total production volume of the reportable chemical substance associated with each consumer and commercial product category. Where a particular consumer and commercial product category accounts for less than 5 percent of the total production volume of a reportable chemical substance, the percentage must not be rounded off to 0 percent if the production volume attributable to that commercial and consumer product category is 25,000 lb (11,340 kg) or more during the reporting year. Instead, in such a case, submitters must report the percentage, rounded off to the closest 1 percent, of the submitter's site's total production volume of the reportable chemical substance associated with the particular consumer and commercial product category.


(F) Where the reportable chemical substance is used in consumer or commercial products, the estimated typical maximum concentration, measured by weight, of the chemical substance in each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section. For each chemical substance in each commercial and consumer product category reported under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, submitters must select from among the ranges of concentrations listed in Table 3 to paragraph (b)(3)(viii) of this section and report the corresponding code (*i.e.,* M1 through M5).


(G) Where the reportable chemical substance is used in a commercial product, the submitter must estimate the number of commercial workers reasonably likely to be exposed to each reportable chemical substance. For each combination associated with each substance, the submitter must select from among the worker ranges listed in Table 2 to paragraph (b)(3)(vii) of this section and report the corresponding code (*i.e.,* W1 though W8).



---

[N] [85 FR 20139, Apr. 9, 2020]




