# § 329.30   Total net cash outflow amount.

(a) *Calculation of total net cash outflow amount.* As of the calculation date, an FDIC-supervised institution's total net cash outflow amount equals the FDIC-supervised institution's outflow adjustment percentage as determined under paragraph (c) of this section multiplied by:


(1) The sum of the outflow amounts calculated under § 329.32(a) through (l); *minus*

(2) The lesser of:


(i) The sum of the inflow amounts calculated under § 329.33(b) through (g); and


(ii) 75 percent of the amount calculated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section; *plus*

(3) The maturity mismatch add-on as calculated under paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Calculation of maturity mismatch add-on.* (1) For purposes of this section:


(i) The net cumulative maturity outflow amount for any of the 30 calendar days following the calculation date is equal to the sum of the outflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 329.32(g), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5), (j), (k), and (l) that have a maturity date prior to or on that calendar day *minus* the sum of the inflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 329.33(c), (d), (e), and (f) that have a maturity date prior to or on that calendar day.


(ii) The net day 30 cumulative maturity outflow amount is equal to, as of the 30th day following the calculation date, the sum of the outflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 329.32(g), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5), (j), (k), and (l) that have a maturity date 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date *minus* the sum of the inflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 329.33(c), (d), (e), and (f) that have a maturity date 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date.


(2) As of the calculation date, a FDIC-supervised institution's maturity mismatch add-on is equal to:


(i) The greater of:


(A) 0; and


(B) The largest net cumulative maturity outflow amount as calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for any of the 30 calendar days following the calculation date; *minus*

(ii) The greater of:


(A) 0; and


(B) The net day 30 cumulative maturity outflow amount as calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(3) Other than the transactions identified in § 329.32(h)(2), (h)(5), or (j) or § 329.33(d) or (f), the maturity of which is determined under § 329.31(a), transactions that have an open maturity are not included in the calculation of the maturity mismatch add-on.


(c) *Outflow adjustment percentage.* An FDIC-supervised institution's outflow adjustment percentage is determined pursuant to Table 1 to this paragraph (c).


(d) *Transition into a different outflow adjustment percentage.* (1) An FDIC-supervised institution whose outflow adjustment percentage increases from a lower to a higher outflow adjustment percentage may continue to use its previous lower outflow adjustment percentage until the first day of the third calendar quarter after the outflow adjustment percentage increases.


(2) An FDIC-supervised institution whose outflow adjustment percentage decreases from a higher to a lower outflow adjustment percentage must continue to use its previous higher outflow adjustment percentage until the first day of the first calendar quarter after the outflow adjustment percentage decreases.



---

[N] [79 FR 61523, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59282, Nov. 1, 2019; 86 FR 9220, Feb. 11, 2021]




