# ยง 152.15   Enrollment and disenrollment process.

(a) *Enrollment process.* (1) A PCIP must establish a process for verifying eligibility and enrolling an individual that is approved by HHS.


(2) A PCIP must allow an individual to remain enrolled in the PCIP unless:


(i) The individual is disenrolled under paragraph (b) of this section;


(ii) The individual obtains other creditable coverage;


(iii) The PCIP program terminates, or is terminated; or


(iv) As specified by the PCIP program and approved by HHS.


(3) A PCIP must verify that an individual is a United States citizen or national or lawfully present in the United States by:


(i) Verifying the individual's citizenship, nationality, or lawful presence with the Commissioner of Security or Secretary of Homeland Security as applicable; or


(ii) By requiring the individual to provide documentation which establishes the individual's citizenship, nationality, or lawful presence.


(iii) The PCIP must provide an individual who is applying to enroll in the PCIP with a disclosure specifying if the information will be shared with the Department of Health and Human Services, Social Security Administration, and if necessary, Department of Homeland Security for purposes of establishing eligibility.


(b) *Disenrollment process.* (1) A PCIP must establish a disenrollment process that is approved by HHS.


(2) A PCIP may disenroll an individual if the monthly premium is not paid on a timely basis, following notice and a reasonable grace period, not to exceed 61 days from when payment is due, as defined by the PCIP and approved by HHS.


(3) A PCIP must disenroll an individual in any of the following circumstances:


(i) The individual no longer resides in the PCIP service area.


(ii) The individual obtains other creditable coverage.


(iii) Death of the individual.


(iv) Other exceptional circumstances established by HHS.


(c) *Effective dates.* A PCIP must establish rules governing the effective date of enrollment and disenrollment that are approved by HHS. A complete enrollment request submitted by an eligible individual by the 15th day of a month, where the individual is determined to be eligible for enrollment, must take effect by the 1st day of the following month, except in exceptional circumstances that are subject to HHS approval.


(d) *Funding limitation.* A PCIP may stop taking applications for enrollment to comply with funding limitations established by the HHS under section 1101(g) of Public Law 111-148 and ยง 152.35 of this part. Accordingly, a PCIP may employ strategies to manage enrollment over the course of the program that may include enrollment capacity limits, phased-in (delayed) enrollment, and other measures, as defined by the PCIP and approved by HHS, including measures specified under ยง 152.35(b).




