# § 377.205   Presentation of freight bills.

(a) *“To be prepaid” shipments.* (1) On “to be prepaid” shipments, the carrier shall present its freight bill for all transportation charges within the time period prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except—


(i) As noted in paragraph (d) of this section, or


(ii) As otherwise excepted in this part.


(2) The time period for a carrier to present its freight bill for all transportation charges shall be 7 days, measured from the date the carrier received the shipment. This time period does not include Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays.


(b) *“Collect” shipments.* (1) On “collect” shipments, the carrier shall present its freight bill for all transportation charges within the time period prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) and of this section, except—


(i) As noted in paragraph (d) of this section, or


(ii) As otherwise excepted in this part.


(2) The time period for a carrier to present its freight bill for all transportation charges shall be 7 days, measured from the date the shipment was delivered at its destination. This time period does not include Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays.


(c) *Bills or accompanying written notices shall state penalties for late payment, credit time limits and service charge and/or collection expense charge and discount terms.* When credit is extended, freight bills or a separate written notice accompanying a freight bill or a group of freight bills presented at one time shall state that “failure timely to pay freight charges may be subject to tariff penalties” (or a statement of similar import). The bills or other notice shall also state the time by which payment must be made and any applicable service charge and/or collection expense charge and discount terms.


(d) *When the carrier lacks sufficient information to compute tariff charges.* (1) When information sufficient to enable the carrier to compute the tariff charges is not then available to the carrier at its billing point, the carrier shall present its freight bill for payment within 7 days following the day upon which sufficient information becomes available at the billing point. This time period does not include Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays.


(2) A carrier shall not extend further credit to any shipper which fails to furnish sufficient information to allow the carrier to render a freight bill within a reasonable time after the shipment is tendered to the origin carrier.


(3) As used in this paragraph, the term “shipper” includes, but is not limited to, freight forwarders, and shippers' associations and shippers' agents.



---

[N] [50 FR 2290, Jan. 16, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 30748, July 24, 1989; 62 FR 15424, Apr. 1, 1997]




