# ยง 176.665   Notice and plans required.

(a) The owner or managing operator shall notify the cognizant OCMI as far in advance as possible whenever a vessel is to be hauled out or placed in a drydock or slipway in compliance with ยง 176.600 or to undergo repairs or alterations affecting the safety of the vessel, together with the nature of any repairs or alterations contemplated. Hull repairs or alternations that affect the safety of the vessel include but are not limited to the replacement, repair, or refastening of planking, plating, or structural members including the repair of cracks.


(b) Whenever a vessel is hauled out or placed in a drydock or slipway in excess of the requirements of this subpart for the purpose of maintenance, including, but not limited to, changing a propeller, painting, or cleaning the hull, no report need be made to the cognizant OCMI.


(c) The owner or managing operator of each vessel that holds a Load Line Certificate shall make plans showing the vessel's scantlings available to the Coast Guard marine inspector whenever the vessel undergoes a drydock examination, internal structural examination, or an underwater survey or whenever repairs or alterations affecting the safety or seaworthiness of the vessel are made to the vessel's hull.



---

[N] [CGD 85-080, 61 FR 953, Jan. 10, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 51356, Sept. 30, 1997. Redesignated and amended by USCG-2000-6858, 67 FR 21084, 21087, Apr. 29, 2002; USCG-2006-25697, 71 FR 55747, Sept. 25, 2006]




