# § 235.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


(a) *Account* (1) Means a transaction, savings, or other asset account (other than an occasional or incidental credit balance in a credit plan) established for any purpose and that is located in the United States; and


(2) Does not include an account held under a bona fide trust agreement that is excluded by section 903(2) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and rules prescribed thereunder.


(b) *Acquirer* means a person that contracts directly or indirectly with a merchant to provide settlement for the merchant's electronic debit transactions over a payment card network. An acquirer does not include a person that acts only as a processor for the services it provides to the merchant.


(c) *Affiliate* means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company.


(d) *Cardholder* means the person to whom a debit card is issued.


(e) *Control* of a company means—


(1) Ownership, control, or power to vote 25 percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of voting security of the company, directly or indirectly, or acting through one or more other persons;


(2) Control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of the company; or


(3) The power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of the company, as the Board determines.


(f) *Debit card* (1) Means any card, or other payment code or device, issued or approved for use through a payment card network to debit an account, regardless of whether authorization is based on signature, personal identification number (PIN), or other means, and regardless of whether the issuer holds the account, and


(2) Includes any general-use prepaid card; and


(3) Does not include—


(i) Any card, or other payment code or device, that is redeemable upon presentation at only a single merchant or an affiliated group of merchants for goods or services; or


(ii) A check, draft, or similar paper instrument, or an electronic representation thereof.


(g) *Designated automated teller machine (ATM) network* means either—


(1) All ATMs identified in the name of the issuer; or


(2) Any network of ATMs identified by the issuer that provides reasonable and convenient access to the issuer's customers.


(h) *Electronic debit transaction* (1) Means the use of a debit card by a person as a form of payment in the United States to initiate a debit to an account, and


(2) Does not include transactions initiated at an ATM, including cash withdrawals and balance transfers initiated at an ATM.


(i) *General-use prepaid card* means a card, or other payment code or device, that is—


(1) Issued on a prepaid basis in a specified amount, whether or not that amount may be increased or reloaded, in exchange for payment; and


(2) Redeemable upon presentation at multiple, unaffiliated merchants for goods or services.


(j) *Interchange transaction fee* means any fee established, charged, or received by a payment card network and paid by a merchant or an acquirer for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction.


(k) *Issuer* means any person that authorizes the use of a debit card to perform an electronic debit transaction.


(l) *Merchant* means any person that accepts debit cards as payment.


(m) *Payment card network* means an entity that—


(1) Directly or indirectly provides the proprietary services, infrastructure, and software that route information and data to an issuer from an acquirer to conduct the authorization, clearance, and settlement of electronic debit transactions; and


(2) A merchant uses in order to accept as a form of payment a brand of debit card or other device that may be used to carry out electronic debit transactions.


(n) *Person* means a natural person or an organization, including a corporation, government agency, estate, trust, partnership, proprietorship, cooperative, or association.


(o) *Processor* means a person that processes or routes electronic debit transactions for issuers, acquirers, or merchants.


(p) *Route* means to direct and send information and data to an unaffiliated entity or to an affiliated entity acting on behalf of an unaffiliated entity.


(q) *United States* means the States, territories, and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any political subdivision of any of the foregoing.




