# § 4274.305   Other regulatory requirements.

(a) *Intergovernmental consultation.* The approval of an Agency IRP loan to an intermediary is subject to intergovernmental consultation in accordance with Executive Order 12372. For ultimate recipients located in States where the State has elected to review the program under the intergovernmental review process, in accordance with Executive Order 12372, the intermediary and ultimate recipient must submit a notification in the form of a project description to the State single point of contact. The intermediary must include any comments from the State with the intermediary's request to use the Agency IRP loan funds for the ultimate recipient. Prior to the Agency's decision on the request, the ultimate recipient must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of intergovernmental consultation. These requirements are set forth in 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, General Program Administrative Regulations.


(b) *Environmental requirements.* The requirements of 7 CFR part 1970 apply to this subpart. Intermediaries and ultimate recipients must consider the potential environmental impacts of their projects at the earliest planning stages and develop plans in order to minimize the potential to adversely impact the environment. Both the intermediaries and the ultimate recipients must cooperate and furnish such information and assistance as the Agency needs to make any of its environmental determinations.


(1) All IRP loans between the Agency and the intermediary are considered categorical exclusions absent the existence of extraordinary circumstances in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. All intermediaries must execute an Exhibit H, “Multi-tier Action Environmental Compliance Agreement,” to RD Instruction 1970-A as part of their IRP application submitted to the Agency. The intermediary must sign a certification that they have National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) staff capable of undertaking an environmental review that meets Agency standards. For intermediaries that don't have capable staff, the Agency will deliver sufficient training to intermediaries on the environmental process and how to determine whether an ultimate recipient project is a categorical exclusion or requires an environmental assessment and review.


(2) For each proposed loan from an intermediary to an ultimate recipient using Agency IRP loan funds, an environmental review will be completed in accordance with 7 CFR 1970.55. For projects that do not qualify for a categorical exclusion, or which may be subject to an extraordinary circumstance under 7 CFR 1970.52, the intermediary will refer the project to the Agency for review under 7 CFR part 1970, subpart C. The intermediary retains responsibility for providing sufficient information for the Agency to make an environmental determination, though Agency staff may also opt to complete the environmental review with information provided by either the intermediary or ultimate recipient.


(3) The Agency will prepare an environmental impact statement for any application for a loan from Agency IRP loan funds determined to have a significant adverse effect on the quality of the human environment.


(c) *Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements.* In accordance with Title V of Public Law 93-495, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act for Federally Conducted Programs and Activities, neither the intermediary nor the Agency will discriminate against any employee, intermediary, or proposed ultimate recipient on the basis of sex, marital status, race, color, religion, national origin, age, physical or mental disability (provided the intermediary or proposed ultimate recipient has the capacity to contract), because all or part of the intermediary's or proposed ultimate recipient's income is derived from public assistance of any kind, or because the intermediary or proposed ultimate recipient has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction anytime any cash of the IRP revolving loan fund is involved.


(1) The civil rights compliance requirements contained in 7 CFR part 1901, subpart E, apply to intermediaries and ultimate recipients.


(2) The Agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, “Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs,” 42 U.S.C. 2000d-4, § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act for Federally Conducted Programs and Activities, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 (as amended).


(d) *Seismic safety of new building construction.* The IRP is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12699, which require each Federal agency assisting in the financing, through Federal grants or loans, or guaranteeing the financing, through loan or mortgage insurance programs, of newly constructed buildings to assure appropriate consideration of seismic safety.


(1) All new buildings financed from the IRP revolving loan fund, whether directly or through participations, must be designed and constructed in accordance with the seismic provisions of the most current version of the International Building Code (IBC) or two versions prior; currently that is 2021 IBC, 2018 IBC or 2015 IBC, or an above-code seismic standard that meets or exceeds the equivalent level of safety to that contained in the latest edition of the National Earthquake Hazard Reduction Programs (NEHRP) Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Building (NEHRP Provisions.)


(2) The date, signature, and seal of a registered architect or engineer and the identification and date of the model building code on the plans and specifications constitutes evidence of compliance with the seismic requirements of the appropriate code.






