# ยง 85.5   Adjustments to penalties for violations occurring after November 2, 2015.

(a) For civil penalties assessed after February 12, 2024, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are adjusted as set forth in the seventh column of table 1 to this section.


(b) For civil penalties assessed after January 30, 2023, and on or before February 12, 2024 whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in the sixth column of table 1 to this section. For civil penalties assessed after May 9, 2022, and on or before January 30, 2023, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in the fifth column of table 1 to this section. For civil penalties assessed after December 13, 2021, and on or before May 9, 2022, whose associated violations occurred after November 2, 2015, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in the fourth column of table 1 to this section.


(c) For civil penalties assessed on or before December 13, 2021, the civil monetary penalties provided by law within the jurisdiction of the Department are set forth in 28 CFR 85.5 (July 1, 2020).


(d) All figures set forth in table 1 to this section are maximum penalties, unless otherwise indicated.



---

[N] [89 FR 9766, Feb. 12, 2024]




