# § 1489.17   Reimbursement rules.

(a) A RAPP Participant may seek reimbursement for an eligible expenditure if:


(1) The expenditure was necessary and reasonable for the accomplishment of an approved RAPP activity; and


(2) The Participant has not been and will not be reimbursed for such expenditure by any other source.


(b) Subject to paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section, as well as the cost principles in 2 CFR part 200 to the extent these principles do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part, for either brand or generic promotion activities, the CCC will reimburse, in whole or in part, the costs of:


(1) Production and placement of advertising, in print, electronic media, billboards, or posters, which may include advertising the availability of price discounts, except that advertising associated with a coupon or price discount for the RAPP-promoted product is not reimbursable. If advertising is related to both coupons or price discounts for products other than the RAPP Participant's promoted products as well as for RAPP-promoted products, then expenditures for such advertising will not be reimbursed in whole or in part (*e.g.,* expenditures may not be prorated and submitted for reimbursement). Electronic media include, but are not limited to, radio, television, electronic mail, internet, telephone, text messaging, social media, and podcasting.


(2) Production and distribution of banners, recipe cards, table tents, shelf talkers, and other similar point of sale materials.


(3) Direct mail advertising.


(4) In-store and food service promotions, product demonstrations to the trade and to consumers, and distribution of product samples (but not the purchase of the product samples, except as authorized in paragraph (c)(9) of this section).


(5) Temporary displays and rental of space for temporary displays.


(6) Expenditures, other than travel expenditures, associated with seminars and educational training, whether conducted in the United States or outside the United States.


(7) Subject to paragraph (b)(18) of this section, expenditures, other than travel expenditures, associated with retail, trade and consumer exhibits and shows, whether held outside or inside the United States, including participation fees, booth construction, transportation of related materials, rental of space and equipment, and duplication of related printed materials. However, with regard to non-travel expenditures associated with retail, trade and consumer exhibits and shows held inside the United States, such expenditures are reimbursable only if the exhibit or show is: a food or agricultural show with no less than 30 percent of exhibitors selling food or agricultural products; and, an international show that targets buyers, distributors and the like from more than one foreign country and no less than 15 percent of its visitors are from outside the U.S. CCC will compile a list of approved retail, trade and consumer exhibits and shows held inside the United States for which RAPP reimbursement is available, and such list will be announced to RAPP Participants via a RAPP notice issued on FAS' website.


(8) Subject to paragraph (b)(18) of this section, international travel expenditures, not to exceed the full fare economy rate, including any fees for modifying the originally purchased airline ticket, per diem, passports, visas and inoculations, as allowed under the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, for no more than two representatives of a single brand participant (or RAPP Participant directly running its own brand program) to exhibit their company's (or cooperative's) products at a retail, trade, or consumer exhibit or show held outside the United States. Representatives may include employees and board members of private companies, employees or members of cooperatives, or any broker, consultant, or marketing representative contracted by the company or cooperative to represent the company or cooperative in sales transactions. All travel should follow a direct or usually traveled route.


(9) Subscriptions that are of a technical, economic, or marketing nature and that are relevant to the approved activities of the RAPP Participant.


(10) Demonstrators, interpreters, translators, receptionists, and similar temporary workers who help with the implementation of individual promotional activities, such as trade shows, in-store promotions, food service promotions, and trade seminars.


(11) Giveaways, awards, prizes, gifts and other similar promotional materials, subject to such reimbursement limitation as CCC may determine and announce in writing to RAPP Participants via a RAPP notice issued on FAS' website. Reimbursement is available only when:


(i) The items are described in detail with a per unit cost in an approved strategic plan; and


(ii) Distribution of the promotional item is not contingent upon the consumer, or other target audience, purchasing a good or service to receive the promotional item.


(12) The design and production of packaging, labeling or origin identification, to be used during the budget period in which the expenditure is made, if such packaging, labeling or origin identification is necessary to meet the importing requirements of a foreign country.


(13) The design, production, and distribution of coupons for products other than the RAPP Participant's promoted products. If such activities include both coupons or price discounts for products other than the RAPP Participant's promoted products as well as for RAPP-promoted products, then expenditures for such activities will not be reimbursed in whole or in part (*e.g.,* expenditures may not be prorated and submitted for reimbursement).


(14) An audit of a RAPP Participant as required by 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, if the RAPP is the RAPP Participant's largest source of Federal funding.


(15) The translation of written materials as necessary to carry out approved activities.


(16) Expenditures associated with developing, updating, and servicing websites on the internet that clearly target a foreign audience.


(17) International travel expenditures, not to exceed the full fare economy rate, including any fees for modifying the originally purchased airline ticket, per diem, passports, visas and inoculations, as allowed under the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, incurred for a foreign trade mission conducted outside the United States that is an activity under an approved branded program and that has met the following conditions:


(i) Trade mission travel for company (or cooperative) representatives was identified as a separate approved activity in the RAPP Participant's UES;


(ii) The trade mission included representatives, as defined in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, from a minimum of five different companies (or cooperatives), and no more than two representatives from each participating company (or cooperative);


(iii) The appropriate FAS overseas office supported the trade mission by dedicating meaningful funding or other resources (such as facilities or staff time) to the activity; and


(iv) The RAPP Participant with the approved brand program produced an itinerary or agenda for the trade mission that demonstrated that company (or cooperative) representatives would be engaged for a minimum of 6 hours per day (except for the first and last days of the mission) in trade mission activities that include, at a minimum, each of the following:


(A) A product showcase where the FAS overseas office approved an invitation list of qualified buyers;


(B) Pre-arranged one-on-one business meetings; and


(C) Evaluation and feedback sessions with FAS staff and trade mission sponsors.


(v) Reimbursement is conditional on the RAPP Participant having notified in writing the Attaché/Counselor in the destination country in advance of the travel to that country or region. All travel should follow a direct or usually traveled route.


(18) Where USDA has sponsored or endorsed a U.S. pavilion at a retail, trade and consumer exhibit or show, whether held outside or inside the United States, RAPP funds may be used to reimburse the travel and/or non-travel expenditures of only those RAPP Participants located within the U.S. pavilion. Such expenditures must also adhere to the standard terms and conditions of the U.S. pavilion organizer. All travel should follow a direct or usually traveled route. Upon written request, the CCC may temporarily waive this subsection, on a case-by-case basis, where:


(i) The trade show is segregated into product pavilions; or


(ii) A company's distributor or importer is located outside the U.S. pavilion. Such waiver will be provided to the RAPP Participant in writing.


(19) Contracts with U.S.-based organizations when the only contracted service such organizations provide to a RAPP Participant is carrying out a specific market promotion activity in the United States directed to a foreign audience (*e.g.,* a trade mission of foreign buyers coming to the United States to visit U.S. exporters). Such contracts may be reimbursable as a direct promotional expense. If a U.S.-based organization provides administrative services to the RAPP Participant's domestic home office during a budget period, any direct promotional services such organization provides to the Participant, whether for the Participant's domestic or overseas offices, during the same budget period are not reimbursable.


(c) Subject to paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section as well as the cost principles in 2 CFR part 200 to the extent these principles do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part, but for generic promotion activities only, the CCC will also reimburse, in whole or in part, the cost of:


(1) Temporary contractor fees for contractors stationed overseas, except the CCC will not reimburse any portion of any such fee that exceeds the daily gross salary of a GS-15, Step 10 for U.S. Government employees in effect on the date the fee is earned, unless a bidding process reveals that such a contractor is not available at or below that salary rate.


(2) Subject to paragraph (b)(18) of this section, international travel expenditures, not to exceed the full fare economy rate, including any fees for modifying the originally purchased airline ticket, per diem, passports, visas, and inoculations, for activities held outside the United States or in the United States, as allowed under the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, except that if the activity is participation in a retail, trade, or consumer exhibit or show held inside the United States, then international travel expenditures are covered only if the exhibit or show is: a food or agricultural show with no less than 30 percent of exhibitors selling food or agricultural products; and, an international show that targets buyers, distributors and the like from more than one foreign country and no less than 15 percent of its visitors are from countries other than the United States. The CCC will compile a list of approved retail, trade, and consumer exhibits and shows held inside the United States for which RAPP reimbursement is available, and such list will be announced to RAPP Participants via a RAPP notice issued on FAS' website.


(i) The CCC generally will not reimburse any portion of air travel, including any fees for modifying the originally purchased ticket, in excess of the full fare economy rate or when the RAPP Participant fails to notify the Attaché/Counselor in the destination country in advance of the travel to that country or region, unless the CCC determines it was impractical to provide such notice. If a traveler flies in business class or a different premium class, the basis for reimbursement will be the full fare economy class rate for the same flight and the RAPP Participant shall provide documentation establishing such full fare economy class rate to support its reimbursement claim. If economy class is not offered for the same flight or if the traveler flies on a charter flight, the basis for reimbursement will be the average of the full fare economy class rate for flights offered by three different airlines between the same points on the same date, and the RAPP Participant shall provide documentation establishing such average of the full fare economy class rates to support its reimbursement claim.


(ii) In limited circumstances, the RAPP Participant may be reimbursed for air travel up to the business class rate (*i.e.,* a premium class rate other than the first class rate) upon prior written approval by the CCC. Such circumstances are:


(A) Regularly scheduled flights between origin and destination points do not offer economy class (or equivalent) airfare, and the RAPP Participant receives written documentation from its travel agent to that effect at the time the tickets are purchased;


(B) Business class air travel is necessary to accommodate an eligible traveler's disability. Such disability must be substantiated in writing by a physician; and


(C) If an eligible traveler is an employee, contractor, or member of a RAPP participant organization, and the eligible traveler's origin and/or destination are outside of the continental United States and the scheduled flight time, beginning with the scheduled departure time, ending with the scheduled arrival time, and including stopovers and changes of planes, exceeds 14 hours. In such case, per diem and other allowable expenses will also be reimbursable for the day of arrival. However, no expenses will be reimbursable for a rest period or for any non-work days (*e.g.,* weekends, holidays, personal leave, etc.) immediately following the date of arrival.


(D) If an eligible traveler is the target of a market development activity (*e.g.,* a foreign buyer, foreign importer, member of the foreign media), then the RAPP Participant may be reimbursed for air travel up to the business class rate when the eligible traveler's origin and/or destination are outside of the continental United States and the scheduled flight time, beginning with the scheduled departure time, ending with the scheduled arrival time, and including stopovers and changes of planes, exceeds five hours. In such cases, per diem and other allowable expenses will also be reimbursable for the day of arrival. However, no expenses will be reimbursable for a rest period or for any non-work days (*e.g.,* weekends, holidays, personal leave, etc.) immediately following the date of arrival.


(iii) Alternatively, in lieu of reimbursing up to the business class rate in such circumstances noted in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section, the CCC will reimburse economy class airfare plus per diem and other allowable travel expenses related to a rest period of up to 24 hours, either *en route* or upon arrival at the destination. For a trip with multiple destinations, each origin/destination combination will be considered separately when applying the 14-hour rule for eligibility of reimbursement of business class travel or rest period expenses.


(iv) A stopover for purposes of this paragraph (c)(2) is the time a traveler spends at an airport, other than the originating or destination airport, which is a normally scheduled part of a flight. A change of planes is the time a traveler spends at an airport, other than the originating or destination airport, to disembark from one flight and embark on another.


(v) All travel under this paragraph (c)(2) should follow a direct or usually traveled route. Under no circumstances should a traveler select flights in a manner that extends the scheduled flight time to beyond 14 hours in part to secure eligibility for reimbursement of business class travel. An eligible traveler that is the target of a market development activity is only eligible for a rest period when that traveler flies in economy class and meets the 14-hour test.


(3) Automobile mileage at the local U.S. Embassy rate or rental cars while in travel status.


(4) Other allowable expenditures while in travel status as authorized by the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200.


(5) Accident liability insurance premiums for facilities used jointly with third-party participants for RAPP activities or for RAPP-funded travel of third-party participants, provided the types and extent and cost of coverage are in accordance with the RAPP Participant's policy and sound business practice.


(6) Market research, including research to determine the types of products that are desired in a market.


(7) Legal fees incurred in resolving trade issues with foreign countries.


(8) The sample purchase price, and the cost of transporting samples domestically in the United States to the port of export and then to the first foreign port or first point of entry, for samples of eligible commodities used to provide on-site technical assistance to the trade necessary to facilitate successful use of the relevant eligible commodity by importers. The target of such activity must be the trade, and not consumers, but any product resulting from the technical training can be used to determine consumer preferences.


(9) STRE incurred outside of the United States and STRE incurred within the United States in conjunction with an approved activity where the STRE has a programmatic purpose and are authorized with prior written approval from the CCC. RAPP Participants are required to use the appropriate American Embassy representational funding guidelines for breakfasts, lunches, dinners and receptions incurred outside of the United States as the basis for their calculating eligible expenses. RAPP Participants may exceed Embassy guidelines by up to 25 percent without prior approval. RAPP Participants may only exceed 125 percent of Embassy guidelines when they have received written authorization from the FAS Agricultural Counselor at the Embassy. The amount of unauthorized STRE expenses that exceed 125 percent of the guidelines will not be reimbursed. RAPP Participants must pay the difference between the total cost of STRE events and the appropriate amount as determined by the guidelines and this part. For STRE incurred in the United States, the RAPP Participant should provide, in its request for approval, the basis for determining its proposed expenses.


(10) U.S. office(s) administrative support expenses, incurred specifically to administer the RAPP, for the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture, the SRTGs, and the Intertribal Agriculture Council. The level of such funding will be established in the approval letter.


(11) U.S. office(s) administrative support expenses, incurred specifically to administer the RAPP, for any RAPP Participants not identified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section, will be considered, except for agricultural cooperatives. Reimbursement for such expenses shall not exceed eight percent of the RAPP Participant's total RAPP budget. The level of such funding will be established by CCC in the approval letter.


(12) Non-travel expenditures associated with conducting international staff conferences held either in or outside the United States.


(13) Subject to paragraph (b)(18) of this section, domestic travel expenditures, as allowed under the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, for international retail, trade, and consumer exhibits and shows conducted in the United States upon prior written approval by CCC. Domestic travel expenses to such a show or exhibit are covered only if the exhibit or show is: a food or agricultural show with no less than 30 percent of exhibitors selling food or agricultural products; and an international show that targets buyers, distributors and the like from more than one foreign country and no less than 15 percent of its visitors are from countries other than the host country. CCC will compile a list of approved retail, trade, and consumer exhibits and shows held inside the United States for which RAPP reimbursement is available and such list will be announced to RAPP Participants via a RAPP notice issued on FAS' website.


(14) Domestic travel expenditures, as allowed under the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, for seminars and educational training conducted in the United States.


(15) Domestic travel expenditures, as allowed under the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, for up to two individuals, whether home office RAPP Participant employees, RAPP Participant board members, or State department of agriculture employees paid by the RAPP Participant, or a combination thereof, when such individuals accompany foreign trade missions or technical teams while traveling in the United States where the following conditions are met:


(i) Such trade missions or technical team visits are identified in the RAPP Participant's UES;


(ii) Such trade missions or technical team visits have been approved by CCC; and


(iii) The RAPP-sponsored travelers submit a follow-up trip report to CCC that includes the following:


(A) Purpose for the individuals' participation;


(B) Any pre-arranged business meetings;


(C) Itinerary and/or agenda for the trip; and


(D) Feedback from sponsors and trade mission/technical team members on the success of the trip.


(16) Approved demonstration projects.


(17) Expenditures related to copyright, trademark, or patent registration, including attorney fees.


(18) Rental or lease expenditures for storage space for program-related materials.


(19) Business cards that target a foreign audience.


(20)(i) Expenditures associated with developing, updating, and servicing websites on the internet that:


(A) Contain a message related to exporting or international trade;


(B) Include a discernible “link” to the FAS website or an FAS overseas office website; and


(C) Have been specifically approved by the appropriate FAS division. Expenditures related to websites or portions of websites that are accessible only to an organization's members are not reimbursable.


(ii) Reimbursement claims for websites that include “members only” sections must be prorated to exclude the costs associated with those areas subject to restricted access.


(21) Expenditures not otherwise prohibited from reimbursement that are associated with activities held in the United States or abroad designed to improve market access by specifically addressing temporary, permanent, or impending non-tariff barriers to trade that prohibit or threaten U.S. exports of agricultural commodities. Examples of such expenditures include, but are not limited to: initial pre-clearance programs, educational training, policy advocacy, public relations efforts, foreign country audits of U.S. facilities, export protocol and work plan support, seminars and workshops, study tours, field surveys, development of pest lists, pest and disease research, database development, and reasonable logistical and administrative support.


(22) Organization costs for overseas offices approved in agreements. Such costs include incorporation fees, brokers' fees, and fees to attorneys, accountants, or investment counselors, whether or not employees of the organization, incurred in connection with the establishment or reorganization of the overseas office, and rent, utilities, communications originating overseas, office supplies, accident liability insurance premiums (provided the types and extent and cost of coverage are in accordance with the RAPP Participant's policy and sound business practice), and routine accounting and legal services required to maintain the overseas office.


(23) With prior CCC approval, the purchase, lease, or repair of, or insurance premiums for, capital goods that have an expected useful life of at least one year, such as equipment, machinery, removable fixtures, computer hardware and software, and portable electronic communications devices (including mobile phones and wireless devices).


(24) Compensation and allowances for housing and cost of living adjustments paid to a U.S. citizen employee or a U.S. citizen contractor stationed overseas, provided such benefits are granted under established written policies, except CCC will not reimburse that portion of:


(i) The total of compensation and allowances that exceed 125 percent of the level of a GS-15 Step 10 salary for U.S. Government employees; or


(ii) Allowances that exceed the rate authorized for U.S. Embassy personnel.


(25) Compensation of non-U.S. citizen staff employees or non-U.S. contractors stationed overseas, subject to the following limitations:


(i) Where there is a local U.S. Embassy Foreign Service National (FSN) salary plan, CCC will not reimburse any portion of such compensation that exceeds the compensation prescribed for the most comparable position in the FSN salary plan; or


(ii) Where an FSN salary plan does not exist, CCC will not reimburse any portion of such compensation that exceeds locally prevailing levels, which the RAPP Participant shall document by a salary survey or other means.


(26) A retroactive salary adjustment for non-U.S. citizen staff employees or non-U.S. contractors stationed overseas that conforms to a change in FSN salary plans, effective as of the date of such change.


(27) Accrued annual leave as of the time employment is terminated or as of such time as required by local law.


(28) Overtime paid to clerical staff of approved RAPP-funded overseas offices.


(29) Such premiums for health or accident insurance and other benefits for foreign national employees that the employer is required by law to pay, provided that such benefits are granted under established written policies.


(30) Legal fees to obtain advice on the host country's labor laws.


(31) Employment agency fees.


(32) Evacuation payments (safe haven) and shipment and storage of household goods and motor vehicles for relocations lasting at least 12 months.


(33) Travel costs for dependents, as allowed in 2 CFR part 200 (*e.g.,* for travel of duration of six months or more with prior approval of CCC).


(34) That portion of the cost of wireless phone plans that is devoted to program activities and monthly service fees prorated at the proportion of program-related usage to total usage.


(d) CCC will not reimburse any cost of:


(1) Forward year financial obligations, such as severance pay, attributable to employment of foreign nationals;


(2) Expenses, fines, settlements, or judgments relating to legal suits, challenges or disputes, except as otherwise allowed in 2 CFR part 200 and this part;


(3) The design and production of packaging, labeling or origin identification, except as specifically allowed in this part;


(4) Product development, product modification or product research, except as specified in paragraph (c)(21) of this section;


(5) Product samples to be distributed to consumers;


(6) Slotting fees or similar sales expenditures;


(7) The purchase of, construction of, or lease of space for permanent, non-mobile displays, *i.e.,* displays that are constructed to remain permanently in the same location beyond one budget period. However, the CCC may, at its discretion, reimburse the construction or purchase of permanent displays on a case-by-case basis, if the Participant sought and received prior written approval from the CCC of such construction or purchase;


(8) Rental, lease or purchase of warehouse space, except for storage space for program-related material;


(9) Coupon redemption or price discounts of the RAPP promoted commodity;


(10) Refundable deposits or advances;


(11) Giveaways, awards, prizes, gifts and other similar promotional materials in excess of the limitation that the CCC will determine. Such determination will be announced in writing via a RAPP notice issued on FAS' website;


(12) Alcoholic beverages that are not a promoted commodity and part of an approved promotional activity;


(13) The purchase, lease (except for use in authorized travel status) or repair of motor vehicles;


(14) Travel of applicants for employment interviews;


(15) Unused non-refundable airline tickets or associated penalty fees, except where travel was restricted by U.S. Government action or advisory;


(16) Independent evaluations or audits, including evaluations or audits of the activities of a subcontractor, if the CCC determines that such a review is needed in order to confirm past or to ensure future program agreement or regulatory compliance;


(17) Any arrangement that has the effect of reducing the selling price of a U.S. agricultural commodity;


(18) Goods, services and salaries of personnel provided by U.S. industry or foreign third party;


(19) Membership fees in clubs and social organizations;


(20) Indemnity and fidelity bonds, except as otherwise allowed in 2 CFR part 200;


(21) Fees for participating in U.S. Government-sponsored activities, other than trade fairs and exhibits;


(22) Business cards that target a U.S. domestic audience;


(23) Seasonal greeting cards;


(24) Office parking fees;


(25) Subscriptions to publications that are not of a technical, economic, or marketing nature or that are not relevant to the approved activities of the RAPP Participant;


(26) U.S. office(s) administrative expenses, including communication costs, except as noted in paragraphs (c)(10) and (11) of this section, and except that usage costs for communications devices incurred while on reimbursable international or domestic travel for approved RAPP brand or generic promotion activities are reimbursable as eligible travel expenditures as allowed under the U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200;


(27) Any expenditure on an activity that includes any derogatory reference or comparison to other U.S. agricultural commodities;


(28) Payment of U.S. and foreign employees' or contractors' share of personal taxes, except where a foreign country's laws require the RAPP Participant to pay such employees' or contractors' share;


(29) Any expenditure made for an activity prior to the CCC's approval of that activity;


(30) Contributions to a contingency reserve or any similar provision made for events the occurrence of which cannot be foretold with certainty as to time, intensity, or with an assurance of their happening;


(31) Expenditures associated with a RAPP Participant's creation or review of their fraud prevention program, contracting procedures, or brand program operational procedures;


(32) Entertainment (*e.g.,* amusements, diversions, cover charges, personal gifts, or tickets to theatrical or sporting events); and


(33) Refreshments, or related equipment, for office staff.


(e) For a brand promotion activity, the CCC will reimburse no more than 50 percent of the total eligible expenditures made on that activity by a brand participant.


(f) The CCC will reimburse for expenditures made after the conclusion of a RAPP Participant's period of performance, provided:


(1) The activity was completed prior to the expiration date shown in the RAPP Participant's program agreement; and


(2) All expenditures for the activity were made within 6 months following the expiration date shown in the RAPP Participant's program agreement.


(g) A RAPP Participant shall not use RAPP funds for any activity or any expenses incurred by the RAPP Participant prior to the date of the program agreement or after the date the program agreement is suspended or terminated, except as otherwise permitted by the CCC.


(h) Except as otherwise provided in this part, RAPP-funded travel shall conform to U.S. Federal Travel Regulations (41 CFR parts 301 through 304) and 2 CFR part 200, and RAPP-funded air travel shall conform to the requirements of the Fly America Act (49 U.S.C. 40118). For international travel, the RAPP Participant shall notify the Attaché/Counselor in the destination countries in writing in advance of any proposed travel.


(i) The CCC may determine, at the CCC's discretion, whether any cost not expressly listed in this section will be reimbursed.






