# § 1919.14   Initial tests of cargo gear and tests after alterations, renewals or repairs.

(a)(1) Before being taken into use, hoisting machines, fixed gear aboard vessels accessory thereto, and loose gear and wire rope used in connection therewith shall be tested and examined and the safe working load thereof certified in the manner set forth in subpart E of this part. 


(2) Replacement or additional loose gear and wire rope obtained from time to time shall also be tested and examined in the manner set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the replacement of a component part of an article of loose gear such as a sheave, pin, or bushing does not require a new test certificate as long as the new component at least equals in all particulars the part replaced. 


(b) In the case of untested gear which has been in use, an initial test in conformance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be carried out: *Provided, however,* That existing standing rigging and wire rope will not be required to be tested but shall be thoroughly examined to ascertain its fitness for continued use in conformance with the requirements of §§ 1919.24 and 1919.25. 


(c) In the case of important alterations or renewals of the machinery and gear and also after repairs due to failure of or damage to other than loose components, a test as required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be carried out. 


(d) If the operation in which cargo gear is engaged never utilizes more than a fraction of the safe working load rating, the owner may, at his option, have said gear certificated for, and limited in operation to, a lesser maximum safe working load: *Provided, however,* That the gear concerned is physically capable of operation at the original load rating and the load reduction is not for the purpose of avoiding correction of any deficiency. 


(e) In no case shall safe working loads be increased beyond the original design limitations unless such increase is based on engineering calculations by or acceptable to the accredited certification agency, and all necessary structural changes are carried out. 




