# § 1.801-4   Life insurance reserves.

(a) *Life insurance reserves defined.* For purposes of part I, subchapter L, chapter 1 of the Code, the term *life insurance reserves* (as defined in section 801(b)) means those amounts:


(1) Which are computed or estimated on the basis of recognized mortality or morbidity tables and assumed rates of interest;


(2) Which are set aside to mature or liquidate, either by payment or reinsurance, future unaccrued claims arising from life insurance, annuity, and noncancellable health and accident insurance contracts (including life insurance or annuity contracts combined with noncancellable health and accident insurance) involving, at the time with respect to which the reserve is computed, life, health, or accident contingencies; and


(3) Which, except as otherwise provided by section 801(b)(2) and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, are required by law. For the meaning of the term “reserves required by law”, see paragraph (b) of § 1.801-5.


(b) *Certain reserves which need not be required by law.* Section 801(b)(2) sets forth certain reserves which, though not required by law, may still qualify as life insurance reserves, provided, however, that they first satisfy the requirements of section 801(b)(1) (A) and (B) and paragraph (a) (1) and (2) of this section. Thus, reserves need not be required by law:


(1) In the case of policies covering life, health, and accident insurance combined in one policy issued on the weekly premium payment plan, continuing for life and not subject to cancellation, and


(2) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, in the case of policies issued by an organization which met the requirements of section 501(c)(9) (as it existed prior to amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1969) other than the requirement of subparagraph (B) thereof.


(c) *Assessment companies.* Section 801(b)(3) provides that in the case of an assessment life insurance company or association, the term *life insurance reserves* includes:


(1) Sums actually deposited by such company or association with officers of a State or Territory pursuant to law as guaranty or reserve funds, and


(2) Any funds maintained, under the charter or articles of incorporation or association of such company or association (or bylaws approved by the State insurance commissioner) of such company or association, exclusively for the payment of claims arising under certificates of membership or policies issued upon the assessment plan and not subject to any other use.


(d) *Reserves which qualify as life insurance reserves.* The following reserves, provided they meet the requirements of section 801(b) and paragraph (a) of this section, are illustrative of reserves which shall be included as life insurance reserves:


(1) Reserves held under life insurance contracts.


(2) Reserves held under annuity contracts (including reserves held under variable annuity contracts as described in section 801(g)(1)).


(3) Reserves held under noncancellable health and accident insurance contracts (as defined in paragraph (c) of § 1.801-3) and reserves held under guaranteed renewable health and accident insurance contracts (as defined in paragraph (d) of § 1.801-3).


(4) Reserves held either separately or combined under contracts described in subparagraphs (1), (2), or (3) of this paragraph.


(5) Reserves held under deposit administration contracts. Generally, the reserves held by a life insurance company on both the active and retired lives under deposit administration contracts will meet the requirements of section 801(b) and paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) *Reserves and liabilities which do not qualify as life insurance reserves.* The following are illustrative of reserves and liabilities which do not meet the requirements of section 801(b) and paragraph (a) of this section and, accordingly, shall not be included as life insurance reserves:


(1) Liability for supplementary contracts not involving at the time with respect to which the liability is computed, life, health, or accident contingencies.


(2) In the case of cancellable health and accident policies and similar cancellable contracts, the unearned premiums and unpaid losses (whether or not ascertained).


(3) The unearned premiums, and unpaid losses (whether or not ascertained), on noncancellable life, health, or accident policies (and guaranteed renewable life, health, and accident policies) not included in life insurance reserves. (However, such amounts shall be taken into account under section 801(a)(2) for purposes of determining whether an insurance company is a life insurance company.)


(4) The deficiency reserve (as defined in section 801(b)(4)) for each individual contract, that is, that portion of the reserve for such contract equal to the amount (if any) by which:


(i) The present value of the future net premiums required for such contract, exceeds


(ii) The present value of the future actual premiums and consideration charged for such contract.


(5) Reserves required to be maintained to provide for the ordinary operating expenses of a business which must be currently paid by every company from its income if its business is to continue, such as taxes, salaries, and unpaid brokerage.


(6) Liability for premiums received in advance.


(7) Liability for premium deposit funds.


(8) Liability for annual and deferred dividends declared or apportioned.


(9) Liability for dividends left on deposit at interest.


(10) Liability for accrued but unsettled policy claims whether known or unreported.


(11) A mandatory securities valuation reserve.


(f) *Adjustments to life insurance reserves.* In the event it is determined on the basis of the facts of a particular case that premiums deferred and uncollected and premiums due and unpaid are not properly accruable for the taxable year under section 809 and, accordingly, are not properly includible under assets (as defined in section 805(b)(4)) for the taxable year, appropriate reduction shall be made in the life insurance reserves. This reduction shall be made when the insurance company has calculated life insurance reserves on the assumption that the premiums on all policies are paid annually or that all premiums due on or prior to the date of the annual statement have been paid.



---

[N] [T.D. 6513, 25 FR 12656, Dec. 10, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7172, 37 FR 5619, Mar. 17, 1972]




