# ยง 292.43   Protection and preservation of cultural and paleontological resources.

(a) Other Lands and Wild and Scenic Rivers. The following standards and guidelines of this section apply to the protection and preservation of cultural and paleontological resources on the Other Lands and the Wild and Scenic Rivers in the HCNRA:


(1) The primary objective of managing cultural resources is the protection of the resource from damage or destruction. To the extent consistent with protection, cultural resources may also be managed for scientific research, public education and enjoyment. Where interpretation of these sites for public benefit and knowledge is developed, it shall be compatible with the protection of cultural resources.


(2) The authorized officer shall establish priorities for management emphasis and protection of cultural resources based, in part, on whether the appropriate State Historic Preservation Office has concurred with the Forest Service's determination that a cultural resource is significant.


(3) Significant cultural resources are to be protected on-site, unless the authorized officer determines that off-site protection is preferable because adequate protection cannot be provided on-site, the resource is already adequately represented and protected on-site elsewhere, protection on-site is not consistent with the administration of Wilderness Lands, or for other good cause shown. Information about significant cultural resources shall be documented.


(4) The primary objective of managing paleontological resources is scientific research. Paleontological resources may only be disturbed or removed in conjunction with scientific research and only upon the issuance of prior written authorization of the disturbance or removal activity.


(b) *Wilderness Lands.* The following standards and guidelines apply to the protection and preservation of cultural and paleontological resources in the Wilderness Lands category of the HCNRA.


(1) The standards and guidelines for Other Lands and Wild and Scenic Rivers in paragraph (a) of this section also apply to Wilderness Lands.


(2) Public education and information activities concerning cultural resources on Wilderness Lands may not be offered or established inside Wilderness Lands.


(3) New trails and relocations of existing trails may not be developed for the sole purpose of providing public access to cultural resource sites on Wilderness Lands.




