# § 25.52   Variations from requirements.

(a) *Exceptions to construction, equipment and methods of operations*—(1) *General.* The appropriate TTB officer may approve details of construction, equipment or methods of operations, in lieu of those specified in this part. The brewer shall show that it is impracticable to conform to the prescribed specification, and that the proposed variance: 


(i) Will afford the protection to the revenue intended by the specifications in this part; 


(ii) Will not hinder the effective administration of this part, and 


(iii) Is not contrary to any provision of law.


(2) *Application.* A brewer who proposes to employ methods of operations or construction or equipment other than as provided in this part shall submit an application to the appropriate TTB officer. The application will describe the proposed variation and state the need for it. The brewer shall submit drawings or photographs if necessary to describe the proposed variation.


(3) *Approval by appropriate TTB officer.* The appropriate TTB officer may approve the use of an alternate method or procedure if:


(i) The brewer shows good cause for its use;


(ii) It is consistent with the purpose and effect of the procedure prescribed by this part and provides equal security to the revenue;


(iii) It is not contrary to law; and


(iv) It will not cause an increase in cost to the Government and will not hinder the effective administration of this part.


(4) *Exceptions.* The appropriate TTB officer may not authorize an alternate method or procedure relating to the giving of any bond, or to the assessment, payment, or collection of tax.


(5) *Conditions of approval.* A brewer may not employ an alternate method or procedure until the appropriate TTB officer has approved its use. The brewer shall, during the terms of the authorization of an alternate method or procedure, comply with the terms of the approved application.


(b) *Emergency variations from requirements*—(1) *Application.* When an emergency exists, a brewer may apply to the appropriate TTB officer for a variation from the requirements of this part relating to construction, equipment, and methods of operation. The brewer shall describe the proposed variation and set forth the reasons for using it.


(2) *Approval.* The appropriate TTB officer may approve an emergency variation from requirements if:


(i) An emergency exists;


(ii) The variation from the requirements is necessary;


(iii) It will afford the same security and protection to the revenue as intended by the specific regulations;


(iv) It will not hinder the effective administration of this part; and


(v) It is not contrary to law.


(3) *Conditions of approval.* A brewer may not employ an emergency variation from the requirements until the appropriate TTB officer has approved its use. Approval of variations from requirements are conditioned upon compliance with the conditions and limitations set forth in the approval.


(c) *Automatic termination of approval.* If the brewer fails to comply in good faith with the procedures, conditions or limitations set forth in the approval, authority for the variation from requirements is automatically terminated and the brewer is required to comply with prescribed requirements of regulations.


(d) *Withdrawal of approval.* The appropriate TTB officer may withdraw approval of an alternate method or procedure, approved under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, if the appropriate TTB officer finds that the revenue is jeopardized or the effective administration of this part is hindered by the approval.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D. ATF-437, 66 FR 5479, Jan. 19, 2001]




