# § 717.7   Persons not subject to this part.

(a) *Manufacturers.* (1) Persons or site activities are exempt from this part if the means by which they manufacture a chemical substance solely involves mining or other solely extractive functions, e.g., those companies or sites within a company whose sole function is to mine mineral ores, extract petroleum or natural gas, quarry non-metallic minerals (including extraction of salts from seawater or brines), mine or otherwise extract coal, or separate gases from the atmosphere. This exemption may include, but is not necessarily limited to, firms engaged in activities as described in SIC Division B—Mining and SIC Code 2813—Industrial Gases.


(2) A person is not subject to this part if the chemical substances that person causes to be produced are limited to:


(i) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that occur incidental to exposure of another chemical substance, mixture, or article to environmental factors such as air, moisture, microbial organisms, or sunlight.


(ii) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that occur incidental to storage or disposal of other chemical substances, mixtures, or articles.


(iii) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that occur upon end use of other chemical substances, mixtures, or articles such as adhesives, paints, miscellaneous cleaners or other housekeeping products, fuel additives, water softening and treatment agents, photographic films, batteries, matches, or safety flares, and that are not themselves manufactured or imported for distribution in commerce for use as chemical intermediates.


(iv) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that occur upon use of curable plastic or rubber molding compounds, inks, drying oils, metal finishing compounds, adhesives, or paints, or other chemical substance formed during the manufacture of an article destined for the marketplace without further chemical change of the chemical substance.


(v) Chemical substances that result from chemical reactions that occur when (A) a stabilizer, colorant, odorant, antioxidant, filler, solvent, carrier, surfactant, plasticizer, corrosion inhibitor, antifoamer or defoamer, dispersant, precipitation-inhibitor, binder, emulsifier, deemulsifier, dewatering agent, agglomerating agent, adhesion promoter, flow modifier, pH adjuster, sequestrant, coagulant, flocculant, fire retardant, lubricant, chelating agent, or quality control reagent functions as intended, or (B) a chemical substance, which is intended solely to impart a specific physicochemical characteristic, functions as intended.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Sole distributors.* A person solely engaged in the distribution of chemical substances is exempt from this part, unless such person is also a manufacturer or processor subject to this part. For example, a “distributor” who repackages chemical substances or mixtures is considered to be a processor and, thus, is not a sole distributor. Sole distributors may include, but are not limited to, those firms that distribute chemical substances as described in the wholesale trade SIC codes 5161—Chemicals and Allied Products, 5171—Petroleum Bulk Stations and Terminals, and 5172—Petroleum and Petroleum Products Wholesalers, Except Bulk Stations and Terminals.


(d) *Retailers.* A person who is a retailer is exempt from this part unless such person is also a manufacturer or a processor subject to this part.



---

[N] [48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 46770, Nov. 13, 1985]




