# § 200.435   Defense and prosecution of criminal and civil proceedings, claims, appeals and patent infringements.

(a) *Definitions for this section*—(1) *Conviction* means a judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon verdict or a plea, including a conviction due to a plea of nolo contendere.


(2) *Costs* include the services that bear a direct relationship to a judicial or administrative proceeding and provided by in-house or private counsel, accountants, consultants, or others engaged to assist the recipient or subrecipient before, during, or after the commencement of that proceeding.


(3) *Fraud* means:


(i) Acts of fraud or corruption or attempts to defraud the Federal Government or to corrupt its agents,


(ii) Acts that constitute a cause for debarment or suspension (as specified in agency regulations), and


(iii) Acts that violate the False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3732) or the Anti-kickback Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(b)).


(4) *Penalty* does not include restitution, reimbursement, or compensatory damages.


(5) *Proceeding* includes an investigation.


(b) *Costs.* (1) Except as otherwise described herein, costs incurred in connection with any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding (including the filing of a false certification) commenced by the Federal Government, a State, local government, or foreign government, or joined by the Federal Government (including a proceeding under the False Claims Act), against the recipient or subrecipient, (or commenced by third parties or a current or former employee of the recipient or subrecipient who submits a whistleblower complaint of reprisal in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 4701 or 41 U.S.C. 4712), are not allowable if the proceeding:


(i) Relates to a violation of, or failure to comply with, a Federal, State, local or foreign statute, regulation, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award by the recipient or subrecipient (including its agents and employees); and


(ii) Results in any of the following dispositions:


(A) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction.


(B) In a civil or administrative proceeding involving an allegation of fraud or similar misconduct, a determination of recipient or subrecipient liability.


(C) In the case of any civil or administrative proceeding, the disallowance of costs, the imposition of a monetary penalty, or an order issued by the Federal agency head or delegate to the recipient or subrecipient to take corrective action under 10 U.S.C. 4701 or 41 U.S.C. 4712.


(D) A final decision by an appropriate Federal official to debar or suspend the recipient or subrecipient, to rescind or void a Federal award, or to terminate a Federal award because of a violation or failure to comply with a statute, regulation, or the terms and conditions of the Federal award.


(E) A disposition by consent or compromise if the action could have resulted in any of the dispositions described in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(2) If more than one proceeding involves the same alleged misconduct, the costs of all such proceedings are unallowable if any results in one of the dispositions shown in paragraph (b) of this section.


(c) *Allowability of costs for proceeding commenced by Federal Government.* If a proceeding referred to in paragraph (b) of this section is commenced by the Federal Government and is resolved by consent or compromise pursuant to an agreement by the recipient or subrecipient and the Federal Government, then the costs incurred may be allowed to the extent expressly authorized in the agreement.


(d) *Allowability of costs for proceeding commenced by State, local, or foreign government.* If a proceeding referred to in paragraph (b) of this section is commenced by a State, local or foreign government, then the costs incurred may be allowed if the authorized Federal official determines that the costs were incurred as a result of:


(1) A specific term or condition of the Federal award, or


(2) Specific written direction of an authorized official of the Federal agency.


(e) *Allowability of costs in general.* Costs incurred in connection with proceedings described in paragraph (b), and not made unallowable by that paragraph, may be allowed to the extent that:


(1) The costs are reasonable and necessary for the administration of the Federal award and activities required to deal with the proceeding and the underlying cause of action;


(2) Payment of the reasonable, necessary, allocable and otherwise allowable costs incurred is not prohibited by any other provision(s) of the Federal award;


(3) The costs are not recovered from the Federal Government or a third party, either directly as a result of the proceeding or otherwise; and,


(4) An authorized Federal official has determined the percentage of costs allowed considering the complexity of litigation, generally accepted principles governing the award of legal fees in civil actions involving the United States, and other factors that may be appropriate. This percentage must not exceed 80 percent unless an agreement under paragraph (c) has explicitly considered this limitation and permitted a higher percentage. In that case, the total amount of costs incurred may be allowable.


(f) *Major Fraud Act.* Costs incurred by the recipient or subrecipient in connection with the defense of suits brought by its employees or ex-employees under section 2 of the Major Fraud Act of 1988 (18 U.S.C. 1031), including the cost of all relief necessary to make the employee whole, where the recipient or subrecipient was found liable or settled, are unallowable.


(g) *Un-allowability of costs for prosecuting claims against Federal Government.* Costs for prosecuting claims against the Federal Government, including appeals of final Federal agency decisions, are unallowable.


(h) *Patent infringement litigation.* Costs of legal, accounting, and consultant services, and related costs incurred in connection with patent infringement litigation, are unallowable unless otherwise provided for in the Federal award.


(i) *Potentially unallowable costs.* Costs that may be unallowable under this section, including directly associated costs, must be segregated and accounted for separately. During the pendency of any proceeding covered by paragraphs (b) and (f) of this section, the Federal Government must generally withhold payment of such costs. However, if in its best interests, the Federal Government may provide for conditional payment upon provision of adequate security, or other adequate assurance, and agreement to repay all unallowable costs, plus interest, if the costs are subsequently determined to be unallowable.






