# ยง 294.31   Payments.

(a) *Amount payable.* A TSP Operating Agreement will provide for each Fleet Vessel, an annual payment, subject to the availability of appropriations, equal to $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 to 2035. This amount will be paid in equal monthly installments at the end of each month. The annual amount payable will not be reduced except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Reductions in amount payable.* The annual amount otherwise payable under a TSP Operating Agreement will be reduced on a pro rata basis for each day less than 320 days in a fiscal year that a Fleet Vessel is not operated in accordance with ยง 294.23(a)(1) through (3).


(c) *No payment.* (1) Regardless of whether the Agreement Holder has or will operate the Fleet vessel for 320 days a year, the Agreement Holder will not be paid:


(i) For any day in which the TSP Vessel is engaged in transporting more than 7,500 tons of civilian bulk preference cargoes pursuant to 46 U.S.C. 55302(a), 55305, or 55314 (using the United States standard of short tons, which is equivalent to 6,803.85 metric tons or 6,696.75 long tons);


(ii) During a period in which the Agreement Holder participates in noncontiguous domestic trade, unless that Agreement Holder is a Section 50501 Citizen, applying the 75 percent ownership requirement of that Section;


(iii) For any days in which the Agreement Holder operates a TSP Vessel that is 15 years or older which is not enrolled in their classification society's CAP or is not maintaining a CAP rating of 2 or better;


(iv) For any day in which the Agreement Holder operates a TSP Vessel that is in excess of 20 years of age;


(v) For days in excess of 30 days in a fiscal year in which a vessel is drydocked or undergoing survey, inspection, or repair, unless, prior to the expiration of the vessel's 30-day drydock and repair period, the Agreement Holder obtains approval from MARAD for an extension beyond 30 days;


(vi) For any day in which the Agreement Holder does not, at the request of the Administrator, carry up to two United States Merchant Marine Academy cadets onboard; and


(vii) If the Agreement Holder does not operate or maintain the Fleet Vessel in accordance with the terms of the TSP Operating Agreement.


(2) To the extent that non-payment days under paragraph (c) of this section are known, Agreement Holder payments will be reduced at the time of the current billing. The daily reduction amounts will be based on the annual amounts in paragraph (a) of this section divided by 365 days (366 days in leap years) and rounded to the nearest cent.


(3) MARAD may require, for good cause, that a portion of the funds payable under this section be withheld if the provisions of ยง 294.23(a) have not been met.


(4) Amounts owed to MARAD for reductions applicable to a prior billing period must be electronically transferred using MARAD's prescribed format, or the amount owed can be credited to MARAD by offsetting amounts payable in future billing periods.




