# ยง 37.5   Validity periods and deadlines for REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.

(a) Driver's licenses and identification cards issued under this part, that are not temporary or limited-term driver's licenses and identification cards, are valid for a period not to exceed eight years. A card may be valid for a shorter period based on other State or Federal requirements.


(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, on or after May 7, 2025, Federal agencies shall not accept a driver's license or identification card for official purposes from any individual unless such license or card is a REAL ID-compliant driver's license or identification card issued by a State that has been determined by DHS to be in full compliance as defined under this subpart.


(c) Through the end of May 6, 2025, Federal agencies may accept for official purposes a driver's license or identification card issued under ยง 37.71. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, on or after May 7, 2025, Federal agencies shall not accept for official purposes a driver's license or identification card issued under ยง 37.71.


(d) Federal agencies may implement the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section through a phased enforcement plan if the agency determines phased implementation is appropriate. Federal agencies that implement phased enforcement plans authorized by this paragraph (d) must:


(1) Make a determination that a phased enforcement plan is appropriate in consideration of relevant factors including security, operational feasibility, and public impact;


(2) Coordinate the phased enforcement plan with DHS;


(3) Make the phased enforcement plan publicly available on the agency's web page; and


(4) Achieve full enforcement of the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section no later than May 5, 2027.


(e) DHS will make publicly available on the DHS REAL ID web page a list of agencies that have coordinated phased enforcement plans with DHS pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.



---

[N] [73 FR 5331, Jan. 29, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 77838, Dec. 29, 2014; 84 FR 55019, Oct. 15, 2019; 85 FR 23208, Apr. 27, 2020; 86 FR 23240, May 3, 2021; 88 FR 14476, Mar. 9, 2023; 90 FR 3503, Jan. 14, 2025]




