# § 4062.6   Net worth notification and information.

(a) *General.* (1) A contributing sponsor or member of the contributing sponsor's controlled group that believes section 4062(b) liability exceeds 30 percent of the collective net worth of persons subject to liability in connection with a plan termination shall—


(i) So notify the PBGC by the 90th day after the notice of intent to terminate is filed with the PBGC or, if no notice of intent to terminate is filed with the PBGC and the PBGC institutes proceedings under section 4042 of ERISA, within 30 days after the establishment of the plan's termination date in such proceedings; and 


(ii) Submit to the PBGC the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the contributing sponsor and each member of the contributing sponsor's controlled group (if any)— 


(A) By the 120th day after the proposed termination date, or 


(B) If no notice of intent to terminate is filed with the PBGC and the PBGC institutes proceedings under section 4042 of ERISA, within 120 days after the establishment of the plan's termination date in such proceedings. 


(2) If a contributing sponsor or a member of its controlled group complies with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the PBGC will consider the requirements to be satisfied by all members of that controlled group. 


(3) The PBGC may require any person subject to liability—


(i) To submit the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section within a shorter period whenever the PBGC believes that its ability to obtain information or payment of liability is in jeopardy, and 


(ii) To submit additional information within 30 days, or a different specified time, after the PBGC's written notification that it needs such information to make net worth determinations. 


(4) If a provision of paragraph (b) of this section or a PBGC notice specifies information previously submitted to the PBGC, a person may respond by identifying the previous submission in which the response was provided. 


(b) *Net worth information.* The following information specifications apply, individually, with respect to each person subject to liability: 


(1) An estimate, made in accordance with § 4062.4, of the person's net worth on the net worth record date and a statement, with supporting evidence, of the basis for the estimate. 


(2) A copy of the person's audited (or if not available, unaudited) financial statements for the 5 full fiscal years plus any partial fiscal year preceding the net worth record date. The statements must include balance sheets, income statements, and statements of changes in financial position and must be accompanied by the annual reports, if available. 


(3) A statement of all sales and copies of all offers or agreements to buy or sell at least 25 percent of the person's assets or at least 5 percent of the person's stock or partnership interest, made on or about the net worth record date. 


(4) A statement of the person's current financial condition and business history. 


(5) A statement of the person's business plans, including projected earnings and, if available, dividend projections. 


(6) Any appraisal of the person's fixed and intangible assets made on or about the net worth record date. 


(7) A copy of any plan of reorganization, whether or not confirmed, with respect to a case under title 11, United States Code, or any similar law of a state or political subdivision thereof, involving the person and occurring within 5 calendar years prior to or any time after the net worth record date. 


(c) *Incomplete submission.* If a contributing sponsor and/or members of the contributing sponsor's controlled group do not submit all of the information required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section (other than the estimate described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) with respect to each person subject to liability, the PBGC may base determinations of net worth and the collective net worth of persons subject to liability in connection with a plan termination on any such information that such person(s) did submit, as well as any other pertinent information that the PBGC may have. In general, the PBGC will view information as of a date further removed from the net worth record date as having less probative value than information as of a date nearer to the net worth record date. 




