# § 382.65   What are the requirements concerning on-board wheelchairs?

(a) As a carrier, you must equip aircraft that have more than 60 passenger seats, and that have an accessible lavatory (whether or not having such a lavatory is required by § 382.63 of this Part) with an on-board wheelchair. The Aerospatiale/Aeritalia ATR-72 and the British Aerospace Advanced Turboprop (ATP), in configurations having between 60 and 70 passenger seats, are exempt from this requirement.


(b) If a passenger asks you to provide an on-board wheelchair on a particular flight, you must provide it if the aircraft being used for the flight has more than 60 passenger seats, even if the aircraft does not have an accessible lavatory.


(1) The basis of the passenger's request must be that he or she can use an inaccessible lavatory but cannot reach it from a seat without using an on-board wheelchair.


(2) You may require the passenger to provide the advance notice specified in § 382.27 to receive this service.


(c) You must ensure that on-board wheelchairs meet the following standards:


(1) On-board wheelchairs must include footrests, armrests which are movable or removable, adequate occupant restraint systems, a backrest height that permits assistance to passengers in transferring, structurally sound handles for maneuvering the occupied chair, and wheel locks or another adequate means to prevent chair movement during transfer or turbulence.


(2) The chair must be designed to be compatible with the maneuvering space, aisle width, and seat height of the aircraft on which it is to be used, and to be easily pushed, pulled, and turned in the cabin environment by carrier personnel.


(d) As a foreign carrier, you must meet this requirement as of May 13, 2010. As a U.S. carrier, you must meet this requirement by May 13, 2009.




(e) As a carrier, you must ensure that all new single-aisle aircraft that you operate with an FAA-certificated maximum seating capacity of 125 or more that are delivered on or after October 2, 2026, and on which lavatories are provided include an on-board wheelchair meeting the requirements of this section. The Access Board's published nonbinding technical assistance on aircraft on-board wheelchairs may be relied upon for compliance with these requirements.


(1) The on-board wheelchair must be maneuverable both forward and backward through the aircraft aisle by an attendant.


(2) The height of the on-board wheelchair seat must align with the height of the aircraft seat so as to facilitate a safe transfer between the on-board wheelchair seat and the aircraft seat.


(3) The on-board wheelchair must have wheels that lock in the direction of travel, and that lock in place so as to permit safe transfers. Any other moving parts of the on-board wheelchair must be capable of being secured such that they do not move while the occupied on-board wheelchair is being maneuvered.


(4) The on-board wheelchair shall be designed not to tip or fall in any direction under normal operating conditions when occupied for use.


(5) The on-board wheelchair must have a padded seat and backrest and must be free of sharp or abrasive components.


(6) The on-board wheelchair must have arm supports that are sufficiently structurally sound to permit transfers and repositionable so as to allow for unobstructed transfers; adequate back support; torso and leg restraints that are adequate to prevent injury during transport; and a unitary foot support that provides sufficient clearance to traverse the threshold of the lavatory and is repositionable so as to allow for unobstructed transfer. All restraints must be operable by the passenger.


(7) The on-board wheelchair must be maneuverable in a forward orientation partially into at least one aircraft lavatory to permit transfer from the on-board wheelchair to the toilet.


(8) The on-board wheelchair must be maneuverable into the aircraft lavatory without protruding into the clear space needed to completely close the lavatory door.


(9) The on-board wheelchair must prominently display instructions for proper use.


(f) You are not required to expand the existing FAA-certificated on-board wheelchair stowage space of the aircraft, or modify the interior arrangement of the lavatory or the aircraft, in order to comply with this section. However, if the on-board wheelchair that you obtain does not fit within the original stowage space, and another space exists (*e.g.,* an overhead compartment) where the on-board wheelchair could fit consistent with FAA safety standards, then you must stow the on-board wheelchair in that space and must request any necessary FAA approval to do so. You are not required to make the on-board wheelchair available if the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude its use.


(g) You must acquire an OBW that complies with as many requirements set forth in paragraph (e) of this section as are available. You are not responsible for the failure of third parties to develop and deliver an on-board wheelchair that complies with a requirement set forth in paragraph (e) of this section so long as you make reasonable efforts to purchase such an OBW and inform the Department at the address cited in § 382.159 that an on-board wheelchair meeting that requirement is unavailable despite your reasonable efforts. If you cannot provide a wheelchair meeting requirement (e)(8) of this section despite your reasonable efforts, then you must provide, on request, the use of the visual barrier (*e.g.,* a curtain) described in § 382.63(f)(7) to enable the passenger to perform lavatory functions in privacy.




(h)(1) If you replace an on-board wheelchair supplied on aircraft with an FAA-certificated maximum seating capacity of 125 or more after October 2, 2026, then you must replace it with an on-board wheelchair that meets the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) After October 2, 2026, if you purchase or otherwise obtain a new on-board wheelchair for use on aircraft with more than 60 passenger seats, it must meet the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(3) Any on-board wheelchair supplied on aircraft with an FAA-certificated maximum seating capacity of more than 60 passenger seats and that has an accessible lavatory and that was delivered after October 2, 2026, must meet the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(4) After October 2, 2031, any on-board wheelchair that you provide for passengers' use on aircraft with more than 60 passenger seats must meet the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(5) For purposes of paragraphs (h)(2) through (4) of this section, you must acquire OBWs that comply with as many of the safety and accessibility requirements in paragraph (e) of this section as are available. You must inform the Department at the address cited in 14 CFR 382.159 that an on-board wheelchair meeting that requirement is unavailable, if that is the case.





---

[N] [Doc. No. DOT-OST-2004-19482, 73 FR 27665, May 13, 2008, as amended by Docket No. DOT-OST-2021-0137,  88 FR 50034, Aug. 1, 2023; DOT-OST-2022-0144, 89 FR 102441, Dec. 17, 2024]














