# 742.1170-3   Policy.

(a) The contractor is responsible for timely contract performance. Performance monitoring by USAID does not obviate this responsibility.


(b) The requiring office, particularly the contracting officer's representative and the contracting officer, will determine how to monitor the contractor's performance to protect the Government's interests, by considering:


(1) The contract requirements for reporting progress;




(2) The contract requirements for an activity monitoring, evaluation, and learning plan, as applicable;


(3) The contract performance schedule;


(4) The contractor's implementation plan or workplan;


(5) The contractor's history of contract performance;


(6) The contractor's experience with the services or supplies being provided under the contract;


(7) The contractor's financial capability;


(8) Any other factors the requiring office, particularly the contracting officer's representative and the contracting officer, considers appropriate and necessary to adequately monitor contractor performance (for example, the day-to-day working proximity of the contracting officer's representative or contracting officer to the contractor's place of performance).


(c) In monitoring contractor performance, the requiring office (particularly the contracting officer's representative and contracting officer) must utilize any of the contractor's existing systems or processes for monitoring progress, provided that doing so is not contrary to the terms of the contract. The requiring officer or contracting officer's representative must not require anything from the contractor that is outside the scope or terms of the contract or may result in claims of waivers, of changes, or of other contract modifications. Further, progress reports shall not require information already available from other sources.



---

[N] [72 FR 53163, Sept. 18, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 74988, Dec. 16, 2014; 89 FR 37961, May 6, 2024]




