# § 930.11   Definitions.

(a) *Act.* The term “Act” means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1451-1464). 


(b) *Any coastal use or resource.* The phrase “any coastal use or resource” means any land or water use or natural resource of the coastal zone. Land and water uses, or coastal uses, are defined in sections 304(10) and (18) of the act, respectively, and include, but are not limited to, public access, recreation, fishing, historic or cultural preservation, development, hazards management, marinas and floodplain management, scenic and aesthetic enjoyment, and resource creation or restoration projects. Natural resources include biological or physical resources that are found within a State's coastal zone on a regular or cyclical basis. Biological and physical resources include, but are not limited to, air, tidal and nontidal wetlands, ocean waters, estuaries, rivers, streams, lakes, aquifers, submerged aquatic vegetation, land, plants, trees, minerals, fish, shellfish, invertebrates, amphibians, birds, mammals, reptiles, and coastal resources of national significance. Coastal uses and resources also includes uses and resources appropriately described in a management program. 


(c) *Assistant Administrator.* The term “Assistant Administrator” means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, NOAA. 


(d) *Associated facilities.* The term “associated facilities” means all proposed facilities which are specifically designed, located, constructed, operated, adapted, or otherwise used, in full or in major part, to meet the needs of a federal action (e.g., activity, development project, license, permit, or assistance), and without which the federal action, as proposed, could not be conducted. The proponent of a federal action shall consider whether the federal action and its associated facilities affect any coastal use or resource and, if so, whether these interrelated activities satisfy the requirements of the applicable subpart (subparts C, D, E, F or I). 


(e) *Coastal Zone.* The term “coastal zone” has the same definition as provided in § 304(1) of the Act. 


(f) *Director.* The term “Director” means the Director of the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM), National Ocean Service, NOAA. 


(g) *Effect on any coastal use or resource (coastal effect).* The term “effect on any coastal use or resource” means any reasonably foreseeable effect on any coastal use or resource resulting from a Federal agency activity or federal license or permit activity (including all types of activities subject to the federal consistency requirement under subparts C, D, E, F and I of this part.) Effects are not just environmental effects, but include effects on coastal uses. Effects include both direct effects which result from the activity and occur at the same time and place as the activity, and indirect (cumulative and secondary) effects which result from the activity and are later in time or farther removed in distance, but are still reasonably foreseeable. Indirect effects are effects resulting from the incremental impact of the federal action when added to other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable actions, regardless of what person(s) undertake(s) such actions. 


(h) *Enforceable policy.* “The term “enforceable policy” means State policies which are legally binding through constitutional provisions, laws, regulations, land use plans, ordinances, or judicial or administrative decisions, by which a State exerts control over private and public land and water uses and natural resources in the coastal zone,” 16 U.S.C. 1453(6a), and which are incorporated in a management program as approved by OCRM either as part of program approval or as a program change under 15 CFR part 923, subpart H. An enforceable policy shall contain standards of sufficient specificity to guide public and private uses. Enforceable policies need not establish detailed criteria such that a proponent of an activity could determine the consistency of an activity without interaction with the State agency. State agencies may identify management measures which are based on enforceable policies, and, if implemented, would allow the activity to be conducted consistent with the enforceable policies of the program. A State agency, however, must base its objection on enforceable policies. 


(i) *Executive Office of the President.* The term “Executive Office of the President” means the office, council, board, or other entity within the Executive Office of the President which shall participate with the Secretary in seeking to mediate serious disagreements which may arise between a Federal agency and a coastal State. 


(j) *Federal agency.* The term “Federal agency” means any department, agency, board, commission, council, independent office or similar entity within the executive branch of the federal government, or any wholly owned federal government corporation. 


(k) *Management program.* The term “management program” has the same definition as provided in section 304(12) of the Act, except that for the purposes of this part the term is limited to those management programs adopted by a coastal State in accordance with the provisions of section 306 of the Act, and approved by the Assistant Administrator. 


(l) *OCRM.* The term “OCRM” means the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”), U.S. Department of Commerce. 


(m) *Secretary.* The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce and/or designee. 


(n) *Section.* The term “Section” means a section of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended. 


(o) *State agency.* The term “State agency” means the agency of the State government designated pursuant to section 306(d)(6) of the Act to receive and administer grants for an approved management program, or a single designee State agency appointed by the 306(d)(6) State agency.



---

[N] [65 FR 77154, Dec. 8, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 826, Jan. 5, 2006]




