# § 159.9   Notice of liquidation and date of liquidation for formal entries.

(a) *Notice of liquidation.* Notice of liquidation of formal entries will be provided on CBP's public Web site, *www.cbp.gov.*

(b) *Posting of notice.* The notice of liquidation will be posted for the information of importers in a conspicuous place on *www.cbp.gov* in such a manner that it can readily be located and consulted by all interested persons.


(c) *Date of liquidation*—(1) *Generally.* The notice of liquidation will be dated with the date it is posted electronically on *www.cbp.gov* for the information of importers. This electronic posting will be deemed the legal evidence of liquidation. The notice of liquidation will be maintained on *www.cbp.gov* for a minimum of 15 months from the date of posting.


(2) *Exception: Entries liquidated by operation of law.* (i) Entries liquidated by operation of law at the expiration of the time limitations prescribed in section 504, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1504), and set out in §§ 159.11 and 159.12, will be deemed liquidated as of the date of expiration of the appropriate statutory period and will be posted on *www.cbp.gov* when CBP determines that each entry has liquidated by operation of law and will be dated with the date of liquidation by operation of law.


(ii) For liquidation notices that were posted or lodged in the customhouse, pursuant to section 514, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1514) and part 174 of this chapter, a protest of a decision relating to an entry made before December 18, 2004, must be filed within 90 days from the date of liquidation of an entry by operation of law or within 90 days from the date the bulletin notice thereof was posted or lodged in the customhouse, or, in the case of a protest of a decision relating to an entry made on or after December 18, 2004, within 180 days from the date of liquidation of an entry by operation of law.


(iii) For liquidation notices posted on *www.cbp.gov,* pursuant to section 514, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1514) and part 174 of this chapter, a protest of a decision relating to an entry made before December 18, 2004, must be filed within 90 days from the date of liquidation of an entry by operation of law or within 90 days from the date notice thereof is posted on *www.cbp.gov,* or, in the case of a protest of a decision relating to an entry made on or after December 18, 2004, within 180 days from the date of liquidation of an entry by operation of law.


(d) *Courtesy notice of liquidation.* CBP will endeavor to provide the entry filer or its agent and the surety on an entry with a courtesy notice of liquidation for all electronically filed entries liquidated by CBP or deemed liquidated by operation of law. The courtesy notice of liquidation that CBP will endeavor to provide will be electronically transmitted pursuant to a CBP authorized electronic data interchange system if the entry was filed electronically in accordance with part 143 of this chapter. This notice will serve as an informal, courtesy notice and not as a direct, formal, and decisive notice of liquidation.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. No. 16-25, 81 FR 89380, Dec. 12, 2016]




