# ยง 1155.23   Participation in application proceedings.

(a) *Initial comments.* Interested persons may become parties to a land-use-exemption-permit proceeding by filing initial comments with the Board within 45 days of the filing of the application. Comments should contain the following information, as appropriate:


(1) Name, address, and organizational affiliation.


(2) A statement describing commenter's interest in the proceeding, including information concerning any organization or public interest it represents.


(3) Reasons, in general, why commenter supports or opposes the application, taking into account the standards for the Board's review and consideration set forth in 49 U.S.C. 10909(c), (d) and this part.


(4) Any rebuttal to the evidence and argument submitted by applicant.


(b) *Final comments.* Interested persons, including the applicant, within 30 days after the close of OEA's environmental review, may comment on how the information developed during OEA's environmental review concerning the considerations at 49 U.S.C. 10909(d)(1) through (5) should be weighed with the remaining transportation and other relevant considerations at 49 U.S.C. 10909(d)(6) through (7). The parties will have an additional 15 days to respond to other parties' arguments. All pleadings shall be limited to weighing the information developed during OEA's environmental review with transportation and other concerns, and should not be directed towards the adequacy of OEA's environmental review. (Interested persons may comment on the adequacy of OEA's environmental review during the normal comment period for the EIS as provided in 49 CFR 1105.10(a)(4). *See* 49 CFR 1155.24(a).) All comments under this paragraph shall contain the information required in paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) of this section.


(c) *Filing and service of comments and replies (including evidence and argument).* (1) Initial comments shall be filed with the Board (addressed to the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings, Surface Transportation Board, 395 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20423) within 45 days of the filing with the Board of a land-use-exemption-permit application. A copy of each comment shall be served on applicant or its representative at the time of filing with the Board. Each filing shall contain a certificate of service.


(2) Final comments shall be filed and served on all parties within 30 days of the close of the environmental review. A copy of each comment shall be served on applicant or its representative at the time of filing with the Board. Each filing shall contain a certificate of service.


(3) Replies to final comments shall be filed and served on all parties no later than 45 days after the close of the environmental review. A copy of each reply to comments shall be served on applicant or its representative at the time of filing with the Board. Each filing shall contain a certificate of service.



---

[N] [77 FR 69774, Nov. 21, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 12945, Apr. 3, 2019]




