# § 182.70   Civil monetary penalties.

(a) *Basis for imposing civil monetary penalties.* CMS may impose a civil monetary penalty on a provider identified by CMS as noncompliant according to § 182.50, and that fails to respond to CMS' request to submit a corrective action plan or to comply with the requirements of a corrective action plan approved by CMS as described in § 182.60(d).


(b) *Notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty.* (1) If CMS imposes a penalty in accordance with this part, CMS will provide a written notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty to the provider via certified mail or another form of traceable carrier.


(2) This notice to the provider may include, but is not limited to, the following:


(i) The basis for the provider's noncompliance, including, but not limited to, the following:


(A) CMS' determination as to which requirement(s) the provider has violated.


(B) The provider's failure to respond to CMS' request to submit a corrective action plan or comply with the requirements of a corrective action plan, as described in § 182.60(d).


(ii) CMS' determination as to the effective date for the violation(s). This date is the latest date of the following:


(A) The first day the provider is required to meet the requirements of this part.


(B) A date determined by CMS, such as one resulting from monitoring activities specified in § 182.50, or development of a corrective action plan as specified in § 182.60.


(iii) The amount of the penalty as of the date of the notice.


(iv) A statement that a civil monetary penalty may continue to be imposed for continuing violation(s).


(v) Payment instructions.


(vi) A statement of the provider's right to a hearing according to subpart D of this part.


(vii) A statement that the provider's failure to request a hearing within 30 calendar days of the issuance of the notice permits the imposition of the penalty, and any subsequent penalties pursuant to continuing violations, without right of appeal in accordance with § 182.90.


(3) If the civil monetary penalty is upheld, in part, by a final and binding decision according to subpart D of this part, CMS will issue a modified notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty, to conform to the adjudicated finding.


(c) *Amount of the civil monetary penalty.* (1) CMS may impose a civil monetary penalty upon a provider for a violation of each requirement of this part.


(2) The maximum daily dollar amount for a civil monetary penalty to which a provider may be subject is $300. Even if the provider is in violation of multiple discrete requirements of this part, the maximum total sum that a single provider may be assessed per day is $300.


(3) The maximum daily amount of the civil monetary penalty will be adjusted annually using the multiplier determined by the Office of Management and Budget for annually adjusting civil monetary penalty amounts under part 102 of this title.


(d) *Timing of payment of civil monetary penalty.* (1) A provider must pay the civil monetary penalty in full within 60 calendar days after the date of the notice of imposition of a civil monetary penalty from CMS under paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) In the event a provider requests a hearing, pursuant to subpart D of this part, the provider must pay the amount in full within 60 calendar days after the date of a final and binding decision, according to subpart D of this part, to uphold, in whole or in part, the civil monetary penalty.


(3) If the 60th calendar day described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section is a weekend or a Federal holiday, then the timeframe is extended until the end of the next business day.


(4) In the event a civil money penalty is not paid in full within 60 days, CMS will follow the collections activities set forth in 45 CFR part 30.


(e) *Continuing violations.* CMS may issue subsequent notice(s) of imposition of a civil monetary penalty, according to paragraph (b) of this section, that result from the same instance(s) of noncompliance.




