# ยง 1002.4   Disclosure by providers and State Medicaid agencies.

(a) *Information that must be disclosed.* Before the Medicaid agency enters into or renews a provider agreement, or at any time upon written request by the Medicaid agency, the provider must disclose to the Medicaid agency the identity of any person described in ยง 1001.1001(a)(1) of this chapter. 


(b) *Notification to Inspector General.* (1) The Medicaid agency must notify the Inspector General of any disclosures made under paragraph (a) of this section within 20 working days from the date it receives the information. 


(2) The agency must promptly notify the Inspector General of any action it takes on the provider's application for participation in the program.


(3) The agency must also promptly notify the Inspector General of any action it takes to limit the ability of an individual or entity to participate in its program, regardless of what such an action is called. This includes, but is not limited to, suspension actions, settlement agreements and situations where an individual or entity voluntarily withdraws from the program to avoid a formal sanction.


(c) *Denial or termination of provider participation.* (1) The Medicaid agency may refuse to enter into or renew an agreement with a provider if any person who has an ownership or control interest, or who is an agent or managing employee of the provider, in the provider has been convicted of a criminal offense related to that person's involvement in any program established under Medicare, Medicaid, Title V, Title XX, or Title XXI of the Act.


(2) The Medicaid agency may refuse to enter into, or terminate, a provider agreement if it determines that the provider did not fully and accurately make any disclosure required under paragraph (a) of this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 3343, Jan. 29, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 46691, Sept. 2, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 82 FR 4118, Jan. 12, 2017]




