# § 402.2   Definitions.

As used in this part— 


*The Act* means the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, Public Law 99-603, as amended.


*Allocation* means an amount designated for a State, as determined under § 402.31, § 402.33, or § 402.34.


*Allotment* means the total amount awarded to a State, as determined under § 402.31, § 402.33, or § 402.34.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 


*Educational Services* means: 


(1) For eligible legalized aliens regardless of age enrolled in elementary or secondary school, services allowable under section 607 of the Emergency Immigrant Education Act, 20 U.S.C. 4101, *et seq.* (Pub. L. 98-511), as in effect on November 6, 1986. 


(2) For adult eligible legalized aliens: 


(i) Services authorized under the Adult Education Act, 20 U.S.C. 1201 *et seq.* (Pub. L. 89-750, as amended), as in effect November 6, 1986, and 


(ii) English language and other programs designed to enable eligible legalized aliens to attain the citizenship skills required by section 245A(b)(1)(D)(i) of the INA. 


*Eligible legalized alien* means an alien whose status has been adjusted to lawful temporary resident under section 245A, 210, or 210A of the Immigration and Nationality Act, beginning on the effective date of such adjustment as established by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and continuing until the end of the five-year period beginning on the effective date of such adjustment, provided that during that time the alien remains in lawful temporary or permanent resident status granted under the Act. 


*Employment discrimination education and outreach* means education and outreach efforts by State agencies regarding unfair discrimination in employment practices based on national origin or citizenship status. 


*INA* means the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101, *et seq.*

*Local educational agency* means—


(a) A public board of education or other public authority legally constituted within a State for either administrative control of or direction of, or to perform service functions for, public elementary or secondary schools in—


(1) A city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State; or


(2) Such combination of school districts or counties a State recognizes as an administrative agency for its public elementary or secondary schools; or 


(b) Any other public institution or agency that has administrative control and direction of a public elementary or secondary school. 


*Local government* has the same meaning as in 45 CFR part 92.


*Nonpublic,* as applied to an agency, organization, or institution, means that the agency, organization, or institution is nonprofit and is not under Federal or public supervision or control. 


*Phase II outreach* means public education and outreach (including the provision of information to individuals) to inform temporary resident aliens under section 210, 210A, 245A of the INA and aliens whose applications for such status are pending with the Immigration and Naturalization Service regarding: 


(1) The requirements of sections 210, 210A, and 245A of the INA regarding the adjustment of resident status; 


(2) Sources of assistance for such aliens obtaining the adjustment of status described in paragraph (1) of this definition, including educational, informational, and referral services, and the rights and responsibilities of such aliens and aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence; 


(3) The identification of health, employment, and social services; and, 


(4) The importance of identifying oneself as a temporary resident alien to service providers. 


*Program administrative costs* means those costs associated with administering public assistance, public health assistance, educational services, Phase II outreach, and employment discrimination education and outreach activities. 


*Public,* as applied to an agency, organization, or institution, means that the agency, organization, or institution is under the administrative supervision or control of a government other than the Federal Government. 


*Public assistance* means cash, medical, or other assistance provided to meet the basic subsistence needs or health needs of individuals. 


(1) That is generally available to needy individuals residing in a State and 


(2) That is provided with funds from units of State or local government.


*Public health assistance* means health services (1) that are generally available to needy individuals residing in a State; (2) that receive funding from units of State or local government; and, (3) that are provided for the primary purpose of protecting the health of the general public, including, but not limited to, immunizations for immunizable diseases, testing and treatment for tuberculosis and sexually-transmitted diseases, and family planning services. 


*Recipient* means grantee or subgrantee.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. 


*SLIAG administrative costs* means the direct and indirect costs related to administration of funds provided under this part, including: planning and conferring with local officials, preparing the application, audits, allocation of funds, tracking and recordkeeping, monitoring use of funds, and reporting. 


*SLIAG-reimbursable activity* means programs of public assistance, programs of public health assistance, educational services, employment discrimination education and outreach, Phase II outreach, program administrative costs, and SLIAG administrative costs, as those terms are defined in this part, that are included in a State's application approved pursuant to subpart E of this part. 


*SLIAG-related costs* means expenditures made: To provide public assistance, public health assistance, or educational services, as defined in this part, to eligible legalized aliens; to provide public health assistance to aliens applying on a timely basis to become lawful temporary residents under sections 210, 210A, or 245A of the INA during such time as that alien's application with INS is pending approval; to provide employment discrimination education and outreach, as defined in this part; to provide Phase II outreach, as defined in this part; and for SLIAG administrative costs, as defined in this part. SLIAG-related costs include all allowable expenditures, including program administrative costs determined in accordance with § 402.21(c), regardless of whether those expenditures actually are reimbursed or paid for with funds allotted to the State under this part. SLIAG-related costs for educational services, Phase II outreach, and employment discrimination education and outreach are limited to the amount of payment that can be made under the Act for those activities, as described in § 402.11 (e), (k) and (l), respectively. SLIAG-related costs exclude: (1) Expenditures by a State or local government for costs which are reimbursed or paid for by Federal programs other than SLIAG; and (2) program income (as defined in 45 CFR 74.42 or 45 CFR 92.25(b), as applicable) received from or on behalf of eligible legalized aliens receiving services or benefits for which payment or reimbursement may be made under this part.


*State* means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands of the United States. 


*State educational agency* means— 


(1) The State board of education or other agency or officer primarily responsible for the supervision of public elementary and secondary schools in a State. In the absence of this officer or agency, it is an officer or agency designated by the Governor or State law; or 


(2) The State board of education or other agency or officer primarily responsible for the State supervision of public elementary and secondary schools; or if there is a separate State agency or officer primarily responsible for supervision of adult education in public schools, then that agency or officer may be designated for the purpose of the Act by the Governor or by State law. If no agency or officer qualifies under the preceding sentence, the term means an appropriate agency or officer designated for the purpose of the Act by the Governor.


*Unexpended funds* means the amount by which allotments awarded to a State, as determined under §§ 402.31 and 402.33 of this part, exceed the State's SLIAG-related costs, as defined in this part, reported in annual reports pursuant to § 402.51 and accepted by the Department as of March 15, 1995.


*Unreimbursed SLIAG-related costs* means the amount by which a State's total SLIAG-related costs, as defined in this part, reported in annual reports pursuant to § 402.51 and accepted by the Department as of March 15, 1995, exceed the allotments awarded to a State, as determined under §§ 402.31 and 402.33 of this part.



---

[N] [53 FR 7858, Mar. 10, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 19808, Apr. 30, 1991; 56 FR 21246, May 7, 1991; 59 FR 65726, Dec. 21, 1994]




