# § 124.105   What does it mean to be unconditionally owned by one or more disadvantaged individuals?

An applicant or Participant must be at least 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals who are citizens of the United States, except for concerns owned by Indian tribes, Alaska Native Corporations, Native Hawaiian Organizations, or Community Development Corporations (CDCs). *See* § 124.3 for definition of unconditional ownership; and §§ 124.109, 124.110, and 124.111, respectively, for special ownership requirements for concerns owned by Indian tribes, ANCs, Native Hawaiian Organizations, and CDCs.


(a) *Ownership must be direct.* Ownership by one or more disadvantaged individuals must be direct ownership. An applicant or Participant owned principally by another business entity or by a trust (including employee stock ownership trusts) that is in turn owned and controlled by one or more disadvantaged individuals does not meet this requirement. However, ownership by a trust, such as a living trust, may be treated as the functional equivalent of ownership by a disadvantaged individual where the trust is revocable, and the disadvantaged individual is the grantor, a trustee, and the sole current beneficiary of the trust.


(b) *Ownership of a partnership.* In the case of a concern which is a partnership, one or more individuals determined by SBA to be socially and economically disadvantaged must serve as general partners, with control over all partnership decisions. At least 51 percent of every class of partnership interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more individuals determined by SBA to be socially and economically disadvantaged. The ownership must be reflected in the concern's partnership agreement.


(c) *Ownership of a limited liability company.* In the case of a concern which is a limited liability company, at least 51 percent of each class of member interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more individuals determined by SBA to be socially and economically disadvantaged.


(d) *Ownership of a corporation.* In the case of a concern which is a corporation, at least 51 percent of each class of voting stock outstanding and 51 percent of the aggregate of all stock outstanding must be unconditionally owned by one or more individuals determined by SBA to be socially and economically disadvantaged.


(e) *Stock options' effect on ownership.* In determining unconditional ownership, SBA will disregard any unexercised stock options or similar agreements held by disadvantaged individuals. However, any unexercised stock options or similar agreements (including rights to convert non-voting stock or debentures into voting stock) held by non-disadvantaged individuals will be treated as exercised, except for any ownership interests which are held by investment companies licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.


(f) *Dividends and distributions.* One or more disadvantaged individuals must be entitled to receive:


(1) At least 51 percent of any distribution of profits paid to the owners of a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company concern, and a disadvantaged individual's ability to share in the profits of the concern must be commensurate with the extent of his or her ownership interest in that concern;


(2) 100 percent of the value of each share of stock owned by them in the event that the stock is sold; and


(3) At least 51 percent of the retained earnings of the concern and 100 percent of the unencumbered value of each share of stock owned in the event of dissolution of the corporation.


(g) *Ownership of another current or former Participant by an immediate family member.* (1) An individual may not use his or her disadvantaged status to qualify a concern if that individual has an immediate family member who is using or has used his or her disadvantaged status to qualify another concern for the 8(a) BD program and any of the following circumstances exist:


(i) The concerns are connected by any common ownership or management, regardless of amount or position;


(ii) The concerns have a contractual relationship that was not conducted at arm's length;


(iii) The concerns share common facilities; or


(iv) The concerns operate in the same primary NAICS code and the individual seeking to qualify the applicant concern does not have management or technical experience in that primary NAICS code.


(2) If the AA/BD approves an application under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, SBA will, as part of its annual review, assess whether the firm continues to operate independently of the other current or former 8(a) concern of an immediate family member. SBA may initiate proceedings to terminate a firm from further participation in the 8(a) BD program if it is apparent that there are connections between the two firms that were not disclosed to the AA/BD at the time of application or that came into existence after program admittance.


(h) *Ownership restrictions for non-disadvantaged individuals and concerns.* (1) A non-disadvantaged individual (in the aggregate with all immediate family members) or a non-Participant concern that is a general partner or stockholder with at least a 20 percent ownership interest in one Participant may not own more than a 20 percent interest in another Participant that is in the developmental stage or more than a 30 percent interest in another Participant in the transitional stage of the program. This restriction does not apply to financial institutions licensed or chartered by Federal, state or local government, including investment companies which are licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.




(2) A non-Participant business concern in the same or similar line of business or a principal of such concern may generally not own more than a 20 percent interest in an 8(a) Participant that is in the developmental stage or more than a 30 percent interest in an 8(a) Participant in the transitional stage of the program, except that a business concern approved by SBA to be a mentor pursuant to § 125.9 of this chapter may own up to 40 percent of its 8(a) Participant protégé as set forth in § 125.9(d)(2), whether or not that concern is in the same or similar line of business as the Participant.


(i) *Change of ownership.* A Participant may change its ownership or business structure so long as one or more disadvantaged individuals own and control it after the change and SBA approves the transaction in writing prior to the change. The decision to approve or deny a Participant's request for a change in ownership or business structure will be made and communicated to the firm by the AA/BD. The decision of the AA/BD is the final decision of the Agency. The AA/BD will issue a decision within 60 days from receipt of a request containing all necessary documentation, or as soon thereafter as possible. If 60 days lapse without a decision from SBA, the Participant cannot presume that it can complete the change without written approval from SBA. A decision to deny a request for change of ownership or business structure may be grounds for program termination where the change is made nevertheless.




(1) Any Participant or former Participant that is performing one or more 8(a) contracts may substitute one disadvantaged individual or entity for another disadvantaged individual or entity without requiring the termination of those contracts or a request for waiver under § 124.515, as long as it receives SBA's approval prior to the change.


(2) (i) Prior approval by the AA/BD is not needed where:


(A) All non-disadvantaged individual (or entity) owners involved in the change of ownership own no more than a 30 percent interest in the concern both before and after the transaction;


(B) The transfer results from the death or incapacity due to a serious, long-term illness or injury of a disadvantaged principal;


(C) The disadvantaged individual or entity in control of the Participant will increase the percentage of its ownership interest by any percentage; or


(D) The Participant has never received an 8(a) contract and the individual(s) or entity upon whom initial eligibility was based continues to own more than 50% of the Participant.


(ii) In determining whether a non-disadvantaged individual involved in a change of ownership has more than a 30 percent interest in the concern, SBA will aggregate the interests of all immediate family members as set forth in § 124.3, as well as any individuals who are affiliated based on an identity of interest under § 121.103(f).


(iii) Where prior approval is not required, the concern must notify SBA within 60 days of such a change in ownership, or before it submits an offer for an 8(a) contract, whichever occurs first.


(3) Continued participation of the Participant with new ownership and the award of any new 8(a) contracts requires SBA's determination that all eligibility requirements are met by the concern and the new owners.


(4) Where a Participant requests a change of ownership or business structure, and proceeds with the change prior to receiving SBA approval (or where a change of ownership results from the death or incapacity of a disadvantaged individual for which a request prior to the change in ownership could not occur), SBA may suspend the Participant from program benefits pending resolution of the request. If the change is approved, the length of the suspension will be restored to the Participant's program term in the case of death or incapacity, or if the firm requested prior approval and waited 60 days for SBA approval.


(5) A change in ownership does not provide the new owner(s) with a new 8(a) BD program term. For example, if a concern has been in the 8(a) BD program for five years when a change in ownership occurs, the new owner will have four years remaining until program graduation.


(j) *Public offering.* A Participant's request for SBA's approval for the issuance of a public offering will be treated as a request for a change of ownership. Such request will cause SBA to examine the concern's continued need for access to the business development resources of the 8(a) BD program.


(k) *Right of first refusal.* A right of first refusal granting a non-disadvantaged individual or other entity the contractual right to purchase the ownership interests of a qualifying disadvantaged individual does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership, if the terms follow normal commercial practices. If those rights are exercised by a non-disadvantaged individual or other entity after certification, the Participant must notify SBA. If the exercise of those rights results in disadvantaged individuals owning less than 51% of the concern, SBA will initiate termination pursuant to §§ 124.303 and 124.304.



---

[N] [63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8255, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48580, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66183, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102487, Dec. 17, 2024]




