# § 246.105   Implementation schedule for certification programs.

(a) Each railroad that submits its signal employee certification program to FRA in accordance with § 246.103(a), may continue rail operations while it awaits approval of its program by FRA. However, if FRA disapproves a railroad's program on two occasions and the railroad continues rail operations, FRA may consider such actions to be a failure to implement a program.


(b) Each railroad that submits its signal employee certification program to FRA in accordance with § 246.103(b), must have its program approved by FRA prior to installing, implementing, or operating signal systems subject to this part. If a railroad installs, implements, or operates a signal system before its program is approved by FRA, FRA may consider such actions to be a failure to implement a program.


(c) By March 17, 2025, each railroad shall:


(1) In writing, designate as certified signal employees all persons authorized by the railroad to perform the duties of a certified signal employee as of March 17, 2025; and


(2) Issue a certificate that complies with § 246.207 to each person that it designates.


(d) Between March 17, 2025 and the date FRA approves the railroad's certification program, each railroad shall:


(1) In writing, designate as a certified signal employee any person who has been authorized by the railroad to perform the duties of a certified signal employee between March 17, 2025 and the date FRA approves the railroad's certification program; and


(2) Issue a certificate that complies with § 246.207 to each person that it designates.


(e) After March 17, 2025, no railroad shall permit or require a person to perform service as a certified signal employee unless that person is a certified signal employee.


(f) No railroad shall permit or require a person, designated as a certified signal employee under the provisions of paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, to perform service as a certified signal employee for more than three years after the date FRA approves the railroad's certification program unless that person has been tested and evaluated in accordance with procedures that comply with subpart B of this part.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, a person who has been designated as a certified signal employee under the provisions of paragraph (c) or (d) of this section and who is eligible to receive a retirement pension in accordance with the terms of an applicable agreement or in accordance with the terms of the Railroad Retirement Act (45 U.S.C. 231) within three years from the date the certifying railroad's program is approved, may request, in writing, that a railroad not recertify that person, pursuant to subpart B of this part, until three years from the date the certifying railroad's program is approved.


(2) Upon receipt of a written request pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a railroad may wait to recertify the person making the request until the end of the three-year period after FRA has approved the railroad's certification program. If a railroad grants any request, it must grant the request of all eligible persons to every extent possible.


(3) A person who is subject to recertification under part 240 or 242 of this chapter may not make a request pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(g) After a railroad's certification program has been approved by FRA, the railroad shall only certify or recertify a person as a signal employee if that person has been tested and evaluated in accordance with procedures that comply with subpart B of this part.






