# § 23.71   How can I trade internationally in sturgeon caviar?

(a) *U.S. and foreign provisions.* For the purposes of this section, *sturgeon caviar* or *caviar* means the processed roe of any species of sturgeon or paddlefish (order Acipenseriformes). It does not include sturgeon or paddlefish eggs contained in shampoos, cosmetics, lotions, or other products for topical application. The import, export, or re-export of sturgeon caviar must meet the requirements of this section and the other requirements of this part. The import, export, or re-export of Acipenseriformes specimens other than caviar must meet the other requirements of this part. See subparts B and C for prohibitions and application procedures.


(b) *Labeling.* You may import, export, or re-export sturgeon caviar only if labels are affixed to containers prior to export or re-export in accordance with this paragraph.


(1) The following definitions apply to caviar labeling:


(i) *Non-reusable label* means any label or mark that cannot be removed without being damaged or transferred to another container. In the United States, the design of the label will be determined by the labeler in accordance with the requirements of this section.


(ii) *Primary container* means any container (tin, jar, pail or other receptacle) in direct contact with the caviar.


(iii) *Secondary container* means the receptacle into which primary containers are placed.


(iv) *Processing plant* means a facility in the country of origin responsible for the first packaging of caviar into a primary container. In the United States, this may be done by the person who harvested the roe. 


(v) *Repackaging plant* means a facility responsible for receiving and repackaging caviar into new primary containers. This includes any facility where caviar is removed from the container in which it was received and placed in a different container.


(vi) *Lot identification number* means a number that corresponds to information related to the caviar tracking system used by the processing plant or repackaging plant.


(2) The caviar-processing plant in the country of origin must affix a non-reusable label on the primary container that includes all of the following information:


(i) Standardized species code; for hybrids, the species code for the male is followed by the code for the female and the codes are separated by an “x” (codes are available on our website; see § 23.7).


(ii) Source code.


(iii) Two-letter ISO code of the country of origin.


(iv) Year of harvest. This is either the calendar year in which caviar was harvested or, for caviar imported from shared stocks subject to quotas, the quota year in which it was harvested.


(v) Processing plant code and lot identification number.


(3) If caviar is repackaged before export or re-export, the repackaging plant must affix a non-reusable label to the primary container that includes all of the following information:


(i) The standardized species code, source code, and two-letter ISO code of the country of origin.


(ii) Year of repackaging and the repackaging plant code, which incorporates the two-letter ISO code for the repackaging country if different from the country of origin.


(iii) Lot identification number or, for caviar that is being re-exported, the CITES document number under which it was imported may be used in place of the lot identification number.


(4) The exact quantity of caviar must be indicated on any secondary container along with a description of the contents in accordance with international customs regulations.


(c) *Documentation requirements.* Unless the sturgeon caviar qualifies as a personal or household effect under § 23.15, the CITES document or an annex attached to the document must contain all information that is given on the label. The exact quantity of each species of caviar must be indicated on the CITES document.


(d) *Export quotas.* Commercial shipments of sturgeon caviar from stocks shared between different countries may be imported only if all of the following conditions have been met:


(1) The relevant countries have established annual export quotas for the shared stocks that were derived from catch quotas agreed among the countries. The quotas are based on an appropriate regional conservation strategy and monitoring regime and are not detrimental to the survival of the species in the wild.


(2) The quotas have been communicated to the CITES Secretariat and the Secretariat has communicated the annual export quotas to CITES Parties.


(3) The caviar is exported during the quota year (March 1 - last day of February) in which it was harvested and processed.


(e) *Re-exports.* Any re-export of sturgeon caviar must occur within 18 months from the date of issuance of the original export permit.


(f) *Pre-Convention.* Sturgeon caviar may not be imported, exported, or re-exported under a pre-Convention certificate.


(g) *Mixed caviar.* Caviar that consists of roe from more than one species may only be imported into or exported from the United States if the exact quantity of roe from each species is known and is indicated on the CITES document.


(h) *U.S. application forms.* Application forms can be obtained from our website or by contacting us (see § 23.7). For CITES document requirements, see § 23.36 for export permits and § 23.37 for re-export certificates. For export, complete Form 3-200-76 or Form 3-200-80 and submit it to the U.S. Management Authority. For re-export, complete Form 3-200-73 and submit it either to FWS Law Enforcement or the U.S. Management Authority.


(i) *CITES register of exporters and of processing and repackaging plants.* The CITES Secretariat maintains a “Register of licensed exporters and of processing and repackaging plants for specimens of sturgeon and paddlefish species” on its Web site. If you hold a current import-export license issued by FWS Law Enforcement and wish to be added to the CITES register, you may submit your contact information and processing or repackaging plant codes to the U.S. Management Authority for submission to the CITES Secretariat.



---

[N] [72 FR 48448, Aug. 23, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 40986, July 17, 2008; 79 fr 30428, May 27, 2014]




