# § 734.4   

(a) *Items for which there is no de minimis level.* (1) There is no *de minimis* level for the export from a foreign country of a foreign-made computer with an Adjusted Peak Performance (APP) exceeding that listed in ECCN 4A003.b and containing U.S.-origin controlled semiconductors (other than memory circuits) classified under ECCN 3A001 to Computer Tier 3 destinations; or exceeding an APP listed in ECCN 4A994.b and containing U.S.-origin controlled semiconductors (other than memory circuits) classified under ECCN 3A001 or high speed interconnect devices (ECCN 4A994.j) to Cuba, Iran, North Korea, and Syria.


(2) Foreign produced encryption technology that incorporates U.S. origin encryption technology controlled by ECCN 5E002 is subject to the EAR regardless of the amount of U.S. origin content.






(3) There is no *de minimis* level for equipment meeting the parameters in ECCN 3B993.f.1 of the Commerce Control List in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR, when the equipment is destined for use in the “development” or “production” of “advanced-node integrated circuits” and the “advanced-node integrated circuits” meet the parameter specified in paragraph (1) of that definition in § 772.1 of the EAR, unless the country from which the foreign-made item was first exported 
1 has this commodity specified on an export control list.




(4) There is no *de minimis* level for U.S.-origin technology controlled by ECCN 9E003.a.1 through a.6, a.8, .h, .i, and .l, when redrawn, used, consulted, or otherwise commingled abroad.










(5) There is no *de minimis* level for foreign-made “military commodities” incorporating one or more of the commodities described in ECCN 0A919.a.1 when destined for a country listed in Country Group D:5 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.


(6) 9x515 and “600 series.”


(i) There is no de minimis level for foreign-made items that incorporate U.S.-origin 9x515 or “600 series” items enumerated or otherwise described in paragraphs .a through .x of a 9x515 or “600 series” ECCN when destined for a country listed in Country Group D:5 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.


(ii) There is no *de minimis* level for foreign-made items that incorporate U.S.-origin 9x515 or “600 series” .y items when destined for a country listed in Country Group E:1 or E:2 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR or for Belarus, the People's Republic of China (PRC), or Russia.


(7) Under certain rules issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, certain exports from abroad by U.S.-owned or controlled entities may be prohibited notwithstanding the *de minimis* provisions of the EAR. In addition, the *de minimis* rules do not relieve U.S. persons of the obligation to refrain from supporting the proliferation of weapons of mass-destruction and missiles as provided in § 744.6 of the EAR.






(8) There is no *de minimis* level related to the SME FDP rule for a commodity meeting the parameters in ECCNs 3B001.a.4, c, d, f.1, f.5, f.6, k to n, p.2, p.4, r, or 3B002.c of the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR, when the commodity contains a U.S.-origin integrated circuit specified under Category 3, 4, or 5 of the CCL, and the commodity is destined for Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5, unless excluded from the national security license requirement in § 742.4(a)(4) or the regional stability license requirement in § 742.6(a)(6) of the EAR.




(9) For items related to the Footnote 5 FDP rule, there is no *de minimis* level for an item meeting the parameters in ECCNs specified in Category 3B (except 3B001.a.4, c, d, f.1, f.5, f.6, k to n, p.2, p.4, r, or 3B002.c) of the Commerce Control List (CCL) in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR, when the commodity contains a U.S.-origin integrated circuit specified under Category 3, 4, or 5 of the CCL, and the commodity is destined for an entity with a Footnote 5 designation in the license requirement column of the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to part 744 of the EAR, or to an end-user “facility” located in Macau or a destination specified in Country Group D:5 when there is “knowledge” that the commodities will be used in the “production” of logic or DRAM “advanced-node integrated circuits.”








(b) *Special requirements for certain Category 5, Part 2 items.* Non-U.S.-made items that incorporate U.S.-origin items that are listed in this paragraph are subject to the EAR unless they meet the *de minimis* level and destination requirements of paragraph (c) or (d) of this section and the requirements of this paragraph.


(1) The U.S.-origin commodities or software, if controlled under ECCN 5A002, ECCN 5B002, equivalent or related software therefor classified under ECCN 5D002, and “cryptanalytic items” or digital forensics items (investigative tools) classified under ECCN 5A004 or 5D002, must have been:


(i) Publicly available encryption source code classified under ECCN 5D002 that has met the criteria specified in § 742.15(b), see § 734.3(b)(3) of the EAR. Such source code does not have to be counted as controlled U.S.-origin content in a *de minimis* calculation;


(ii) Authorized for License Exception ENC by BIS after classification pursuant to § 740.17(b)(3) of the EAR;


(iii) Authorized for License Exception ENC by BIS after classification pursuant to § 740.17(b)(2) of the EAR, and the non-U.S.-made product will not be sent to any destination in Country Groups E:1 and E:2 in Supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR; or


(iv) Authorized for License Exception ENC pursuant to § 740.17(b)(1) of the EAR.




(2) The U.S.-origin encryption items are classified under ECCNs 5A992, 5D992, or 5E992.b.








(c) *10% De Minimis Rule.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1)(iii) of this section and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2) of this section, the following reexports are not subject to the EAR when made to any country in the world. See supplement no. 2 of this part for guidance on calculating values.


(1) Reexports of a foreign-made commodity incorporating controlled U.S.-origin commodities or “bundled” with U.S.-origin software valued at 10% or less of the total value of the foreign-made commodity; 


(2) Reexports of foreign-made software incorporating controlled U.S.-origin software valued at 10% or less of the total value of the foreign-made software; or


(3) Reexports of foreign technology commingled with or drawn from controlled U.S.-origin technology valued at 10% or less of the total value of the foreign technology. Before you may rely upon the *de minimis* exclusion for foreign-made technology commingled with controlled U.S.-origin technology, you must file a one-time report. See supplement no. 2 to part 734 for submission requirements.


(d) *25% De Minimis Rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section and subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the following reexports are not subject to the EAR when made to countries other than those listed in Country Group E:1 or E:2 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR. See supplement no. 2 to this part for guidance on calculating values.


(1) Reexports of a foreign-made commodity incorporating controlled U.S.-origin commodities or “bundled” with U.S.-origin software valued at 25% or less of the total value of the foreign-made commodity; 


(2) Reexports of foreign-made software incorporating controlled U.S.-origin software valued at 25% or less of the total value of the foreign-made software; or


(3) Reexports of foreign technology commingled with or drawn from controlled U.S.-origin technology valued at 25% or less of the total value of the foreign technology. Before you may rely upon the *de minimis* exclusion for foreign-made technology commingled with controlled U.S.-origin technology, you must file a one-time report. See supplement no. 2 to part 734 for submission requirements.


(e) You are responsible for making the necessary calculations to determine whether the *de minimis* provisions apply to your situation. See supplement no. 2 to part 734 for guidance regarding calculation of U.S. controlled content.


(f) See § 770.3 of the EAR for principles that apply to commingled U.S.-origin technology and software.


(g) *Recordkeeping requirement.* The method by which you determined the percentage of U.S. content in foreign software or technology must be documented and retained in your records in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements in part 762 of the EAR. Your records should indicate whether the values you used in your calculations are actual arms-length market prices or prices derived from comparable transactions or costs of production, overhead, and profit.



---

[N] [61 FR 12746, Mar. 25, 1996]


