# § 63.10011   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limits and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with each emissions limit that applies to you by conducting performance testing.


(b) If you are subject to an operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart, you demonstrate initial compliance with HAP metals or filterable PM emission limit(s) through performance stack tests and you elect to use a PM CPMS to demonstrate continuous performance (with the exception of existing IGCC units, on or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS for compliance demonstrations with the applicable filterable PM limits and the Table 4 p.m. CPMS operating limits do not apply), or if, for an IGCC unit, and you use quarterly stack testing for HCl and HF plus site-specific parameter monitoring to demonstrate continuous performance, you must also establish a site-specific operating limit, in accordance with § 63.10007 and Table 6 to this subpart. You may use only the parametric data recorded during successful performance tests (*i.e.,* tests that demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limits) to establish an operating limit. On or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS for compliance demonstrations with the applicable filterable PM limits and the Table 6 procedures for establishing PM CPMS operating limits do not apply unless it is an IGCC unit.






(c)(1) If you use CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring systems to measure a HAP (*e.g.,* Hg or HCl) directly, the initial performance test, shall consist of a 30-boiler operating day (or, for certain coal-fired, existing EGUs that use emissions averaging for Hg, a 90-boiler operating day) rolling average emissions rate obtained with a certified CEMS or sorbent trap system, expressed in units of the standard. If the monitoring system is certified prior to the applicable compliance date, the initial averaging period shall either begin with: The first boiler operating day on or after the compliance date; or 30 (or, if applicable, 90) boiler operating days prior to that date, as described in § 63.10005(b). In all cases, the initial 30- or 90-boiler operating day averaging period must be completed on or before the date that compliance must be demonstrated, in accordance with § 63.9984(f). Initial compliance is demonstrated if the results of the performance test meet the applicable emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.


(2) For an EGU that uses a CEMS to measure SO_2_ or PM emissions for initial compliance, the initial performance test shall consist of a 30-boiler operating day average emission rate obtained with certified CEMS, expressed in units of the standard. If the monitoring system is certified prior to the applicable compliance date, the initial averaging period shall either begin with: The first boiler operating day on or after the compliance date; or 30 boiler operating days prior to that date, as described in § 63.10005(b). In all cases, the initial 30- boiler operating day averaging period must be completed on or before the date that compliance must be demonstrated, in accordance with § 63.9984(f). Initial compliance is demonstrated if the results of the performance test meet the applicable SO_2_ or PM emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.


(d) For candidate LEE units, use the results of the performance testing described in § 63.10005(h) to determine initial compliance with the applicable emission limit(s) in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and to determine whether the unit qualifies for LEE status.


(e) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(f)(4) or (h), as applicable, containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration, as specified in 40 CFR 63.10030(e).


(f)(1) You must determine the fuel whose combustion produces the least uncontrolled emissions, *i.e.*, the cleanest fuel, either natural gas or distillate oil, that is available on site or accessible nearby for use during periods of startup or shutdown.


(2) Your cleanest fuel, either natural gas or distillate oil, for use during periods of startup or shutdown determination may take safety considerations into account.


(g) You must follow the startup or shutdown requirements as established in Table 3 to this subpart for each coal-fired, liquid oil-fired, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU.


(1) You may use the diluent cap and default gross output values, as described in § 63.10007(f), during startup periods or shutdown periods.


(2) You must operate all CMS, collect data, calculate pollutant emission rates, and record data during startup periods or shutdown periods.




(3) You must report the emissions data recorded during startup and shutdown. If you are relying on paragraph (2) of the definition of startup in 40 CFR 63.10042 (only allowed before January 2, 2025), then for startup and shutdown incidents that occur on or prior to December 31, 2023, you must also report the applicable supplementary information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5) in the semiannual compliance report. For startup and shutdown incidents that occur on or after January 1, 2024, you must provide the applicable information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5)(ii) and 40 CFR 63.10020(e) quarterly, in PDF files, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(i).




(4) If you choose to use paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 (only allowed before January 2, 2025), and you find that you are unable to safely engage and operate your particulate matter (PM) control(s) within 1 hour of first firing of coal, residual oil, or solid oil-derived fuel, you may choose to rely on paragraph (1) of definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 or you may submit a request to use an alternative non-opacity emissions standard, as described below.






(i) As mentioned in § 63.6(g)(1), your request will be published in the _Federal Register_ for notice and comment rulemaking. Until promulgation in the _Federal Register_ of the final alternative non-opacity emission standard, you shall comply with paragraph (1) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042. You shall not implement the alternative non-opacity emissions standard until promulgation in the _Federal Register_ of the final alternative non-opacity emission standard.


(ii) Your request need not address the items contained in § 63.6(g)(2).


(iii) Your request shall provide evidence of a documented manufacturer-identified safety issue.


(iv) Your request shall provide information to document that the PM control device is adequately designed and sized to meet the PM emission limit applicable to the EGU.


(v) In addition, your request shall contain documentation that:


(A) Your EGU is using clean fuels to the maximum extent possible, taking into account considerations such as not compromising boiler or control device integrity, to bring your EGU and PM control device up to the temperature necessary to alleviate or prevent the identified safety issues prior to the combustion of primary fuel in your EGU;


(B) You have followed explicitly your EGU manufacturer's procedures to alleviate or prevent the identified safety issue; and


(C) You have identified with specificity the details of your EGU manufacturer's statement of concern.


(vi) Your request shall specify the other work practice standards you will take to limit HAP emissions during startup periods and shutdown periods to ensure a control level consistent with the work practice standards of the final rule.


(vii) You must comply with all other work practice requirements, including but not limited to data collection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23404, Apr. 19, 2012; 79 FR 68790, Nov. 19, 2014; 81 FR 20186, Apr. 6, 2016; 85 FR 55759, Sept. 9, 2020; 89 FR 38566, May 7, 2024]




