# ยง 1503.607   Administrative law judges.

(a) *Powers of an ALJ.* In accordance with the rules of this subpart, an ALJ may:


(1) Give notice of, and hold, prehearing conferences and hearings.


(2) Issue scheduling orders and other appropriate orders regarding discovery or other matters that come before him or her consistent with the rules of this subpart.


(3) Administer oaths and affirmations.


(4) Issue subpoenas authorized by law.


(5) Rule on offers of proof.


(6) Receive relevant and material evidence.


(7) Regulate the course of the hearing in accordance with the rules of this subpart.


(8) Hold conferences to settle or to simplify the issues on his or her own motion or by consent of the parties.


(9) Rule on procedural motions and requests.


(10) Make findings of fact and conclusions of law, and issue an initial decision.


(11) Strike unsigned documents unless omission of the signature is corrected promptly after being called to the attention of the attorney or party.


(12) Order payment of witness fees in accordance with ยง 1503.649.


(b) *Limitations on the power of the ALJ.* (1) The ALJ may not:


(i) Issue an order of contempt.


(ii) Award costs to any party.


(iii) Impose any sanction not specified in this subpart.


(iv) Adopt or follow a standard of proof or procedure contrary to that set forth in this subpart.


(v) Decide issues involving the validity of a TSA regulation, order, or other requirement under the U.S. Constitution, the Administrative Procedure Act, or other law.


(2) If the ALJ imposes any sanction not specified in this subpart, a party may file an interlocutory appeal of right pursuant to ยง 1503.631(c)(3).


(3) This section does not preclude an ALJ from issuing an order that bars a person from a specific proceeding based on a finding of obstreperous or disruptive behavior in that specific proceeding.


(c) *Disqualification.* The ALJ may disqualify himself or herself at any time. A party may file a motion, pursuant to ยง 1503.629(f)(6), requesting that an ALJ be disqualified from the proceedings.




