# § 1066.1001   Definitions.

The definitions in this section apply to this part. The definitions apply to all subparts unless we note otherwise. Other terms have the meaning given in 40 CFR part 1065. The definitions follow:


*Average* means the arithmetic mean of a sample.


*Bag 1* means relating to the first 505 seconds of the FTP cold-start test interval. Note that the term bag 1 may also apply to measurement of constituents that are not collected in a bag, such as PM and continuously measured THC.


*Bag 2* means relating to the last 867 seconds of the FTP cold-start test interval.


*Bag 3* means relating to the first 505 seconds of the FTP hot-start test interval.


*Bag 4* means relating to the last 867 seconds of the FTP hot-start test interval, if run. Note that bag 2 is generally used in place of bag 4.


*Base inertia* means a value expressed in mass units to represent the rotational inertia of the rotating dynamometer components between the vehicle driving tires and the dynamometer torque-measuring device, as specified in § 1066.250.


*C*_1_-*equivalent* means a convention of expressing HC concentrations based on the total number of carbon atoms present, such that the C_1_-equivalent of an HC concentration equals the concentration multiplied by the mean number of carbon atoms in each HC molecule. For example, the C_1_-equivalent of 10 ppm of propane (C_3_H_8_) is 30 ppm. C_1_-equivalent concentration values may be denoted as “ppmC” in the standard-setting part. Densities may also be expressed on a C_1_ basis. Note that calculating HC masses from concentrations and densities is only valid where they are each expressed on the same carbon basis.


*Charge-depleting* means relating to the test interval of a plug-in hybrid engine or powertrain in which the engine or powertrain consumes electric energy from the RESS that has been charged from an external power source until the RESS is depleted to the point that a test interval qualifies as charge-sustaining. The engine might consume fuel to produce power during a charge-depleting test interval.




*Charge-sustaining* means relating to the test interval of a plug-in hybrid engine or powertrain in which the engine or powertrain consumes fuel to produce power such that the battery's net-energy change meets the end-of-test criterion of SAE J1711 or SAE J2711, as applicable (incorporated by reference in § 1066.1010).




*Driving schedule* means a series of vehicle speeds that a vehicle must follow during a test. Driving schedules are specified in the standard-setting part. A driving schedule may consist of multiple test intervals.


*Duty cycle* means a set of weighting factors and the corresponding test cycles, where the weighting factors are used to combine the results of multiple test intervals into a composite result.


*FTP* means one of the following:


(1) The test cycle consisting of one UDDS as specified in paragraph (a) of Appendix I of 40 CFR part 86, followed by a 10-minute soak with the engine off and repeat driving through the first 505 seconds of the UDDS. See § 1066.801(c)(1).


(2) The entire test procedure for measuring exhaust and/or evaporative emissions as described in § 1066.801(c).


*Footprint* has the meaning given in the standard-setting part.


*HFET* means the test cycle specified in Appendix I of 40 CFR part 600.


*Hot LA-92* means the first 1435 seconds of the LA-92 driving schedule.


*LA-92* means the test cycle specified in Appendix I, paragraph (c), of 40 CFR part 86.


*Nonmethane organic gas (NMOG)* means the combination of organic gases other than methane as calculated in § 1066.635. Note that for this part, the organic gases are summed on a mass basis without any adjustment for photochemical reactivity.


*Parts-per-million (ppm)* means ppm on a molar basis. For hydrocarbon concentrations including HC, THC, NMHC, and NMOG, ppm means ppm on a C_1_-equivalent molar basis.


*Road-load coefficients* means sets of A, B, and C road-load force coefficients that are used in the dynamometer road-load simulation, where road-load force at speed *v* equals A + B · *v* + C · *v*2.


*SC03* means the test cycle specified in Appendix I, paragraph (h), of 40 CFR part 86.




*Standard reference conditions* means the following:


(1) *Standard pressure* is 101.325 kPa.


(2) *Standard temperature* is 293.15 K.


*Supplemental FTP (SFTP)* means the collection of test cycles as given in § 1066.830.




*Test interval* means a period over which a vehicle's emission rates are determined separately. For many standards, compliance with the standard is based on a weighted average of the mass emissions from multiple test intervals. For example, the standard-setting part may specify a complete duty cycle as a cold-start test interval and a hot-start test interval. In cases where multiple test intervals occur over a duty cycle, the standard-setting part may specify additional calculations that weight and combine results to arrive at composite values for comparison against the applicable standards in this chapter.


*Test weight* has the meaning given in §§ 1066.410(b) or 1066.805.


*UDDS* means the test cycle specified in Appendix I, paragraph (a), of 40 CFR part 86.


*US06* means the test cycle specified in Appendix I, paragraph (g), of 40 CFR part 86.


*Unloaded coastdown* means a dynamometer coastdown run with the vehicle wheels removed from the roll surface.


*We (us, our)* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.



---

[N] [79 FR 23823, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 9124, Feb. 19, 2015; 88 FR 4710, Jan. 24, 2023; 89 FR 28215, Apr. 18, 2024]




