# § 63.3557   What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?

(a) *General.* You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this section. 


(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. 


(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each successive 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation. 


(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS. 


(4) You must maintain the CPMS at all times in accordance with § 63.3500(b) and have readily available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.


(5) You must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times in accordance with § 63.3500(b) that a controlled coating operation is operating, except during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, if applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments).


(6) You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out of control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits. 


(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CPMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Before August 24, 2020, any period for which the monitoring system is out of control and data are not available for required calculations is a deviation from the monitoring requirements. On and after August 24, 2020, except for periods of required quality assurance or control activities, any period for which the CPMS fails to operate and record data continuously as required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section, or generates data that cannot be included in calculating averages as specified in (a)(6) of this section constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.


(b) *Capture system bypass line.* You must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere. 


(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line. 


(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the nondiverting position with a car-seal or lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure the valve is maintained in the nondiverting position, and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line. 


(c) *Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.* If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs. 


(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor according to paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) If you establish operating limits according to § 63.3556(b)(1) and (2), then you must install the gas temperature monitors both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitors must be in the gas stream at the inlet to and the outlet of the catalyst bed to measure the temperature difference across the bed. 


(ii) If you establish operating limits according to § 63.3556(b)(3) and (4), then you must install a gas temperature monitor upstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitor must be in the gas stream at the inlet to the catalyst bed to measure the temperature. 


(3) For all thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3)(i) through (ii) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.


(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature. 


(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a minimum accuracy of ±1.2 degrees Celsius or ±1 percent of the temperature value in degrees Celsius, whichever is larger. 


(d) *Carbon adsorbers.* If you are using a carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (*e.g.,* steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle, and comply with paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) and (d)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having an accuracy of ±10 percent capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle. 


(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must have a minimum accuracy of ±1.2 degrees Celsius or ±1 percent of the temperature value in degrees Celsius, whichever is larger, and must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle. 


(e) *Condensers.* If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (a) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) The gas temperature monitor must have a minimum accuracy of ±1.2 degrees Celsius or ±1 percent of the temperature value in degrees Celsius, whichever is larger. 


(2) The temperature monitor must provide a continuous gas temperature record. 


(f) *Concentrators.* If you are using a concentrator such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(1) You must install a temperature monitor at the inlet to the desorption/reactivation zone of the concentrator. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3) of this section. 


(2) You must select an indicator(s) of performance of the desorption/reactivation fan operation, such as speed, power, static pressure, or flow rate. 


(3) You must monitor the rotational speed of the concentrator in revolutions per hour. 


(4) You must verify the performance of the adsorbent material by examining representative samples and testing adsorbent activity per the manufacturer's recommendations. 



---

[N] [68 FR 64446, Nov. 13, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 1384, Jan. 6, 2006; 85 FR 10856, Feb. 25, 2020]




