# § 184.1277   Dextrin.

(a) Dextrin ((C_6_H_10_O_5_)_n_·H_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 9004-53-9) is an incompletely hydrolyzed starch. It is prepared by dry heating corn, waxy maize, waxy milo, potato, arrowroot, wheat, rice, tapioca, or sago starches, or by dry heating the starches after: (1) Treatment with safe and suitable alkalis, acids, or pH control agents and (2) drying the acid or alkali treated starch.


(b) The ingredient meets the specification of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 96, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a formulation aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(14) of this chapter; as a processing aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(24) of this chapter; as a stabilizer and thickener as defined in § 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter; and as a surface-finishing agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(30) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [48 FR 51909, Nov. 15, 1983]




