# § 301.6231-1   Notice of proceedings and adjustments.

(a) *Notices to which this section applies.* In the case of any administrative proceeding under subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code (subchapter C of chapter 63), including an administrative proceeding with respect to an administrative adjustment request (AAR) filed by a partnership under section 6227, the following notices must be mailed to the partnership and the partnership representative (as described in section 6223 and § 301.6223-1)—


(1) Notice of any administrative proceeding initiated at the partnership level with respect to an adjustment of any partnership-related item (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(6)(ii)) for any partnership taxable year under subchapter C of chapter 63 (notice of administrative proceeding (NAP));


(2) Notice of any proposed partnership adjustment resulting from an administrative proceeding under subchapter C of chapter 63 (notice of proposed partnership adjustment (NOPPA)); and


(3) Notice of any final partnership adjustment resulting from an administrative proceeding under subchapter C of chapter 63 (notice of final partnership adjustment (FPA)).


(b) *Time for mailing notices*—(1) *Notice of proposed partnership adjustment.* A NOPPA is timely if it is mailed before the expiration of the period for making adjustments under section 6235(a)(1) (including any extensions under section 6235(b) and any special rules under section 6235(c)).


(2) *Notice of final partnership adjustment.* An FPA may not be mailed earlier than 270 days after the date on which the NOPPA is mailed unless the partnership agrees, in writing, with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to waive the 270-day period. See § 301.6225-2(c)(3)(iii) for the effect of a waiver under this paragraph (b)(2) on the 270-period for requesting a modification under section 6225(c). See § 301.6232-1(d)(2) for the rules regarding a waiver of the limitations on assessment under § 301.6232-1(c).


(c) *Last known address.* A notice described in paragraph (a) of this section is sufficient if mailed to the last known address of the partnership representative and the partnership (even if the partnership or partnership representative has terminated its existence).


(d) *Notice mailed to partnership representative*—(1) *In general.* A notice described in paragraph (a) of this section will be treated as mailed to the partnership representative if the notice is mailed to the partnership representative that is reflected in the IRS records as of the date the letter is mailed.


(2) *No partnership representative in effect.* In any case in which no partnership representative designation is in effect in accordance with § 301.6223-1(f), a notice described in paragraph (a) of this section mailed to “PARTNERSHIP REPRESENTATIVE” at the last known address of the partnership satisfies the requirements of this section.


(e) *Restrictions on additional FPAs after petition filed.* The IRS may mail more than one FPA to any partnership for any partnership taxable year. However, except in the case of fraud, malfeasance, or misrepresentation of a material fact, the IRS may not mail an FPA to a partnership with respect to a partnership taxable year after the partnership has filed a timely petition for readjustment under section 6234 with respect to an FPA issued with respect to such partnership taxable year.


(f) *Withdrawal of NAP or NOPPA.* The IRS may, without consent of the partnership, withdraw any NAP or NOPPA. Except as described in § 301.6223-1(d)(2) and (e)(2), if the IRS withdraws a NAP or NOPPA under this paragraph (f), the NAP or NOPPA is treated as if it were never issued, and the withdrawn NAP or NOPPA has no effect for purposes of subchapter C of chapter 63. For instance, if the IRS withdraws a NAP with respect to a partnership taxable year, the limitation under § 301.6222-1(c)(5) regarding inconsistent treatment, and the prohibition under section 6227(c) on filing an AAR, after the mailing of a NAP no longer applies with respect to such taxable year.


(g) *Rescission of FPA.* The IRS may, with the consent of the partnership, rescind any FPA. An FPA that is rescinded is not an FPA for purposes of subchapter C of chapter 63, and the partnership cannot bring a proceeding under section 6234 with respect to such FPA.


(h) *Applicability date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, this section applies to partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and ending after August 12, 2018.


(2) *Election under § 301.9100-22 in effect.* This section applies to any partnership taxable year beginning after November 2, 2015, and before January 1, 2018, for which a valid election under § 301.9100-22 is in effect.



---

[N] [T.D. 9844, 84 FR 6561, Feb. 27, 2019]














