# § 402.105   Amount of penalty.

(a) *$2,000.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $2,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each service, bill, or refusal to issue a timely refund that is subject to a determination under this part and for each incident involving the knowing, willful, and repeated failure of an entity furnishing a service to submit a properly completed claim form or to include on the claim form accurate information regarding the availability of other health insurance benefit plans (§ 402.1(c)(21)).


(b) *$1,000.* CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $1,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for the following:


(1) Per certificate of medical necessity knowingly and willfully distributed to physicians on or after December 31, 1994 that—


(i) Contains information concerning the medical condition of the patient; or


(ii) Fails to include cost information.


(2) For entities with reporting obligations under section 1862(b)(7) of the Act (“reporting entity”), if a reporting entity fails to report any beneficiary record within the specified period from the latter of the GHP coverage effective date or the Medicare beneficiary's entitlement date. The penalty is—


(i) Calculated on a daily basis, based on the number of recently added beneficiary records reviewed where CMS identifies that the entity submitted the required information more than 1 year after the GHP coverage effective date for the individual; and


(ii) $1,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each calendar day starting the day after 1 year (365 days) from the first instance of noncompliance, as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) For entities with reporting obligations under section 1862(b)(8) of the Act (“applicable plan”) as follows:


(i) If an applicable plan fails to report any NGHP beneficiary record within the specified period from the date of the settlement, judgment, award, or other payment (including the effective date of the assumption of ongoing payment responsibility for medical care). The penalty is—


(A) Calculated on a daily basis, based on the number of recently added beneficiary records reviewed where CMS identifies that the entity submitted the required information more than 1 year after the date of settlement, judgment, award, or other payment (including the effective date of the assumption of ongoing payment responsibility for medical care);


(B) $250 (as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102) for each calendar day of noncompliance as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section for each individual for which the required information should have been submitted, but was reported more than 1 year but less than 2 years after the required reporting date;


(C) $500 (as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102) for each calendar day of noncompliance as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section for each individual for which the required information should have been submitted, but was reported 2 years or more, but less than 3 years, after the required reporting date; and


(D) $1,000 (as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102), for each calendar day of noncompliance as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section for each individual for which the required information should have been submitted, but was reported 3 years or more after the required reporting date.


(ii) The maximum penalty that may be imposed for noncompliance associated with any one individual for which the required information should have been submitted is $365,000 (as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102).


(c) *$5,000.* CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $5,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each violation resulting from the following:


(1) The failure of a Medicare supplemental policy issuer, on a replacement policy, to waive any time periods applicable to pre-existing conditions, waiting periods, elimination periods, or probationary periods that were satisfied under a preceding policy (§ 402.1(c)(29)); and


(2) Any issuer of any Medicare supplemental policy denying a policy, conditioning the issuance or effectiveness of the policy, or discriminating in the pricing of the policy based on health status or other criteria as specified in section 1882(s)(2)(A). (§ 402.1(c)(29)).


(d) *$10,000.* (1) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each day that reporting entity ownership arrangements is late (§ 402.1(c)(22)).


(2) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for the following violations that occur on or after January 1, 1997:


(i) Knowingly and willfully, and on a repeated basis, billing for a clinical diagnostic laboratory test, other than on an assignment-related basis (§ 402.1(c)(1)).


(ii) By any durable medical equipment supplier, knowingly and willfully charging for a covered service that is furnished on a rental basis after the rental payments may no longer be made (except for maintenance and servicing) as provided in section 1834(a)(7)(A) (§ 402.1(c)(4)).


(iii) By any durable medical equipment supplier, knowingly and willfully, in violation of section 1834(a)(18)(A), failing to make a refund to Medicare beneficiaries for a covered service for which payment is precluded due to an unsolicited telephone contact from the supplier (§ 402.1(c)(5)).


(iv) By any nonparticipating physician or supplier, knowingly and willfully charging a Medicare beneficiary more than the limiting charge, as specified in section 1834(b)(5)(B), for radiologist services (§ 402.1(c)(6)).


(v) By any nonparticipating physician or supplier, knowingly and willfully charging a Medicare beneficiary more than the limiting charge, as specified in section 1834(c)(3), for mammography screening (§ 402.1(c)(7)).


(vi) By any supplier of prosthetic devices, orthotics, and prosthetics, knowingly and willfully charging for a covered prosthetic device, orthotic, or prosthetic that is furnished on a rental basis after the rental payment may no longer be made (except for maintenance and servicing) (§ 401.2(c)(8)).


(vii) By any supplier of durable medical equipment, including a supplier of prosthetic devices, prosthetics, orthotics, or supplies, knowingly and willfully failing to make refunds in a timely manner to Medicare beneficiaries for services billed other than on an assigned-related basis if—


(A) The supplier does not possess a Medicare supplier number;


(B) The service is denied in advance; or


(C) The service is determined not to be medically necessary or reasonable (§ 402.1(c)(10)).


(viii) Knowingly and willfully billing or collecting for any services on other than an assignment-related basis for practitioners specified in section 1842(b)(18)(B) (§ 402.1(c)(11)).


(ix) By any physician, knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim or bill for an assistant at cataract surgery performed on or after March 1, 1987 for which payment may not be made because of section 1862(a)(15) (§ 402.1(c)(12)).


(x) By any nonparticipating physician who does not accept payment on an assignment-related basis, knowingly and willfully failing to refund on a timely basis any amounts collected for services that are not reasonable or medically necessary or are of poor quality, in accordance with section 1842(l)(1)(A) (§ 402.1(c)(13)).


(xi) By any nonparticipating physician, who does not accept payment for an elective surgical procedure on an assignment-related basis and whose charge is at least $500, knowingly and willfully failing to—


(A) Disclose the information required by section 1842(m)(1) concerning charges and coinsurance amounts; and


(B) Refund on a timely basis any amount collected for the procedure in excess of the charges recognized and approved by the Medicare program (§ 402.1(c)(14)).


(xii) By any physician, in repeated cases, knowingly and willfully billing one or more beneficiaries, for purchased diagnostic tests, any amount other than the payment amount specified in section 1842(n)(1)(A) or section 1842(n)(1)(B) (§ 402.1(c)(15)).


(xiii) By any nonparticipating physician, supplier, or other person that furnishes physicians' services and does not accept payment on an assignment-related basis—


(A) Knowingly and willfully billing or collecting in excess of the limiting charge (as defined in section 1843(g)(2)) on a repeated basis; or


(B) Failing to make an adjustment or refund on a timely basis as required by section 1848(g)(1)(A)(iii) or (iv) (§ 402.1(c)(17)).


(xiv) Knowingly and willfully billing for State plan approved physicians' services on other than an assignment-related basis for a Medicare beneficiary who is also eligible for Medicaid (§ 402.1(c)(18)).


(xv) By any supplier of durable medical equipment, including a supplier of prosthetic devices, prosthetics, orthotics, or supplies, knowingly and willfully failing to make refunds in a timely manner to Medicare beneficiaries for services billed on an assignment-related basis if—


(A) The supplier did not possess a Medicare supplier number;


(B) The service is denied in advance; or


(C) The service is determined not to be medically necessary or reasonable (§ 402.1(c)(23)).


(3) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each violation, if a person or entity knowingly and willfully bills or collects for outpatient therapy or comprehensive rehabilitation services other than on an assignment-related basis. 


(4) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each violation, if a person or entity knowingly and willfully bills or collects for outpatient ambulance services other than on an assignment-related basis.


(5) CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each failure of an applicable manufacturer or an applicable group purchasing organization to report timely, accurately, or completely a payment or other transfer of value or an ownership or investment interest (§ 402.1(c)(34)). The total penalty imposed with respect to failures to report in an annual submission of information will not exceed $150,000 as annually adjusted under 45 CFR part 102.


(e) *$15,000.* CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $15,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for if the seller of a Medicare supplemental policy is not the issuer, for each violation described in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section (§ 402.1 (c)(25) and (c)(26)).


(f) *$25,000.* CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $25,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each of the following violations:


(1) Issuance of a Medicare supplemental policy that has not been approved by an approved State regulatory program or does not meet Federal standards on and after the effective date in section 1882(p)(1)(C) of the Act (§ 402.1(c)(23)).


(2) Sale or issuance after July 30, 1992, of a Medicare supplemental policy that fails to conform with the NAIC or Federal standards established under section 1882(p) of the Act (§ 402.1(c)(25)).


(3) Failure to make the core group of basic benefits available for sale when selling other Medicare supplemental plans with additional benefits (§ 402.1(c)(26)).


(4) Failure to provide, before sale of a Medicare supplemental policy, an outline of coverage describing the benefits provided by the policy (§ 402.1(c)(26)).


(5) Failure of an issuer of a policy to suspend or reinstate a policy, based on the policy holder's request, during entitlement to or upon loss of eligibility for medical assistance (§ 402.1(c)(27)).


(6) Failure to provide refunds or credits for Medicare supplemental policies as required by section 1882(r)(1)(B) (§ 402.1(c)(28)).


(7) By an issuer of a Medicare supplemental policy—


(i) Substantial failure to provide medically necessary services to enrollees seeking the services through the issuer's network of entities;


(ii) Imposition of premiums on enrollees in excess of the premiums approved by the State;


(iii) Action to expel an enrollee for reasons other than nonpayment of premiums; or


(iv) Failure to provide each enrollee, at the time of enrollment, with the specific information provided in section 1882(t)(1)(E)(i) or failure to obtain a written acknowledgment from the enrollee of receipt of the information (as required by section 1882(t)(1)(E)(ii)) (section 1882(t)(2)).


(g) *$100.* CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $100 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each violation if the person or entity does not furnish an itemized statement to a Medicare beneficiary within 30 days of the beneficiary's request.


(h) *$100,000.* CMS or OIG may impose a penalty of not more than $10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 for each knowing failure of an applicable manufacturer or an applicable group purchasing organization to report timely, accurately or completely a payment or other transfer of value or an ownership or investment interest (§ 402.1(c)(34)). The total penalty imposed with respect to knowing failures to report in an annual submission of information will not exceed $1,000,000 as annually adjusted under 45 CFR part 102.



---

[N] [63 FR 68690, Dec. 14, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 49546, Sept. 28, 2001; 72 FR 39752, July 20, 2007; 72 FR 46175, Aug. 17, 2007; 78 FR 9520, Feb. 8, 2013; 81 FR 61561, Sept. 6, 2016; 88 FR 70372, Oct. 11, 2023]




