# § 424.210   Beneficiary engagement incentives under the Medicare Diabetes Prevention Program expanded model.

(a) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions specified at § 410.79(b) and § 424.205(a) of this chapter, the following definition applies to this section:


*Engagement incentive period* means the period of time during which an MDPP supplier may furnish in-kind beneficiary engagement incentives to a given MDPP beneficiary to whom the MDPP supplier is furnishing MDPP services. This period begins when an MDPP supplier furnishes any MDPP service to an MDPP eligible beneficiary and ends when one of the following occurs, whichever occurs first:


(i) The MDPP beneficiary's MDPP services period ends as described in § 410.79(c)(3) of this chapter.


(ii) The MDPP supplier knows the MDPP beneficiary will no longer be receiving MDPP services from the MDPP supplier.


(iii) The MDPP supplier has not had direct contact, either in-person, by telephone, or via other telecommunications technology, with the MDPP beneficiary for more than 90 consecutive calendar days during the MDPP services period.


(b) *General.* An MDPP supplier may choose to furnish an item or service as an in-kind beneficiary engagement incentive to an MDPP beneficiary only during the engagement incentive period, subject to the following conditions:


(1) The item or service must be furnished directly to an MDPP beneficiary by an MDPP supplier or by an agent of the MDPP supplier, such as a coach, under the MDPP supplier's direction and control.


(2) The item or service must be reasonably connected to the CDC-approved National Diabetes Prevention Program curriculum furnished to the MDPP beneficiary during a core session or core maintenance session furnished by the MDPP supplier.


(3) The item or service must be a preventive care item or service or an item or service that advances a clinical goal, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, for an MDPP beneficiary by engaging him or her in better managing his or her own health.


(4) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services outside of the MDPP services.


(5) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services from a particular provider, supplier, or coach.


(6) The availability of the item or service must not be advertised or promoted as an in-kind beneficiary engagement incentive available to an MDPP beneficiary receiving MDPP services from the MDPP supplier except that an MDPP beneficiary may be made aware of the availability of the item or service at the time the MDPP beneficiary could reasonably benefit from it during the engagement incentive period.


(7) The cost of the item or service must not be shifted to another Federal health care program, as defined at section 1128B(f) of the Act.


(8) The cost of the item or service must not be shifted to an MDPP beneficiary.


(c) *Technology furnished to an MDPP beneficiary.* In-kind beneficiary engagement incentives involving technology furnished by an MDPP supplier to an MDPP beneficiary are subject to the following conditions:


(1) Items or services involving technology may not, in the aggregate, exceed $1,000 in retail value for any one MDPP beneficiary.


(2) Items or services involving technology must be the minimum necessary to advance a clinical goal, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, for an MDPP beneficiary.


(3) Items involving technology exceeding $100 in retail value must—


(i) Remain the property of the MDPP supplier; and


(ii) Be retrieved from the MDPP beneficiary at the end of the engagement incentive period. The MDPP supplier must document all retrieval attempts, including the ultimate date of retrieval, in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Documented diligent, good faith attempts to retrieve items of technology will be deemed to meet the retrieval requirement.


(d) *Clinical goals of the MDPP expanded model.* The following are the clinical goals for MDPP beneficiaries that may be advanced through in-kind beneficiary engagement incentives:


(1) Attendance at core sessions or core maintenance sessions.


(2) Weight loss.


(3) Long-term dietary change.


(4) Adherence to long-term health behavior changes.


(e) *Documentation of beneficiary engagement incentives.* In addition to the documentation requirements at § 424.205(g), an MDPP supplier must maintain documentation of items and services furnished as in-kind beneficiary engagement incentives that exceed $25 in retail value.


(1) The documentation must be established contemporaneous with the furnishing of the in-kind items and services and must include at least the following:


(i) The date the item or service is furnished.


(ii) The identity of the MDPP beneficiary to whom the item or service is furnished.


(iii) The agent of the MDPP supplier that furnished the item or service, if applicable.


(iv) A description of the item or service.


(v) The retail value of the item or service.


(vi) Documentation establishing that the item or service was furnished to the MDPP beneficiary during the engagement incentive period.


(2) Documentation regarding items or services that are furnished to the MDPP beneficiary for use on an ongoing basis during the engagement incentive period, including items involving technology exceeding $100 in retail value, must also include contemporaneous documentation establishing that the MDPP beneficiary is in the engagement incentive period throughout the time period that the MDPP beneficiary possesses or has access to the item or service furnished by the MDPP supplier.


(3) The documentation regarding items involving technology exceeding $100 in retail value must also include contemporaneous documentation of any attempt to retrieve the item as required by paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.


(4) The MDPP supplier must retain and provide access to the documentation required in this section in accordance with § 424.205(g).



---

[N] [82 FR 53364, Nov. 15, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 79540, Nov. 16, 2023]




