# ยง 7.403   Application requirements.

(a) *Electric cables and signaling cables.* A single application may address two or more sizes, types, and constructions if the products do not differ in composition of materials or basic design. Applications shall include the following information for each product:


(1) Product information:


(i) Cable type (for example, G or G-GC).


(ii) Construction (for example, round or flat).


(iii) Number and size (gauge) of each conductor. 


(iv) Voltage rating for all cables containing electric conductors.


(v) For electric cables, current-carrying capacity of each conductor, with corresponding ambient temperature upon which the current rating (ampacity) is based, of each power conductor.


(2) Design standard. Specify any published consensus standard used and fully describe any deviations from it, or fully describe any nonstandard design used.


(3) Materials. Type and identifying numbers for each material comprising the finished assembly.


(b) *Splice kit.* A single application may address two or more sizes, types, and constructions if the products do not differ in composition of materials or basic design. Applications shall include the following information for each product:


(1) Product information:


(i) Trade name or designation (for example, style or code number).


(ii) Type or kit (for example, shielded or nonshielded). 


(iii) Voltage rating.


(2) Design standard. Specify any published design standard used and fully describe any deviations from it, or provide complete final assembly dimensions for all components for each cable that the splice kit is designed to repair.


(3) Materials. Type of materials, supplier, supplier's stock number or designation for each component.


(4) Complete splice assembly instructions which clearly identify all components and detail procedures used in making the splice.




