# ยง 1560.109   Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan.

(a) *Content of the Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP).* Each covered aircraft operator must adopt and carry out an AOIP that sets forth the following:


(1) The covered aircraft operator's test plan with TSA.


(2) When the covered operator will begin to collect and transmit to TSA each data element of the SFPD for each covered flight.


(3) The specific means by which the covered aircraft operator will request and transmit information under ยง 1560.101, the timing and frequency of transmission, and any other related matters, in accordance with the Consolidated User Guide.


(b) *Adoption of Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP).* Each covered aircraft operator must adopt an AOIP pursuant to the procedures set forth in this paragraph (b).


(1) TSA notifies each covered aircraft operator in writing of a proposed AOIP, fixing a period of not less than 30 days within which the covered aircraft operator may submit written information, views, and arguments on the proposed AOIP.


(2) After considering all relevant material, TSA's designated official notifies each covered aircraft operator of its AOIP. The AOIP becomes effective not less than 30 days after the covered aircraft operator receives the notice of its AOIP, unless the covered aircraft operator petitions the Assistant Secretary or designated official to reconsider no later than 15 days before the effective date of the AOIP. The covered aircraft operator must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the AOIP.


(3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends the AOIP or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Assistant Secretary or designee for reconsideration. The Assistant Secretary or designee disposes of the petition within 30 days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the AOIP, or by affirming the AOIP.


(4) TSA may, at its discretion, grant extensions to any schedule deadlines, on its own initiative or upon the request of a covered aircraft operator.


(c) *Incorporation into Security Program.* Once an AOIP is approved, the AOIP becomes part of the covered aircraft operator's security program as described in 49 CFR part 1544, subpart B, or 49 CFR part 1546, subpart B, as appropriate, and any amendments will be made in accordance with the procedures in those subparts.


(d) *Handling of Aircraft Operator Implementation Plan (AOIP).* An AOIP contains sensitive security information (SSI) and must be handled and protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520. 




