# § 2.66   Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture.

(a) *Delegations.* Pursuant to § 2.21 (a)(1) and (a)(3), subject to the reservations in § 2.21(b)(1), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics (Under Secretary) to the Director, National Institute of Food and Agriculture, who shall report directly to the Under Secretary. 


(1) Administer research and technology development grants related to the economic feasibility of the manufacture and commercialization of natural rubber from hydrocarbon-containing plants and other critical agricultural materials from native agricultural crops having strategic and industrial importance (7 U.S.C. 178-178n).


(2) Administer the appropriation for the endowment and maintenance of colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanical arts (7 U.S.C. 321-326a). 


(3) Administer teaching funds authorized by section 22 of the Bankhead Jones Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 329). 


(4) Cooperate with the States for the purpose of encouraging and assisting them in carrying out research related to the problems of agriculture in its broadest aspects under the Hatch Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 361a-361i). 


(5) Administer an agricultural research facilities proposal review process for submission to Congress (7 U.S.C. 390, 390a(a)-(d)). 


(6) Carry out a program (IR-4 Program) for the collection of residue and efficacy data in support of registration or reregistration of pesticides for minor agricultural use and for use on specialty crops, and to determine tolerances for minor use chemical residues in or on agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 450i(e)).


(7) Administer the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative for competitive grants for fundamental and applied research, extension, and education to address food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)).


(8) Administer a program of making special grants for research, extension, or education activities (7 U.S.C. 450i(c)).


(9) Administer a next generation agriculture technology challenge competition to incentivize mobile technology that removes marketplace entry barriers for beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 3158).


(10) Administer, in cooperation with land-grant colleges and universities where applicable, a rural development research and extension program, a small farm research and extension program, and a rural health and safety education program under the Rural Development Act of 1972, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2661-2667).


(11) Provide national leadership and support for cooperative research and extension programs and other cooperative activities in the food and agricultural sciences to meet major needs and challenges in food and agricultural system productivity; development of new food, fiber, and energy sources; agricultural energy use and production; natural resources; promotion of the health and welfare of people; human nutrition; and international food and agriculture pursuant to the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3101 *et seq.*). 


(12) Conduct a program of grants to States to expand, renovate, or improve schools of veterinary medicine (7 U.S.C. 3151). 


(13) Promote and strengthen higher education in the food and agricultural sciences; administer grants to colleges and universities; maintain a national food and agricultural education information system; conduct programs regarding the evaluation of teaching programs and continuing education; administer the National Food and Agricultural Sciences Teaching, Extension, and Research Awards Program to recognize and promote excellence in teaching, extension, and research in the food and agricultural sciences; administer programs relating to secondary education and 2-year postsecondary education, including grants to public secondary schools, institutions of higher education that award an associate's degree, other institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations; and report to Congress on the distribution of funds to carry out such teaching programs (7 U.S.C. 3152).


(14) Administer a program to make competitive grants to assist in the construction, alteration, acquisition, modernization, renovation, or remodeling of agricultural research facilities (7 U.S.C. 390b).


(15) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.


(16) [Reserved]


(17) Administer and direct an Animal Health and Disease Research Program under the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3191-3201).


(18) Support continuing agricultural and forestry extension and research, at 1890 land-grant institutions, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3221, 3222, 3222d).


(19) Administer grants to 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University, through Federal-grant funds to help finance and upgrade agricultural and food science facilities which are used for research, extension, and resident instruction (7 U.S.C. 3222b). 


(20) Provide policy direction and coordinate the Department's work with national and international institutions and other persons throughout the world in the performance of agricultural research, extension, teaching, and development activities; administer a program of competitive grants for collaborative projects involving Federal scientists or scientists from colleges and universities working with scientists at international agricultural research centers in other nations focusing either on new technologies and programs for increasing the production of food and fiber or training scientists and a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities to strengthen United States economic competitiveness and to promote international market development; and establish a program in coordination with the Foreign Agricultural Service to place interns from United States colleges and universities at Foreign Agricultural Service field offices overseas (7 U.S.C. 3291, 3292b).


(21) Administer grants to 1890 Institutions, including Tuskegee University, for purposes of awarding scholarships to individuals pursuing careers in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3222a).


(22) Conduct program evaluations to improve the administration and efficacy of the cooperative research grants and extension programs involving State agricultural experiment stations, cooperative extension services, and colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 3317). 


(23) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research, extension or teaching activities in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318) 


(24) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements with State cooperative institutions or other colleges and universities for the acquisition of goods or services in support of research, extension, or teaching activities in the food and agricultural sciences, including the furtherance of library and related information programs (7 U.S.C. 3319a). 


(25) Conduct research and develop and implement a program for the development of supplemental and alternative crops (7 U.S.C. 3319d). 


(26) Administer an Aquaculture Assistance Program, involving centers, by making grants to eligible institutions for research and extension to facilitate or expand production and marketing of aquacultural food species and products; making grants to States to formulate aquaculture development plans for the production and marketing of aquacultural species and products; conducting a program of research, extension and demonstration at aquacultural demonstration centers (7 U.S.C. 3321-3322). 


(27) Make competitive grants to land-grant colleges and universities, including 1994 Institutions, to provide identifiable support specifically targeted for Tribal students (7 U.S.C. 3222e).


(28) Administer a cooperative rangeland research program (7 U.S.C. 3331-3336). 


(29) Administer grants for basic research on cancer in animals and birds (7 U.S.C. 3902). 


(30) Administer programs and conduct projects in cooperation with other agencies for research and education on sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5811-5813). 


(31) Administer a cooperative research and extension program to optimize crop and livestock production potential in integrated resource management and integrated crop management systems (7 U.S.C. 5821). 


(32) Establish an Agricultural Weather Office and administer a national agricultural weather information system, including competitive grants program for research in atmospheric sciences and climatology (7 U.S.C. 5852-5853). 


(33) Administer a cooperative extension program on agricultural weather forecasts and climate information for agricultural producers and administer a grant program to States to administer programs for State agricultural weather information systems (7 U.S.C. 5854). 


(34) Administer competitive grants for the acquisition of special purpose scientific research equipment for use in the food and agricultural sciences programs of eligible institutions (7 U.S.C. 3310a).


(35) Establish a National Plant Diagnostic Network to monitor and surveil through diagnostics threats to plant health from diseases or pests of concern in the United States and establish cooperative agreements with land-grant colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 8914(c)).


(36) [Reserved]


(37) Administer a grant program for risk assessment research to address concerns about the environmental effects of biotechnology (7 U.S.C. 5921). 


(38)-(39) [Reserved] 


(40) Conduct a research initiative known as the Agricultural Genome Initiative; and make grants or enter cooperative agreements on a competitive basis with individuals and organizations to carry out the Initiative (7 U.S.C. 5924).


(41) [Reserved]


(42) Administer a competitive high priority research and extension grants program in specified subject areas (7 U.S.C. 5925), including pollinator activities (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)) not otherwise delegated to the Administrator, Agricultural Research Service in § 2.65(a)(113) and the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in § 2.80(a)(47).


(43) In consultation with the Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production Advisory Committee, administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities for the purposes of facilitating the development of urban, indoor, and other emerging agricultural production, harvesting, transportation, aggregation, packaging, distribution, and markets (7 U.S.C. 5925g).


(44) Administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities regarding organically grown and processed agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 5925b).


(45) -(49) [Reserved]


(50) Administer the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982 for USDA (15 U.S.C. 638(e)-(k)). 


(51) Administer a cooperative forestry program in accordance with the McIntire-Stennis Cooperative Forestry Act, and administer a competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grant program (16 U.S.C. 582a-582a-8).


(52) Establish and administer the Forestry Student Grant Program to provide competitive grants to assist the expansion of the professional education of forestry, natural resources, and environmental scientists (16 U.S.C. 1649). 


(53) Provide staff support to the Secretary of Agriculture in his or her role as permanent Chair for the Joint Subcommittee on Aquaculture established by the National Aquaculture Act of 1980 and coordinate aquacultural responsibilities within the Department (16 U.S.C. 2805). 


(54) Administer extension education programs in aquaculture and administer grants related to research and development in aquaculture (16 U.S.C. 2806). 


(55) Coordinate research by cooperating State research institutions and administer education and information activities assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195 *et seq.*). 


(56) Prepare an annual report to Congress on disbursements of funds for agricultural research and extension at 1890 and 1862 Institutions for programs under the following authorities: 7 U.S.C. 3221; 7 U.S.C. 3222; 7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c); and 7 U.S.C. 361a *et seq.* (7 U.S.C.


(57) Represent the Department on the Federal Interagency Committee on Education.


(58)-(60) [Reserved] 


(61) Administer a cooperative agricultural extension program in accordance with the Smith-Lever Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 341-349). 


(62) Administer a cooperative agricultural extension program relating to agriculture, uses of solar energy with respect to agriculture, home economics, and rural energy in the District of Columbia (DC Code 38-1202.09).


(63) Conduct educational and demonstration work related to the distribution and marketing of agricultural products under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627). 


(64)-(71) [Reserved]


(72) Administer a cooperative extension program under the Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976 (7 U.S.C. 3004). 


(73) [Reserved]


(74) Administer a National Food and Human Nutrition Research and Extension Program (7 U.S.C. 3171-3173, 3175)


(75) [Reserved] 


(76) Design educational programs, implement, and distribute materials in cooperation with the cooperative extension services of the States emphasizing the importance of productive farmland pursuant to section 1544(a) of the Farmland Protection Policy Act (7 U.S.C. 4205(a)). 


(77) Recognize centers of excellence, led by 1890 Institutions, focused on student success and workforce development; nutrition, health, wellness, and quality of life; farming systems, rural prosperity, and economic sustainability; global food security and defense, natural resources, energy, and environment; and emerging technologies, and submit an annual report to Congress on the resources invested in and work being done by such centers (7 U.S.C. 5926).


(78) Develop and make available handbooks, technical guides, and other educational materials emphasizing sustainable agriculture production systems and practices; carry out activities related to a national training program for sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5831, 5832).


(79) Administer grants to consortia of land-grant colleges and universities to enhance the ability of the consortia to carry out multi-State research projects aimed at understanding and combating diseases of wheat, triticale, and barley caused by Fusarium graminearum and related fungi or Tilletia indica and related fungi (7 U.S.C. 7628).


(80)-(81) [Reserved]


(82) Administer education programs on Indian reservations and tribal jurisdictions (7 U.S.C. 5930). 


(83) Conduct education and extension programs related to nutrition education (7 U.S.C. 2027(a)).


(84) Administer a demonstration grants program for support of an assistive technology program for farmers with disabilities (7 U.S.C. 5933). 


(85) Conduct educational and demonstrational work in cooperative farm forestry programs (16 U.S.C. 568). 


(86) Provide for an expanded and comprehensive extension program for forest and rangeland renewable resources (16 U.S.C. 1671-1676). 


(87) [Reserved]


(88) Provide technical, financial, and educational assistance to State foresters and State extension directors on rural forestry assistance (16 U.S.C. 2102). 


(89) Provide educational assistance to State foresters under the Forest Stewardship Program (16 U.S.C. 2103a). 


(90) Implement and conduct an educational program to assist the development of urban and community forestry programs (16 U.S.C. 2105). 


(91) Administer an experienced services program to obtain technical, professional, and administrative services to support the research, education, and economics mission area of the Department (16 U.S.C. 3851).


(92) Authorize the use of the 4-H Club name and emblem (18 U.S.C. 707). 


(93) Conduct demonstrational and promotional activities related to farm dwellings and other buildings for the purposes of reducing costs and adapting and developing fixtures and appurtenances for more efficient and economical farm use (42 U.S.C. 1476(b)). 


(94) [Reserved] 


(95) Exercise the responsibilities of the Secretary under regulations dealing with Equal Employment Opportunity (part 18 of this title). 


(96) [Reserved]


(97) Provide educational and technical assistance in implementing and administering the conservation reserve program authorized in sections 1231-1244 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1509, 16 U.S.C. 3831-3844). 


(98) Establish and administer a 1994 Institutions Endowment Fund and to enter into agreements necessary to do this (Section 533(b)(c) of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(99) Make grants in equal amounts to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to be used in the same manner as is prescribed for colleges under the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417, chapter 841; 7 U.S.C. 321 *et seq.*) (commonly known as the Second Morrill Act), and subject to the requirements of such Act (Sections 533 and 534 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(100) Make competitive Institutional Capacity Building Grants to assist 1994 Institutions with constructing, acquiring, and remodeling buildings, laboratories, and other capital facilities (including fixtures and equipment) necessary to conduct instructional activities more effectively in agriculture and sciences (Section 535 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(101) Make competitive grants to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to conduct agricultural research that addresses high priority concerns of tribal, national, or multistate significance (Section 536 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(102) Implement and administer the Community Food Projects Program under section 25 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2034).


(103) In consultation with the Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service, administer pilot projects to encourage the use of public-private partnerships committed to addressing food insecurity (7 U.S.C. 2036d).


(104) Develop and carry out a system to monitor and evaluate agricultural research and extension activities conducted or supported by the Department of Agriculture that will enable the Secretary to measure the impact and effectiveness of research, extension, and education programs according to priorities, goals, and mandates established by law. Conduct a comprehensive review of state-of-the-art information technology systems for use in developing the system (7 U.S.C. 3129). 


(105) [Reserved]


(106) Administer grants to 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University, through Federal-grant funds to help finance research facilities and equipment including agricultural libraries (7 U.S.C. 3223). 


(107) Establish and administer competitive grants to Hispanic-serving Institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of Hispanic-serving Institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3241).


(108)-(109) [Reserved] 


(110) Coordinate the development and carrying out by Department agencies of all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research conducted or funded by the Department involving biotechnology, including the development and implementation of guidelines for oversight of research activities, acting as liaison on all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research in biotechnology between agencies within the Department and between the Department and other governmental, educational, or private organizations and carrying out any other activities authorized by (7 U.S.C. 3121). 


(111)-(112) [Reserved] 


(113) Provide technical and educational assistance to conserve and enhance private grazing land resources (16 U.S.C. 2005b). 


(114) Provide technical assistance to farmers and ranchers under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (16 U.S.C. 3830 *et seq.*). 


(115)-(116) [Reserved]


(117) Represent the Department in international organizational activities and on international technical committees concerned with agricultural science, education, and development activities, including library and information science activities. 


(118) [Reserved]


(119) Ensure that agricultural research, extension, or education activities administered, on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture address a concern that is a priority and has national, multistate, or regional significance (7 U.S.C. 7611). 


(120) Solicit and consider input and recommendations from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education; ensure that Federally supported and conducted agricultural research, extension, and education activities are accomplished in accord with identified management principles; and promulgate regulations concerning implementation of a process for obtaining stakeholder input at 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institutions and Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 7612(b), (c), and (d)).


(121) Establish procedures that provide for scientific peer review of each agricultural research grant administered on a competitive basis, and for relevancy and merit review of each agricultural research, extension, or education grant administered on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 7613(a)).


(122) Consider the results of the annual review performed by the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board regarding the relevance to priorities of the funding of all agricultural research, extension, or education activities conducted or funded by the Department and the adequacy of funding, when formulating each request for proposals, and evaluating proposals, involving an agricultural research, extension, or education activity funded, on a competitive basis, by the Department; and solicit and consider input from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education regarding the prior year's request for proposals for each activity funded on a competitive basis (7 U.S.C. 7613(c)).


(123) Require a procedure to be established by each 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institution and Hispanic-serving agricultural college and university, for merit review of each agricultural research and extension activity funded and review of the activity in accordance with the procedure (7 U.S.C. 7613(e)).


(124)-(127) [Reserved] 


(128) Administer competitive grants for integrated, multifunctional agricultural research, education, and extension activities (7 U.S.C. 7626). 


(129) Operate and administer the Food Animal Residue Avoidance Database through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with appropriate colleges or universities (7 U.S.C. 7642). 


(130) Develop a national program of safe food handling education for adults and young people to reduce the risk of food-borne illness (7 U.S.C. 7655). 


(131) Cooperate with other Federal agencies (including the National Science Foundation) in issuing joint requests for proposals, awarding grants, and administering grants under any competitive agricultural research, education, or extension grant program (7 U.S.C. 3319b).


(132) Administer a program of competitive grants, establish education teams, and establish an online clearinghouse of curricula and training materials and programs, all for training, education, outreach, and technical assistance initiatives for the benefit of beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 2279(d)).


(133) Administer agricultural research, education, and extension activities (including through competitive grants), using any authority available to the Secretary, to reduce the vulnerability of the United States food and agricultural system to chemical or biological attack, to continue partnerships with institutions of higher education and other institutions to help form stable, long-term programs to enhance the biosecurity of the United States, to make competitive grants to universities and qualified research institutions for research on counterbioterrorism, and to counter or otherwise respond to chemical or biological attack (7 U.S.C. 3351).


(134) Administer a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities for expansion and security upgrades to enhance the security of agriculture against bioterrorism (7 U.S.C. 3352).


(135) Administer programs for distance education grants and resident instruction grants to eligible institutions in insular areas that have demonstrable capacity to carry out teaching and extension programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3361-3363).


(136) Administer a program of cooperative research (including through competitive award of grants and cooperative agreements to colleges and universities) and extension projects on carbon cycling in soils and plants, the exchange of other greenhouse gases from agriculture, and the carbon sequestration benefits of conservation practices (7 U.S.C. 6711).


(137) In consultation with the Secretary of Energy, administer competitive grants to provide education about carbon utilization and biogas (7 U.S.C. 8115).


(138) Administer a program of grants to the Girl Scouts of the United States of America, the Boy Scouts of America, the National 4-H Council, and the National FFA Organization to establish pilot projects to expand the programs carried out by the organizations in rural areas and small towns (7 U.S.C. 7630).


(139) Oversee implementation of the termination of Federal schedule A civil service appointments of State agricultural extension employees at land-grant colleges and universities (section 7220 of Pub. L. 107-171).


(140) Administer and direct a program of grants to the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute (section 10805 of Pub. L. 107-171).


(141) Formulate and carry out the Veterinary Medicine Loan Repayment Act program authorized by the National Veterinary Medical Service Act (7 U.S.C. 3151a).


(142) Administer grants to assist the land-grant university in the District of Columbia to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-1).


(143) Administer grants to assist the land-grant colleges and universities in insular areas to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research; and to support tropical and subtropical agricultural research, including pest and disease research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-2).


(144) Enter into agreements necessary to administer an Hispanic-Serving Agricultural Colleges and Universities Fund; enter into agreements necessary to administer a program of making annual payments to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer an institutional capacity-building grants program for Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer a competitive grants program to fund fundamental and applied research and extension at Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities and to award competitive grants to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities to provide for training in the food and agricultural sciences of Hispanic agricultural workers and Hispanic youth working in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3243).


(145) Administer the New Era Rural Technology Program to make grants for technology development, applied research, and training to aid in the development of an agriculture-based renewable energy workforce (7 U.S.C. 3319e).


(146) Administer a competitive grants program to assist NLGCA Institutions in maintaining and expanding capacity to conduct education, research, and outreach activities relating to agriculture, renewable resources, and other similar disciplines (7 U.S.C. 3319i).


(147) [Reserved]


(148) Administer a competitive research and extension grants program to improve the farm management knowledge and skills of agricultural producers and establish and maintain a national, publicly available farm financial management database to support improved farm management (7 U.S.C. 5925f).


(149) Administer the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (7 U.S.C. 7632).


(150) Administer a competitive research and education grants program relating to antibiotics and antibiotic-resistant bacteria (7 U.S.C. 3202).


(151) Administer a competitive grants program to establish and maintain a Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (7 U.S.C. 5936).


(152) Administer a competitive grant program to support the development and expansion of advanced training programs in agricultural biosecurity planning and response for food science professionals and veterinarians (7 U.S.C. 8913).


(153) Administer a Sun Grants Program (7 U.S.C. 8114).


(154)-(155) [Reserved]


(156) Administer the Biomass Research and Development Initiative (7 U.S.C. 8108(e)); consult and coordinate, as appropriate, with the Under Secretary for Rural Development and other mission areas of the Department as deemed necessary in carrying out the authorities delegated herein.


(157) Administer a competitive grants program to encourage basic and applied research and the development of qualified agricultural countermeasures (7 U.S.C. 8921).


(158) Administer a competitive grants program to promote the development of teaching programs in agriculture, veterinary medicine, and disciplines closely allied to the food and agriculture system to increase the number of trained individuals with an expertise in agricultural biosecurity (7 U.S.C. 8922).


(159) Administer a program of providing grants to Alaska Native serving institutions and Native Hawaiian serving institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of those institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3156).


(160) Administer a competitive grant program for national food safety training, education, extension, outreach, and technical assistance (7 U.S.C. 7625).


(161) Enter into agreements with and receive funds from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of conducting cooperative research projects (7 U.S.C. 450a).


(162) Administer a food insecurity nutrition incentive program (7 U.S.C. 7517).


(163) Administer a food and agriculture service learning grant program (7 U.S.C. 7633).


(164) Administer a veterinary services grant program (7 U.S.C. 3151b).


(165) Administer a forestry and forestry products research and extension initiative (7 U.S.C. 7655b).


(b) [Reserved] 



---

[N] [60 FR 56393, Nov. 8, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 65595, Dec. 15, 1997; 65 FR 5417, Feb. 4, 2000; 68 FR 27445, May 20, 2003; 72 FR 12701, Mar. 19, 2007; 74 FR 3409, Jan. 21, 2009; 75 FR 43381, July 23, 2010; 76 FR 4803, Jan. 27, 2011; 76 FR 52852, Aug. 24, 2011; 77 FR 40249, July 9, 2012; 79 FR 44115, July 30, 2014; 83 FR 61314, Nov. 29, 2018; 85 FR 65520, Oct. 15, 2020]




