# § 35.3505   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to terms used in this subpart: 


*Act.* The Safe Drinking Water Act (Public Law 93-523), as amended in 1996 (Public Law 104-182). 42 U.S.C. 300f *et seq.*

*Administrator.* The Administrator of the EPA or an authorized representative. 


*Allotment.* Amount available to a State from funds appropriated by Congress to carry out section 1452 of the Act. 


*Automated Clearing House (ACH).* A Federal payment mechanism that transfers cash to recipients of Federal assistance using electronic transfers from the Treasury through the Federal Reserve System. 


*Binding commitment.* A legal obligation by the State to an assistance recipient that defines the terms for assistance from the Fund. 


*Capitalization grant.* An award by EPA of funds to a State for purposes of capitalizing that State's Fund and for other purposes authorized in section 1452 of the Act. 


*Cash draw.* The transfer of cash from the Treasury through the ACH to the DWSRF program. Upon a State's request for a cash draw, the Treasury will transfer funds to the DWSRF program account established in the State's bank. 


*CWSRF program.* Each State's clean water state revolving fund program authorized under Title VI of the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1381-1387. 


*Disadvantaged community.* The entire service area of a public water system that meets affordability criteria established by the State after public review and comment. 


*Disbursement.* The transfer of cash from the DWSRF program account established in the State's bank to an assistance recipient. 


*DWSRF program.* Each State's drinking water state revolving fund program authorized under section 1452 of the Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 300j-12. This term includes the Fund and set-asides. 


*Fund.* A revolving account into which a State deposits DWSRF program funds (e.g., capitalization grants, State match, repayments, net bond proceeds, interest earnings, etc.) for the purposes of providing loans and other types of assistance for drinking water infrastructure projects. 


*Intended Use Plan (IUP).* A document prepared annually by a State, after public review and comment, which identifies intended uses of all DWSRF program funds and describes how those uses support the overall goals of the DWSRF program. 


*Net bond proceeds.* The funds raised from the sale of the bonds minus issuance costs (e.g., the underwriting discount, underwriter's legal counsel fees, bond counsel fee, and other costs incidental to the bond issuance). 


*Payment.* An action taken by EPA to increase the amount of funds available for cash draw through the ACH. A payment is not a transfer of cash to the State, but an authorization by EPA to make capitalization grant funds available for transfer to a State after the State submits a cash draw request. 


*Public water system.* A system as defined in 40 CFR 141.2. A public water system is either a “community water system” or a “noncommunity water system” as defined in 40 CFR 141.2. 


*Regional Administrator (RA).* The Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office of the EPA or an authorized representative of the Regional Administrator. 


*Set-asides.* State and local activities identified in sections 1452(g)(2) and (k) of the Act for which a portion of a capitalization grant may be used. 


*Small system.* A public water system that regularly serves 10,000 or fewer persons. 


*State.* Each of the 50 States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, which receive capitalization grants and are authorized to establish a Fund under section 1452 of the Act. 




