# ยง 3011.103   Commission action to determine non-public treatment.

(a) The inadvertent failure of a submitter to concomitantly provide all documents required by ยง 3011.200(a) does not prevent the Commission from according appropriate confidentiality to non-public information contained with any materials provided to the Commission. Information requests as described in ยง 3010.170 of this chapter, preliminary notices, or interim orders may be issued to help the Commission determine the non-public treatment, if any, to be accorded to the materials claimed by any person to be non-public.


(b) Upon motion by any person, the Commission may issue an order containing a description of and timeframe for the non-public treatment, if any, to be accorded to materials claimed by any person to be non-public.


(c) Upon its own motion, the Commission may issue notice of its preliminary determination concerning the appropriate degree of protection, if any, to be accorded to materials claimed by any person to be non-public. A response is due within seven calendar days of issuance of the preliminary determination, unless the Commission otherwise provides. No reply to a response shall be filed, unless the Commission otherwise provides. Pending the Commission's resolution of the preliminary determination, information designated as non-public will be accorded non-public treatment. The Commission will enter an order determining what non-public treatment, if any, will be accorded to the materials after the response period described in this paragraph has expired. The determination of the Commission shall follow the applicable standard described in ยง 3011.104.



---

[N] [83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9641, Feb. 19, 2020; 88 FR 37154, June 7, 2023]




