# ยง 1245.112   Notice of proposed Board action and reconsideration.

(a) *Notice.* Except as provided by ยง 1245.104(d), the Board will notify the petitioner, through the contracting officer, with respect to petitions for advance waiver prior to contract execution, and directly to the petitioner for all other petitions:


(1) When it proposes to recommend to the Administrator that the petition be:


(i) Granted in an extent different from that requested; or


(ii) Denied.


(2) Of the reasons for the recommended action adverse to or different from the waiver of rights requested by the petitioner.


(b) *Request for reconsideration and statements required.* (1) If, under paragraph (a) of this section, the Board notifies the petitioner that the Board proposes to recommend action adverse to or different from the waiver requested, the petitioner may, within the period as the Board may set, but not less than 15 days from the notification, request reconsideration by the Board.


(2) If reconsideration has been requested within the prescribed time, the petitioner shall, within 30 days from the date of the request for reconsideration, or within any other time as the Board may set, file its statement setting forth the points, authorities, arguments, and any additional material on which it relies. 


(3) Upon filing of the reconsideration statement by the petitioner, the petition will be assigned for reconsideration by the Board upon the contents of the petition, the record, and the reconsideration statement submitted by the petitioner.


(4) The Board, after its reconsideration, will promptly notify the petitioner of its proposed recommendation to the Administrator. If the Board's proposed action is adverse to, or different from, the waiver requested, the petitioner may request an oral hearing within the time as the Board has set.



---

[N] [52 FR 43748, Nov. 16, 1987, as amended at 80 FR 19199, Apr. 10, 2015]




