# § 54.1600   Definitions.

(a) *Broadband internet access service.* The term “broadband internet access service” has the meaning given such term in 47 CFR 8.1(b), or any successor regulation.


(b) *Broadband provider.* The term “broadband provider” means a provider of broadband internet access service.


(c) *Commission.* The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission.


(d) *Connected device.* The term “connected device” means a laptop or desktop computer or a tablet.


(e) *Designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier.* The term “designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier”, with respect to a broadband provider, means the broadband provider is designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier under section 214(e) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 214(e)).


(f) *Direct service.* As used in this subpart, direct service means the provision of service directly to the qualifying low-income consumer.


(g) *Duplicative support.* “Duplicative support” exists when an Emergency Broadband Benefit subscriber is receiving two or more Emergency Broadband Benefit services concurrently or two or more subscribers in a household have received a connected device with an Emergency Broadband Benefit discount


(h) *Eligible household.* The term “eligible household” means, regardless of whether the household or any member of the household receives support under subpart E of 47 CFR part 54 (or any successor regulation), and regardless of whether any member of the household has any past or present arrearages with a broadband provider, a household in which—


(1) At least one member of the household meets the qualifications 47 CFR 54.409(a) or (b) (or any successor regulation);


(2) At least one member of the household has applied for and been approved to receive benefits under the free and reduced price lunch program under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 *et seq.*) or the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773);


(3) At least one member of the household has experienced a substantial loss of income since February 29, 2020, that is documented by layoff or furlough notice, application for unemployment insurance benefits, or similar documentation or that is otherwise verifiable through the National Verifier or National Lifeline Accountability Database;


(4) At least one member of the household has received a Federal Pell Grant under section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a) in the current award year, if such award is verifiable through the National Verifier or National Lifeline Accountability Database or the participating provider verifies eligibility under 47 CFR 54.1606(a)(2); or


(5) At least one member of the household meets the eligibility criteria for a participating provider's existing low-income or COVID-19 program, subject to the requirements of 47 CFR 54.1606(a)(2).


(i) *Emergency broadband benefit.* The term “emergency broadband benefit” means a monthly discount for an eligible household applied to the actual amount charged to such household, which shall be no more than the standard rate for an internet service offering and associated equipment, in an amount equal to such amount charged, but not more than $50, or, if an internet service offering is provided to an eligible household on Tribal land, not more than $75.


(j) *Emergency period.* The term “emergency period” means the period that—


(1) Begins on the date of the enactment of the Consolidated Appropriations Act; and


(2) Ends on the date that is 6 months after the date on which the determination by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d) that a public health emergency exists as a result of COVID-19, including any renewal thereof, terminates.


(k) *Enrollment representative.* An employee, agent, contractor, or subcontractor, acting on behalf of an eligible telecommunications carrier or third-party entity, who directly or indirectly provides information to the Administrator for the purpose of eligibility verification, enrollment, subscriber personal information updates, benefit transfers, or de-enrollment.


(l) *Household.* A “household” is any individual or group of individuals who are living together at the same address as one economic unit. A household may include related and unrelated persons. An “economic unit” consists of all adult individuals contributing to and sharing in the income and expenses of a household. An adult is any person eighteen years or older. If an adult has no or minimal income, and lives with someone who provides financial support to him/her, both people shall be considered part of the same household. Children under the age of eighteen living with their parents or guardians are considered to be part of the same household as their parents or guardians.


(m) *Income.* “Income” means gross income as defined under section 61 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 61, for all members of the household. This means all income actually received by all members of the household from whatever source derived, unless specifically excluded by the Internal Revenue Code, Part III of Title 26, 26 U.S.C. 101 *et seq.*

(n) *Internet service offering.* The term “internet service offering” means, with respect to a broadband provider, broadband internet access service provided by such provider to a household, offered in the same manner, and on the same terms, as described in any of such provider's offerings for broadband internet access service to such household, as on December 1, 2020.


(o) *Lifeline qualifying assistance program.* A “Lifeline qualifying assistance program” means any of the Federal or Tribal assistance programs the participation in which, pursuant to 47 CFR 54.409(a) or (b), qualifies a consumer for Lifeline service, including Medicaid; Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; Supplemental Security Income; Federal Public Housing Assistance; Veterans and Survivors Pension Benefit; Bureau of Indian Affairs general assistance; Tribally administered Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (Tribal TANF); Head Start (only those households meeting its income qualifying standard); or the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR).


(p) *National Lifeline Accountability Database.* The “National Lifeline Accountability Database” is an electronic system, with associated functions, processes, policies and procedures, to facilitate the detection and elimination of duplicative support, as directed by the Commission.


(q) *National Lifeline Eligibility Verifier or National Verifier.* The “National Lifeline Eligibility Verifier” or “National Verifier” is an electronic and manual system with associated functions, processes, policies and procedures, to facilitate the determination of consumer eligibility for the Lifeline program and Emergency Broadband Benefit Program, as directed by the Commission.


(r) *Participating provider.* The term “participating provider” means a broadband provider that—


(1)(i) Is designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier; or


(ii) Meets requirements established by the Commission for participation in the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program and is approved by the Commission under 47 CFR 54.1601(b); and


(2) Elects to participate in the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program.


(s) *Standard rate.* The term “standard rate” means the monthly retail rate for the applicable tier of broadband internet access service as of December 1, 2020, excluding any taxes or other governmental fees.


(t) *Tribal lands.* For purposes of this subpart, “Tribal lands” include any Federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation, pueblo, or colony, including former reservations in Oklahoma; Alaska Native regions established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688); Indian allotments; Hawaiian Home Lands—areas held in trust for Native Hawaiians by the state of Hawaii, pursuant to the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 July 9, 1921, 42 Stat. 108, et seq., as amended; and any land designated as such by the Commission for purposes of subpart E of 47 CFR part 54 (or any successor regulation) pursuant to the designation process in 47 CFR 54.412.




