# § 1506.30   Can USADF use salary offset means to collect a claim against me if USADF is not the creditor agency?

(a) USADF will use salary offset means of collecting debt against one of its employees that is indebted to another agency if requested to do so by that agency. The requesting agency must certify that the USADF employee owes a debt and that the procedural requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, have been met. The creditor agency must also advise USADF of the amount of debt, and the number and amount of the installments to be collected.


(b) Request for salary offset must be submitted to the CFO of USADF.


(c) Processing of the claim by USADF—


(1) *Incomplete claims.* A creditor agency will be required to supply USADF with all the required information prior to any salary offset from the employee's current pay account.


(2) *Complete claims.* If the claim procedures in paragraph (a) of this section have been properly completed, deduction will begin on the next established pay period. USADF will not review the merits of the creditor agency's determinations with respect to the amount or validity of the debt as stated in the debt claim form. USADF will not assess a handling or any other related charge to cover the cost of its processing the claim.


(d) Employees separating from USADF before a debt to another agency is collected—


(1) *Employees separating from Government service.* If an employee begins separation action before USADF collects the total debt due the creditor agency, the following actions will be taken:


(i) To the extent possible, the balance owed the creditor agency will be liquidated from subsequent payments of any nature due the employee from USADF;


(ii) If the total amount of the debt cannot be recovered, USADF will certify to the creditor agency and the employee the total amount of USADF's collection; and


(iii) If USADF is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it will provide such information to the creditor agency so that it can file a certified claim against the payments.


(2) *Employees who transfer to another Federal agency.* If an USADF employee transfers to another Federal agency before USADF collects the total amount due the creditor agency, USADF will certify the total amount of the collection made on the debt. It is the responsibility of the creditor agency to ensure that the collection is resumed by the new employing agency.




