# § 473.2   Definitions.

For purpose of these regulations—


*Act* means the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1978—Civilian Applications. Pub. L. 95-238, 92 Stat. 47. 


*Advanced automobile propulsion system* means an energy conversion system, including engine and drivetrain, which utilizes advanced technology and is suitable for use in an advanced automobile. 


*Agency project* means research and development under the Act by employees of a Federal agency furnishing assistance at the request of the DOE. 


*Annual funding period* means the Federal fiscal year during which a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract is funded by an appropriation under the Act. 


*Applicant* means any private laboratory, university, nonprofit organization, industrial organization, private agency, institution, organization, corporation, partnership, individual, or public agency other than a Federal agency. 


*DOE project* means research and development under the Act by employees of the DOE. 


*Federal agency* means an executive agency as defined by 5 U.S.C. 105 (1970). 


*Manager* means the Federal program official who requests grant agreements, cooperative agreements, or contracts to be negotiated or who authorizes a DOE or agency project to begin. 


*Notice of availability* means a notice published in the Commerce Business Daily advertising the availability of a formal solicitation document to be issued for the purpose of inviting and setting guidelines for submission of proposals for research and development grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts. 


*Research and development* means activities constituting a project to create an advanced automobile propulsion system and does not mean activities involving technology transfer to mass production, evaluative testing, preliminary planning for a DOE or an agency project, or program administration and management. 


*Solicitation* means a formal, written request for proposals to perform research and development under a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract, typically including evaluation criteria and a statement of the work to be done. 




