# § 944.28   Avocado Import Grade Regulation.

(a) Pursuant to section 8e of the Act and Part 944—Fruits; Import Regulations, the importation into the United States of any avocados is prohibited unless such avocados grade at least U.S. No. 2, as such grade is defined in the United States Standards for Grades of Florida Avocados (7 CFR 51.3050 through 51.3069).


(b) The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Specialty Crop Inspection Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, is designated as the government inspection service for certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of avocados that are imported into the United States. Inspection by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with evidence thereof in the form of an official inspection certificate, issued by the respective service, applicable to the particular shipment of avocados, is required on all imports. The inspection and certification services will be available upon application in accordance with the rules and regulations governing inspection and certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products (7 CFR part 51) and in accordance with the regulations designating inspection services and procedure for obtaining inspection and certification (7 CFR 944.400).


(c) The term *importation* means release from custody of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The term *commercial processing into products* means the manufacture of avocado product which is preserved by any recognized commercial process, including canning, freezing, dehydrating, drying, the addition of chemical substances, or by fermentation.


(d) Any person may import up to 55 pounds of avocados exempt from the requirements specified in this section.


(e) Any lot or portion thereof which fails to meet the import requirements, and is not being imported for purposes of consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, seed, or commercial processing into products; prior to or after reconditioning may be exported or disposed of under the supervision of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service with the costs of certifying the disposal of such lot borne by the importer.


(f) The grade, size, and quality requirements of this section shall not be applicable to avocados imported for consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, seed, or commercial processing into products, but shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 944.350.



---

[N] [50 FR 21032, May 22, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 69185, Dec. 30, 1993; 79 FR 67039, Nov. 12, 2014; 88 FR 82233, Nov. 24, 2023]




