# ยง 431.242   Definitions concerning unit heaters.

*Automatic flue damper* means a device installed in the flue outlet or in the inlet of or upstream of the draft control device of an individual, automatically operated, fossil fuel-fired appliance that is designed to automatically open the flue outlet during appliance operation and to automatically close the flue outlet when the appliance is in a standby condition.


*Automatic vent damper* means a device intended for installation in the venting system of an individual, automatically operated, fossil fuel-fired appliance either in the outlet or downstream of the appliance draft control device, which is designed to automatically open the venting system when the appliance is in operation and to automatically close off the venting system when the appliance is in a standby or shutdown condition.


*Basic model* means all units of a given type of covered product (or class thereof) manufactured by one manufacturer, having the same primary energy source, and which have essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics that affect energy consumption, energy efficiency, water consumption, or water efficiency.


*Intermittent ignition device* means an ignition device in which the ignition source is automatically shut off when the appliance is in an off or standby condition.


*Power venting* means a venting system that uses a separate fan, either integral to the appliance or attached to the vent pipe, to convey products of combustion and excess or dilution air through the vent pipe. 


*Unit heater* means a self-contained fan-type heater designed to be installed within the heated space; however, the term does not include a warm air furnace.


*Warm air furnace* means commercial warm air furnace as defined in ยง 431.72. 



---

[N] [70 FR 60418, Oct. 18, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 71374, Dec. 8, 2006; 76 FR 12504, Mar. 7, 2011]




