# ยง 9301.19   Schedule of fees.

(a) *Prohibitions against charging fees.* Individuals will not be charged for:


(1) The search and review of the record;


(2) Any copies of the record produced as a necessary part of the process of making the record available for access; or


(3) Any copies of the requested record when it has been determined that access can only be accomplished by providing a copy of the record through the mail.


(b) *Waiver.* The Privacy Officer may, at no charge, provide copies of a record if it is determined that the production of the copies is in the interest of the Government.


(c) *Fee schedule and method of payment.* Fees will be charged as provided below except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(1) *Duplication of records.* Records will be duplicated at a rate of $.10 per page for copying of 4 pages or more. There is no charge for copying fewer pages.


(2) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable under this section will amount to more than $25, the person making the request shall be notified of the amount of the anticipated fee or such portion thereof as can readily be estimated. In instances where the estimated fees will greatly exceed $25, an advance deposit may be required. The notice or request for an advance deposit shall extend an offer to the person requesting to consult with the Privacy Officer in order to reformulate the request in a manner which will reduce the fees, yet still meet the needs of individuals making the request.


(3) Fees must be paid in full prior to issuance of requested copies. In the event the person requesting is in arrears for previous requests copies will not be provided for any subsequent request until the arrears have been paid in full.


(4) Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or a postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Treasury of the United States and mailed or delivered to the Privacy Officer, Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, 2530 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202.


(5) A receipt for fees paid will be given upon request.




