# § 375.37   Certain business aviation activities using U.S.-registered foreign civil aircraft.

For purposes of this section, “company” is defined as a person that operates civil aircraft in furtherance of a business other than air transportation. U.S.-registered foreign civil aircraft that are not otherwise engaged in commercial air operations, or foreign air transportation, and which are operated by a company in the furtherance of a business other than transportation by air, when the carriage is within the scope of, and incidental to, the business of the company (other than transportation by air), may be operated to, from, and within the United States as follows:


(a) *Intra-company operations.* A company operating a U.S.-registered foreign civil aircraft may conduct operations for a subsidiary or parent or a subsidiary of its parent on a fully-allocated cost reimbursable basis; provided, that the operator of the U.S.-registered foreign civil aircraft must hold majority ownership in, be majority owned by, or have a common parent with, the company for which it provides operations;


(b) *Interchange operations.* A company may lease a U.S.-registered foreign civil aircraft to another company in exchange for equal time when needed on the other company's U.S. registered aircraft, where no charge, assessment, or fee is made, except that a charge may be made not to exceed the difference between the cost of owning, operating, and maintaining the two aircraft;


(c) *Joint ownership operations.* A company that jointly owns a U.S.-registered foreign civil aircraft and furnishes the flight crew for that aircraft may collect from the other joint owners of that aircraft a share of the actual costs involved in the operation of the aircraft; and


(d) *Time-sharing operations.* A company may lease a U.S.-registered foreign civil aircraft, with crew, to another company; provided, that the operator may collect no charge for the operation of the aircraft except reimbursement for:


(1) Fuel, oil, lubricants, and other additives.


(2) Travel expenses of the crew, including food, lodging, and ground transportation.


(3) Hanger and tie-down costs away from the aircraft's base of operations.


(4) Insurance obtained for the specific flight.


(5) Landing fees, airport taxes, and similar assessments.


(6) Customs, foreign permit, and similar fees directly related to the flight.


(7) In flight food and beverages.


(8) Passenger ground transportation.


(9) Flight planning and weather contract services.


(10) An additional charge equal to 100 percent of the expenses for fuel, oil, lubricants, and other additives.



---

[N] [Doc. No. DOT-OST-2003-15511, 71 FR 15328, Mar. 28, 2006]




