# ยง 202.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


(a) The term *Act* means the Federal Seed Act, approved August 9, 1939 (53 Stat. 1275, 7 U.S.C. 1551 *et seq.*) and any legislation amendatory thereof. 


(b) *Complaint* means any formal complaint and notice of hearing or other document by virtue of which a proceeding under the Act is instituted. 


(c) *Complainant* means the party upon whose complaint the proceeding is instituted. 


(d) *Decision and Order* includes the Secretary's findings, conclusions, order, and rulings on motions, exceptions, statements of objections, and proposed findings, conclusions and orders submitted by the parties not theretofore ruled upon. 


(e) *Director* means the Director of the Grain Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority is delegated to act in his stead. 


(f) *Administrative Law Judge* means an Administrative Law Judge in the Office of Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


(g) *Administrative Law Judge Recommended Decision* means the Administrative Law Judge's report to the Secretary consisting of the proposed: (1) Findings of facts and conclusions with respect to all material issues of fact, law or discretion, as well as the reasons or basis for conclusions and (2) order. 


(h) The term *hearing* means that part of a proceeding which involves the submission of evidence and means either an oral or written hearing. 


(i) *Hearing Clerk* means the Hearing Clerk, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. 


(j) The term *person* includes any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, receiver, or trustee. 


(k) The term *regulations* means the regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act (7 CFR part 201). 


(l) *Respondent* means the party proceeded against. 


(m) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead, including the Judicial Officer. 




