# § 63.11559   Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an asphalt processing operation and/or asphalt roofing manufacturing operation that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions, as defined in § 63.2.


(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source as defined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(1) *Asphalt processing.* The affected source for asphalt processing operations is the collection of all blowing stills, as defined in § 63.11566, at an asphalt processing operation.


(2) *Asphalt roofing manufacturing.* The affected source for asphalt roofing manufacturing operations is the collection of all asphalt coating equipment, as defined in § 63.11566, at an asphalt roofing manufacturing operation.


(c) This subpart does not apply to hot mix asphalt plant operations that are used in the paving of roads or hardstand, or operations where asphalt may be used in the fabrication of a built-up roof.


(d) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction or reconstruction after July 9, 2009.


(e) An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the criteria as defined in § 63.2.


(f) An affected source is an existing source if it is not new or reconstructed.


(g) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.


(h) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.




