# ยง 5001.101   Introduction

This subpart addresses the eligibility provisions for projects, borrowers, and lenders. This subpart also includes provisions for projects involving the purchase of cooperative stock or cooperative equity, the conversion of businesses to cooperatives or Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOP), and New Markets Tax Credits (NMTC).




(a) *Project eligibility.* Sections 5001.102 through 5001.108 identify requirements for projects to be eligible to receive a loan guarantee under this part. Sections 5001.115 through 5001.119 identify types of projects that are not eligible for a loan guarantee under this part. The Agency will not issue a loan guarantee under this part for any project that does not meet the applicable eligibility criteria as specified.


(b) *Borrower eligibility.* Section 5001.126 identifies the types of borrowers that are eligible to receive a loan guarantee for their projects under this part. The types of borrowers eligible to receive loan guarantees for their projects vary based on the guaranteed loan program they are applying under and that guaranteed loan program's authorizing statute as set forth in ยง 5001.1. Section 5001.127 identifies conditions that would make an otherwise eligible borrower ineligible for receiving a loan guarantee for its project under this part.






(c) *Lender eligibility.* Section 5001.130 identifies the requirements for a lending entity to be an eligible lender under this part. Section 5001.131 addresses the lender's agreement, which each approved lender must execute with the Agency in order to originate and service guaranteed loans under this part. Section 5001.132 addresses provisions necessary for a lender to maintain its approved lender status.


(d) *Cooperative stock/cooperative equity/conversions.* Section 5001.140 identifies requirements associated with issuing loan guarantees in connection with the purchase of cooperative stock, transferable stock shares, and cooperative equity and for the conversions of businesses to either cooperatives or Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOP).


(e) *New Markets Tax Credits.* Section 5001.141 identifies the requirements specific to guaranteed loans involving projects that include NMTC available under the NMTC program authorized by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.


(f) *Use of funds.* Section 5001.121 identifies eligible uses of guaranteed loan funds and ยง 5001.122 identifies ineligible uses of guaranteed loan funds.





---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79709, Sept. 30, 2024]










