# § 173.10   Tank car shipments.

(a) Tank cars containing any 2.1 material (including a cryogenic liquid) or Class 3 material with a flash point below 38 °C (100 °F), except liquid road asphalt or tar, may not be offered for transportation unless originally consigned or subsequently reconsigned to parties having private-siding (see Note 1 of this section) or to parties using railroad siding facilities which have been equipped for piping the liquid from tank cars to permanent storage tanks of sufficient capacity to receive contents of car.


(b) A tank car containing any Class 2 material must not be offered for transportation unless the car is consigned for delivery (see paragraph (c) of this section) and unloading on a private track (see Note 1 of this section) except that where no private track is available, delivery and unloading on carrier tracks is permitted provided the following conditions are complied with:


(1) Any tank car of DOT-106A or 110A type (see §§ 179.300 and 179.301 of this subchapter) may be offered for transportation and the loaded unit tanks may be removed from car frame on carrier tracks, provided the shipper has obtained from the delivering carrier and filed with originating carrier, written permission (see Note 2 of this section) for such removal. The consignee must furnish adequately safe mechanical hoist, obtained from the carrier if desirable, by which the tanks shall be lifted from the car and deposited directly upon vehicles furnished by the consignee for immediate removal from carrier property or tanks must be lifted by adequately safe mechanical hoist from car directly to vessels for further transportation.


(c) Any tank car of other than DOT-106A or 110A type (see §§ 179.300 and 179.301 of this subchapter), containing anhydrous ammonia, liquefied hydrocarbon or liquefied petroleum gas, and having interior pipes of liquid and gas discharge valves equipped with check valves, may be consigned for delivery and unloading on carrier tracks, if the lading is piped directly from the car to permanent storage tanks of sufficient capacity to receive the entire contents of the car. Such cars may also be consigned for storage on a private track or on a carrier track when designated by the carrier for such storage.


(d) For cars of the DOT-106A or 110A type (see §§ 179.300 and 179.301 of this subchapter), the tanks must be placed in position and attached to the car structure by the shipper.


(e) Class 3 materials with a flash point below 38 °C (100 °F) and Division 2.1 materials (including a cryogenic liquid) may not be loaded into tank cars on carrier property from tank trucks or drums.



---

[N] [29 FR 18773, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967, and by Amdt. 173-162, 48 FR 10226, Mar. 10, 1983, and amended by Amdt. 173-180, 49 FR 42735, Oct. 24, 1984; Amdt. 173-207, 53 FR 38274, Sept. 29, 1988; Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52608, Dec. 21, 1990; 56 FR 66265, Dec. 20, 1991; Amdt. 173-234, 58 FR 51532, Oct. 1, 1993; 67 FR 61013, Sept. 27, 2002]




