# ยง 21.216   Special equipment.

(a) *General.* Special equipment should be authorized as necessary to enable a veteran to mitigate or overcome the effects of disability in pursuing a rehabilitation program. The major types of special equipment which may be authorized include:


(1) *Equipment for educational or vocational purposes.* This category includes items which are ordinarily used by nondisabled persons pursuing evaluation or training, modified to allow for use by disabled persons. e.g., calculators with speech capability for blinded persons.


(2) *Sensory aids and prostheses.* This category includes items which are specifically designed to mitigate or overcome the effects of disability. They range from eyeglasses and hearing aids to closed-circuit TV systems which amplify reading material for veterans with severe visual impairments.


(3) *Modifications to improve access.* This category includes adaptations of environment not generally associated with education and training, such as adaptive equipment for automobiles or supplies necessary to modify a veteran's home to make either training or self-employment possible.


(b) *Coordination with other VA elements in securing special equipment.* In any case in which the veteran needs special equipment and is eligible for such equipment under other VA programs, such as medical care and treatment at VA medical centers, the items will be secured under that program. The veteran must be found ineligible for needed special equipment under other programs and benefits administered by VA before the item may be authorized under Chapter 31.


