# ยง 52.247   Control Strategy and regulations: Fine Particle Matter.

(a) *Determination of Attainment:* Effective February 8, 2013, EPA has determined that, based on 2009 to 2011 ambient air quality data, the San Francisco Bay Area PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment for as long as this area continues to attain the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(b) *Determination of Attainment:* Effective February 11, 2013, EPA has determined that, based on 2009 to 2011 ambient air quality data, the Yuba City-Marysville PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment for as long as this area continues to attain the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(c) *Determination of Attainment:* Effective August 14, 2013, EPA has determined that, based on 2010 to 2012 ambient air quality data, the Sacramento PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment for as long as this area continues to attain the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(d) *Determination of Attainment:* Effective October 10, 2013, EPA has determined that, based on 2010 to 2012 ambient air quality data, the Chico PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment for as long as this area continues to attain the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(e) By August 14, 2017, California must adopt and submit a Serious Area plan to provide for attainment of the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS in the South Coast PM_2.5_ nonattainment area. The Serious Area plan must include emissions inventories, an attainment demonstration, best available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, quantitative milestones, contingency measures, and such other measures as may be necessary or appropriate to provide for attainment of the 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date, in accordance with the requirements of subparts 1 and 4 of part D, title I of the Clean Air Act.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Determination of Attainment:* Effective August 24, 2016, the EPA has determined that, based on 2011 to 2013 ambient air quality data, the South Coast PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual and 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures and other planning SIPs related to attainment for as long as this area continues to attain the 1997 annual and 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If the EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for the area shall be withdrawn.


(h) *Determination of Failure to Attain:* Effective December 23, 2016, the EPA has determined that the San Joaquin Valley Serious PM_2.5_ nonattainment area failed to attain the 1997 annual and 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2015. This determination triggers the requirements of CAA sections 179(d) and 189(d) for the State of California to submit a revision to the California SIP for the San Joaquin Valley to the EPA by December 31, 2016. The SIP revision must, among other elements, demonstrate expeditious attainment of the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS within the time period provided under CAA section 179(d) and that provides for annual reduction in the emissions of direct PM_2.5_ or a PM_2.5_ plan precursor pollutant within the area of not less than five percent until attainment.


(i) *Determination of attainment.* Effective May 12, 2017, EPA has determined that, based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality data, the Imperial County PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. Under the provisions of EPA's PM_2.5_ implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.1015), this determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment for as long as this area continues to attain the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(j) *Determination of attainment.* Effective June 9, 2017, the EPA has determined that, based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality data, the Chico, CA PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also has determined that the Chico, CA nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 188(b)(2).


(k) *Determination of attainment.* Effective June 9, 2017, the EPA has determined that, based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality data, the Imperial County, CA PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also has determined that the Imperial County, CA nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 188(b)(2).


(l) *Determination of attainment.* Effective June 9, 2017, the EPA has determined that, based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality data, the Sacramento, CA PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also has determined that the Sacramento, CA nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 188(b)(2).


(m) *Determination of attainment.* Effective June 9, 2017, the EPA has determined that, based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality data, the San Francisco Bay, CA PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also has determined that the San Francisco Bay, CA nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 188(b)(2).


(n) *Determination of Failure to Attain:* Effective October 16, 2020, the EPA has determined that the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin Serious PM_2.5_ nonattainment area failed to attain the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2019. This determination triggers the requirements of CAA sections 179(d) and 189(d) for the State of California to submit a revision to the California SIP for the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin to the EPA by December 31, 2020. The SIP revision must, among other elements, demonstrate expeditious attainment of the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS within the time period provided under CAA section 179(d) and that provides for annual reduction in the emissions of direct PM_2.5_ or a PM_2.5_ plan precursor pollutant within the area of not less than five percent until attainment.


(o) Within 18 months after the effective date of the reclassification of the reclassification of the San Joaquin Valley nonattainment area from Moderate to Serious for the 2012 PM_2.5_ NAAQS, California must adopt and submit an emissions inventory and provisions to assure that BACM shall be implemented no later than four years after the date of reclassification. Also, by December 31, 2023, California must adopt and submit a Serious area plan that includes an attainment demonstration, a reasonable further progress plan, quantitative milestones, contingency measures, and such other measures as may be necessary or appropriate to provide for attainment of the 2012 PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date, in accordance with the requirements of subparts 1 and 4 of part D, title I of the Clean Air Act.


(p) *Determination of Attainment:* Effective February 28, 2022, the EPA has determined that, based on 2018 to 2020 ambient air quality data, the San Joaquin Valley PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 1997 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2020. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA sections 179(c)(1) and 188(b)(2) to determine whether the area attained the standard. The EPA has also determined that, based on the determination of attainment by the applicable attainment date, the requirement of CAA section 172(c)(9) to provide for contingency measures no longer applies to the San Joaquin Valley area for the 1997 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(q) *Determination of attainment.* Effective February 10, 2023, the EPA has determined that, based on 2019 to 2021 ambient air quality data, the Imperial County PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2012 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. Under the provisions of the EPA's PM_2.5_ implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.1015), this determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment for as long as this area continues to attain the 2012 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If the EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2012 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.



---

[N] [78 FR 1761, Jan. 9, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 2213, Jan. 10, 2013; 78 FR 42021, July 15, 2013; 78 FR 55228, Sept. 10, 2013; 81 FR 1520, Jan. 13, 2016; 81 FR 42264, June 29, 2016; 81 FR 48355, July 25, 2016; 81 FR 84483, Nov. 23, 2016; 82 FR 13398, Mar. 13, 2017; 82 FR 21715, May 10, 2017; 85 FR 57735, Sept. 16, 2020; 86 FR 67350, Nov. 26, 2021; 87 FR 4508, Jan. 28, 2022; 88 FR 1517, Jan. 11, 2023]




