# ยง 3482.2   Action on plans.

(a)(1) *Exploration plans.* The authorized officer after evaluating a proposed exploration plan and all comments received thereon, and after consultation with the responsible officer of the surface managing agency, and with the regulatory authority when exploration is to be conducted within an approved permit area prior to commencement of mining operations, shall promptly approve or disapprove in writing an exploration plan. In approving an exploration plan, the authorized officer shall determine that the exploration plan complies with the rules of this part, applicable requirements of 30 CFR 815.15 or an approved State program, and any Federal lease or license terms and/or conditions. Reclamation must be accomplished as set forth in the exploration plan. The authorized officer may impose additional conditions to conform to the rules of this part. In disapproving an exploration plan, the authorized officer shall state what modifications, if any, are necessary to achieve such conformity. No exploration plan shall be approved unless the bond, executed pursuant to the provisions of 43 CFR part 3474 or 43 CFR part 3410, has been determined by the responsible officer of the surface managing agency to be adequate. When the land involved in the exploration plan is under the surface management jurisdiction of an agency other than DOI, that other agency must concur with the approval terms of the exploration plan.


(2) *Resource recovery and protection plans.* No resource recovery and protection plan or modification thereto shall be approved which is not in conformance with the rules of this part, any Federal lease or license terms and/or conditions, and is not found to achieve MER of the Federal coal within an LMU or Federal lease issued or readjusted after August 4, 1976. The determination of MER shall be made by the authorized officer based on review of the resource recovery and protection plan. No resource recovery and protection plan shall be approved prior to the filing of a complete permit application package and unless the Federal lease bond, executed pursuant to the provisions of 43 CFR part 3474 has been determined by the authorized officer to be adequate.


(3) *Recoverable coal reserves estimates.* For all Federal coal leases issued or readjusted after August 4, 1976, the recoverable coal reserves or LMU recoverable coal reserves shall be those estimated by the authorized officer as of the date of approval of the resource recovery and protection plan, or the date of approval of any existing mining plan as defined at 30 CFR 740.5 (1981). If an operator/lessee credits production toward diligent development in accordance with ยง 3483.5 of this title, such credits shall be included in the recoverable coal reserves or LMU recoverable coal reserves estimates. The estimate of recoverable coal reserves or LMU recoverable coal reserves may only be revised as new information becomes available. Estimates of recoverable coal reserves or LMU recoverable coal reserves shall not be reduced due to any production after the original estimate made by the authorized officer.


(b) *Changes in plans by authorized officer.* (1) Approved exploration plans may be required to be revised or supplemented at any time by the authorized officer, after consultation with the operator/lessee and the responsible officer of the surface managing agency as necessary, to adjust to changed conditions, to correct oversights, or to reflect changes in legal requirements.


(2) The authorized officer, pursuant to MLA, may require approved resource recovery and protection plans to be revised or supplemented reasonably for modifications, after consultation with the operator/lessee and the regulatory authority as necessary, to adjust to changed conditions, to correct oversights, or to reflect changes in legal requirements. Such revisions shall be made in writing, as appropriate, and the authorized officer shall submit a copy to the regulatory authority.


(c) *Changes in plans by operator/lessee.* (1) The operator/lessee may propose modifications to an approved exploration plan and shall submit a written statement of the proposed change and its justification to the authorized officer. The authorized officer shall promptly approve or disapprove in writing any such modifications, after consultation with the responsible officer of the managing agency and the regulatory authority as necessary, or specify conditions under which they would be acceptable.


(2) The operator/lessee may propose modifications to an approved resource recovery and protection plan for any requirements under MLA, and shall submit a written statement of the proposed change and its justification to the authorized officer. The authorized officer shall promptly approve or disapprove in writing any such modifications, after consultation with the regulatory authority as necessary, or specify conditions under which they would be acceptable. Upon approval of modifications, the authorized officer shall submit a copy to the regulatory authority.



---

[N] [47 FR 33179, July 30, 1982; 47 FR 53366, Nov. 26, 1982. Redesignated at 48 FR 41589, Sept. 16, 1983]




