# § 485.723   Condition of participation: Physical environment.

The building housing the organization is constructed, equipped, and maintained to protect the health and safety of patients, personnel, and the public and provides a functional, sanitary, and comfortable environment. 


(a) *Standard: Safety of patients.* The organization satisfies the following requirements: 


(1) It complies with all applicable State and local building, fire, and safety codes. 


(2) Permanently attached automatic fire-extinguishing systems of adequate capacity are installed in all areas of the premises considered to have special fire hazards. Fire extinguishers are conveniently located on each floor of the premises. Fire regulations are prominently posted. 


(3) Doorways, passageways and stairwells negotiated by patients are: 


(i) Of adequate width to allow for easy movement of all patients (including those on stretchers or in wheelchairs), (ii) free from obstruction at all times, and (iii) in the case of stairwells, equipped with firmly attached handrails on at least one side. 


(4) Lights are placed at exits and in corridors used by patients and are supported by an emergency power source. 


(5) A fire alarm system with local alarm capability and, where applicable, an emergency power source, is functional. 


(6) At least two persons are on duty on the premises of the organization whenever a patient is being treated. 


(7) No occupancies or activities undesirable or injurious to the health and safety of patients are located in the building. 


(b) *Standard: Maintenance of equipment, building, and grounds.* The organization establishes a written preventive-maintenance program to ensure that—


(1) The equipment is operative, and is properly calibrated; and 


(2) The interior and exterior of the building are clean and orderly and maintained free of any defects that are a potential hazard to patients, personnel, and the public. 


(c) *Standard: Other environmental considerations.* The organization provides a functional, sanitary, and comfortable environment for patients, personnel, and the public. 


(1) Provision is made for adequate and comfortable lighting levels in all areas; limitation of sounds at comfort levels; a comfortable room temperature; and adequate ventilation through windows, mechanical means, or a combination of both. 


(2) Toilet rooms, toilet stalls, and lavatories are accessible and constructed so as to allow use by nonambulatory and semiambulatory individuals. 


(3) Whatever the size of the building, there is an adequate amount of space for the services provided and disabilities treated, including reception area, staff space, examining room, treatment areas, and storage. 



---

[N] [41 FR 20865, May 21, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 52826, Sept. 30, 1977. Further redesignated and amended at 60 FR 2326, Jan. 9, 1995]




