# ยง 630.1012   Project-level procedures.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides guidance and establishes procedures for States to manage the work zone impacts of individual projects.


(b) *Transportation Management Plan.* For significant projects (as described in ยง 630.1010), the State shall develop a TMP that consists of a TTC plan and addresses both TO and PIO components. For individual projects or classes of projects that the State determines to have less than significant work zone impacts, the TMP may consist only of a TTC plan. States are encouraged to consider TO and PIO issues for all projects.


(1) A TTC plan describes TTC measures to be used for facilitating road users through a work zone or an incident area. The TTC plan shall be consistent with the provisions under Part 6 of the MUTCD (incorporated by reference, see ยง 630.1018). In developing and implementing the TTC plan, pre-existing roadside safety hardware shall be maintained at an equivalent or better level than existed prior to project implementation. The scope of the TTC plan is determined by the project characteristics and the traffic safety and control requirements identified by the State for that project. The TTC plan shall either be a reference to specific TTC elements in the MUTCD, approved standard TTC plans, State transportation department TTC manual, or be designed specifically for the project.


(2) The TO component of the TMP shall include the identification of strategies that the State will use to mitigate impacts of the work zone on the operation and management of the transportation system within the work zone impact area. Typical TO strategies may include, but are not limited to, demand management, corridor/network management, safety management and enforcement, and work zone traffic management. The scope of the TO component should be determined by the project characteristics and the transportation operations and safety strategies identified by the State.


(3) The PIO component of the TMP shall include communications strategies that seek to inform affected road users, the general public, area residences and businesses, and appropriate public entities about the project, the expected work zone impacts, and the changing conditions on the project. This may include traveler information strategies. The scope of the PIO component should be determined by the project characteristics and the public information and outreach strategies identified by the State. Public information and outreach should be provided through methods best suited for the project, and may include, but not be limited to, information on the project characteristics, expected impacts, closure details, and commuter alternatives.


(4) States should develop and implement the TMP in sustained consultation with stakeholders (*e.g.,* other transportation agencies, railroad agencies/operators, transit providers, freight movers, utility suppliers, police, fire, emergency medical services, schools, business communities, and regional transportation management centers).


(c) *Inclusion of TMP in Plans, Specification, and Estimates.* The Plans, Specifications, and Estimates (PS&E) shall include either a TMP or provisions for contractors to develop a TMP at the most appropriate project phase as applicable to the State's chosen contracting methodology for the project. A contractor-developed TMP shall be subject to the approval of the State and shall not be implemented before it is approved by the State.


(d) *Inclusion of Pay Item Provisions in Plans, Specification, and Estimates.* The PS&Es shall include appropriate pay item provisions for implementing the TMP, either through method- or performance-based specifications.


(e) *Responsible persons.* The State and the contractor shall each designate a trained person, as specified in ยง 630.1008(d), at the project level who has the primary responsibility and sufficient authority for implementing the TMP and other safety and mobility aspects of the project.






