# § 334.296   Elizabeth River, Deperming Station, Norfolk, VA, Restricted Area.

(a) *The area.* The waters within an area beginning at a point latitude 36°51′52″ N, longitude 76°20′04″ W; thence easterly to a point at latitude 36°51′52″ N, longitude 76°19′49″ W, thence northerly to latitude 36°52′06″ N, longitude 76°19′48″ W; thence northwesterly to latitude 36°52′12″ N, longitude 76°19′57″ W; thence northwesterly to a point at latitude 36°52′15″ N, longitude 76°19′59″ W; thence westerly to latitude 36°52′15″ N, longitude 76°20′04″ W, thence to the point of origin. The datum for these coordinates is WGS-84.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) No vessels other than vessels of the U.S. armed forces and other authorized vessels shall enter the restricted area. Other authorized vessels include vessels and personnel, including contractors and agents, acting on behalf of any federal or state agency or department performing specific work authorized as part of that agency's or department's statutory missions or to enforce their respective laws. Authorized vessels may enter anywhere in the restricted area at any time in the furtherance of their authorized operations. This includes, but is not limited to, vessels that are engaged in the following operations: law enforcement, servicing aids to navigation, and/or surveying, maintenance, or improvement of the federal navigational channel.


(2) There shall be no introduction of external magnetic field sources within the area.


(3) No person or vessel shall at any time, under any circumstances, anchor or fish or tow a drag of any kind in the restricted area due to the risk of damage to mission essential underwater equipment including an extensive cable system located therein.


(4) Orders and instructions issued by U.S. Navy patrol craft or other authorized representatives of the enforcing agency shall be carried out promptly by persons or vessels in or in the vicinity of the restricted area.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Station, Norfolk, Virginia and such agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [87 FR 46889, Aug. 1, 2022]




