# § 155.4030   Required salvage and marine firefighting services to list in response plans.

(a) You must identify, in the geographical-specific appendices of your VRP, the *salvage* and *marine firefighting* services listed in Table 155.4030(b)—Salvage and Marine Firefighting Services and Response Timeframes. Additionally, you must list those *resource providers* that you have contracted to provide these services. You may list multiple *resource providers* for each service, but you must identify which one is your primary *resource provider* for each Captain of the Port (COTP) zone in which you operate. A method of contact, consistent with the requirements in §§ 155.1035(e)(6)(ii), 155.1040(e)(5)(ii), and 155.5035(e)(6)(ii) must also be listed, in the geographical-specific appendices of your VRP, adjacent to the name of the *resource provider.*

(b) Table 155.4030(b) lists the required *salvage* and *marine firefighting* services and response timeframes.


(c) *Integration into the response organization.* You must ensure that all *salvage* and *marine firefighting resource providers* are integrated into the response organizations listed in your plans. The response organization must be consistent with the requirements set forth in §§ 155.1035(d), 155.1040(d), 155.1045(d), and 155.5035(d).


(d) *Coordination with other response resource providers, response organizations and OSROs.* Your plan must include provisions on how the salvage and marine firefighting resource providers will coordinate with other response resources, response organizations, and OSROs. For example, you will need to identify how salvage and marine firefighting assessment personnel will coordinate response activity with oil spill removal organizations. For services that, by law, require public assistance, there must be clear guidelines on how service providers will interact with those organizations. The information contained in the response plan must be consistent with applicable Area Contingency Plans (ACPs) and the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan as found in §§ 155.1030(h) and 155.5030(f).


(e) *Ensuring the proper emergency towing vessels are listed in your VRP.* Your VRP must identify towing vessels with the proper characteristics, horsepower, and bollard pull to tow your vessel(s). These towing vessels must be capable of operating in environments where the winds are up to 40 knots.


(f) *Ensuring the proper type and amount of transfer equipment is listed in your VRP.* Your salvage resource provider must be able to bring on scene a pumping capability that can offload the vessel's largest cargo or fuel tank, whichever is greater, in 24 hours of continuous operation. This is required for both emergency transfer and lightering operations.


(g) *Ensuring firefighting equipment is compatible with your vessel.* Your plan must list the proper type and amount of extinguishing agent needed to combat an oil fire involving your vessel's cargo fuel, other contents, and superstructure. If your primary extinguishing agent is foam or water, you must identify resources in your plan that are able to pump, for a minimum of 20 minutes, at least 0.016 gallons per minute per square foot of the deck area of your vessel, or an appropriate rate for spaces that this rate is not suitable for and if needed, an adequate source of foam. These resources described are to be supplied by the resource provider, external to the vessel's own firefighting system.


(h) *Ensuring the proper subsurface product removal.* You must have subsurface product removal capability if your vessel(s) operates in waters of 40 feet or more. Your resource provider must have the capability of removing bulk liquid cargo and fuel from your sunken vessel to a depth equal to the maximum your vessel operates in up to 150 feet.



---

[N] [USCG-1998-3417, 73 FR 80649, Dec. 31, 2008; 74 FR 7648, Feb. 19, 2009; USCG-2010-0351, 75 FR 36285, June 25, 2010; USCG-2008-1070, 78 FR 60124, Sept. 30, 2013]




