# § 46.4377-1   Definitions and special rules.

(a) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of sections 4375 and 4376 and §§ 46.4375-1 and 46.4376-1.


(1) *Accident and health coverage.* The term *accident and health coverage* means any coverage that, if provided by an insurance policy, would cause such policy to be a specified health insurance policy (as defined in section 4375(c) and § 46.4375-1(b)(1)). Accident and health coverage also includes coverage for an active employee, a former employee, or a qualifying beneficiary that is continuation coverage required under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA) or similar continuation coverage under other federal law or under state law.


(2) *Individual residing in the United States*—(i) The term *individual residing in the United States* means an individual with a place of abode in the United States.


(ii) *Determination of place of abode.* For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an issuer or a plan sponsor may rely on the most recent address on file with the issuer or plan sponsor and may treat the primary insured and the primary insured's spouse, dependents, or other beneficiaries covered by the policy as having the same place of abode. For this purpose, the primary insured is the individual covered by the policy whose eligibility for coverage was not due to that individual's status as the spouse, dependent, or other beneficiary of another covered individual.


(3) *United States.* The term *United States* includes American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and any other possession of the United States.


(4) *Federal fiscal year.* The term *Federal fiscal year* means the year beginning on October 1 and ending on the following September 30.


(b) *Treatment of exempt governmental programs*—(1) *In general.* The fees imposed by sections 4375 and 4376 do not apply to any covered life under an exempt governmental program as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) *Exempt governmental program.* For purposes of this section, *exempt governmental program* means any—


(i) Insurance program established under title XVIII of the Social Security Act;


(ii) Medical assistance program established by title XIX or XXI of the Social Security Act;


(iii) Program established by Federal law for providing medical care (other than through insurance policies) to individuals (or their spouses and dependents) by reason of such individuals being (or having been) members of the Armed Forces of the United States; and


(iv) Program established by Federal law for providing medical care (other than through insurance policies) to members of Indian tribes (as defined in section 4(d) of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act).


(c) *Effective/Applicability date.* This section applies to all policy and plan years that end on or after October 1, 2012, and before October 1, 2019.




