# § 181.1   Purpose and application.

(a) The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of 1 U.S.C. 112b, popularly known as the Case-Zablocki Act (hereinafter “the Act”), on the reporting to Congress and publication of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments and related coordination with the Secretary of State. This part applies to all agencies of the U.S. Government whose responsibilities include the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments. This part does not, however, constitute a delegation by the Secretary of State of the authority to engage in such activities. Further, it does not affect any additional requirements of law governing the relationship between particular agencies and the Secretary of State in connection with international negotiations and agreements, or any other requirements of law concerning the relationship between particular agencies and the Congress. The term “agency” as used in this part means each authority of the United States Government, whether or not it is within or subject to review by another agency.


(b) Pursuant to the key legal requirements of the Act—full and timely disclosure to the Congress of all concluded international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments, publication of international agreements and qualifying non-binding instruments, and consultation by agencies with the Secretary of State with respect to proposed international agreements—every agency of the U.S. Government is required to comply with each of the provisions set out in this part in implementation of the Act. Nevertheless, this part is intended as a framework of measures and procedures which, it is recognized, cannot anticipate all circumstances or situations that may arise. Deviation or derogation from the provisions of this part will not affect the legal validity, under United States law or under international law, of international agreements concluded, will not give rise to a cause of action, and will not affect any public or private rights established by such agreements, Similarly, any such deviation will not affect the status or effectiveness of any non-binding instrument.


(c) To facilitate coordination with the Department of State in the implementation of the Act, agencies whose responsibilities include the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements or qualifying non-binding instruments shall notify the Department of State of the official designated as the agency's Chief International Agreements Officer in accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(e) promptly upon that official's designation, and shall promptly inform the Department of any changes in the official designated.


(d) For the Department of State, the Deputy Legal Adviser with supervisory responsibility over the Office of Treaty Affairs will be designated as the Department's Chief International Agreements Officer in accordance with 1 U.S.C. 112b(e), and will have the title of International Agreements Compliance Officer.






