# § 10.95   Participation in outside standard-setting activities.

(a) *General.* This section applies to participation by FDA employees in standard-setting activities outside the agency. Standard-setting activities include matters such as the development of performance characteristics, testing methodology, manufacturing practices, product standards, scientific protocols, compliance criteria, ingredient specifications, labeling, or other technical or policy criteria. FDA encourages employee participation in outside standard-setting activities that are in the public interest.


(b) *Standard-setting activities by other Federal Government agencies.* (1) An FDA employee may participate in these activities after approval of the activity under procedures specified in the current agency Staff Manual Guide.


(2) Approval forms and all pertinent background information describing the activity will be included in the public file on standard-setting activities established by the Division of Freedom of Information (ELEM-1029)” and adding in its place “(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at *http://www.fda.gov*).


(3) If a member of the public is invited by FDA to present views to, or to accompany, the FDA employee at a meeting, the invitations will be extended to a representative sampling of the public, including consumer groups, industry associations, professional societies, and academic institutions.


(4) An FDA employee appointed as the liaison representative to an activity shall refer all requests for information about or participation in the activity to the group or organization responsible for the activity.


(c) *Standard-setting activities by State and local government agencies and by United Nations organizations and other international organizations and foreign governments pursuant to treaty.* (1) An FDA employee may participate in these activities after approval of the activity under procedures specified in the current agency Staff Manual Guide.


(2) Approval forms and all pertinent background information describing the activity will be included in the public file on standard-setting activities established by the Division of Freedom of Information (ELEM-1029)” and adding in its place “(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at *http://www.fda.gov*).


(3) The availability for public disclosure of records relating to the activity will be governed by part 20.


(4) If a member of the public is invited by FDA to present views to, or to accompany, the FDA employee at a meeting, the invitation will be extended to a representative sampling of the public, including consumer groups, industry associations, professional societies, and academic institutions.


(5) An FDA employee appointed as the liaison representative to an activity shall refer all requests for information about or participation in the activity to the group or organization responsible for the activity.


(d) *Standard-setting activities by private groups and organizations.* (1) An FDA employee may engage in these activities after approval of the activity under procedures specified in the current agency Staff Manual Guide. A request for official participation must be made by the group or organization in writing, must describe the scope of the activity, and must demonstrate that the minimum standards set out in paragraph (d)(5) of this section are met. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(7) of this section, a request that is granted will be the subject of a letter from the Commissioner or the center director to the organization stating—


(i) Whether participation by the individual will be as a voting or nonvoting liaison representative;


(ii) That participation by the individual does not connote FDA agreement with, or endorsement of, any decisions reached; and


(iii) That participation by the individual precludes service as the deciding official on the standard involved if it should later come before FDA. The deciding official is the person who signs a document ruling upon the standard.


(2) The letter requesting official FDA participation, the approval form, and the Commissioner's or center director's letter, together with all pertinent background information describing the activities involved, will be included in the public file on standard-setting activities established by the Division of Freedom of Information (ELEM-1029)” and adding in its place “(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at *http://www.fda.gov*).


(3) The availability for public disclosure of records relating to the activities will be governed by part 20.


(4) An FDA employee appointed as the liaison representative to an activity shall refer all requests for information about or participation in the activity to the group or organization responsible for the activity.


(5) The following minimum standards apply to an outside private standard-setting activity in which FDA employees participate:


(i) The activity will be based upon consideration of sound scientific and technological information, will permit revision on the basis of new information, and will be designed to protect the public against unsafe, ineffective, or deceptive products or practices.


(ii) The activity and resulting standards will not be designed for the economic benefit of any company, group, or organization, will not be used for such antitrust violations as fixing prices or hindering competition, and will not involve establishment of certification or specific approval of individual products or services.


(iii) The group or organization responsible for the standard-setting activity must have a procedure by which an interested person will have an opportunity to provide information and views on the activity and standards involved, without the payment of fees, and the information and views will be considered. How this is accomplished, including whether the presentation will be in person or in writing, will be decided by the group or organization responsible for the activity.


(6) Membership of an FDA employee in an organization that also conducts a standard-setting activity does not invoke the provisions of this section unless the employee participates in the standard-setting activity. Participation in a standard-setting activity is subject to this section.


(7) The Commissioner may determine in writing that, because direct involvement by FDA in a particular standard-setting activity is in the public interest and will promote the objectives of the act and the agency, the participation is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) (ii) and/or (iii) of this section. This determination will be included in the public file on standard-setting activities established by the Division of Freedom of Information  (ELEM-1029)” and adding in its place “(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at *http://www.fda.gov*) and in any relevant administrative file. The activity may include the establishment and validation of analytical methods for regulatory use, drafting uniform laws and regulations, and the development of recommendations concerning public health and preventive medicine practices by national and international organizations.


(8) Because of the close daily cooperation between FDA and the associations of State and local government officials listed below in this paragraph, and the large number of agency employees who are members of or work with these associations, participation in the activities of these associations is exempt from paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section, except that a list of the committees and other groups of these associations will be included in the public file on standard-setting activities established by the Division of Freedom of Information (ELEM-1029)” and adding in its place “(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at *http://www.fda.gov*).


(i) American Association of Food Hygiene Veterinarians (AAFHV).


(ii) American Public Health Association (APHA).


(iii) Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc. (AAFCO).


(iv) Association of Food and Drug Officials (AFDO).


(v) AOAC INTERNATIONAL (AOAC).


(vi) Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO).


(vii) Conference for Food Protection (CFP).


(viii) Conference of State Health and Environmental Managers (COSHEM).


(ix) Conference of Radiation Control Program Directors (CRCPD).


(x) International Association of Milk, Food, and Environmental Sanitation, Inc. (IAMFES).


(xi) Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference (ISSC).


(xii) National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP).


(xiii) National Association of Departments of Agriculture (NADA).


(xiv) National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (NCIMS).


(xv) National Conference of Local Environmental Health Administrators (NCLEHA).


(xvi) National Conference on Weights and Measures (NCWW).


(xvii) National Environmental Health Association (NEHA).


(xviii) National Society of Professional Sanitarians (NSPS).



---

[N] [44 FR 22323, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 8455, Jan. 27, 1981; 52 FR 35064, Sept. 17, 1987; 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989; 70 FR 40880, July 15, 2005; 70 FR 67651, Nov. 8, 2005; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68114, Nov. 14, 2014]




