# § 243.101   Definitions.

As used in these guidelines: 


(a) *Alley collection* means the collection of solid waste from containers placed adjacent to or in an alley. 


(b) *Agricultural solid waste* means the solid waste that is generated by the rearing of animals, and the producing and harvesting of crops or trees. 


(c) *Bulky waste* means large items of solid waste such as household appliances, furniture, large auto parts, trees, branches, stumps, and other oversize wastes whose large size precludes or complicates their handling by normal solid wastes collection, processing, or disposal methods. 


(d) *Carryout collection* means collection of solid waste from a storage area proximate to the dwelling unit(s) or establishment. 


(e) *Collection* means the act of removing solid waste (or materials which have been separated for the purpose of recycling) from a central storage point. 


(f) *Collection frequency* means the number of times collection is provided in a given period of time. 


(g) *Commercial solid waste* means all types of solid wastes generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes. 


(h) *Compactor collection vehicle* means a vehicle with an enclosed body containing mechanical devices that convey solid waste into the main compartment of the body and compress it into a smaller volume of greater density. 


(i) *Construction and demolition waste* means the waste building materials, packaging, and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings, and other structures. 


(j) *Curb collection* means collection of solid waste placed adjacent to a street. 


(k) *Federal facility* means any building, installation, structure, land, or public work owned by or leased to the Federal Government. Ships at sea, aircraft in the air, land forces on maneuvers, and other mobile facilities are not considered “Federal facilities” for the purpose of these guidelines. United States Government installations located on foreign soil or on land outside the jurisdiction of the United States Government are not considered “Federal facilities” for the purpose of these guidelines. 


(l) *Food waste* means the organic residues generated by the handling, storage, sale, preparation, cooking, and serving of foods, commonly called garbage. 


(m) *Generation* means the act or process of producing solid waste. 


(n) *Hazardous waste* means a waste or combination of wastes of a solid, liquid, contained gaseous, or semisolid form which may cause, or contribute to, an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness, taking into account the toxicity of such waste, its persistence and degradability in nature, its potential for accumulation or concentration in tissue, and other factors that may otherwise cause or contribute to adverse acute or chronic effects on the health of persons or other organisms. 


(o) *Industrial solid waste* means the solid waste generated by industrial processes and manufacturing. 


(p) *Infectious waste* means: (1) Equipment, instruments, utensils, and formites of a disposable nature from the rooms of patients who are suspected to have or have been diagnosed as having a communicable disease and must, therefore, be isolated as required by public health agencies; (2) laboratory wastes, such as pathological specimens (e.g., all tissues, specimens of blood elements, excreta, and secretions obtained from patients or laboratory animals) and disposable fomites (any substance that may harbor or transmit pathogenic organisms) attendant thereto; (3) surgical operating room pathologic specimens and disposable fomites attendant thereto, and similar disposable materials from outpatient areas and emergency rooms. 


(q) *Institutional solid waste* means solid wastes generated by educational, health care, correctional, and other institutional facilities. 


(r) *Mining wastes* means residues which result from the extraction of raw materials from the earth. 


(s) *Residential solid waste* means the wastes generated by the normal activities of households, including, but not limited to, food wastes, rubbish, ashes, and bulky wastes. 


(t) *Responsible agency* means the organizational element that has the legal duty to ensure compliance with these guidelines. 


(u) *Rubbish* means a general term for solid waste, excluding food wastes and ashes, taken from residences, commercial establishments, and institutions. 


(v) *Satellite vehicle* means a small collection vehicle that transfers its load into a larger vehicle operating in conjunction with it. 


(w) *Scavenging* means the uncontrolled and unauthorized removal of materials at any point in the solid waste management system. 


(x) *Sludge* means the accumulated semiliquid suspension of settled solids deposited from wastewaters or other fluids in tanks or basins. It does not include solids or dissolved material in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt, dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants. 


(y) *Solid waste* means garbage, refuse, sludges, and other discarded solid materials, including solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents, dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants. Unless specifically noted otherwise, the term “solid waste” as used in these guidelines shall not include mining, agricultural, and industrial solid wastes; hazardous wastes; sludges; construction and demolition wastes; and infectious wastes. 


(z) *Stationary compactor* means a powered machine which is designed to compact solid waste or recyclable materials, and which remains stationary when in operation. 


(aa) *Storage* means the interim containment of solid waste after generation and prior to collection for ultimate recovery or disposal. 


(bb) *Solid waste storage container* means a receptacle used for the temporary storage of solid waste while awaiting collection. 


(cc) *Street wastes* means materials picked up by manual or mechanical sweepings of alleys, streets, and sidewalks; wastes from public waste receptacles; and material removed from catch basins. 


(dd) *Transfer station* means a site at which solid wastes are concentrated for transport to a processing facility or land disposal site. A transfer station may be fixed or mobile. 


(ee) *Vector* means a carrier that is capable of transmitting a pathogen from one organism to another. 




