# § 151.45-4   Cargo-handling.

(a) On a United States tank barge subject to inspection—


(1) The owner and operator of the vessel, and his or her agent, and each of them, shall ensure that no transfer of liquid cargo in bulk or cleaning of a cargo tank takes place unless under the supervision of a qualified person designated as the person in charge of the transfer or the cleaning under Subpart C of 33 CFR part 155. 


(2) The person in charge of the transfer shall ensure that enough qualified personnel are on duty to safely transfer liquid cargo in bulk or to safely clean cargo tanks. 


(b) *Closing of sea and ballast valves.* All sea and ballast valves are to be properly aligned and lashed, or sealed in their correct position prior to beginning cargo transfer operations. Under no circumstances shall such valves be secured by locks. 


(c) *Connecting for cargo transfer.* (1) Movement of the vessel shall be considered when making the cargo connections to insure safe cargo transfer. Suitable material shall be used in joints and in couplings when making connections to insure that they are tight. Under no circumstances shall less than three bolts be used in a bolted flanged coupling. 


(2) When cargo connections are supported by the vessel's tackle, the person in charge of the transfer operations shall inspect the vessel to insure that sufficient tackles are used. 


(3) Pans or buckets shall be placed under cargo hose connections. 


(4) Cargo transfer operations for any cargo requiring a PV or safety relief venting device in Table 151.05 shall be performed with cargo hatch covers closed. 


(d) *Inspection prior to transfer of cargo.* Prior to the transfer of cargo, the person in charge of the transfer operation shall inspect the barge and other cargo equipment to assure himself that the following conditions exist: 


(1) The Certificate of Inspection is endorsed for the products to be loaded. Loading restrictions, if any, should be noted. 


(2) Warning signs are displayed as required. 


(3) Cargo information cards for the product are aboard. 


(4) No repair work in way of cargo space is being carried out. 


(5) Cargo connections and hatch covers conform with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section and cargo valves are properly set. 


(6) All connections for cargo transfer have been made to the vessel's fixed pipeline system. 


(7) In transferring flammable or combustible cargoes, there are no fires or open flames present on the deck, or in any compartment which is located on, facing, open or adjacent to the part of the deck on which cargo connections have been made. 


(8) The shore terminal or other tank vessel concerned has reported itself in readiness for transfer of cargo. 


(9) All sea valves are properly set and those connected to the cargo piping are closed. 


(10) When transferring flammable or combustible cargoes that a determination was made as to whether or not boiler and/or galley fires can be maintained with reasonable safety. 


(e) *Duties of the person in charge during transfer operations.* The person in charge of the transfer operations shall control the operations as follows: 


(1) Supervise the operation of the cargo system valves. 


(2) Start transfer of cargo slowly. 


(3) Observe cargo connections and hose for leakage. 


(4) Observe operating pressure on cargo systems. 


(5) Comply with loading limitations placed on the vessel by the Certificate of Inspection, if, any, for the purpose of not overloading individual tanks or the vessel. 


(6) Observe the loading rate for the purpose of avoiding overflow of the tanks. 


(f) Cargo transfer operations shall not be started or, if started, shall be discontinued under the following conditions:


(1) During severe electrical storms. 


(2) If a fire occurs on the barge, the wharf or in the immediate vicinity. 


(3) If potentially dangerous leakage occurs. 


(g) No vessel shall come alongside or remain alongside a barge in way of its cargo tanks while it is transferring cargo unless the conditions then prevailing are mutually acceptable to the persons in charge of cargo handling. 


(h) *Auxiliary steam, air, fuel, or electric current.* When discharging cargo from one or more barges, the towing vessel may furnish steam, air, fuel, or electric current for pumps on barges or dock, but in no case shall the cargo pass through or over the towing vessel. 


(i) *Termination of transfer operations.* When transfer operations are completed, the valves on cargo connections on the vessel shall be closed. The cargo connections shall be drained of cargo. 


(j) *Transfer of other cargo or stores on a barge.* (1) Packaged goods, freight, and ship's stores shall not be loaded or discharged during the loading of flammable cargoes except by permission of the person in charge of the transfer operation. Explosives shall not be loaded or carried on any barge containing products regulated by this subchapter. 


(2) Where package and general cargo is carried directly over bulk cargo tanks, it shall be properly dunnaged to prevent chafing of metal parts and securely lashed or stowed. 


(k) *Transportation of other cargo or stores on barges.* Barges may be permitted to transport deck cargoes directly over bulk cargo spaces when the nature of such deck cargoes and the methods of loading and unloading same do not create an undue hazard. Such barges shall have their decks properly dunnaged to prevent chafing between the steel parts of the vessel and the deck cargo. 


(l) Deck construction must be adequate to support the intended load. Provisions for carrying deck cargo shall be endorsed on the Certificate of Inspection by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. 


(m) *Emergencies.* In case of emergencies, nothing in the regulations in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing the person in charge of transfer operations from pursuing the most effective action in his judgment for rectifying the conditions causing the emergency. 



---

[N] [CGFR 70-10, 35 FR 3714, Feb. 25, 1970; 35 FR 6431, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended by CGD 75-59, 45 FR 70273, Oct. 23, 1980; CGD 81-059, 54 FR 151, Jan. 4, 1989; CGD 79-116, 60 FR 17158, Apr. 4, 1995]




