# § 270.30   Conditions applicable to all permits.

The following conditions apply to all RCRA permits, and shall be incorporated into the permits either expressly or by reference. If incorporated by reference, a specific citation to these regulations (or the corresponding approved State regulations) must be given in the permit.


(a) *Duty to comply.* The permittee must comply with all conditions of this permit, except that the permittee need not comply with the conditions of this permit to the extent and for the duration such noncompliance is authorized in an emergency permit. (See § 270.61). Any permit noncompliance, except under the terms of an emergency permit, constitutes a violation of the appropriate Act and is grounds for enforcement action; for permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification; or for denial of a permit renewal application.


(b) *Duty to reapply.* If the permittee wishes to continue an activity regulated by this permit after the expiration date of this permit, the permittee must apply for and obtain a new permit.


(c) *Need to halt or reduce activity not a defense.* It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit.


(d) In the event of noncompliance with the permit, the permittee shall take all reasonable steps to minimize releases to the environment, and shall carry out such measures as are reasonable to prevent significant adverse impacts on human health or the environment.


(e) *Proper operation and maintenance.* The permittee shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the permittee to achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit. Proper operation and maintenance includes effective performance, adequate funding, adequate operator staffing and training, and adequate laboratory and process controls, including appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems only when necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of the permit.


(f) *Permit actions.* This permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition.


(g) *Property rights.* The permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privilege.


(h) *Duty to provide information.* The permittee shall furnish to the Director, within a reasonable time, any relevant information which the Director may request to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating this permit, or to determine compliance with this permit. The permittee shall also furnish to the Director, upon request, copies of records required to be kept by this permit.


(i) *Inspection and entry.* The permittee shall allow the Director, or an authorized representative, upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required by law to:


(1) Enter at reasonable times upon the permittee's premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of this permit;


(2) Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept under the conditions of this permit;


(3) Inspect at reasonable times any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this permit; and


(4) Sample or monitor at reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring permit compliance or as otherwise authorized by RCRA, any substances or parameters at any location.


(j) *Monitoring and records.* (1) Samples and measurements taken for the purpose of monitoring shall be representative of the monitored activity.


(2) The permittee shall retain records of all monitoring information, including all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this permit, the certification required by § 264.73(b)(9) of this chapter, and records of all data used to complete the application for this permit, for a period of at least 3 years from the date of the sample, measurement, report, certification, or application. This period may be extended by request of the Director at any time. The permittee shall maintain records from all ground-water monitoring wells and associated ground-water surface elevations, for the active life of the facility, and for disposal facilities for the post-closure care period as well.


(3) Records for monitoring information shall include:


(i) The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements;


(ii) The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements;


(iii) The date(s) analyses were performed;


(iv) The individual(s) who performed the analyses;


(v) The analytical techniques or methods used; and


(vi) The results of such analyses.


(k) *Signatory requirements.* All applications, reports, or information submitted to the Director shall be signed and certified (See § 270.11.)


(l) *Reporting requirements*—(1) *Planned changes.* The permittee shall give notice to the Director as soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions to the permitted facility.


(2) *Anticipated noncompliance.* The permittee shall give advance notice to the Director of any planned changes in the permitted facility or activity which may result in noncompliance with permit requirements. For a new facility, the permittee may not treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste; and for a facility being modified, the permittee may not treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste in the modified portion of the facility except as provided in § 270.42, until:


(i) The permittee has submitted to the Director by certified mail or hand delivery a letter signed by the permittee and a registered professional engineer stating that the facility has been constructed or modified in compliance with the permit; and


(ii)(A) The Director has inspected the modified or newly constructed facility and finds it is in compliance with the conditions of the permit; or


(B) Within 15 days of the date of submission of the letter in paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section, the permittee has not received notice from the Director of his or her intent to inspect, prior inspection is waived and the permittee may commence treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste.


(3) *Transfers.* This permit is not transferable to any person except after notice to the Director. The Director may require modification or revocation and reissuance of the permit to change the name of the permittee and incorporate such other requirements as may be necessary under RCRA. (See § 270.40)


(4) *Monitoring reports.* Monitoring results shall be reported at the intervals specified elsewhere in this permit.


(5) *Compliance schedules.* Reports of compliance or noncompliance with, or any progress reports on, interim and final requirements contained in any compliance schedule of this permit shall be submitted no later than 14 days following each schedule date.


(6) *Twenty-four hour reporting.* (i) The permittee shall report any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environment orally within 24 hours from the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances, including:


(A) Information concerning release of any hazardous waste that may cause an endangerment to public drinking water supplies.


(B) Any information of a release or discharge of hazardous waste or of a fire or explosion from the HWM facility, which could threaten the environment or human health outside the facility.


(ii) The description of the occurrence and its cause shall include:


(A) Name, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator;


(B) Name, address, and telephone number of the facility;


(C) Date, time, and type of incident;


(D) Name and quantity of material(s) involved;


(E) The extent of injuries, if any;


(F) An assessment of actual or potential hazards to the environment and human health outside the facility, where this is applicable; and


(G) Estimated quantity and disposition of recovered material that resulted from the incident.


(iii) A written submission shall also be provided within 5 days of the time the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances. The written submission shall contain a description of the noncompliance and its cause; the period of noncompliance including exact dates and times, and if the noncompliance has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the noncompliance. The Director may waive the five day written notice requirement in favor of a written report within fifteen days.


(7) *Manifest discrepancy report.* If a significant discrepancy in a manifest is discovered, the permittee must:


(i) Attempt to reconcile the discrepancy. If not resolved within 20 days, the permittee must submit a letter report, including a copy of the manifest, to the Director. (See 40 CFR 264.72.)


(ii) Beginning on December 1, 2025, attempt to reconcile the discrepancy. If not resolved within 20 days, the permittee must immediately submit a Discrepancy Report to the EPA e-Manifest System describing the discrepancy and attempts to reconcile it, and a copy of the manifest or shipping paper at issue. (See 40 CFR 264.72.)


(8) *Unmanifested waste report.* A permittee must:


(i) Submit the Unmanifested Waste Report to the Director within 15 days of receipt of unmanifested waste. (See 40 CFR 264.76.)


(ii) Beginning on December 1, 2025, submit an electronic Unmanifested Waste Report in the EPA e-Manifest system for submission to the EPA within 15 days of receipt of unmanifested waste. (See 40 CFR 264.76.)


(9) *Biennial report:* A biennial report must be submitted covering facility activities during odd numbered calendar years. (See 40 CFR 264.75.)


(10) *Other noncompliance.* The permittee shall report all instances of noncompliance not reported under paragraphs (l)(4), (5), and (6) of this section, at the time monitoring reports are submitted. The reports shall contain the information listed in paragraph (l)(6) of this section.


(11) *Other information.* Where the permittee becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts in a permit application, or submitted incorrect information in a permit application or in any report to the Director, it shall promptly submit such facts or information.


(m) *Information repository.* The Director may require the permittee to establish and maintain an information repository at any time, based on the factors set forth in 40 CFR 124.33(b). The information repository will be governed by the provisions in 40 CFR 124.33(c) through (f). 



---

[N] [48 FR 14228, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 30114, June 30, 1983; 48 FR 39622, Sept. 1, 1983; 50 FR 28752, July 15, 1985; 53 FR 37935, Sept. 28, 1988; 60 FR 63433, Dec. 11, 1995; 89 FR 60735, July 26, 2024]




