# § 63.9   Notification requirements.

(a) *Applicability and general information.* (1) The applicability of this section is set out in § 63.1(a)(4). 


(2) For affected sources that have been granted an extension of compliance under subpart D of this part, the requirements of this section do not apply to those sources while they are operating under such compliance extensions. 


(3) If any State requires a notice that contains all the information required in a notification listed in this section, the owner or operator may send the Administrator a copy of the notice sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this section for that notification. 


(4)(i) Before a State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce notification requirements established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source in such State subject to such requirements shall submit notifications to the appropriate Regional Office of the EPA (to the attention of the Director of the Division indicated in the list of the EPA Regional Offices in § 63.13). 


(ii) After a State has been delegated the authority to implement and enforce notification requirements established under this part, the owner or operator of an affected source in such State subject to such requirements shall submit notifications to the delegated State authority (which may be the same as the permitting authority). In addition, if the delegated (permitting) authority is the State, the owner or operator shall send a copy of each notification submitted to the State to the appropriate Regional Office of the EPA, as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section. The Regional Office may waive this requirement for any notifications at its discretion. 


(b) *Initial notifications.* (1)(i) The requirements of this paragraph apply to the owner or operator of an affected source when such source becomes subject to a relevant standard. 


(ii) If an area source subsequently becomes a major source that is subject to the emission standard or other requirement, such source shall be subject to the notification requirements of this section. Area sources previously subject to major source requirements that become major sources again are also subject to the notification requirements of this paragraph and must submit the notification according to the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section.


(iii) Affected sources that are required under this paragraph to submit an initial notification may use the application for approval of construction or reconstruction under § 63.5(d) of this subpart, if relevant, to fulfill the initial notification requirements of this paragraph. 


(2) The owner or operator of an affected source that has an initial startup before the effective date of a relevant standard under this part shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the relevant standard. The notification, which shall be submitted not later than 120 calendar days after the effective date of the relevant standard (or within 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to the relevant standard), shall provide the following information: 


(i) The name and address of the owner or operator; 


(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected source; 


(iii) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date; 


(iv) A brief description of the nature, size, design, and method of operation of the source and an identification of the types of emission points within the affected source subject to the relevant standard and types of hazardous air pollutants emitted; and


(v) A statement of whether the affected source is a major source or an area source. 


(3) [Reserved]


(4) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed major affected source for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is required under § 63.5(d) must provide the following information in writing to the Administrator: 


(i) A notification of intention to construct a new major-emitting affected source, reconstruct a major-emitting affected source, or reconstruct a major source such that the source becomes a major-emitting affected source with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction as specified in § 63.5(d)(1)(i); and


(ii)-(iv) [Reserved] 


(v) A notification of the actual date of startup of the source, delivered or postmarked within 15 calendar days after that date. 


(5) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under § 63.5(d) must provide the following information in writing to the Administrator: 


(i) A notification of intention to construct a new affected source, reconstruct an affected source, or reconstruct a source such that the source becomes an affected source, and 


(ii) A notification of the actual date of startup of the source, delivered or postmarked within 15 calendar days after that date. 


(iii) Unless the owner or operator has requested and received prior permission from the Administrator to submit less than the information in § 63.5(d), the notification must include the information required on the application for approval of construction or reconstruction as specified in § 63.5(d)(1)(i).


(c) *Request for extension of compliance.* If the owner or operator of an affected source cannot comply with a relevant standard by the applicable compliance date for that source, or if the owner or operator has installed BACT or technology to meet LAER consistent with § 63.6(i)(5) of this subpart, he/she may submit to the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) a request for an extension of compliance as specified in § 63.6(i)(4) through § 63.6(i)(6). 


(d) *Notification that source is subject to special compliance requirements.* An owner or operator of a new source that is subject to special compliance requirements as specified in § 63.6(b)(3) and § 63.6(b)(4) shall notify the Administrator of his/her compliance obligations not later than the notification dates established in paragraph (b) of this section for new sources that are not subject to the special provisions. 


(e) *Notification of performance test.* The owner or operator of an affected source shall notify the Administrator in writing of his or her intention to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin to allow the Administrator to review and approve the site-specific test plan required under § 63.7(c), if requested by the Administrator, and to have an observer present during the test. 


(f) *Notification of opacity and visible emission observations.* The owner or operator of an affected source shall notify the Administrator in writing of the anticipated date for conducting the opacity or visible emission observations specified in § 63.6(h)(5), if such observations are required for the source by a relevant standard. The notification shall be submitted with the notification of the performance test date, as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, or if no performance test is required or visibility or other conditions prevent the opacity or visible emission observations from being conducted concurrently with the initial performance test required under § 63.7, the owner or operator shall deliver or postmark the notification not less than 30 days before the opacity or visible emission observations are scheduled to take place. 


(g) *Additional notification requirements for sources with continuous monitoring systems.* The owner or operator of an affected source required to use a CMS by a relevant standard shall furnish the Administrator written notification as follows: 


(1) A notification of the date the CMS performance evaluation under § 63.8(e) is scheduled to begin, submitted simultaneously with the notification of the performance test date required under § 63.7(b). If no performance test is required, or if the requirement to conduct a performance test has been waived for an affected source under § 63.7(h), the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing of the date of the performance evaluation at least 60 calendar days before the evaluation is scheduled to begin; 


(2) A notification that COMS data results will be used to determine compliance with the applicable opacity emission standard during a performance test required by § 63.7 in lieu of Method 9 or other opacity emissions test method data, as allowed by § 63.6(h)(7)(ii), if compliance with an opacity emission standard is required for the source by a relevant standard. The notification shall be submitted at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin; and 


(3) A notification that the criterion necessary to continue use of an alternative to relative accuracy testing, as provided by § 63.8(f)(6), has been exceeded. The notification shall be delivered or postmarked not later than 10 days after the occurrence of such exceedance, and it shall include a description of the nature and cause of the increased emissions. 


(h) *Notification of compliance status.* (1) The requirements of paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(4) of this section apply when an affected source becomes subject to a relevant standard. 


(2)(i) Before a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, and each time a notification of compliance status is required under this part, the owner or operator of such source shall submit to the Administrator a notification of compliance status, signed by the responsible official who shall certify its accuracy, attesting to whether the source has complied with the relevant standard. The notification shall list—


(A) The methods that were used to determine compliance; 


(B) The results of any performance tests, opacity or visible emission observations, continuous monitoring system (CMS) performance evaluations, and/or other monitoring procedures or methods that were conducted; 


(C) The methods that will be used for determining continuing compliance, including a description of monitoring and reporting requirements and test methods; 


(D) The type and quantity of hazardous air pollutants emitted by the source (or surrogate pollutants if specified in the relevant standard), reported in units and averaging times and in accordance with the test methods specified in the relevant standard; 


(E) If the relevant standard applies to both major and area sources, an analysis demonstrating whether the affected source is a major source (using the emissions data generated for this notification);


(F) A description of the air pollution control equipment (or method) for each emission point, including each control device (or method) for each hazardous air pollutant and the control efficiency (percent) for each control device (or method); and 


(G) A statement by the owner or operator of the affected existing, new, or reconstructed source as to whether the source has complied with the relevant standard or other requirements. 


(ii) The notification must be sent before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the relevant compliance demonstration activity specified in the relevant standard (unless a different reporting period is specified in the standard, in which case the letter must be sent before the close of business on the day the report of the relevant testing or monitoring results is required to be delivered or postmarked). For example, the notification shall be sent before close of business on the 60th (or other required) day following completion of the initial performance test and again before the close of business on the 60th (or other required) day following the completion of any subsequent required performance test. If no performance test is required but opacity or visible emission observations are required to demonstrate compliance with an opacity or visible emission standard under this part, the notification of compliance status shall be sent before close of business on the 30th day following the completion of opacity or visible emission observations. Notifications may be combined as long as the due date requirement for each notification is met.


(3) After a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, the owner or operator of such source shall comply with all requirements for compliance status reports contained in the source's title V permit, including reports required under this part. After a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, and each time a notification of compliance status is required under this part, the owner or operator of such source shall submit the notification of compliance status to the appropriate permitting authority following completion of the relevant compliance demonstration activity specified in the relevant standard. 


(4) [Reserved] 


(5) If an owner or operator of an affected source submits estimates or preliminary information in the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required in § 63.5(d) in place of the actual emissions data or control efficiencies required in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(H) and (d)(2) of § 63.5, the owner or operator shall submit the actual emissions data and other correct information as soon as available but no later than with the initial notification of compliance status required in this section. 


(6) Advice on a notification of compliance status may be obtained from the Administrator. 


(i) *Adjustment to time periods or postmark deadlines for submittal and review of required communications.* (1)(i) Until an adjustment of a time period or postmark deadline has been approved by the Administrator under paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source remains strictly subject to the requirements of this part. 


(ii) An owner or operator shall request the adjustment provided for in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section each time he or she wishes to change an applicable time period or postmark deadline specified in this part. 


(2) Notwithstanding time periods or postmark deadlines specified in this part for the submittal of information to the Administrator by an owner or operator, or the review of such information by the Administrator, such time periods or deadlines may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator. An owner or operator who wishes to request a change in a time period or postmark deadline for a particular requirement shall request the adjustment in writing as soon as practicable before the subject activity is required to take place. The owner or operator shall include in the request whatever information he or she considers useful to convince the Administrator that an adjustment is warranted. 


(3) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an owner or operator's request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline is warranted, the Administrator will approve the adjustment. The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment within 15 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request. 


(4) If the Administrator is unable to meet a specified deadline, he or she will notify the owner or operator of any significant delay and inform the owner or operator of the amended schedule. 


(j) *Change in information already provided.* Any change in the information already provided under this section shall be provided to the Administrator within 15 calendar days after the change. The owner or operator of a major source that reclassifies to area source status is also subject to the notification requirements of this paragraph. The owner or operator may submit the application for reclassification with the regulatory authority (*e.g.,* permit application) according to paragraph (k) of this section to fulfill the requirements of this paragraph, but the information required in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section must be included. A source which reclassified after January 25, 2018, and before January 19, 2021, and has not yet provided the notification of a change in information is required to provide such notification no later than February 2, 2021, according to the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section. Beginning January 19, 2021, the owner or operator of a major source that reclassifies to area source status must submit the notification according to the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section. A notification of reclassification must contain the following information:


(1) The name and address of the owner or operator;


(2) The address (*i.e.,* physical location) of the affected source;


(3) An identification of the standard being reclassified from and to (if applicable); and


(4) Date of effectiveness of the reclassification.






(k) *Electronic submission of notifications or reports.* If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (k), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The notification or report must be submitted by the deadline specified. The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, you must submit the information claimed to be CBI according to the procedures in paragraph (k)(3) of this section.


(1) If you are required to electronically submit a notification or report by this paragraph (k) through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (k)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required notification or report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(ii) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the notification or report is due.


(iii) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(iv) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(v) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(A) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in submitting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(C) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in submitting; and


(D) The date by which you propose to submit, or if you have already met the electronic submittal requirement in this paragraph (k) at the time of the notification, the date you submitted the notification or report.


(vi) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(vii) In any circumstance, the notification or report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(2) If you are required to electronically submit a notification or report by this paragraph (k) through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a notification or report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(ii) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in submitting through CEDRI.


(iii) You must provide to the Administrator:


(A) A written description of the force majeure event;


(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(C) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(D) The date by which you propose to submit the notification or report, or if you have already met the electronic submittal requirement in this paragraph (k) at the time of the notification, the date you submitted the notification or report.


(iv) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the submittal deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(v) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.


(3) If you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (k) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. Where a subpart specifies a specific file format for the report or notification for which you are asserting a claim of CBI, the complete file that you submit under this paragraph (k)(3) must be in the same file format specified in the subpart.


(i) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data are not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(ii) You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (k) of this section.


(iii) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the Sector Lead for the subpart for which you are submitting your notification or report. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(iv) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. ERT files should also be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should also be flagged to the attention of the Sector Lead for the subpart for which you are submitting your notification or report. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.





---

[N] [59 FR 12430, Mar. 16, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 7468, Feb. 12, 1999; 67 FR 16604, Apr. 5, 2002; 68 FR 32601, May 30, 2003; 85 FR 73885, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 73307, Sept. 10, 2024]




