# § 141.709   Developing the disinfection profile and benchmark.

(a) Systems required to develop disinfection profiles under § 141.708 must follow the requirements of this section. Systems must monitor at least weekly for a period of 12 consecutive months to determine the total log inactivation for *Giardia lamblia* and viruses. If systems monitor more frequently, the monitoring frequency must be evenly spaced. Systems that operate for fewer than 12 months per year must monitor weekly during the period of operation. Systems must determine log inactivation for *Giardia lamblia* through the entire plant, based on CT_99.9_ values in Tables 1.1 through 1.6, 2.1 and 3.1 of § 141.74(b) as applicable. Systems must determine log inactivation for viruses through the entire treatment plant based on a protocol approved by the State.


(b) Systems with a single point of disinfectant application prior to the entrance to the distribution system must conduct the monitoring in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. Systems with more than one point of disinfectant application must conduct the monitoring in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section for each disinfection segment. Systems must monitor the parameters necessary to determine the total inactivation ratio, using analytical methods in § 141.74(a).


(1) For systems using a disinfectant other than UV, the temperature of the disinfected water must be measured at each residual disinfectant concentration sampling point during peak hourly flow or at an alternative location approved by the State.


(2) For systems using chlorine, the pH of the disinfected water must be measured at each chlorine residual disinfectant concentration sampling point during peak hourly flow or at an alternative location approved by the State.


(3) The disinfectant contact time(s) (t) must be determined during peak hourly flow.


(4) The residual disinfectant concentration(s) (C) of the water before or at the first customer and prior to each additional point of disinfectant application must be measured during peak hourly flow.


(c) In lieu of conducting new monitoring under paragraph (b) of this section, systems may elect to meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) Systems that have at least one year of existing data that are substantially equivalent to data collected under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section may use these data to develop disinfection profiles as specified in this section if the system has neither made a significant change to its treatment practice nor changed sources since the data were collected. Systems may develop disinfection profiles using up to three years of existing data.


(2) Systems may use disinfection profile(s) developed under § 141.172 or §§ 141.530 through 141.536 in lieu of developing a new profile if the system has neither made a significant change to its treatment practice nor changed sources since the profile was developed. Systems that have not developed a virus profile under § 141.172 or §§ 141.530 through 141.536 must develop a virus profile using the same monitoring data on which the *Giardia lamblia* profile is based.


(d) Systems must calculate the total inactivation ratio for *Giardia lamblia* as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Systems using only one point of disinfectant application may determine the total inactivation ratio for the disinfection segment based on either of the methods in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) Determine one inactivation ratio (CTcalc/CT_99.9_) before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow.


(ii) Determine successive CTcalc/CT_99.9_ values, representing sequential inactivation ratios, between the point of disinfectant application and a point before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow. The system must calculate the total inactivation ratio by determining (CTcalc/CT_99.9_) for each sequence and then adding the (CTcalc/CT_99.9_) values together to determine (Σ (CTcalc/CT_99.9_)).


(2) Systems using more than one point of disinfectant application before the first customer must determine the CT value of each disinfection segment immediately prior to the next point of disinfectant application, or for the final segment, before or at the first customer, during peak hourly flow. The (CTcalc/CT_99.9_) value of each segment and (Σ (CTcalc/CT_99.9_)) must be calculated using the method in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.


(3) The system must determine the total logs of inactivation by multiplying the value calculated in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section by 3.0.


(4) Systems must calculate the log of inactivation for viruses using a protocol approved by the State.


(e) Systems must use the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section to calculate a disinfection benchmark.


(1) For each year of profiling data collected and calculated under paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, systems must determine the lowest mean monthly level of both *Giardia lamblia* and virus inactivation. Systems must determine the mean *Giardia lamblia* and virus inactivation for each calendar month for each year of profiling data by dividing the sum of daily or weekly *Giardia lamblia* and virus log inactivation by the number of values calculated for that month.


(2) The disinfection benchmark is the lowest monthly mean value (for systems with one year of profiling data) or the mean of the lowest monthly mean values (for systems with more than one year of profiling data) of *Giardia lamblia* and virus log inactivation in each year of profiling data.




