# ยง 810.3   Consequences of violating the conditions of supervision.

(a) If your CSO has reason to believe that you are failing to abide by the general or specific conditions of release or you are engaging in criminal activity, you will be in violation of the conditions of your supervision. Your CSO may then impose administrative sanctions (see paragraph (b) of this section) and/or request a hearing by the releasing authority. This hearing may result in the revocation of your release or changes to the conditions of your release. 


(b) Administrative sanctions available to the CSO include: 


(1) Daily check-in with supervision for a specified period of time; 


(2) Increased group activities for a specified period of time; 


(3) Increased drug testing; 


(4) Increased supervision contact requirements; 


(5) Referral for substance abuse addiction or other specialized assessments; 


(6) Electronic monitoring for a specified period of time; 


(7) Community service for a specified number of hours; 


(8) Placement in a residential sanctions facility or residential treatment facility for a specified period of time. 


(9) Travel restrictions. 


(c) You remain subject to further action by the releasing authority. For example, the USPC may override the imposition of any of the sanctions in paragraph (b) of this section and issue a warrant or summons if you are a parolee and it finds that you are a risk to the public safety or that you are not complying in good faith with the sanctions (*see* 28 CFR 2.85(a)(15)).




