# § 721.7480   Isocyanate terminated polyols.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as isocyanate terminated polyols (P-90-404, P-90-405, and P-90-406) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent) and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The following additional human health hazard statements shall appear on each label and SDS required by this paragraph: The substance may cause eye irritation, lung effects, dermal sensitization, pulmonary sensitization, or systemic effects. 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(p) (volume set at 245,000 kg; aggregate manufacture and import volume for PMNs P-90-404, P-90-405, and P-90-406 combined). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i). 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 40214, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




