# § 25.1337   Powerplant instruments.

(a) *Instruments and instrument lines.* (1) Each powerplant and auxiliary power unit instrument line must meet the requirements of §§ 25.993 and 25.1183. 


(2) Each line carrying flammable fluids under pressure must—


(i) Have restricting orifices or other safety devices at the source of pressure to prevent the escape of excessive fluid if the line fails; and 


(ii) Be installed and located so that the escape of fluids would not create a hazard. 


(3) Each powerplant and auxiliary power unit instrument that utilizes flammable fluids must be installed and located so that the escape of fluid would not create a hazard. 


(b) *Fuel quantity indicator.* There must be means to indicate to the flight crewmembers, the quantity, in gallons or equivalent units, of usable fuel in each tank during flight. In addition—


(1) Each fuel quantity indicator must be calibrated to read “zero” during level flight when the quantity of fuel remaining in the tank is equal to the unusable fuel supply determined under § 25.959; 


(2) Tanks with interconnected outlets and airspaces may be treated as one tank and need not have separate indicators; and 


(3) Each exposed sight gauge, used as a fuel quantity indicator, must be protected against damage. 


(c) *Fuel flowmeter system.* If a fuel flowmeter system is installed, each metering component must have a means for bypassing the fuel supply if malfunction of that component severely restricts fuel flow. 


(d) *Oil quantity indicator.* There must be a stick gauge or equivalent means to indicate the quantity of oil in each tank. If an oil transfer or reserve oil supply system is installed, there must be a means to indicate to the flight crew, in flight, the quantity of oil in each tank. 


(e) *Turbopropeller blade position indicator.* Required turbopropeller blade position indicators must begin indicating before the blade moves more than eight degrees below the flight low pitch stop. The source of indication must directly sense the blade position. 


(f) *Fuel pressure indicator.* There must be means to measure fuel pressure, in each system supplying reciprocating engines, at a point downstream of any fuel pump except fuel injection pumps. In addition—


(1) If necessary for the maintenance of proper fuel delivery pressure, there must be a connection to transmit the carburetor air intake static pressure to the proper pump relief valve connection; and 


(2) If a connection is required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the gauge balance lines must be independently connected to the carburetor inlet pressure to avoid erroneous readings.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15044, Mar. 17, 1977] 




