# § 982.40   Marketing policy and volume regulation.

(a) *General.* As provided in this section, prior to September 20 of each marketing year, the Board may hold meetings for the purpose of computing its marketing policy for that year and shall do so for the purpose of submitting any recommendations on its policy to the Secretary. The Board may designate one of its employees to compute and announce the preliminary computed free and restricted percentages.


(b) *Inshell trade demand.* If the Board determines that volume regulation would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, it shall compute and announce an inshell trade demand for that year prior to September 20. The inshell trade demand shall equal the average of the preceding three years' trade acquisitions of inshell hazelnuts: *Provided,* That the Board may increase such average by no more than 25 percent if market conditions justify such an increase. If the trade acquisitions during any or all of these years were abnormal because of crop or marketing conditions, the Board may use a prior year or years in determining the three-year average.


(c) *Inshell allocation*—(1) *Preliminary computed percentages.* Prior to September 20 of a marketing year, the Board shall compute and announce preliminary computed free and restricted percentages for that year, to release 80 percent of the inshell trade demand for that year. The preliminary computed free percentage shall be computed by multiplying that trade demand, adjusted by the declared carryin, by 80 percent, and by dividing that amount by the Board's estimate of orchard-run production less the average disappearance during the preceding three years, plus the undeclared carryin. The difference between 100 percent and the preliminary free percentage shall be the preliminary computed restricted percentage. At the same time, the Board may announce the portion of the restricted supply that may be shelled or exported, and the remainder of that supply to be disposed of in outlets approved by the Board pursuant to § 982.52.


(2) *Interim final and final percentages.* On or before November 15, the Board shall meet to recommend to the Secretary the interim final and final free and restricted percentages, including the portion of the restricted supply that may be shelled or exported. The interim final percentages shall release 100 percent of the inshell trade demand previously computed by the Board for the marketing year. The final free and restricted percentages may release an additional 15 percent of the average of the preceding three years' trade acquisitions of inshell hazelnuts for desirable carryout. If the trade acquisitions during any or all of these years were abnormal, the Board may use a prior year or years in determining this three-year average. The final free and restricted percentages shall become effective 30 days prior to the end of the marketing year, or earlier as may be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. The recommendations to the Secretary shall include the following:


(i) The estimated tonnage of merchantable hazelnuts expected to be produced during the marketing year.


(ii) The estimated tonnage of inshell hazelnuts held by handlers on the first day of the marketing year which may be available for handling as inshell hazelnuts thereafter.


(iii) Any other pertinent factors bearing on the marketing of hazelnuts during the marketing year.


(d) *Grade, size, and quality regulations.* Prior to September 20, the Board may consider grade, size, and quality regulations in effect and may recommend modifications thereof to the Secretary.


(e) *Revision of marketing policy.* At any time prior to February 15 of the marketing year, the Board may recommend to the Secretary revisions in the marketing policy for that year: *Provided,* That in no event shall any such recommendation provide for free and restricted percentages based on an inshell trade demand which is more than 125 percent of the average of the preceding three years' trade acquisitions computed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section for that marketing year. At any time during the period December 1 through February 10 at the request of two or more handlers, who during the preceding marketing year handled at least 10 percent of all hazelnuts handled, the Board shall meet to determine whether the marketing policy should be revised.



---

[N] [51 FR 29548, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996; 83 FR 52949, Oct. 19, 2018]




