# ยง 82.164   Reclaimer certification.

(a) All persons reclaiming used class I or II refrigerant or non-exempt substitute refrigerant for sale to a new owner must meet the following requirements:


(1) Reclaim such refrigerant to all the specifications in appendix A of this subpart (based on AHRI Standard 700-2016, *Specifications for Refrigerants*) that are applicable to that refrigerant;


(2) Verify that each batch of such refrigerant reclaimed meets these specifications using the analytical methodology prescribed in appendix A of this subpart, which includes the primary methodologies included in appendix A of AHRI Standard 700-2016;


(3) Release no more than 1.5 percent of the refrigerant during the reclamation process;


(4) Dispose of wastes from the reclamation process in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations; and


(5) Maintain records and submit reports in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) The owner or a responsible officer reclaiming used refrigerant for sale to a new owner, except for persons who properly certified under this section before May 11, 2004, must certify to the Administrator at the address in ยง 82.160(a) that they will meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. The certification must include the name and address of the reclaimer and a list of equipment used to reclaim the refrigerant to the required standard, and to analyze the refrigerant to ensure it meets these specifications.


(c) Certificates are not transferable. In the event of a change in ownership of an entity which reclaims refrigerant, the new owner of the entity must certify with the Administrator within 30 days of the change that they will meet the reclaimer certification requirements. In the event of a change in business management, location, or contact information, the owner of the entity must notify EPA within 30 days of the change at the address in ยง 82.160(a).


(d) *Recordkeeping and reporting.* (1) Reclaimers must maintain records, by batch, of the results of the analysis conducted to verify that reclaimed refrigerant meets the necessary specifications in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) Reclaimers must maintain records of the names and addresses of persons sending them material for reclamation and the quantity of the material (the combined mass of refrigerant and contaminants) by refrigerant type sent to them for reclamation. Such records must be maintained on a transactional basis for three years.


(3) Reclaimers must report to the Administrator annually by February 1 of the next calendar year the total annual quantity of material (the combined mass of refrigerant and contaminants) by refrigerant type sent to them for reclamation, the total annual mass of each refrigerant reclaimed, and the total annual mass of waste products.


(e) Failure to abide by any of the provisions of this subpart may result in revocation or suspension of the certification of the reclaimer in accordance with ยง 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.



---

[N] [81 FR 82364, Nov. 18, 2016]




