# § 702.210   Full and fair disclosure of financial condition.

(a) *Full and fair disclosure defined.* “Full and fair disclosure” is the level of disclosure which a prudent person would provide to a member of a new credit union, to NCUA, or, at the discretion of the board of directors, to creditors to fairly inform them of the financial condition and the results of operations of the credit union.


(b) *Full and fair disclosure implemented.* The financial statements of a new credit union shall provide for full and fair disclosure of all assets, liabilities, and members' equity, including such valuation (allowance) accounts as may be necessary to present fairly the financial condition; and all income and expenses necessary to present fairly the statement of income for the reporting period.


(c) *Declaration of officials.* The Statement of Financial Condition, when presented to members, to creditors or to NCUA, shall contain a dual declaration by the treasurer and the chief executive officer, or in the latter's absence, by any other officer designated by the board of directors of the reporting credit union to make such declaration, that the report and related financial statements are true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief and present fairly the financial condition and the statement of income for the period covered.


(d) *Charges for loan and lease losses.* Full and fair disclosure demands that a new credit union properly address charges for loan losses as follows:


(1) Charges for loan and lease losses shall be made timely in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP);


(2) The ALLL must be maintained in accordance with GAAP; and


(3) At a minimum, adjustments to the ALLL shall be made prior to the distribution or posting of any dividend to the accounts of members.



---

[N] [80 FR 66706, Oct. 29, 2015. Redesignated at 86 FR 11073, Feb. 23, 2021]




