# ยง 1202.3   What information can I obtain through the FOIA?

(a) *General.* You may request that FHFA disclose to you its records on a subject of interest to you. The FOIA only requires the disclosure of records. It does not require FHFA to create compilations of information or to provide narrative responses to questions or queries.


(b) *Proactive disclosure.* FHFA will make available for public inspection and copying in its electronic reading room the following records:


(1) Final opinions or orders made in the adjudication of cases;


(2) Statements of policy and interpretation adopted by FHFA that are not published in the _Federal Register_;


(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public and are not exempt from disclosure under the FOIA;


(4) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, that have been released to any person under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3), that because of the nature of their subject matter, FHFA determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records, or that have been requested 3 or more times; and


(5) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(c) *Reading rooms.* FHFA maintains an electronic reading room. FHFA will ensure that its reading room is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. See the Appendices to this part for location and contact information for FHFA-HQ and FHFA-OIG respective reading rooms.




