# ยง 1808.307   Secondary Loan Eligible Purposes; Terms and conditions.

(a) *Eligible Purposes.* Eligible CDFIs must make Secondary Loans for Eligible Purposes. Secondary Loan proceeds may not be used to capitalize loan loss reserves.


(b) *Making Secondary Loans.* (1) If the Eligible CDFI uses Bond Loan proceeds to make Secondary Loans, the Eligible CDFI must execute Secondary Loan documents (in the form of promissory notes) with Secondary Borrowers as follows:


(i) Not later than 12 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing at least 50 percent of the Eligible CDFIs' Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans; and


(ii) Not later than 24 months after the Bond Issue Date, Secondary Loan documents representing 100 percent of the Eligible CDFIs' Bond Loan proceeds allocated for Secondary Loans (excluding any amounts used for payment of Bond Issuance Fees pursuant to section 1808.304(b)).


(2) In the event that the Eligible CDFI does not comply with the foregoing requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the available Bond Loan proceeds at the end of the applicable period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the difference between the amount required by paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) minus the amount previously committed to the Secondary Loans in the applicable period. Consistent with the corresponding Bond Loan, the Secondary Loans shall be drawn down by the Secondary Borrowers upon demonstration of an Eligible Purpose.


(c) *Secondary Loan interest rate.* The rate of interest with respect to each Secondary Loan shall be determined by each Eligible CDFI in accordance with the following limitations:


(1) With respect to each Secondary Loan, the Eligible CDFI will be required to propose to the CDFI Fund:


(i) A minimum and maximum spread over the corresponding Bond Loan Rate which will represent the standard minimum and maximum interest rate (Minimum Secondary Loan Rate and Maximum Secondary Loan Rate, respectively); and


(ii) A maximum spread over the Maximum Secondary Loan Rate in event of a Secondary Loan default (Maximum Secondary Loan Default Spread).


(2) The CDFI Fund reserves the right to evaluate, approve, modify, or disapprove the proposed Minimum Secondary Loan Rate, Maximum Secondary Loan Rate, and Maximum Secondary Loan Default Spread before approving any Guarantee Application.


(d) *Secondary Loan default rate.* The Eligible CDFI may charge a default rate on the Secondary Loan so long as such rate does not exceed the Maximum Secondary Rate, plus the Maximum Secondary Loan Default Spread.


(e) *Secondary Loan maturity.* The maturity date with respect to the Secondary Loan shall be in accordance with the requirements of the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements. The maturity date of Secondary Loans may be earlier than, but may not be later than, the maturity date of the corresponding Bond.


(f) *Secondary Loan collateral.* (1) The Secondary Loan shall be payable from amounts made available pursuant to the Secondary Loan documents, and secured by:


(i) A first lien of the Eligible CDFI on pledged collateral in an amount that is consistent with the loan-to-value ratio requirements set forth in the Secondary Loan Requirements; or


(ii) A Principal Loss Collateral Provision for the benefit of the Master Servicer/Trustee, in accordance with the Bond Loan Requirements and the Secondary Loan Requirements, as applicable.


(2) Qualified Secondary Loan Receivables may be used as collateral; provided however, that such collateral is secured by a first lien on the Secondary Loan collateral in accordance with the Bond Loan Requirements and the Secondary Loan Requirements, as applicable.


(3) A parity first lien on pledged collateral may be accepted, in the sole discretion of the CDFI Fund.


(g) *Commitments for Secondary Loans.* Each proposed Secondary Loan shall be approved by the credit committee of the Eligible CDFI or its equivalent, in accordance with the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements and the Eligible CDFI's own underwriting requirements.


(h) *Disbursement of Secondary Loan proceeds.* (1) Consistent with the corresponding Bond Loan, Secondary Loans shall be draw-down loans. Disbursements of Secondary Loan proceeds to the Secondary Borrower shall be made pursuant to a requisition process established by the Qualified Issuer and the CDFI Fund and shall mirror the requirements for the disbursement of Bond Proceeds.


(2) Each requisition shall be accompanied by invoices and certifications by the Secondary Borrower as to expenditure of proceeds for Eligible Purposes. The Eligible CDFI must also attest that the Secondary Loan conforms to the requirements set forth in the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements. In the case of Refinancings, the Eligible CDFI must also attest that the original loan was used for an Eligible Purpose.


(3) Secondary Loan proceeds shall be disbursed in accordance with the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements which shall set forth, among other requirements, that Secondary Loan disbursements shall be made in accordance with commercially reasonable standards and timeframes for disbursement based on the nature of the Eligible Purposes. The Secondary Loan Requirements shall also specify what constitutes a commercially reasonable timeframe for disbursement in connection with specific types of Eligible Purposes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Eligible CDFI shall propose a timeframe for disbursement in connection with each Secondary Loan, which timeframe shall be subject to the requirements set forth in the Secondary Loan Requirements.


(i) *Amortization of Secondary Loans.* Secondary Loans shall amortize as determined by the Eligible CDFI; provided that Secondary Loan amortization installments shall conform to the requirements of the applicable Secondary Loan Requirements.


(j) *Prepayment of Secondary Loans.* Secondary Loans shall be subject to prepayment as determined by the Eligible CDFI; provided that the Secondary Loan documents may provide for modification of Secondary Loan terms (so long as such modification does not affect the corresponding Bond or Bond Loan) and shall provide for mandatory prepayment of the Secondary Loan from liquidation of collateral upon the exercise of default remedies by the Eligible CDFI, the Qualified Issuer or the Guarantor as required by the Bond, the Bond Loan documents, or the Agreement to Guarantee, as applicable.


(k) *Repayment of Secondary Loans.* As Secondary Loans are repaid, the Eligible CDFI may, through the Relending Fund, Refinance and substitute as collateral for the Bond Loan other loan(s) for Eligible Purposes that meet the required Secondary Loan Requirements, provided that the Eligible CDFI makes Bond Loan payments as required. If the outstanding principal balance of the Bond Loan exceeds the outstanding principal balance of the Bond Loan in use for the Eligible Purposes, the Eligible CDFI shall repay the difference, which shall be deposited in the Relending Account, and credited to the corresponding Relending Subaccount.




