# § 60.5363c   What must I include in my state or Tribal plan?

(a) You must include the ten items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section in your state or Tribal plan.


(1) Inventory of designated facilities. For purposes of this subpart, § 60.25a(a) does not apply.


(2) Inventory of emissions from designated facilities in your state. For purposes of this subpart, § 60.25a(a) does not apply.


(3) Compliance schedules for each designated facility or logical grouping of designated facilities.


(4) Standards of performance for designated facilities that are at least as stringent as the emission guidelines contained in this subpart, unless otherwise provided for under § 60.5365c. Standards for performance for designated facilities must apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(5) Performance testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.


(6) Documentation of meaningful engagement on such plan or plan revisions as specified in § 60.23a(i).


(7) Certification that the required hearing on the state or Tribal plan was held, a list of witnesses and their organizational affiliations, if any, appearing at the hearing, and a brief written summary of each presentation or written submission as specified in § 60.23a(c) through (e).


(8) Provision for state progress reports to EPA.


(9) Identification of enforceable state mechanisms that you selected for implementing the emission guidelines of this subpart.


(10) Demonstration of your state's legal authority to carry out the Clean Air Act section 111(d) state or Tribal plan.


(b) Unless superseded by this subpart, you must follow the requirements of subpart Ba of this part (Adoption and Submittal of State Plans for Designated Facilities) in your state or Tribal plan.






