# ยง 200.202   Program planning and design.

(a) The Federal agency must design a program and create an Assistance Listing before announcing the Notice of Funding Opportunity. A program must be designed:


(1) With clear goals and objectives that provide meaningful results and be consistent with the Federal authorizing legislation of the program;


(2) To measure performance based on the goals and objectives developed during program planning and design. Performance measures may differ depending on the type of program. See ยง 200.301 for more information on performance measurement;


(3) To align with the strategic goals and objectives within the Federal agency's performance plan and support the Federal agency's performance measurement, management, customer service initiatives, and reporting as required by Part 6 of OMB Circular A-11 (Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget);


(4) To align with the Program Management Improvement Accountability Act (Pub. L. 114-264) as well as the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act (Pub. L. 115-435), as applicable; and


(5) To encourage applicants to engage, when practicable, during the design phase, members of the community that will benefit from or be impacted by a program.


(b) Federal agencies should develop programs in consultation with communities benefiting from or impacted by the program. In addition, Federal agencies should consider available data, evidence, and evaluation results from past programs and make every effort to extend eligibility requirements to all potential applicants. Federal agencies are encouraged to coordinate with other agencies during program planning and design, particularly when the goals and objectives of a program or project align with those of other agencies.






