# ยง 7.65   Accessibility.

(a) *General.* A recipient shall operate each program or activity receiving EPA assistance so that when each part is viewed in its entirety it is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not:


(1) Necessarily require a recipient to make each of its existing facilities or every part of an existing facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.


(2) Require a recipient to take any action that the recipient can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. If an action would result in such an alternation or such financial and administrative burdens, the recipient shall be required to take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or financial and administrative burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity receiving EPA assistance.


(b) *Methods of ensuring compliance in existing facilities.* A recipient may comply with the accessibility requirements of this section by making structural changes, redesigning equipment, reassigning services to accessible buildings, assigning aides to beneficiaries, or any other means that make its program or activity accessible to handicapped persons. In choosing among alternatives, a recipient must give priority to methods that serve handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.


(c) *Deadlines.* (1) Except where structural changes in facilities are necessary, recipients must adhere to the provisions of this section within 60 days after the effective date of this part.


(2) Recipients having an existing facility which does require alterations in order to comply with paragraph (a) of this section must prepare a transition plan in accordance with ยง 7.75 within six months from the effective date of this part. The recipient must complete the changes as soon as possible, but not later than three years from date of award.


(d) *Notice of accessibility.* The recipient must make sure that interested persons, including those with impaired vision or hearing, can find out about the existence and location of the services, activities, and facilities that are accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.


(e) *Structural and financial feasibility.* This section does not require structural alterations to existing facilities if making such alterations would not be structurally or financially feasible. An alteration is not structurally feasible when it has little likelihood of being accomplished without removing or altering a load-bearing structural member. Financial feasibility shall take into account the degree to which the alteration work is to be assisted by EPA assistance, the cost limitations of the statute under which such assistance is provided, and the relative cost of accomplishing such alterations in manners consistent and inconsistent with accessibility.



---

[N] [49 FR 1659, Jan. 12, 1984, as amended at 68 FR 51372, Aug. 26, 2003]




