# ยง 23.72   How can I trade internationally in plants?

(a) *U.S. and foreign general provisions*: In addition to the requirements of this section, the import, export, or re-export of CITES plant specimens must meet the other requirements of this part (see subparts B and C for prohibitions and application procedures).


(b) *Seeds.* International shipments of seeds of any species listed in Appendix I, except for seeds of certain artificially propagated hybrids (see ยง 23.92), or seeds of species listed in Appendix II or III with an annotation that includes seeds, must be accompanied by a valid CITES document. International shipments of CITES seeds that are artificially propagated also must be accompanied by a valid CITES document.


(c) *A plant propagated from exempt plant material.* A plant grown from exempt plant material is regulated by CITES.


(1) The proposed shipment of the specimen is treated as an export even if the exempt plant material from which it was derived was previously imported. The country of origin is the country in which the specimen ceased to qualify for the exemption.


(2) Plants grown from exempt plant material qualify as artificially propagated provided they are grown under controlled conditions.


(3) To export plants grown from exempt plant material under controlled conditions, complete Form 3-200-33 for a certificate for artificially propagated plants.


(d) *Salvaged plants.* (1) For purposes of this section, *salvaged plant* means a plant taken from the wild as a result of some environmental modification in a country where a Party has done all of the following:


(i) Ensured that the environmental modification program does not threaten the survival of CITES plant species, and that protection of Appendix-I species *in situ* is considered a national and international obligation.


(ii) Established salvaged specimens in cultivation after concerted attempts have failed to ensure that the environmental modification program would not put at risk wild populations of CITES species.


(2) International trade in salvaged Appendix-I plants, and Appendix-II plants whose entry into trade might otherwise have been considered detrimental to the survival of the species in the wild, may be permitted only when all the following conditions are met:


(i) Such trade would clearly benefit the survival of the species in the wild or in cultivation.


(ii) Import is for the purposes of care and propagation.


(iii) Import is by a *bona fide* botanic garden or scientific institution.


(iv) Any salvaged Appendix-I plant will not be sold or used to establish a commercial operation for artificial propagation after import.




