# § 82.9   Availability of production allowances in addition to baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.

(a)—(b) [Reserved] 


(c) A company may increase or decrease its production allowances, including its Article 5 allowances, by trading with another Party to the Protocol according to the provision under this paragraph (c). A company may increase or decrease its essential-use allowances for CFCs for use in essential MDIs according to the provisions under this paragraph (c). A nation listed in appendix C to this subpart (Parties to the Montreal Protocol) must agree either to transfer to the person for the current control period some amount of production or import that the nation is permitted under the Montreal Protocol or to receive from the person for the current control period some amount of production or import that the person is permitted under this subpart. If the controlled substance is produced under the authority of production allowances and is to be sold in the United States or to another Party (not the Party from whom the allowances are received), the U.S. company must expend its consumption allowances allocated under §§ 82.6 and 82.7 in order to produce with the additional production allowances.


(1) For trades from a Party, the person must obtain from the principal diplomatic representative in that nation's embassy in the United States a signed document stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has established or revised production limits or essential-use allowance limits for the nation to equal the lesser of the maximum production that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the amount transferred, the maximum production or essential-use allowances that are allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the amount transferred, or the average of the nation's actual national production level for the three years prior to the transfer minus the production transferred. The person must submit to the Administrator a transfer request that includes a true copy of this document and that sets forth the following:


(i) The identity and address of the person;


(ii) The identity of the Party;


(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;


(iv) The chemical type, type of allowance being transferred, and the level of allowances being transferred;


(v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies; and


(vi) For increased production intended for export to the Party from whom the allowances would be received, a signed statement of intent to export to the Party.


(vii) In the case of transferring essential-use allowances, the transferor must include a signed document from the transferee identifying the CFC MDI products that will be produced using the essential-use allowances.


(2) For trades to a Party, a person must submit a transfer request that sets forth the following:


(i) The identity and address of the person;


(ii) The identity of the Party;


(iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party;


(iv) The chemical type, type of allowance being transferred, and the level of allowances being transferred; and


(v) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies.


(3) After receiving a transfer request that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Administrator may, at his discretion, consider the following factors in deciding whether to approve such a transfer:


(i) Possible creation of economic hardship;


(ii) Possible effects on trade;


(iii) Potential environmental implications; and


(iv) The total amount of unexpended production or essential-use allowances held by a U.S. entity.


(v) In the case of transfer of essential-use allowances the Administrator may consider whether the CFCs will be used for production of essential MDIs.


(4) The Administrator will issue the person a notice either granting or deducting production allowances, Article 5 allowances, or essential-use allowances, and specifying the control period to which the transfer applies, provided that the request meets the requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this sections for trades from Parties and paragraph (c)(2) of this section for trades to Parties, unless the Administrator has decided to disapprove the trade under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. For a trade from a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice that revises the allowances held by the person to equal the unexpended production, Article 5, or essential-use allowances held by the person under this subpart plus the level of allowable production transferred from the Party. For a trade to a Party, the Administrator will issue a notice that revises the production limit for the person to equal the lesser of:


(i) The unexpended production allowances, essential-use allowances, or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or


(ii) The unexpended production allowances, essential-use allowances, or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total production allowable for that substance under this subpart minus the amount transferred. The change in allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.


(5) If after one person obtains approval for a trade of allowable production of a controlled substance to a Party, one or more other persons obtain approval for trades involving the same controlled substance and the same control period, the Administrator will issue notices revising the production limits for each of the other persons trading that controlled substance in that control period to equal the lesser of:


(i) The unexpended production allowances or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount transferred; or


(ii) The unexpended production allowances or Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart minus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total allowable production for that substance under this subpart multiplied by the amount transferred divided by the total amount transferred by all the other persons trading the same controlled substance in the same control period minus the amount transferred by that person.


(iii) The Administrator will also issue a notice revising the production limit for each person who previously obtained approval of a trade of that substance in that control period to equal the unexpended production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances held by the person under this subpart plus the amount by which the United States average annual production of the controlled substance being traded for the three years prior to the transfer is less than the total allowable production under this subpart multiplied by the amount transferred by that person divided by the amount transferred by all of the persons who have traded that controlled substance in that control period. The change in production allowances or Article 5 allowances will be effective on the date that the notice is issued.


(d) Effective January 1, 1996, there will be no trade in production or consumption allowances with other Parties to the Protocol for class I controlled substances, except for class I, Group VI, methyl bromide. 


(e)—(f) [Reserved] 


(g) *International transfer of essential-use CFCs.* (1) For trades of essential-use CFCs where the transferee or the transferor is a person in another nation (Party), the persons involved in the transfer must submit the information requested in § 82.12(d)(2) and (d)(3), along with a signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in the Party's embassy in the United States stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has approved the transfer of the essential-use CFCs.


(2) If the transfer claim is complete, and EPA does not object to the transfer, then EPA will issue letters to the transferor and the transferee indicating that the transfer may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transfer if the transfer request is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the transferee plans to produce MDIs that are not essential MDIs. If EPA objects to the transfer, EPA will issue letters to the transferor and transferee stating the basis for disallowing the transfer. The burden of proof is placed on the transferee to retain sufficient records to prove that the transferred essential-use CFCs are used only for production of essential MDIs. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferee did not use the essential-use CFCs for production of essential MDIs then the transferee is in violation of this subpart.



---

[N] [60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 41643, Aug. 4, 1998; 63 FR 53290, Oct. 5, 1998; 65 FR 70804, Nov. 28, 2000; 67 FR 6360, Feb. 11, 2002; 67 FR 21134, Apr. 29, 2002; 70 FR 77047, Dec. 29, 2005; 85 FR 15292, Mar. 17, 2020]




