# § 301.86-1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Associated field.* A field that has been found to be at risk for infestation with pale cyst nematode in accordance with § 301.86-3(c)(2).


*Certificate.* A document in which an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement affirms that a specified regulated article is free of pale cyst nematode and may be moved interstate to any destination.


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between APHIS and a person engaged in growing, handling, or moving regulated articles, wherein the person agrees to comply with this subpart.


*Departmental permit.* A document issued by the Administrator in which he or she affirms that interstate movement of the regulated article identified on the document is for scientific or experimental purposes and that the regulated article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.86-4.


*Field.* A defined production site that is managed separately from surrounding areas for phytosanitary purposes.


*Infestation (infested).* The presence of the pale cyst nematode or the existence of circumstances that makes it reasonable to believe that the pale cyst nematode is present.


*Infested field.* A field that has been found to be infested with pale cyst nematode in accordance with § 301.86-3(c)(1).


*Inspector.* Any employee of APHIS or other person authorized by the Administrator to perform the duties required under this subpart.


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State.


*Limited permit.* A document in which an inspector or person operating under a compliance agreement affirms that the regulated article identified on the document is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.86-5(b) only to a specified destination and only in accordance with specified conditions.


*Moved (move, movement).* Shipped, offered for shipment, received for transportation, transported, carried, or allowed to be moved, shipped, transported, or carried.


*Nursery stock.* Living plants and plant parts intended to be planted, to remain planted, or to be replanted.


*Pale cyst nematode.* The pale cyst nematode (*Globodera pallida*), in any stage of development.


*Person.* Any association, company, corporation, firm, individual, joint stock company, partnership, society, or other entity.


*Plant Protection and Quarantine.* The Plant Protection and Quarantine program of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.


*Quarantined area.* Any State or portion of a State designated as a quarantined area in accordance with the provisions in § 301.86-3.


*Regulated article.* Any article listed in § 301.86-2 or otherwise designated as a regulated article in accordance with § 301.86-2(i).


*State.* The District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any State, territory, or possession of the United States.



---

[N] [72 FR 51984, Sept. 12, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 19381, Apr. 29, 2009]




