# § 268.2   Definitions applicable in this part.

When used in this part the following terms have the meanings given below:


(a) *Halogenated organic compounds* or *HOCs* means those compounds having a carbon-halogen bond which are listed under appendix III to this part.


(b) *Hazardous constituent or constituents* means those constituents listed in appendix VIII to part 261 of this chapter.


(c) *Land disposal* means placement in or on the land, except in a corrective action management unit or staging pile, and includes, but is not limited to, placement in a landfill, surface impoundment, waste pile, injection well, land treatment facility, salt dome formation, salt bed formation, underground mine or cave, or placement in a concrete vault, or bunker intended for disposal purposes.


(d) *Nonwastewaters* are wastes that do not meet the criteria for wastewaters in paragraph (f) of this section.


(e) *Polychlorinated biphenyls* or *PCBs* are halogenated organic compounds defined in accordance with 40 CFR 761.3.


(f) *Wastewaters* are wastes that contain less than 1% by weight total organic carbon (TOC) and less than 1% by weight total suspended solids (TSS). 


(g) *Debris* means solid material exceeding a 60 mm particle size that is intended for disposal and that is: A manufactured object; or plant or animal matter; or natural geologic material. However, the following materials are not debris: any material for which a specific treatment standard is provided in Subpart D, Part 268, namely lead acid batteries, cadmium batteries, and radioactive lead solids; process residuals such as smelter slag and residues from the treatment of waste, wastewater, sludges, or air emission residues; and intact containers of hazardous waste that are not ruptured and that retain at least 75% of their original volume. A mixture of debris that has not been treated to the standards provided by § 268.45 and other material is subject to regulation as debris if the mixture is comprised primarily of debris, by volume, based on visual inspection.


(h) *Hazardous debris* means debris that contains a hazardous waste listed in subpart D of part 261 of this chapter, or that exhibits a characteristic of hazardous waste identified in subpart C of part 261 of this chapter. Any deliberate mixing of prohibited hazardous waste with debris that changes its treatment classification (*i.e.*, from waste to hazardous debris) is not allowed under the dilution prohibition in § 268.3.


(i) *Underlying hazardous constituent* means any constituent listed in § 268.48, Table UTS—Universal Treatment Standards, except fluoride, selenium, sulfides, vanadium, and zinc, which can reasonably be expected to be present at the point of generation of the hazardous waste at a concentration above the constituent-specific UTS treatment standards. 


(j) *Inorganic metal-bearing waste* is one for which EPA has established treatment standards for metal hazardous constituents, and which does not otherwise contain significant organic or cyanide content as described in § 268.3(c)(1), and is specifically listed in appendix XI of this part.


(k) *Soil* means unconsolidated earth material composing the superficial geologic strata (material overlying bedrock), consisting of clay, silt, sand, or gravel size particles as classified by the U.S. Natural Resources Conservation Service, or a mixture of such materials with liquids, sludges or solids which is inseparable by simple mechanical removal processes and is made up primarily of soil by volume based on visual inspection. Any deliberate mixing of prohibited hazardous waste with soil that changes its treatment classification (*i.e.*, from waste to contaminated soil) is not allowed under the dilution prohibition in § 268.3.



---

[N] [55 FR 22686, June 1, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 3877, Jan. 31, 1991; 57 FR 37270, Aug. 18, 1992; 58 FR 8685, Feb. 16, 1993; 58 FR 29884, May 24, 1993; 59 FR 48043, Sept. 19, 1994; 60 FR 244, Jan. 3, 1995; 61 FR 15597, 15662, Apr. 8, 1996; 61 FR 33682, June 28, 1996; 63 FR 28639, May 26, 1998; 63 FR 65940, Nov. 30, 1998; 64 FR 25414, May 11, 1999; 71 FR 40278, July 14, 2006]




