# § 1.182-2   Definition of “the business of farming.”

Under section 182, the election to deduct expenditures incurred in the clearing of land is applicable only to a taxpayer who is engaged in “the business of farming” during the taxable year. A taxpayer is engaged in the business of farming if he cultivates, operates, or manages a farm for gain or profit, either as owner or tenant. For purposes of section 182, a taxpayer who receives a rental (either in cash or in kind) which is based upon farm production is engaged in the business of farming. However, a taxpayer who receives a fixed rental (without reference to production) is engaged in the business of farming only if he participates to a material extent in the operation or management of the farm. A taxpayer engaged in forestry or the growing of timber is not thereby engaged in the business of farming. A person cultivating or operating a farm for recreation or pleasure rather than for profit is not engaged in the business of farming. For purposes of section 182 and this section, the term *farm* is used in its ordinary, accepted sense and includes stock, dairy, poultry, fish, fruit, and truck farms, and also plantations, ranches, ranges, and orchards. A fish farm is an area where fish are grown or raised, as opposed to merely caught or harvested; that is, an area where they are artificially fed, protected, cared for, etc. A taxpayer is engaged in “the business of farming” if he is a member of a partnership engaged in the business of farming. See § 1.702-1.



---

[N] [T.D. 6794, 30 FR 790, Jan. 26, 1965]




