# § 700.281   Requests for notification of existence of records and for access to records: Appeals.

(a) *Right of appeal.* If an individual has been notified that he/she is not entitled to notification of whether a system of records contains records pertaining to him or has been denied access, in whole or part, to a requested record that individual may appeal to the Executive Director.


(b) *Time for appeal.* (1) An appeal must be received by the Privacy Act Officer no later than twenty (20) days (Saturdays, Sundays and public legal holidays excepted) after the date of the initial decision on a request.


(2) The Executive Director may, for good cause shown, extend the time for submission of an appeal if a written request for additional time is received within twenty (20) days (Saturdays, Sundays and public legal holidays excepted) of the date of the initial decision of the request.


(c) *Form of appeal.* (1) An appeal shall be in writing and shall attach copies of the initial request and the decision on the request.


(2) The appeal shall contain a brief statement of the reasons why the appellant believes the decision on the initial request to have been in error.


(3) The appeal shall be addressed to Privacy Act Officer, Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission, Box KK, Flagstaff, Arizona 86002.


(d) *Action on appeals.* (1) Appeals from decisions on initial requests made pursuant to §§ 700.273 and 700.277 shall be decided for the Commission by the Executive Director after consultation with the Commission's legal counsel.


(2) The decision on an appeal shall be in writing and shall state the basis for the decision.




