# ยง 101.105   Who may use SBA's official seal and for what purpose?

(a) *General.* This section describes the official seal of the SBA and prescribes rules for its use.


(b) *Official Seal.* The official seal of the SBA is illustrated below.


(c) *Authorized Use.* The official seal and reproductions of the seal may only be used as follows:


(1) Certify and authenticate originals and copies of any books, records, papers or other documents on file within SBA or extracts taken from them or to provide certification for the purposes authorized in 28 U.S.C. 1733;


(2) SBA award certificates and medals;


(3) SBA awards for career service;


(4) Security credentials and employee identification cards;


(5) Business cards for SBA employees;


(6) Official SBA signs;


(7) Plaques; the design of the SBA seal may be incorporated in plaques for display in Agency auditoriums, presentation rooms, lobbies, offices and on buildings occupied by SBA;


(8) The SBA flag;


(9) Officially authorized reports or publications of the SBA; or


(10) For such other purposes as determined necessary by the Administrator.


(d) *Unauthorized use.* The official seal shall not be used, except as authorized by the Administrator, in connection with:


(1) Contractor operated facilities;


(2) Souvenir or novelty items;


(3) Toys or commercial gifts or premiums;


(4) Letterhead design, except on official SBA stationery;


(5) Clothing or equipment; or


(6) Any article which may disparage the seal or reflect unfavorably upon SBA.


(e) SBA's seal will not be used in any manner which implies SBA endorsement of commercial products or services or of the user's policies or activities.


(f) *Reproduction of Official Seal.* Requests for permission to reproduce the SBA seal in circumstances other than those listed in paragraph (c) of this section must be made in writing to the Administrator. The decision whether to grant permission will be made in writing on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with the General Counsel, with consideration of any relevant factors which may include the benefit or cost to the Agency of granting the request; the unintended appearance of endorsement or authentication by SBA; the potential for misuse; the reputability of the use; the extent of control by SBA over the use; and the extent of control by SBA over distribution of any products or publications bearing the SBA seal.


(g) *Penalties for Unauthorized Use.* Fraudulent or wrongful use of SBA's seal can lead to criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 506 or 18 U.S.C. 1017.



---

[N] [72 FR 1963, Jan. 11, 2008]




