# § 2.71   Amendments to correct informalities.

The applicant may amend the application during the course of examination, when required by the Office or for other reasons.


(a) The applicant may amend the application to clarify or limit, but not to broaden, the identification of goods and/or services or the description of the nature of the collective membership organization.


(b)(1) If the verified statement in an application under § 2.33 is unsigned or signed by the wrong party, the applicant may submit a substitute verification.


(2) If the verified statement in a statement of use under § 2.88, or a request for extension of time to file a statement of use under § 2.89, is unsigned or signed by the wrong party, the applicant must submit a substitute verification before the expiration of the statutory deadline for filing the statement of use.


(c) The applicant may amend the dates of use, provided that the amendment is verified, except that the following amendments are *not* permitted:


(1) In an application under section 1(a) of the Act, the applicant may not amend the application to specify a date of use that is subsequent to the filing date of the application;


(2) In an application under section 1(b) of the Act, after filing a statement of use under § 2.88, the applicant may not amend the statement of use to specify a date of use that is subsequent to the expiration of the deadline for filing the statement of use.


(d) The applicant may amend the application to correct the name of the applicant, if there is a mistake in the manner in which the name of the applicant is set out in the application. The amendment must be verified. However, the application cannot be amended to set forth a different entity as the applicant. An application filed in the name of an entity that did not own the mark as of the filing date of the application is void.


(e) An amendment that would materially alter the certification statement specified in § 2.45(a)(4)(i)(A) or (a)(4)(ii)(A) will not be permitted.



---

[N] [64 FR 48922, Sept. 8, 1999, as amended at 80 FR 33184, June 11, 2015]




