# ยง 301.89-6   Issuance of a certificate or limited permit.

(a) An inspector 
1 or person operating under a compliance agreement will issue a certificate for the movement of a regulated article outside a regulated area if he or she determines that the regulated article: 


(1) Is eligible for unrestricted movement under all other applicable Federal domestic plant quarantines and regulations; 


(2) Is to be moved in compliance with any conditions deemed necessary under section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714) 
2 to prevent the artificial spread of Karnal bunt; and


(3)(i) Is free of Karnal bunt infestation, based on laboratory results of testing, and history of previous infestation; 


(ii) Has been grown, produced, manufactured, stored, or handled in a manner that would prevent infestation or destroy all life stages of Karnal bunt; or 


(iii) Has been treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. 


(b) To be eligible for movement under a certificate, hay cut after the dough stage or grain from a field within a regulated area must be tested prior to its movement from the field or before it is commingled with similar commodities and must be found free from bunted kernels. If bunted kernels are found, the grain or hay will be eligible for movement only under a limited permit issued in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and the field of production will be considered positive for Karnal bunt.


(c) An inspector or a person operating under a compliance agreement will issue a limited permit for the movement outside the regulated area of a regulated article not eligible for a certificate if the inspector determines that the regulated article:


(1) Is to be moved to a specified destination for specified handling, utilization, or processing (the destination and other conditions to be listed in the limited permit and/or compliance agreement), and this movement will not result in the artificial spread of Karnal bunt because Karnal bunt will be destroyed or the risk mitigated by the specified handling, utilization, or processing; 


(2) Is to be moved in compliance with any additional conditions the Administrator may impose under section 414 of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7714) to prevent the artificial spread of Karnal bunt; and


(3) Is eligible for movement under all other Federal domestic plant quarantines and regulations applicable to the regulated article.


(d) An inspector shall issue blank certificates and limited permits to a person operating under a compliance agreement in accordance with ยง 301.89-7 or authorize reproduction of the certificates or limited permits on shipping containers, or both, as requested by the person operating under the compliance agreement. These certificates and limited permits may then be completed and used, as needed, for the movement of regulated articles that have met the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for the issuance of certificates or of paragraph (c) of this section for the issuance of limited permits.



---

[N] [61 FR 52207, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 23627, May 1, 1997; 63 FR 50751, Sept. 23, 1998; 64 FR 23754, May 4, 1999; 66 FR 21053, Apr. 27, 2001; 67 FR 21161, Apr. 30, 2002; 69 FR 8096, Feb. 23, 2004; 75 FR 4241, Jan. 26, 2010; 75 FR 68945, Nov. 10, 2010]




