# § 122.12   Operation of international airports.

(a) *Entry, clearance and charges.* International airports are open to all aircraft for entry and clearance at no charge by Customs. However, charges may be assessed by the airport for commercial or private use of the airport.


(b) *Servicing of aircraft.* When an aircraft enters or clears through an international airport, it shall be promptly serviced by airport personnel solely on the basis of order of arrival or readiness for departure. Servicing charges imposed by the airport operators shall not be greater than the schedule of charges in effect at the airport in question.


(c) *FAA rules; denial of permission to land*—(1) *Federal Aviation Administration.* International airports must follow and enforce any requirements for airport operations, including airport rules that are set out by the Federal Aviation Administration in 14 CFR part 91.


(2) *Customs and Border Protection.* CBP, based on security or other risk assessments, may limit the locations where aircraft entering the United States from a foreign port or place may land. Consistent with § 122.32(a) of this Title, CBP has the authority to deny aircraft permission to land in the United States, based upon security or other risk assessments.


(3) *Commercial aircraft.* Permission to land at an international airport may be denied to a commercial aircraft if advance electronic information for incoming foreign cargo aboard the aircraft has not been received as provided in § 122.48a except in the case of emergency or forced landings.


(4) *Private Aircraft.* Permission to land at an international airport will be denied if the pilot of a private aircraft arriving from a foreign port or place fails to submit an electronic manifest and notice of arrival pursuant to § 122.22, except in the case of emergency or forced landings. 


(d) *Additional requirements.* Additional requirements may be put into effect at a particular airport as the needs of the Customs port served by the airport demand.



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003; CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68309, Nov. 18, 2008]




