# § 293.4   Are compacts and amendments subject to review and approval?

(a) Yes. All compacts and amendments, regardless of whether they are substantive or technical, must be submitted for review and approval by the Secretary.


(b) If an ancillary agreement or document:


(1) Modifies a term in a compact or an amendment, then it must be submitted for review and approval by the Secretary.


(2) Implements or clarifies a provision within a compact or an amendment and is not inconsistent with an approved compact or amendment, it does not constitute a compact or an amendment and need not be submitted for review and approval by the Secretary.


(3) Is expressly contemplated within an approved compact or amendment, such as internal controls or a memorandum of agreement between the Tribal and State regulators, then such agreement or document is not subject to review and approval so long as it is not inconsistent with the approved compact or amendment.


(4) Interprets language in a compact or an amendment concerning a Tribe's revenue sharing to the State, its agencies, or political subdivisions under § 293.27 or includes any of the topics identified in § 293.23, then it may constitute an amendment subject to review and approval by the Secretary.


(c) If a Tribe or a State (including its political subdivisions) is concerned that its agreement or other document may be considered a “compact” or “amendment,” either party may request in writing a determination from the Department if their agreement or other document is a compact or amendment and therefore must be approved and a notice published in the _Federal Register_ prior to the agreement or other document becoming effective. The Department will issue a letter within 30 days of receipt of the written request, providing notice of the Secretary's determination. If the agreement or other document is determined to be a compact or amendment, it must be resubmitted for Secretarial review and approval consistent with the requirements of subpart B of this part.






