# ยง 884.216   Termination of tenancy.

(a) The owner is responsible for termination of tenancies, including evictions. However, conditions for payment of housing assistance payments for any resulting vacancies must be as set forth in ยง 884.106(c)(1). Failure of the family to sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, shall be grounds for termination of tenancy. For provisions requiring termination of assistance for failure to establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, including the applicable informal requirements, see 24 CFR part 5 and also for provisions concerning assistance for mixed families (families whose members include those with eligible immigration status, and those without eligible immigration status) in lieu of termination of assistance, and for provisions concerning deferral of termination of assistance.


(b) Termination of tenancy for criminal activity by a covered person is subject to 24 CFR 5.858 and 5.859, and termination of tenancy for alcohol abuse by a covered person is subject to 24 CFR 5.860.


(c) In actions or potential actions to terminate tenancy, the owner shall follow 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).


(d) In the case of failure to pay rent, the owner must provide the tenant with a termination notice at least 30 days before a formal judicial eviction is filed. All termination notices in cases of failure to pay rent must include the following:


(1) Instructions on how the tenant can cure the nonpayment of rent, including an itemized amount separated by month of alleged rent owed by the tenant, any other arrearages allowed by HUD and included in the lease separated by month, and the date by which the tenant must pay the amount of rent owed before an eviction for nonpayment of rent can be filed;


(2) Information on how the tenant can recertify their income and apply for a hardship exemption pursuant to 24 CFR 5.630(b); and


(3) In the event of a Presidential declaration of a national emergency, such information as required by the Secretary.


(e) An owner must not provide tenants with a termination notice prior to the day after the rent is due according to the lease. An owner must not proceed with filing an eviction if the tenant pays the alleged amount of rent owed within the 30-day notification period.







---

[N] [56 FR 7541, Feb. 22, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 14845, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 13594, Mar. 27, 1996; 61 FR 47382, Sept. 6, 1996; 66 FR 28798, May 24, 2001; 73 FR 72343, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66261, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 80813, Nov. 16, 2016; 86 FR 55701, Oct. 7, 2021; 89 FR 101303, Dec. 13, 2024]








