# § 325.2   Definitions.

*For purposes of this part*—


(a) *Average total consolidated assets* means the average of the covered bank's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered bank's Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) for the four most recent consecutive quarters. If the covered bank has not filed a Call Report for each of the four most recent consecutive quarters, the covered bank's average total consolidated assets means the average of the covered bank's total consolidated assets, as reported on the covered bank's Call Reports, for the most recent one or more consecutive quarters. The date on which the state nonmember bank or the state savings association becomes a covered bank will be the as-of date of the most recent Call Report used in the calculation of the average.


(b) *Baseline scenario* means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered bank, and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook.


(c) *Covered bank* means any state nonmember bank or state savings association with average total consolidated assets calculated as required under this part that are greater than $250 billion.


(d) *Planning horizon* means the period of at least nine quarters over which the relevant projections extend.


(e) *Pre-provision net revenue* means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income, less expenses, before adjusting for loss provisions.


(f) *Provision for credit losses* means:


(1) Until December 31, 2019:


(i) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the provision for loan and lease losses as reported on the Call Report in the current stress test cycle; and,


(ii) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses, as would be calculated and reported on the Call Report by a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP; and


(2) Beginning January 1, 2020:


(i) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for credit losses, as reported in the Call Report in the current stress test cycle; and


(ii) With respect to a state nonmember bank or state savings association that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses as would be reported in the Call Report in the current stress test cycle.


(g) *Regulatory capital ratio* means a capital ratio for which the Corporation established minimum requirements by regulation or order, including the leverage ratio and tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios applicable to that covered bank as calculated under the Corporation's regulations.


(h) *Reporting year* means the calendar year in which a covered institution must conduct, report, and publish its stress test, as required under 12 CFR 325.4(d).


(i) *Scenarios* are those sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered bank that the Corporation determines are appropriate for use in the company-run stress tests, including, but not limited to, baseline and severely adverse scenarios.


(j) *Severely adverse scenario* means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered bank and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario and may include trading or other additional components.


(k) *State nonmember bank* and *state savings association* have the same meanings as those terms are defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


(l) *Stress test* means the process to assess the potential impact of scenarios on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of a covered bank over the planning horizon, taking into account the current condition of the covered bank and the covered bank's risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.


(m) *Stress test cycle* means the period beginning January 1 of a reporting year and ending on December 31 of that reporting year.



---

[N] [77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 69368, Nov. 21, 2014. Redesignated at 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 4249, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 56933, Oct. 24, 2019]




