# § 1260.2   Requirements.

(a) *Requirements for operating cords.* Each custom window covering shall comply with section 4.3.1 or 4.3.2.5.2, instead of section 4.3.2, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 1260.5).


(b) *Requirements for rigid cord shrouds.* If a custom window covering complies with paragraph (a) of this section by using a rigid cord shroud to make an operating cord inaccessible, the rigid cord shroud shall meet the requirements in section 6.3, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 and shall not have an accessible cord when tested for cord accessibility using the test methods defined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Test methods for rigid cord shrouds: Center load test.* (i) Support each end of the rigid cord shroud, but do not restrict the rotation along the axial direction. Supports must be within 0.25 inches from the ends of the shroud as shown in figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(1)(i).


(ii) Apply a 5-pound force at the center of the rigid cord shroud for at least 5 seconds as shown in figure 2 to this paragraph (b)(1)(ii).


(iii) Measure the maximum deflection of the shroud, while the 5-pound force is applied.


(iv) For rigid cord shrouds that are ≤19 inches, the deflection shall not exceed 1 inch. For every additional 19 inches in shroud length, the shroud can deflect an additional inch. See figure 2 to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(v) While continuing to apply the 5-pound force, determine if the cord(s) can be contacted by the cord shroud accessibility test probe shown in figure 3 to this paragraph (b)(1)(v). If the cord shroud accessibility test probe can touch any cord, the cord(s) are considered accessible.


(2) *Test methods for rigid cord shrouds: Axial torque test.* (i) Mount one end of the rigid cord shroud and restrict the rotation along the axial direction.


(ii) Apply a 4.4 in-lb. (0.5Nm) torque along the other end of the rigid cord shroud for 5 seconds.


(iii) While continuing to apply the torque, determine if the cord(s) can be contacted by the cord shroud accessibility test probe shown in figure 3 to paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section. If the cord shroud accessibility test probe can touch any cord, the cord(s) are considered accessible.


(c) *Requirements for cord retraction devices.* If a custom window covering complies with paragraph (a) of this section using a cord retraction device, the cord retraction device shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) When a 30 grams mass is applied to the operating interface, the cord retraction device shall maintain full retraction of the retractable cord such that the retractable cord is not accessible per Appendix C of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.


(2) The maximum stroke length for a cord retraction device is 12 inches measured from the bottom of the headrail.


(3) The operating interface for cord retraction devices may not be a cord of any length including a short static or access cord. It may be a ring and pole, a wand or any other design that cannot bend on itself, eliminating the potential of creating a hazardous loop.


(4) The cord retraction device shall have a service life of at least 5,000 cycles after exposed portions or components have been subjected to 500 hours of ultraviolet (UV) exposure per American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists (AATCC) Test Method 16-2004, Option 3 of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.


(d) *Requirements for loop cord and bead chain restraining devices.* If a custom window covering complies with paragraph (a) of this section using a loop cord and bead chain restraining device, the loop cord and bead chain restraining device shall meet the requirements in section 6.5, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018 with an additional test as defined in paragraph (d)(l) of this section, and shall not form a hazardous loop when tested for a hazardous loop using the test methods defined in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.


(1) *Test methods for loop cord and bead chain restraining device: UV stability and operational cycle test.* One sample loop cord and bead chain restraining device shall be tested to section 6.5.2.2, UV Stability, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018, followed by section 6.5.2.1, Operational Cycle Test, of ANSI/WCMA A100.1—2018.


(2) *Test methods for loop cord and bead chain restraining device: Center load test.* (i) Support each end of the loop cord and bead chain restraining device, but do not restrict the rotation along the axial direction. Supports must be within 0.25 inches from the ends of the shroud as shown in figure 4 to this paragraph (d)(2)(i).


(ii) Apply a 5-pound force at the center of the cord and bead chain restraining device for at least 5 seconds as shown in figure 5 to this paragraph (d)(2)(ii).


(iii) Measure the maximum deflection of the cord and bead chain restraining device, while the 5-pound force is applied.


(iv) For cord and bead chain restraining device that are ≤19 inches, the deflection shall not exceed 1 inch. For every additional 19 inches in shroud length, the shroud can deflect an additional inch. See figure 5 to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.


(v) While continuing to apply the 5-pound force, determine if the cord(s) create an opening between the cord and the restraining device. If the hazardous loop head probe (Figure D1 of ANSI/WCMA A1001-2018) can pass through the opening, the opening is considered a hazardous loop.


(3) *Test methods for cord and bead chain restraining devices: Axial torque test.* (i) Mount one end of the cord and bead chain restraining device and restrict the rotation along the axial direction.


(ii) Apply a 4.4 in-lb. (0.5 Nm) torque along the other end of the cord and bead chain restraining device for 5 seconds. While continuing to apply the torque, determine if the cord(s) if the cord(s) create an opening between the cord and the restraining device. If the hazardous loop head probe (Figure D1 of ANSI/WCMA A1001—2018) can pass through the opening, the opening is considered a hazardous loop.






