# § 431.205   Provision of hearing system.

(a) The Medicaid agency must be responsible for maintaining a hearing system that meets the requirements of this subpart.


(b) The State's hearing system must provide for—


(1) A hearing before—


(i) The Medicaid agency; or


(ii) For the denial of eligibility for individuals whose income eligibility is determined based on the applicable modified adjusted gross income standard described in§ 435.911(c) of this chapter, the Exchange or Exchange appeals entity to which authority to conduct fair hearings has been delegated under § 431.10(c)(1)(ii), provided that individuals who have requested a fair hearing are given the choice to have their fair hearing conducted instead by the Medicaid agency; at state option the Exchange or Exchange appeals entity decision may be subject to review by the Medicaid agency in accordance with § 431.10(c)(3)(iii); or


(2) An evidentiary hearing at the local level, with a right of appeal to the Medicaid agency.


(c) The agency may offer local hearings in some political subdivisions and not in others.


(d) The hearing system must meet the due process standards set forth in *Goldberg v. Kelly,* 397 U.S. 254 (1970), and any additional standards specified in this subpart. 


(e) The hearing system must be accessible to persons who are limited English proficient and persons who have disabilities, consistent with § 435.905(b) of this chapter.


(f) The hearing system must comply with the United States Constitution, the Social Security Act, title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act and implementing regulations.



---

[N] [44 FR 17932, Mar. 29, 1979, as amended at 78 FR 42301, July 15, 2013; 81 FR 86448, Nov. 30, 2016]




