# § 302.1-1   Definitions.

(a) *General.* When used in the regulations in this part, the terms defined in this section shall have the meaning so assigned to them. A term not defined herein shall have the meaning, if compatible with the context, imputed thereto under the internal revenue laws.


(b) *Attorney General.* The term “Attorney General” includes the officer in whom property is vested pursuant to title II of the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as amended. The term also includes the officer, including any Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General for this purpose, designated and empowered pursuant to Executive Order No. 10644 to perform the functions conferred by title II upon the President of the United States and the functions conferred by such title upon the designee of the President.


(c) *Commissioner.* The term “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.


(d) *Person.* The term “person” includes a natural person, partnership, association, other unincorporated body, corporation, or body politic, having or claiming an interest in vested property or liable or charged with liability for internal revenue tax in connection with such property.


(e) *Former owner.* The term “former owner” means the owner immediately prior to vesting and any successor in interest by inheritance, devise, bequest, or operation of law, of such owner.


(f) *Property.* The term “property” means any property, right, or interest, including earnings, increment, or proceeds thereof.


(g) *Act.* The term “Act” means the International Claims Settlement Act of 1949, as amended by the Act of August 9, 1955 (Pub. L. 285, 84th Cong., 69 Stat. 562).


(h) *Tax.* The term “tax” includes, but is not limited to, any property, income, excess-profits, war-profits, excise, estates, and employment tax, import duty, and special assessment; and also any interest, penalty, additional amount, or addition thereto not arising from any act, omission, neglect, failure, or delay on the part of the Attorney General.




