# § 1.97   Delegations to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrator.

The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrator is delegated responsibility to:


(a) *Pipelines.* (1) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under chapter 601 of title 49, U.S.C.


(2) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act, as amended (30 U.S.C. 185(a) and 30 U.S.C. 185(w)(3)).


(3) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under section 21 of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1520) relating to the establishment, enforcement and review of regulations concerning the safe construction, operation or maintenance of oil or natural gas pipelines on Federal lands and the Outer Continental Shelf.


(4) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 5 (as it relates to pipelines not over navigable waterways) and section 8(a) (as it relates to pipelines) of the International Bridge Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-434, 86 Stat. 731) (33 U.S.C. 535c and 535e(a)).


(5) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331 *et seq.*) with respect to the establishment, enforcement and review of regulations concerning pipeline safety.


(6) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by section 7 of Executive Order 12580 (delegating sections 108 and 109, respectively, of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 as amended (49 U.S.C. 9615 *et seq.*), insofar as they relate to pipelines.


(7) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 60301 as it relates to pipeline safety user fees.


(8) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 6101 *et seq.* as it relates to pipeline damage prevention One Call programs.


(9) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-355, 116 Stat. 2985).


(10) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (Pub. L. 112-90).


(b) *Hazardous materials.* Except as delegated to the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy by § 1.25:


(1) Carry out the functions vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5121(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e), 5122, 5123, and 5124, with particular emphasis on the shipment of hazardous materials and the manufacture, fabrication, marking, maintenance, reconditioning, repair or test of multi-modal containers that are represented, marked, certified, or sold for use in the transportation of hazardous materials; and


(2) Participate, with the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, in the Dangerous Goods Panel at the International Civil Aviation Organization, under the authority vested in the Secretary by 49 U.S.C. 5120; and


(3) Carry out, in coordination with the Administrators of the Federal Aviation Administration (for matters relating to the transport of hazardous materials by aircraft), the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (for matters relating to the transport of hazardous materials by public highway), and the Federal Railroad Administration (for matters relating to the transport of hazardous materials by rail), the functions vested in the Secretary by all other provisions of the Federal hazardous material transportation law (49 U.S.C. 5101 *et seq.*) except as delegated by §§ 1.83(d)(2) and (3) (FAA) and 1.87(d)(2) (FMCSA) and by paragraph 2(99) of Department of Homeland Security Delegation No. 0170.


(4) Exercise the authority vested in the Secretary by sections 33005 (49 U.S.C. 5121 note), 33006, 33008 (49 U.S.C. 5121 note), 33009(b)(2) (49 U.S.C. 5121 note), and 33012 (49 U.S.C. 5117 note) of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405).


(c) Exercise the authority delegated to the Secretary in the following sections of Executive Order 12777:


(1) Section 2(b)(2) relating to the establishment of procedures, methods, equipment and other requirements to prevent discharges from, and to contain oil and hazardous substances in, pipelines, motor carriers, and railroads; and


(2) Section 2(d)(2) relating to the issuance of regulations requiring the owners or operators of pipelines, motor carriers, and railroads, subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321 *et seq.*), to prepare and submit response plans. For pipelines subject to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, this authority includes the approval of means to ensure the availability of private personnel and equipment to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge, the review and approval of response plans, and the authorization of pipelines to operate without approved response plans.




