# § 60.5235   What reports must I submit?

You must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section. See Table 6 to this subpart for a summary of these reports.


(a) *Increments of progress report.* If you plan to achieve compliance more than 1 year following the effective date of state plan approval, you must submit the following reports, as applicable:


(1) A final control plan as specified in §§ 60.5085(a) and 60.5110.


(2) You must submit your notification of achievement of increments of progress no later than 10 business days after the compliance date for the increment as specified in §§ 60.5095 and 60.5100.


(3) If you fail to meet an increment of progress, you must submit a notification to the Administrator postmarked within 10 business days after the date for that increment, as specified in § 60.5105.


(4) If you plan to close your SSI unit rather than comply with the state plan, submit a closure notification as specified in § 60.5125.


(b) *Initial compliance report.* You must submit the following information no later than 60 days following the initial performance test.


(1) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report.


(4) The complete test report for the initial performance test results obtained by using the test methods specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.


(5) If an initial performance evaluation of a continuous monitoring system was conducted, the results of that initial performance evaluation.


(6) The values for the site-specific operating limits established pursuant to §§ 60.5170 and 60.5175 and the calculations and methods, as applicable, used to establish each operating limit.


(7) If you are using a fabric filter to comply with the emission limits, documentation that a bag leak detection system has been installed and is being operated, calibrated, and maintained as required by § 60.5170(b).


(8) The results of the initial air pollution control device inspection required in § 60.5195, including a description of repairs.


(9) The site-specific monitoring plan required under § 60.5200, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your continuous monitoring system.


(10) The site-specific monitoring plan for your ash handling system required under § 60.5200, at least 60 days before your initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with your fugitive ash emission limit.


(c) *Annual compliance report.* You must submit an annual compliance report that includes the items listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(16) of this section for the reporting period specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. You must submit your first annual compliance report no later than 12 months following the submission of the initial compliance report in paragraph (b) of this section. You must submit subsequent annual compliance reports no more than 12 months following the previous annual compliance report. (You may be required to submit these reports (or additional compliance information) more frequently by the title V operating permit required in § 60.5240.)


(1) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(4) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that performance test.


(i) If operating limits were established during the performance test, include the value for each operating limit and, as applicable, the method used to establish each operating limit, including calculations.


(ii) If activated carbon is used during the performance test, include the type of activated carbon used.


(5) For each pollutant and operating parameter recorded using a continuous monitoring system, the highest average value and lowest average value recorded during the reporting period, as follows:


(i) For continuous emission monitoring systems and continuous automated sampling systems, report the highest and lowest 24-hour average emission value.


(ii) For continuous parameter monitoring systems, report the following values:


(A) For all operating parameters except scrubber liquid pH, the highest and lowest 12-hour average values.


(B) For scrubber liquid pH, the highest and lowest 3-hour average values.


(6) If there are no deviations during the reporting period from any emission limit, emission standard, or operating limit that applies to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, emission standard, or operating limits.


(7) Information for bag leak detection systems recorded under § 60.5230(f)(3)(iii).


(8) If a performance evaluation of a continuous monitoring system was conducted, the results of that performance evaluation. If new operating limits were established during the performance evaluation, include your calculations for establishing those operating limits.


(9) If you elect to conduct performance tests less frequently as allowed in § 60.5205(a)(3) and did not conduct a performance test during the reporting period, you must include the dates of the last two performance tests, a comparison of the emission level you achieved in the last two performance tests to the 75 percent emission limit threshold specified in § 60.5205(a)(3), and a statement as to whether there have been any process changes and whether the process change resulted in an increase in emissions.


(10) Documentation of periods when all qualified sewage sludge incineration unit operators were unavailable for more than 8 hours, but less than 2 weeks.


(11) Results of annual air pollution control device inspections recorded under § 60.5230(d) for the reporting period, including a description of repairs.


(12) If there were no periods during the reporting period when your continuous monitoring systems had a malfunction, a statement that there were no periods during which your continuous monitoring systems had a malfunction.


(13) If there were no periods during the reporting period when a continuous monitoring system was out of control, a statement that there were no periods during which your continuous monitoring systems were out of control.


(14) If there were no operator training deviations, a statement that there were no such deviations during the reporting period.


(15) If you did not make revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period, a statement that you did not make any revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period. If you made revisions to your site-specific monitoring plan during the reporting period, a copy of the revised plan.


(16) If you had a malfunction during the reporting period, the compliance report must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction that occurred during the reporting period and that caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.


(d) *Deviation reports.* (1) You must submit a deviation report if:


(i) Any recorded operating parameter level, based on the averaging time specified in Table 4 to this subpart, is above the maximum operating limit or below the minimum operating limit established under this subpart.


(ii) The bag leak detection system alarm sounds for more than 5 percent of the operating time for the 6-month reporting period.


(iii) Any recorded 24-hour block average emissions level is above the emission limit, if a continuous monitoring system is used to comply with an emission limit.


(iv) There are visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system for more than 5 percent of the hourly observation period.


(v) A performance test was conducted that deviated from any emission limit in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.


(vi) A continuous monitoring system was out of control.


(vii) You had a malfunction (*e.g.,* continuous monitoring system malfunction) that caused or may have caused any applicable emission limit to be exceeded.


(2) The deviation report must be submitted by August 1 of that year for data collected during the first half of the calendar year (January 1 to June 30), and by February 1 of the following year for data you collected during the second half of the calendar year (July 1 to December 31).


(3) For each deviation where you are using a continuous monitoring system to comply with an associated emission limit or operating limit, report the items described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(viii) of this section.


(i) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.


(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.


(iii) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits requirements.


(iv) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.


(v) Duration and cause of each deviation from the following:


(A) Emission limits, emission standards, operating limits, and your corrective actions.


(B) Bypass events and your corrective actions.


(vi) Dates, times, and causes for monitor downtime incidents.


(vii) A copy of the operating parameter monitoring data during each deviation and any test report that documents the emission levels.


(viii) If there were periods during which the continuous monitoring system malfunctioned or was out of control, you must include the following information for each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit:


(A) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(B) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(C) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out of control, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken.


(D) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of malfunction, during a period when the system as out of control, or during another period.


(E) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(F) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(G) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period, and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total operating time of the SSI unit at which the continuous monitoring system downtime occurred during that reporting period.


(H) An identification of each parameter and pollutant that was monitored at the SSI unit.


(I) A brief description of the SSI unit.


(J) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.


(K) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.


(L) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(4) For each deviation where you are not using a continuous monitoring system to comply with the associated emission limit or operating limit, report the following items:


(i) Company name, physical address, and mailing address.


(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.


(iii) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(iv) The calendar dates and times your unit deviated from the emission limits, emission standards, or operating limits requirements.


(v) The averaged and recorded data for those dates.


(vi) Duration and cause of each deviation from the following:


(A) Emission limits, emission standards, operating limits, and your corrective actions.


(B) Bypass events and your corrective actions.


(vii) A copy of any performance test report that showed a deviation from the emission limits or standards.


(viii) A brief description of any malfunction reported in paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section, including a description of actions taken during the malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d) and to correct the malfunction.


(e) *Qualified operator deviation.* (1) If all qualified operators are not accessible for 2 weeks or more, you must take the two actions in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) Submit a notification of the deviation within 10 days that includes the three items in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) through (e)(1)(i)(C) of this section.


(A) A statement of what caused the deviation.


(B) A description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.


(C) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be available.


(ii) Submit a status report to the Administrator every 4 weeks that includes the three items in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii)(A) through (e)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.


(A) A description of actions taken to ensure that a qualified operator is accessible.


(B) The date when you anticipate that a qualified operator will be accessible.


(C) Request for approval from the Administrator to continue operation of the SSI unit.


(2) If your unit was shut down by the Administrator, under the provisions of § 60.5155(b)(2)(i), due to a failure to provide an accessible qualified operator, you must notify the Administrator within five days of meeting § 60.5155(b)(2)(ii) that you are resuming operation.


(f) *Notification of a force majeure.* If a force majeure is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred for which you intend to assert a claim of force majeure:


(1) You must notify the Administrator, in writing as soon as practicable following the date you first knew, or through due diligence, should have known that the event may cause or caused a delay in conducting a performance test beyond the regulatory deadline, but the notification must occur before the performance test deadline unless the initial force majeure or a subsequent force majeure event delays the notice, and in such cases, the notification must occur as soon as practicable.


(2) You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in conducting the performance test beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay; and identify a date by which you propose to conduct the performance test.


(g) *Other notifications and reports required.* You must submit other notifications as provided by § 60.7 and as follows:


(1) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before starting or stopping use of a continuous monitoring system for determining compliance with any emission limit.


(2) You must notify the Administrator at least 30 days prior to any performance test conducted to comply with the provisions of this subpart, to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.


(3) As specified in § 60.5220(a)(8), you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the date of a rescheduled performance test for which notification was previously made in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(h) *Report submission form.* (1) Submit initial, annual, and deviation reports electronically or in paper format, postmarked on or before the submittal due dates.


(2) As of January 1, 2012 and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2, conducted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, you must submit relative accuracy test audit (*i.e.,* reference method) data and performance test (*i.e.,* compliance test) data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (*see http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert__tool.html/*) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.


(i) *Changing report dates.* If the Administrator agrees, you may change the semiannual or annual reporting dates. See § 60.19(c) for procedures to seek approval to change your reporting date.




