# § 220.6   Use of funds.

(a) Federal funds made available under the School Breakfast Program shall be used by State agencies, or FNSROs where applicable, to reimburse or make advance payments to School Food Authorities in connection with breakfasts served in accordance with the provisions of this part. However, with the approval of FNS, any State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, may reserve for use in carrying out special developmental projects an amount up to 1 per centum of the funds earned in any fiscal year under the School Breakfast Program. Advance payments to School Food Authorities may be made at such times and in such amounts as are necessary to meet current obligations.


(b) Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, shall—


(1) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years or both; or


(2) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year or both.


(c) Whoever receives, conceals, or retains to his use or gain funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, shall be subject to the same penalties provided in paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [40 FR 30923, July 24, 1975, as amended by Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34759, Aug. 17, 1976; Amdt. 28, 44 FR 37899, June 29, 1979; 64 FR 50742, Sept. 20, 1999]




