# 25.601   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Domestic construction material* means the following:


(1) An unmanufactured construction material mined or produced in the United States. (The Buy American statute applies.)


(2) A manufactured construction material that is manufactured in the United States and, if the construction material consists wholly or predominantly of iron or steel, the iron or steel was produced in the United States. (Section 1605 of the Recovery Act applies.)


*Foreign construction material* means a construction material other than a domestic construction material.


*Manufactured construction material* means any construction material that is not unmanufactured construction material.


*Public building or public work* means a building or work, the construction, prosecution, completion, or repair of which is carried on directly or indirectly by authority of, or with funds of, a Federal agency to serve the interest of the general public regardless of whether title thereof is in a Federal agency (see 22.401). These buildings and works may include, without limitation, bridges, dams, plants, highways, parkways, streets, subways, tunnels, sewers, mains, power lines, pumping stations, heavy generators, railways, airports, terminals, docks, piers, wharves, ways, lighthouses, buoys, jetties, breakwaters, levees, and canals, and the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of such buildings and works.


*Recovery Act designated country* means a World Trade Organization Government Procurement Agreement country, a Free Trade Agreement country, or a least developed country.



---

[N] [74 FR 14626, Mar. 31, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 53165, Aug. 30, 2010; 79 FR 24209, Apr. 29, 2014; 86 FR 6189, Jan. 19, 2021]




