# § 3.56   Suspension or modification of registration pursuant to section 8a(11) of the Act.

(a) *Notice.* (1) On the basis of information obtained by the Commission, the Commission may at any time serve written notice upon a registrant in any capacity under the Act that:


(i) The Commission alleges and is prepared to prove, by reference to an information, indictment or complaint authorized by a United States Attorney or an appropriate official of any State that the registrant is charged with the commission of or participation in a crime involving a violation of the Act or a violation of any other provision of Federal or State law that would reflect on the honesty or the fitness of the person to act as a fiduciary that is punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, and that continued registration of the person may pose a threat to the public interest or may threaten to impair public confidence in any market regulated by the Commission;


(ii) An Administrative Law Judge shall make a determination, based upon written evidence and any oral hearing granted, as to whether the registrant is charged with the Commission of or participation in such a crime and whether the continued registration of the person may pose a threat to the public interest or may threaten to impair public confidence in any market regulated by the Commission; and


(iii) If the registrant is found to be charged with the commission of or participation in such a crime and it is found that the continued registration of the person may pose a threat to the public interest or may threaten to impair public confidence in any market regulated by the Commission, the registration of the registrant shall be suspended or modified.


(2) The notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall include a short and plain statement that the continued registration of the registrant may pose a threat to the public interest or may threaten to impair public confidence in any market regulated by the Commission.


(b) *Response.* (1) If the registrant wishes to challenge the accuracy of the allegations in the notice, the registrant may submit written evidence as to:


(i) The registrant's identity;


(ii) The existence of a clerical error in any record documenting the information, indictment or complaint;


(iii) The nature of the information, indictment or complaint; or


(iv) The statement accompanying the notice referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and, in an effort to have his registration modified rather than suspended, the Supplemental Sponsor Certification Statement signed by a sponsor, supervising floor broker or, in the case of a floor trader, a supervising registrant, principal, contract market, or swap execution facility, as appropriate for the registrant in accordance with § 3.60(b)(2)(i) and who meets the standards set forth in § 3.60(b)(2)(i)(A) and (C).


(2) The registrant may also request an oral hearing, which shall include a statement of the issues to be addressed, a list of any witnesses to be called, a summary of the testimony to be elicited and copies of any documents to be introduced. An oral hearing shall be granted upon request.


(3) Such written submissions must be served upon the Division of Enforcement and filed with the Proceedings Clerk within twenty days of the date of service of notice to the registrant under paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Reply.* Within ten days of receipt of any written submission filed by the registrant, the Division of Enforcement may serve upon the registrant and file with the Proceedings Clerk a reply.


(d) *Oral hearing.* An oral hearing shall be conducted pursuant to such sections of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 CFR part 10, as the Administrative Law Judge deems necessary and in a manner which shall ensure that the proceeding is resolved expeditiously.


(e) *Determination by Administrative Law Judge.* (1) A determination by the Administrative Law Judge as to whether the Division of Enforcement has shown by a preponderance of the evidence that the registrant is charged with the commission of or participation in a crime as set forth in the notice and that the continued registration of the registrant may pose a threat to the public interest or may threaten to impair public confidence in any market regulated by the Commission must be based upon the evidence of service, the response, if any, filed by the registrant, any written reply submitted by the Division of Enforcement and such other papers as the Administrative Law Judge may require or permit, and the oral hearing, if any. If the Division of Enforcement has made the required showings, the Administrative Law Judge, within thirty days after the last written submission or the oral hearing, shall issue an order suspending or modifying the registration of the registrant. If the Division of Enforcement has not made the required showings, the Administrative Law Judge, within thirty days after the last written submission or the oral hearing, shall issue an order to that effect. The Administrative Law Judge's order shall include a written determination setting forth the basis for his ruling.


(2) The Proceedings Clerk shall promptly serve a copy of such order on the registrant, the Market Participants Division and the Division of Enforcement. Such Order shall be effective as a final order of the Commission fifteen days after the date it is served upon the registrant in accordance with the provisions of § 3.50(a) unless a timely application for review is filed in accordance with § 10.102 of this chapter. The appellate procedures set forth in §§ 10.102, 10.103, 10.104, 10.106, 10.107 and 10.109 of this chapter shall apply to any appeal brought under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(f) Any order of suspension or modification issued under this section shall remain in effect until such information, indictment, or complaint is disposed of or until terminated by the Commission.


(g) On disposition of such information, indictment, or complaint, the Commission may issue and serve on such registrant a notice under § 3.55 or § 3.60 to suspend, restrict, or revoke the registration of such person.


(h) A finding of not guilty or other disposition of the charge shall not preclude the Commission from thereafter instituting any other proceedings under the Act or its rules.


(i) A person aggrieved by an order issued under this section may obtain review of such order in the same manner and on the same terms and conditions as are provided in section 6(c) of the Act.



---

[N] [58 FR 19595, Apr. 15, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 54801, Oct. 26, 1995; 67 FR 62351, Oct. 7, 2002; 77 FR 51908, Aug. 28, 2012; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013]




