# ยง 357.12   A Participant's Security Entitlement.

(a) *How is a Participant's Security Entitlement created?* A Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book entry that a Book-entry Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.


(b) *What else do I need to know about a Participant's Security Entitlement?* See the following table:


(c) *What is the effect of the marking of a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank?* Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized Representative of the United States directing the transfer of the Security.


(d) *Who is an authorized Representative of the United States, for purposes of paragraph (c) in this section?* The official designated in the applicable regulations or in an agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.


(e)(1) *Must the United States and the Federal Reserve Banks agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person?* No, they need not agree to act or recognize any party's interest, except:


(i) To the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation, or


(ii) To the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded.


(2) *May a security interest be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books?* Yes, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest to the extent required by law, regulation, or an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular.


(3) *Does this security interest have priority over other interests?* A security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank has priority over any other interest in the securities, except a security in favor of the United States, as provided in table (b) of this section.


(4) *In addition to the method provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, may a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, be perfected in another way?* Yes, a security interest may be perfected by any method under applicable law as described in ยง 357.10(b) or ยง 357.11.


(i) The applicable law governs the perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest.


(ii) A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under that law.


(iii) A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for these purposes.




