# § 400.210   Time limits for obligating and expending funds and for filing State claims.

Federal funding is available for a State's expenditures for assistance and services to eligible refugees for which the following time limits are met: 


(a) *CMA grants,* as described at § 400.11(a)(1) of this part: 


(1) Except for services for unaccompanied minors, a State must use its CMA grants for costs attributable to the Federal fiscal year (FFY) in which the Department awards the grants. With respect to CMA funds used for services for unaccompanied minors, the State may use its CMA funds for services provided during the Federal fiscal year following the FFY in which the Department awards the funds. 


(2) A State's final financial report on expenditures of CMA grants, including CMA expenditures for services for unaccompanied minors, must be received no later than one year after the end of the FFY in which the Department awarded the grant. At that time, the Department will deobligate any unexpended funds, including any unliquidated obligations. 


(b) *Social service grants and targeted assistance grants,* as described, respectively, at §§ 400.11(a)(2) and 400.311 of this part: 


(1) A State must obligate its social service and targeted assistance grants no later than one year after the end of the FFY in which the Department awards the grant.


(2) A State must expend its social service and targeted assistance grants no later than two years after the end of the FFY in which the Department awards the grant. A State's final financial report on expenditures of social services and targeted assistance grants must be received no later than 90 days after the end of the two-year expenditure period. At that time, if a State's final financial expenditure report has not been received, the Department will deobligate any unexpended funds, including any unliquidated obligations, based on a State's last submitted financial report.



---

[N] [60 FR 33604, June 28, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 15450, Mar. 22, 2000]




