# § 317.305   Conversion of excepted appointees.

(a) *Coverage.* This section covers employees serving under an excepted appointment in a position: 


(1) In Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; 


(2) Filled by noncareer executive assignment under subpart F of part 305 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; 


(3) In the Executive Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, other than a career Executive Schedule position; or, 


(4) Filled under an authority equivalent to paragraph (a) (1), (2), or (3) of this section. 


(b) *Senior Executive Service appointment.* An employee covered by this section shall be subject to one of the following actions. 


(1) If the employee's position is designated a “general” position, the agency may convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service noncareer appointment. The employee may be assigned only to a “general” position. 


(2) If the employee's position is designated a “career reserved” position, the agency may convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service noncareer appointment and assign the employee to a “general” position. The employee cannot remain in a “career reserved” position. 


(3) If the employee subject to § 317.302(a) or § 317.302(d) has reinstatement eligibility to a position in the competitive service, or, as determined by the Office of Personnel Management, had substantial career-oriented service under a career-type appointment as defined in § 317.304(a)(2), the employee may request conversion to a career appointment. Such request must be made on or before the end of the notice period. 


(i) If the request is approved by the Office, the agency will convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service career appointment. The employee may be assigned to a “general” or a “career reserved” position. The name of the individual and basis for approving the request must be published in the _Federal Register._

(ii) If the employee's request for conversion to career is not approved by the Office, or if the employee elects not to make such a request, the agency will convert the employee to a Senior Executive Service noncareer appointment. The employee may be assigned only to a “general” position. 


(4) In lieu of action under paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, the agency may separate the employee from the civil service. 




