# ยง 1206.3   Annual assessments.

(a) *Establishing assessments.* The Director shall establish annual assessments on the Regulated Entities in an amount sufficient to maintain a working capital fund and provide for the payment of the FHFA's costs and expenses, including, but not limited to:


(1) Expenses of any examinations under 12 U.S.C. 4517 and section 20 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1440);


(2) Expenses of obtaining any reviews and credit assessments under 12 U.S.C. 4519;


(3) Expenses of any enforcement activities under 12 U.S.C. 4635;


(4) Expenses of other FHFA litigation under 12 U.S.C. 4513;


(5) Expenses relating to the maintenance of the FHFA records relating to examinations and other reviews of the Regulated Entities;


(6) Such amounts in excess of actual expenses for any given year deemed necessary to maintain a working capital fund;


(7) Expenses relating to monitoring and ensuring compliance with housing goals;


(8) Expenses relating to conducting reviews of new products;


(9) Expenses related to affordable housing and community programs;


(10) Other administrative expenses of the FHFA;


(11) Expenses related to preparing reports and studies;


(12) Expenses relating to the collection of data and development of systems to calculate the House Price Index (HPI) and the conforming loan limit;


(13) Amounts deemed necessary by the Director to wind up the affairs of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight and the Federal Housing Finance Board; and


(14) Expenses relating to other responsibilities of the FHFA under the Safety and Soundness Act, the Federal Home Loan Bank Act and the Act.


(b) *Allocating assessments.* The Director shall allocate the annual assessments as follows:


(1) *Enterprises.* Assessments collected from the Enterprises shall not exceed amounts sufficient to provide for payment of the costs and expenses relating to the Enterprises as determined by the Director. Each Enterprise shall pay a proportional share that bears the same ratio to the total portion of the annual assessment allocated to the Enterprises that the total exposure of each Enterprise bears to the total exposure of both Enterprises.


(2) *Federal Home Loan Banks.* Assessments collected from the Banks shall not exceed amounts sufficient to provide for payment of the costs and expenses relating to the Banks as determined by the Director. Each Bank shall pay a *pro rata* share of the annual assessments based on the ratio between its minimum required regulatory capital and the aggregate minimum required regulatory capital of every Bank.


(c) *Timing and amount of semiannual payment.* Each Regulated Entity shall pay on or before October 1 and April 1 an amount equal to one-half of its annual assessment.


(d) *Surplus funds.* Surplus funds shall be credited to the annual assessment by reducing the amount collected in the following semiannual period by the amount of the surplus funds. Surplus funds shall be allocated to all Regulated Entities in the same proportion in which they were collected, except as determined by the Director.



---

[N] [73 FR 56713, Sept. 30, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 39326, Aug. 9, 2018]




