# § 1329.4   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*Act* means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 *et seq.*), as amended. *Part B* refers to part B of chapter 1 of title VII of the Act (29 U.S.C. 796e to 796e-3). *Part C* refers to part C of chapter 1 of title VII, of the Act (29 U.S.C. 796f to 796f-6).


*Administrative support services* means services and supports provided by the designated State entity under Part B, and to Part C CILs administered by the State under section 723 of the Act in support of the goals, objectives and related activities under an approved State Plan for Independent Living (SPIL). Such support includes any costs associated with contracts and subgrants including fiscal and programmatic oversight, among other services.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Administration for Community Living (ACL) of the Department of Health and Human Services.


*Advocacy* means pleading an individual's cause or speaking or writing in support of an individual. To the extent permitted by State law or the rules of the agency before which an individual is appearing, a non-lawyer may engage in advocacy on behalf of another individual. Advocacy may—


(1) Involve representing an individual—


(i) Before private entities or organizations, government agencies (whether State, local, or Federal), or in a court of law (whether State or Federal); or


(ii) In negotiations or mediation, in formal or informal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether State, local, or Federal), or in legal proceedings in a court of law; and


(2) Be on behalf of—


(i) A single individual, in which case it is individual advocacy;


(ii) A group or class of individuals, in which case it is *systems advocacy;* or


(iii) Oneself, in which case it is *self advocacy.*

*Attendant care* means a personal assistance service provided to an individual with significant disabilities in performing a variety of tasks required to meet essential personal needs in areas such as bathing, communicating, cooking, dressing, eating, homemaking, toileting, and transportation.


*Center for independent living* (“*Center*”) means a consumer-controlled, community-based, cross-disability, nonresidential, private nonprofit agency for individuals with significant disabilities (regardless of age or income) that—


(1) Is designed and operated within a local community by individuals with disabilities;


(2) Provides an array of IL services as defined in section 7(18) of the Act, including, at a minimum, independent living core services as defined in this section; and


(3) Complies with the standards set out in Section 725(b) and provides and complies with the assurances in section 725(c) of the Act and § 1329.5.


*Completed their secondary education* means, with respect to the Independent Living Core Services that facilitate the transition of youth who are individuals with significant disabilities in section 7(17)(e)(iii) of the Act, that an eligible youth has received a diploma; has received a certificate of completion for high school or other equivalent document marking the completion of participation in high school; or has exceeded the age of eligibility for services under IDEA.


*Consumer control* means, with respect to a Center or eligible agency, that the Center or eligible agency vests power and authority in individuals with disabilities, including individuals who are or have been recipients of IL services, in terms of the management, staffing, decision making, operation, and provision of services. Consumer control, with respect to an individual, means that the individual with a disability asserts control over his or her personal life choices, and in addition, has control over his or her independent living plan (ILP), making informed choices about content, goals and implementation.


*Cross-disability* means, with respect to services provided by a Center, that a Center provides services to individuals with all different types of significant disabilities, including individuals with significant disabilities who are members of unserved or underserved populations by programs under Title VII. Eligibility for services shall be determined by the Center, and shall not be based on the presence of any one or more specific significant disabilities.


*Designated State entity (DSE)* is the State agency designated in the State Plan for Independent Living (SPIL) that acts on behalf of the State to provide the functions described in title VII, chapter 1 of the Act.


*Eligible agency* means a consumer-controlled, community-based, cross-disability, nonresidential, private, nonprofit agency.


*Independent living core services* mean, for purposes of services that are supported under the ILS or CIL programs—


(1) Information and referral services;


(2) Independent Living skills training;


(3) Peer counseling, including cross-disability peer counseling;


(4) Individual and systems advocacy;


(5) Services that:


(i) Facilitate the transition of individuals with significant disabilities from nursing homes and other institutions to home and community-based residences, with the requisite supports and services. This process may include providing services and supports that a consumer identifies are needed to move that person from an institutional setting to community based setting, including systems advocacy required for the individual to move to a home of his or her choosing;


(ii) Provide assistance to individuals with significant disabilities who are at risk of entering institutions so that the individuals may remain in the community. A determination of who is at risk of entering an institution should include self-identification by the individual as part of the intake or goal-setting process; and


(iii) Facilitate the transition of youth who are individuals with significant disabilities, who were eligible for individualized education programs under section 614(d) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)), and who have completed their secondary education or otherwise left school, to postsecondary life. Individuals who have reached the age of 18 and are still receiving services in accordance with an Individualized Education Program (IEP) under IDEA have not “completed their secondary education.”


*Independent living service* includes the independent living core services and such other services as described in section 7(18) of the Act.


*Individual with a disability* means an individual who—


(1) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities of such individual;


(2) Has a record of such an impairment; or


(3) Is regarded as having such an impairment, as described in section 3(3) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102(3)).


*Individual with a significant disability* means an individual with a severe physical or mental impairment whose ability to function independently in the family or community or whose ability to obtain, maintain, or advance in employment is substantially limited and for whom the delivery of independent living services will improve the ability to function, continue functioning, or move toward functioning independently in the family or community or to continue in employment, respectively.


*Majority* means more than 50 percent.


*Minority group* means American Indian, Alaskan Native, Asian American, Black or African American (not of Hispanic origin), Hispanic or Latino (including persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, and Central or South American origin), and Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander.


*Nonresidential* means, with respect to a Center, that the Center does not operate or manage housing or shelter for individuals as an IL service on either a temporary or long-term basis unless the housing or shelter is—


(1) Incidental to the overall operation of the Center;


(2) Necessary so that the individual may receive an IL service; and


(3) Limited to a period not to exceed eight weeks during any six-month period.


*Peer relationships* mean relationships involving mutual support and assistance among individuals with significant disabilities who are actively pursuing IL goals.


*Peer role models* mean individuals with significant disabilities whose achievements can serve as a positive example for other individuals with significant disabilities.


*Personal assistance services* mean a range of services, paid or unpaid, provided by one or more persons, designed to assist an individual with a disability to perform daily living activities that the individual would typically perform if the individual did not have a disability. These services must be designed to increase the individual's control in life and ability to perform everyday activities and include but are not limited to: Getting up and ready for work or going out into the community (including bathing and dressing), cooking, cleaning or running errands, engaging in social relationships including parenting.


*Service provider* means a Center for Independent Living that receives financial assistance under Part B or C of chapter 1 of title VII of the Act, or any other entity or individual that provides IL services under a grant or contract from the DSE pursuant to Section 704(f) of the Act. A designated State entity (DSE) may directly provide IL services to individuals with significant disabilities only as specifically authorized in the SPIL.


*State* includes, in addition to each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State plan* means the State Plan for Independent Living (SPIL) required under Section 704 of the Act.


*Unserved and underserved groups or populations* include populations such as individuals from racial and ethnic minority backgrounds, disadvantaged individuals, individuals with limited English proficiency, and individuals from underserved geographic areas (rural or urban).


*Youth with a significant disability means* an individual with a significant disability who—


(1) Is not younger than 14 years of age; and


(2) Is not older than 24 years of age.




