# § 1282.15   General counting requirements.

(a) *Calculating the numerator and denominator for single-family housing goals.* Performance under each of the single-family housing goals shall be measured using a fraction that is converted into a percentage. Neither the numerator nor the denominator shall include Enterprise transactions or activities that are not mortgage purchases as defined by FHFA or that are specifically excluded as ineligible under § 1282.16(b).


(1) *The numerator.* The numerator of each fraction is the number of mortgage purchases of an Enterprise in a particular year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties that count toward achievement of a particular single-family housing goal.


(2) *The denominator.* The denominator of each fraction is the total number of mortgage purchases of an Enterprise in a particular year that finance owner-occupied single-family properties. A separate denominator shall be calculated for purchase money mortgages and for refinancing mortgages.


(b) *Counting owner-occupied units.* (1) Mortgage purchases financing owner-occupied single-family properties shall be evaluated based on the income of the mortgagors and the area median income at the time the mortgage was originated. To determine whether mortgages may be counted under a particular family income level, *i.e.,* low- or very low-income, the income of the mortgagors is compared to the median income for the area at the time the mortgage was originated, using the appropriate percentage factor provided under § 1282.17.


(2) Mortgage purchases financing owner-occupied single-family properties for which the income of the mortgagors is not available shall be included in the denominator for the single-family housing goals and subgoal, but such mortgages shall not be counted in the numerator of any single-family housing goal or subgoal.


(c) *Calculating the numerator and denominator for multifamily housing goals.* Performance under the multifamily housing goal and subgoals shall be measured using a fraction that is converted into a percentage. Neither the numerator nor the denominator shall include Enterprise transactions or activities that are not mortgage purchases as defined by FHFA or that are specifically excluded as ineligible under § 1282.16(b).


(1) *The numerator.* The numerator of each fraction is the number of dwelling units that count toward achievement of a particular multifamily housing goal or subgoal in properties financed by mortgages purchased by an Enterprise in a particular year.


(2) *The denominator.* The denominator of each fraction is the total number of dwelling units in properties financed by mortgages purchased by an Enterprise in a particular year.


(d) *Counting rental units*—(1) *Use of rent.* For purposes of counting rental units toward achievement of the multifamily housing goal and subgoals, mortgage purchases financing such units shall be evaluated based on rent and whether the rent is affordable to the income group targeted by the housing goal and subgoals. A rent is affordable if the rent does not exceed the maximum levels as provided in § 1282.19.


(2) *Affordability of rents based on housing program requirements.* Where a multifamily property is subject to an affordability restriction under a housing program that establishes the maximum permitted income level for a tenant or a prospective tenant or the maximum permitted rent, the affordability of units in the property may be determined based on the maximum permitted income level or maximum permitted rent established under such housing program for those units. If using income, the maximum income level must be no greater than the maximum income level for each goal, adjusted for family or unit size as provided in § 1282.17 or § 1282.18, as appropriate. If using rent, the maximum rent level must be no greater than the maximum rent level for each goal, adjusted for unit size as provided in § 1282.19.


(3) *Unoccupied units.* Anticipated rent for unoccupied units may be the market rent for similar units in the neighborhood as determined by the lender or appraiser for underwriting purposes. A unit in a multifamily property that is unoccupied because it is being used as a model unit or rental office may be counted for purposes of the multifamily housing goal and subgoals only if an Enterprise determines that the number of such units is reasonable and minimal considering the size of the multifamily property.


(4) *Timeliness of information.* In evaluating affordability under the multifamily housing goal and subgoals, each Enterprise shall use tenant and rental information as of the time of mortgage acquisition.


(e) *Missing data or information for multifamily housing goal and subgoals.* (1) Rental units for which bedroom data are missing shall be considered efficiencies for purposes of calculating unit affordability.


(2) When an Enterprise lacks sufficient information to determine whether a rental unit in a property securing a multifamily mortgage purchased by an Enterprise counts toward achievement of the multifamily housing goal or subgoals because rental data is not available, an Enterprise's performance with respect to such unit may be evaluated using estimated affordability information by multiplying the number of rental units with missing affordability information in properties securing multifamily mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in each census tract by the percentage of all rental dwelling units in the respective tracts that would count toward achievement of each goal and subgoal, as determined by FHFA.


(3) The estimation methodology in paragraph (e)(2) of this section may be used up to a nationwide maximum of 5 percent of the total number of rental units in properties securing multifamily mortgages purchased by the Enterprise in the current year. Multifamily rental units with missing affordability information in excess of this maximum shall be included in the denominator for the multifamily housing goal and subgoals, but such rental units shall not be counted in the numerator of any multifamily housing goal or subgoal. Multifamily rental units with missing affordability information for which estimation information is not available shall be excluded from both the numerator and the denominator for purposes of the multifamily housing goal and subgoals.




(f) *Credit toward multiple goals.* A mortgage purchase (or dwelling unit financed by such purchase) by an Enterprise in a particular year shall count toward the achievement of each housing goal for which such purchase (or dwelling unit) qualifies in that year.


(g) *Application of median income.* For purposes of determining an area's median income under §§ 1282.17 through 1282.19 and the definitions in § 1282.1, the area is:


(1) The metropolitan area, if the property which is the subject of the mortgage is in a metropolitan area; and


(2) In all other areas, the county in which the property is located, except that where the State non-metropolitan median income is higher than the county's median income, the area is the State non-metropolitan area.


(h) *Sampling not permitted.* Performance under the housing goals for each year shall be based on a complete tabulation of mortgage purchases (or dwelling units) for that year; a sampling of such purchases (or dwelling units) is not acceptable.



---

[N] [75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53431, Sept. 3, 2015; 83 FR 5899, Feb. 12, 2018; 86 FR 73658, Dec. 28, 2021; 87 FR 78846, Dec. 23, 2022]




