# § 210.51   Period for concluding investigation.

(a) *Permanent relief.* Within forty-five (45) days after institution of an original investigation as to whether there is a violation of section 337 or an investigation that is an enforcement proceeding, the administrative law judge shall issue an order setting a target date for completion of the investigation. After the target date has been set, it can be modified by the administrative law judge for good cause shown before the investigation is certified to the Commission or by the Commission after the investigation is certified to the Commission.


(1) *Original investigations.* If the target date does not exceed 16 months from the date of institution of an original investigation, the order of the administrative law judge shall be final and not subject to interlocutory review. If the target date exceeds 16 months, the order of the administrative law judge shall constitute an initial determination. Any extension of the target date beyond 16 months, before the investigation is certified to the Commission, shall be by initial determination.




(2) *Enforcement proceedings.* If the target date does not exceed twelve (12) months from the date of institution of the enforcement proceeding, the order of the administrative law judge shall be final and not subject to interlocutory review. If the target date exceeds twelve (12) months, the order of the administrative law judge shall constitute an initial determination. Any extension of the target date beyond twelve (12) months shall be by initial determination.


(b) *Temporary relief.* The temporary relief phase of an investigation shall be concluded and a final order issued no later than 90 days after publication of the notice of investigation in the _Federal Register,_ unless the temporary relief phase of the investigation has been designated “more complicated” by the Commission or the presiding administrative law judge pursuant to § 210.22(c) and § 210.60. If that designation has been made, the temporary relief phase of the investigation shall be concluded and a final order issued no later than 150 days after publication of the notice of investigation in the _Federal Register._

(c) *Computation of time.* In computing the deadlines imposed in paragraph (b) of this section, there shall be excluded any period during which the investigation is suspended pursuant to § 210.23. 



---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67629, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 43432, Aug. 23, 1996; 73 FR 38326, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23485, Apr. 19, 2013; 90 FR 246, Jan. 3, 2025]




