# ยง 109.20   Definitions.

*Affiliate* is defined in ยง 121.301(f) of this chapter.


*Associate.* (1) An Associate of an ILP Intermediary is:


(i) An officer, director, key employee, or holder of 20 percent or more of the value of the ILP Intermediary or its debt instruments, or an agent involved in the loan process;


(ii) Any entity in which one or more individuals referred to in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition or a Close Relative of any such individual owns or controls at least 20 percent;


(2) An Associate of an Eligible Small Business Concern is:


(i) An officer director, owner of more than 20 percent of the equity, or key employee of the Eligible Small Business Concern;


(ii) Any entity in which one or more individuals referred to in paragraphs (2)(i) of this definition owns or controls at least 20 percent; and


(iii) Any individual or entity in control of or controlled by the small business (except a Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) licensed by SBA).


(3) For the purposes of this definition, the time during which an Associate relationship exists commences six months before the following dates and continues as long as the ILP Note or the loan to the Eligible Small Business Concern is outstanding:


(i) For an ILP Intermediary, the date of the ILP Note;


(ii) For an Eligible Small Business Concern, the date of the loan application to the ILP Intermediary.


*Close Relative* is a spouse; a parent; a child or sibling, or the spouse of any such person.


*Eligible Small Business Concern* is a small business that meets the requirements of ยง 109.400.


*ILP Intermediary* means a private, nonprofit entity that has received an ILP Loan.


*ILP Loan* means a direct loan made by SBA to an ILP Intermediary under this program.


*ILP Note* means the instrument that represents the obligation of the ILP Intermediary to repay the ILP Loan to SBA.


*ILP Program Activities Report* means the quarterly report that identifies the use and management of ILP program funds.


*ILP Program Requirements* are requirements imposed upon an ILP Intermediary by statute, SBA regulations, any agreement executed between SBA and the ILP Intermediary, SBA SOPs, SBA procedural guidance, official SBA notices and forms applicable to the ILP program, any NOFA applicable to the ILP program, and the ILP Note and Loan Authorization, as such requirements are issued and revised by SBA from time to time.


*ILP Relending Fund* means a federally insured depository account established by the ILP Intermediary at a well-capitalized financial institution which includes, at a minimum, the ILP Loan proceeds and the principal portion of repayments from Eligible Small Business Concerns.


*Intermediary Lending Program Electronic Reporting System (ILPERS)* means the web-based, electronic reporting system used by the ILP Intermediary to report each loan made to Eligible Small Business Concerns, to provide aging information on each loan, and to update the outstanding principal balance of each loan until all loans are either paid in full or charged off.


*Native American Tribal Government* means the governing body of any Native American tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.A. ยง 1601 *et seq.*), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Native Americans because of their status as Native Americans.


*Portfolio Identification Report* means the electronic report that collects identifying information on loans made to Eligible Small Business Concerns, including demographic information, use of proceeds, payment terms, and jobs created and retained.


*Portfolio Status Report* means the quarterly electronic report that summarizes the payment status and outstanding principal balances of an ILP Intermediary's loans to Eligible Small Business Concerns.



---

[N] [76 FR 18015, Apr. 1, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 41428, June 27, 2016; 85 FR 75834, Nov. 27, 2020]




