# ยง 501.727   Motion for summary disposition.

(a) At any time after a respondent's answer has been filed, the respondent or the Director may make a motion for summary disposition of any or all allegations contained in the Order Instituting Proceedings. If the Director has not completed presentation of his or her case-in-chief, a motion for summary disposition shall be made only with permission of the Administrative Law Judge. The facts of the pleadings of the party against whom the motion is made shall be taken as true, except as modified by stipulations or admissions made by that party, by uncontested affidavits, or by facts officially noticed pursuant to ยง 501.732(b). 


(b) *Decision on motion.* The Administrative Law Judge may promptly decide the motion for summary disposition or may defer decision on the motion. The Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order granting a motion for summary disposition if the record shows there is no genuine issue with regard to any material fact and the party making the motion is entitled to a summary disposition as a matter of law. 


(c) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, transcripts, affidavits, and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support its position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the moving party's arguments. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which such party contends a genuine dispute exists. The opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate. 




