# ยง 1080.5   Application procedures for States.

(a) Each State requesting funds under the Emergency Community Services Homeless Grant Program shall submit to the Office of Community Services an application for funds for each fiscal year, at a time established by the Secretary. Approval must be requested of and received from the Office of Community Services before a State may implement changes to the information requested by paragraph (b) of this section after an application has been approved.


(b) The application may be in any format, but must include a description of the agencies, organizations, and activities that the State intends to support with the amounts received. In addition, the application must include the following assurances, signed by the Governor or his/her designee:


(1) The State will award not less than 95 percent of the amounts it receives to:


(i) Community action agencies and other organizations that are eligible to receive amounts under section 675(c)(2)(A) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9904(c)(2)(A));


(ii) Organizations serving migrant and seasonal farmworkers; and


(iii) Any organization to which a State, that applied for and received a waiver from the Secretary under Public Law 98-139, made a grant under the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901 *et seq.*) for fiscal year 1984;


(2) No amount received will be used to supplant other programs for homeless individuals administered by the State;


(3) Not more than 5 percent of the amount received will be used to defray State administrative costs;


(4) Every effort will be made to award the funds within 60 days of their receipt;


(5) Not more than 25 percent of the amounts received will be used for the purpose described in ยง 1080.4(e) of these regulations; and


(6) The State will have mechanisms in place to assure coordination among State and local agencies serving the homeless. This will include coordination at the State level with the agency responsible for developing the Comprehensive Homeless Assistance Plan or the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy as required by section 401 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11361), as amended by section 836 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.


(7) The State will have procedures in place to assure compliance with the provisions of the National Historic Preservation Act prior to the awarding of any amounts to be used for renovating any properties that are listed on, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places.



---

[N] [54 FR 6372, Feb. 9, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 27946, June 23, 1992]




