# § 423.2032   Issues before an ALJ or attorney adjudicator.

(a) *General rule.* The issues before the ALJ or attorney adjudicator include all the issues for the appealed matter specified in the request for hearing that were brought out in the coverage determination or at-risk determination, redetermination, or reconsideration that were not decided entirely in an enrollee's favor.


(b) *New issues*—(1) *When a new issue may be considered.* A new issue may include issues resulting from the participation of CMS, the IRE, or the Part D plan sponsor at the OMHA level of adjudication and from any evidence and position papers submitted by CMS, the IRE, or the Part D plan sponsor for the first time to the ALJ. The ALJ or the enrollee may raise a new issue; however, the ALJ may only consider a new issue relating to a determination or appealed matter specified in the request for hearing, including a favorable portion of a determination or appealed matter specified in the request for hearing, if its resolution could have a material impact on the appealed matter and—


(i) There is new and material evidence that was not available or known at the time of the determination and that may result in a different conclusion; or


(ii) The evidence that was considered in making the determination clearly shows on its face that an obvious error was made at the time of the determination.


(2) *Notice of the new issue.* The ALJ may consider a new issue at the hearing if he or she notifies the enrollee about the new issue before the start of the hearing.


(3) *Opportunity to submit evidence.* If notice of the new issue is sent after the notice of hearing, the enrollee will have at least 10 calendar days in standard appeals or 2 calendar days in expedited appeals after receiving notice of the new issue to submit evidence regarding the issue, and without affecting any applicable adjudication period. If a hearing is conducted before the time to submit evidence regarding the issue expires, the record will remain open until the opportunity to submit evidence expires.


(c) *Adding coverage determinations to a pending appeal.* A coverage determination on a drug that was not specified in a request for hearing may only be added to a pending appeal if the coverage determination was adjudicated in the same reconsideration that is appealed, and the period to request an ALJ hearing for that reconsideration has not expired, or an ALJ or attorney adjudicator extends the time to request an ALJ hearing on the reconsideration in accordance with § 423.2014(e).



---

[N] [82 FR 5132, Jan. 17, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 16754, Apr. 16, 2018; 84 FR 19873, May 7, 2019]




