# § 501.711   Hearing request.

(a) *Deadline for request.* A request for an agency hearing shall be served on the Director not later than 30 days after the date of service of the Penalty Notice. See § 501.705(b). A respondent may not reserve the right to request a hearing after expiration of the 30 calendar day period. A request for a hearing that is not made as required by this paragraph shall constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to a hearing. 


(b) *Form and contents of request.* The request need not be in any particular form, but must be typewritten and contain the heading “Request for Agency Hearing”. The request must include the Office of Foreign Assets Control identification number shown near the top of the Penalty Notice. It should be responsive to the determination contained in the Penalty Notice and set forth the nature of the respondent's defenses or claims for mitigation, if any. 


(1) The request must admit or deny specifically each separate determination of violation made in the Penalty Notice. If the respondent is without knowledge as to a determination, the request shall so state, and such statement shall constitute a denial. Any determination not specifically addressed in the response shall be deemed admitted. 


(2) The request must set forth any additional or new matter or arguments the respondent seeks, or shall seek, to use in support of all defenses or claims for mitigation. Any defense the respondent wishes to assert must be included in the request. 


(3) The request must accurately state, for each respondent (if applicable), the respondent's full name and address for future service, together with current telephone and, if applicable, a facsimile machine number. If respondent is represented, the representative's full name and address, together with telephone and facsimile numbers, may be provided in lieu of service information for the respondent. The respondent or respondent's representative is responsible for providing timely written notice to the Director of any subsequent changes in the information provided. 


(c) *Signature requirement.* The respondent or, if represented, the respondent's representative, must sign the hearing request. 




