# ยง 3010.124   Form and content of text-based documents filed with the Commission.

(a) *Equivalent paper size.* Each document filed in paper form shall be produced on letter-size paper, 8 to 8
1/2 inches wide by 10
1/2 to 11 inches long, with left- and right-hand margins not less than 1 inch and other margins not less than 0.75 inches, except that tables, charts or special documents attached thereto may be larger if required, provided that they are folded to the size of the document to which they are attached. For a multiple page document, the preference is for the document to be not stapled, hole-punched, or bound, but may be fastened together by paper or binder clip, or equivalent. If the document is bound, it shall be bound on the left side. Each document filed in electronic form must be capable of meeting the above requirements when-printed from a text-based pdf formatted file version of the document. Consideration may be given to alternative file formats where necessary.


(b) *Line spacing and font.* The text of documents filed with the Commission shall be formatted in not less than one and one-half spaced lines except that tables of content, captions, tables, footnotes and quotations may be single-spaced. Documents shall be submitted in a san-serif font such as Arial (or substantially equivalent). Body text shall be 12 point, except that footnotes and quotations may appear as small as 10 point. Where necessary, special text such as in tables or charts, may appear as small as 9 point. These requirements may be waived on a case-by-case basis, based on both substantial compliance and the readability of the document.


(c) *Caption, title, page numbering, and table of contents.* The caption of each document filed with the Commission in any proceeding shall clearly show the docket designation and title of the proceeding before the Commission. The title of such document shall identify each participant on whose behalf the filing is made and include a brief description of the document or the nature of the relief sought therein (*e.g.,* motion for extension, brief on exceptions, complaint, notice of intervention, answer to complaint). Each page, after the first page, of a document shall be consecutively numbered. Unique page numbers are permissible for introductory material such as cover pages and table of contents, and for appendixes. Each document filed with the Commission consisting of 20 or more pages shall include a table of contents with page references. For briefs also *see* ยง 3010.330.


(d) *Improper matter.* Defamatory, scurrilous, or unethical matter shall not be included in any document filed with the Commission.


(e) *Exception for appeals of post office closings and consolidations.* The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are encouraged, but optional, for participants other than the Postal Service in proceedings to consider the appeal of a Postal Service determination to close or consolidate a post office conducted pursuant to part 3021 of this chapter.




