# ยง 890.1066   Notice of proposed penalties and assessments.

(a) *Written notice.* OPM must inform a provider of proposed penalties and assessments by written notice, sent via certified mail with return receipt requested, to the provider's last known street or post office address. OPM may, at its discretion, use an express service that furnishes a verification of delivery instead of postal mail.


(b) *Statutory limitations period.* OPM must send the notice to the provider within 6 years of the date on which the claim underlying the proposed penalties and assessments was presented to an FEHBP carrier. If the proposed penalties and assessments do not involve a claim presented for payment, OPM must send the notice within 6 years of the date of the actions on which the proposed penalties and assessments are based.


(c) *Contents of the notice.* OPM's notice must contain, at a minimum:


(1) The statement that OPM proposes to impose penalties and/or assessments against the provider;


(2) Identification of the actions, conduct, and claims that comprise the basis for the proposed penalties and assessments;


(3) The amount of the proposed penalties and assessments, and an explanation of how OPM determined those amounts;


(4) The statutory and regulatory bases for the proposed penalties and assessments; and


(5) Instructions for responding to the notice, including specific explanations regarding:


(i) The provider's right to contest the imposition and/or amounts of penalties and assessments before they are formally imposed; and


(ii) OPM's right, if the provider does not contest the proposed penalties and assessments within 30 days of the date he receives the notice, to implement them immediately without further administrative appeal or recourse.


(d) *Proposing debarment in the same notice.* OPM may propose a provider's debarment in the same notice that also proposes penalties and assessments. In this case, the notice must also provide the elements of information required to appear in a notice of proposed debarment under ยง 890.1006(b).


(e) *Procedures if the notice cannot be delivered.* OPM must apply the provisions of ยง 890.1006(f) if the notice of proposed penalties and assessments cannot be delivered as originally addressed.


(f) *Sending notice by electronic means.* [Reserved]




