# § 721.10877   Polyfluorinated alkyl quaternary ammonium chloride (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polyfluorinated alkyl quaternary ammonium chloride (PMN P-11-543) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k)(analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities; and use other described in the consent order), (o)(use in a consumer product that could be spray applied), and (q).


(ii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85. Incineration of wastes in an incinerator operating at the temperature of at least 1,000 degrees Celsius and a residence time of minimum of 2 seconds. Any tank or vessel washings, residues from transport vessels or tanks, and similar materials that are captured and retained in the normal course of manufacturing and processing for re-use in manufacturing of the PMN substance or products made from the PMN substance are exempt from this method of disposal.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1) apply to the PMN substance except under the terms specified in the consent order.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016]




