# ยง 900.305   Findings of no significant impact.

(a) *Definition.* Finding of no significant impact (FONSI) means a document by the Commission briefly presenting the reasons why an action, not otherwise excluded as provided in ยง 900.204, will not have a significant impact on the human environment and for which an EIS will not be prepared.


(b) *Applicant responsibility.* The applicant shall assist the Commission with preparing the EA. The Commission remains responsible for compiling the public hearing summary or minutes, where applicable; and copies of any written comments received and responses thereto.


(c) *Content.* A FONSI shall include the EA or a summary of it and shall note any other environmental documents related to it (40 CFR 1501.7(a)(5)). If the assessment is included, the finding need not repeat any of the discussion in the assessment but may incorporate it by reference.


(d) *Publication.* The Commission shall make the final FONSI available to the public on the Commission Web site.


(e) *Special circumstances.* The FONSI notice of availability will be made available for public review (including State and areawide clearinghouses) for 30 days before the Commission makes its final determination whether to prepare an environmental impact statement and before the action may begin (40 CFR 1501.4(e)(2)) where:


(1) The proposed action is, or is closely similar to, one which normally requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement under ยง 900.405; or


(2) The nature of the proposed action is one without precedent.




