# ยง 9.4   Physical facility policies and design.

(a) *What standards apply to the facility design and physical plant?* The chimpanzee sanctuary facility must be designed to provide sufficient space and variety of natural or artificial objects to accommodate natural activities of chimpanzees while restricting their movement and range to the defined area. Daily observation of chimpanzees within the enclosures is required and shall be accomplished with minimal disturbance to the chimpanzees. The facility design and physical plant should be in accordance with the recommendation of *The Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (Guide)*, where applicable. The *Guide* is published by the National Research Council, 1996, International Standard Book Number 0-309-05377-3. The *Guide* is incorporated by reference in this section. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the publication from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Avenue, NW., Lockbox 285, Washington, DC 20055; or you may order it electronically via the Internet at *http://www.nap.edu*; or view it online at *http://oacu.od.nih.gov/regs/guide/guidex.htm.* You may inspect a copy at NIH, ORIP/DPCPSI, One Democracy Plaza, 6701 Democracy Boulevard, Bethesda, MD 20817-4874, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) The facility design and physical plant consist of the following components: Indoor design features; outdoor design features; construction and construction materials; physical barriers; shelter; service support space, including storage areas for food, supplies, and equipment; personnel and administrative support space; quarantine and isolation facilities; treatment area; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC); food preparation area; and animal waste treatment.


(2) A housing system shall include indoor and outdoor enclosures that must be kept in good repair to prevent escape and injury to the chimpanzees, promote physical comfort, facilitate sanitation and servicing, and address the psychological well-being and social needs of the chimpanzees. Chimpanzees must be able to retreat from areas where they feel threatened or agitated by close human encounters or encounters with other chimpanzees.


(3) Indoor areas shall have special areas for social introductions and medical treatment. Quarantine and isolation facilities are required for the sanctuary. These facilities must be designed to prevent the spread of undesirable agents from quarantine and isolation rooms to other parts of the facility.


(4) Outdoor areas must provide sufficient ranging space and either natural or artificial structures that chimpanzees can use for shelter or nesting areas to sleep, rest, or seek refuge from rain, direct sun, wind, and extreme temperatures.


(5) Animal waste from the Sanctuary must be properly treated to remove known hazardous agents before discharging it into the environment in accordance with currently acceptable and effective waste treatment procedures, including current industry standards and Federal laws, regulations or guidelines, as applicable.


(6) An area for treatment of and performing veterinary clinical procedures on chimpanzees must be provided at each Sanctuary site. This area must be constructed and provisioned to perform emergency procedures, including minor surgery and emergency surgical procedures, complete physical examinations, and facilities for extended care of medical conditions as needed.


(b) *What security measures are required for the sanctuary?* The sanctuary must provide adequate security against unauthorized entry, sabotage, malicious damage, and theft of chimpanzees and property and must minimize any chance of escape by a chimpanzee. The security staff must have training and/or experience in methods and equipment designed to detect possible security breaches and the ability to respond to security events in a timely and effective manner. Perimeter containment shall be used to protect the compound housing the chimpanzees consistent with the recommendations of the *Guide* (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (a) of this section).


(c) *Is the sanctuary required to develop disaster and escaped animal contingency plans?* The sanctuary facility must prepare disaster and escaped animal contingency plans outlining simple and easy to follow plans for dealing with natural and man-made disasters and steps to be taken in case a chimpanzee escapes from the compound. The Sanctuary also must provide adequate security against unauthorized entry, sabotage, malicious damage, and theft of chimpanzees and property and must minimize any chance of escape by a chimpanzee. Primary barriers must be constructed to prevent escape of chimpanzees and secondary or perimeter barriers must prevent entry of unauthorized persons into the facility, consistent with the recommendations of the *Guide* (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (a) of this section). 



---

[N] [73 FR 60423, Oct. 10, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 54273, Sept. 1, 2020]




