# § 1259.103   Space authorities—regular and special.

(a) *Acceptance of gifts:*

(1) In order to carry out the provisions of the Act, the Administrator is authorized to accept conditional or unconditional gifts or donations of services, money, or property; real, personal, or mixed; tangible or intangible. This authority is delegated to the Director, NASA Space Grant Program.


(2) The Administrator or designee may decline any gift or donation that the Administrator determines is not in accord with the purposes of the program. Also, conditional gifts or donations that are not in compliance with the Act or the implementing regulations shall be declined. NASA may use a reasonable amount from a gift or donation to cover any administrative costs associated with such gift or donation.


(b) *Acceptance and use of funds from other Federal agencies:*

(1) To carry out the provisions of the Act, the Administrator is authorized to accept and use funds from other Federal departments, agencies, and instrumentalities to pay for awards under this program. This authority is delegated to the Director, NASA Space Grant Program.


(2) The Administrator or designee may decline any such funds when the Administrator determines acceptance would not be in accord with the purposes of the program. NASA may use a reasonable amount from transferred Federal funds to cover any administrative costs associated with such transfer.



---

[N] [54 FR 19880, May 9, 1989, as amended at 82 FR 35440, July 31, 2017]




