# § 76.17-5   Quantity of foam required.

(a) *Area protected.* (1) For machinery and similar spaces, the system shall be so designed and arranged as to spread a blanket of foam over the entire tank top or bilge of the space protected. The arrangement of piping shall be such as to give a uniform distribution over the entire area protected.


(2) Where an installation is made to protect an oil fired boiler installation on a flat which is open to or can drain to the lower engine room or other space, both the flat and the lower space shall be protected simultaneously. The flat shall be fitted with suitable coamings on all openings other than deck drains to properly restrain the oil and foam at that level. Other installations of a similar nature will be considered in a like manner.


(3) Where a system is installed to protect a tank, it shall be so designed and arranged as to spread a blanket of foam over the entire liquid surface of the tank within the range of usual trim. The arrangement of piping shall be such as to give a uniform distribution over the entire area protected.


(b) *Rate of application.* (1) For spaces other than tanks, the rate of discharge to foam outlets protecting the hazard shall be at least as set forth in this subparagraph.


(i) For chemical foam systems with stored “A” and “B” solutions, a total of at least 1.6 gallons per minute of the two solutions shall be discharged for each 10 square feet of area protected.


(ii) For other types of foam systems, the water rate to the dry powder generators or air foam production equipment shall be at least 1.6 gallons per minute for each 10 square feet of area protected.


(2) For tanks, the rate of discharge to foam outlets protecting the hazard shall be as set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section except that the value of 1 gallon per minute shall be substituted in both cases for the value of 1.6 gallons per minute.


(c) *Supply of foam producing material.* (1) There shall be provided a quantity of foam producing material sufficient to operate the equipment at the discharge rate specified in paragraph (b) of this section for a period of at least 3 minutes for spaces other than tanks, and for at least 5 minutes for tanks.


(2) A separate supply of foam agent need not be provided for each space protected. The total available supply shall be at least sufficient for the space requiring the greatest amount.


(3) Where pumps are required, the water supply shall be from outside the space protected and shall in no way be dependent upon power from the space protected.




