# ยง 95.1   Definitions.

Whenever in the regulations in this part the following words, names, or terms are used they shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


*Administrator* means the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)* means the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Animal byproducts* means hides, skins, hair, wool, glue stock, bones, hoofs, horns, bone meal, hoof meal, horn meal, blood meal, meat meal, tankage, glands, organs, or other parts or products of ruminants and swine unsuitable for human consumption. 


*Approved chlorinating equipment* means equipment approved by Veterinary Services as efficient for the disinfection of effluents against the contagion of foot-and-mouth disease. 


*Approved establishment* means an establishment approved by Veterinary Services for the receipt and handling of restricted import animal byproducts. 


*Approved sewerage system* means a drainage system equipped and operated so as to carry and dispose of sewage without endangering livestock through the contamination of streams or fields and approved by the Veterinary Services. 


*Approved warehouse* means a warehouse having facilities approved by Veterinary Services for the handling and storage, apart from other merchandise, of restricted import products. 


*Bird trophy.* A carcass or part of a carcass of a wild bird taken as game during a hunting expedition for the purpose of processing into taxidermy mounts for personal exhibition.


*Blood meal* means dried blood of animals. 


*Bone meal* means ground animal bones and hoof meal and horn meal. 


*Bovine. Bos taurus, Bos indicus,* and *Bison bison.*

*Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) minimal-risk region.* A region listed in ยง 94.18(a)(3) of this subchapter.


*Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*Deputy Administrator* of Veterinary Services means the Deputy Administrator of Veterinary Services. 


*Direct transloading.* The transfer of cargo directly from one means of conveyance to another.


*Exporting region.* A region from which shipments are sent to the United States.


*Glue stock* means fleshings, hide cuttings and parings, tendons, or other collagenous parts of animal carcasses. 


*Hay and straw* means dried grasses, clovers, legumes, and similar materials or stalks or stems of various grains, such as barley, oats, rice, rye, and wheat. 


*Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI).* Highly pathogenic avian influenza is defined as follows:


(1) Any influenza virus that kills at least 75 percent of eight 4- to 6-week-old susceptible chickens within 10 days following intravenous inoculation with 0.2 mL of a 1:10 dilution of a bacteria-free, infectious allantoic fluid or inoculation of 10 susceptible 4- to 8-week-old chickens resulting in an intravenous pathogenicity index (IVPI) of greater than 1.2;


(2) Any H5 or H7 virus that does not meet the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition, but has an amino acid sequence at the haemagglutinin cleavage site that is compatible with highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses; or


(3) Any influenza virus that is not an H5 or H7 subtype and that kills one to five out of eight inoculated chickens and grows in cell culture in the absence of trypsin within 10 days.


*Inspector.* Any individual authorized by the Administrator of APHIS or the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, to enforce the regulations in this part.


*Meat meal or tankage* means the rendered and dried carcasses or parts of the carcasses of animals. 


*Offal.* The inedible parts of a butchered animal.


*Processed animal protein* means meat meal, bone meal, meat and bone meal, blood meal, dried plasma and other blood products, hydrolyzed proteins, hoof meal, horn meal, poultry meal, feather meal, fish meal, and any other similar products.


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.)


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*Specified risk materials (SRMs) from regions of controlled risk for BSE.* Those bovine parts considered to be at particular risk of containing the BSE agent in infected animals, as listed in the FSIS regulations at 9 CFR 310.22(a).


*Specified risk materials (SRMs) from regions of undetermined risk for BSE.* Those bovine parts considered to be at particular risk of containing the BSE agent in infected animals, as listed in the FSIS regulations at 9 CFR 310.22(a), except that the following bovine parts from regions of undetermined risk for BSE are considered SRMs if they are derived from bovines over 12 months of age: Brain, skull, eyes, trigeminal ganglia, spinal cord, vertebral column (excluding the vertebrae of the tail, the transverse processes of the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, and the wings of the sacrum), and the dorsal root ganglia.


*Tallow derivative.* Any chemical obtained through initial hydrolysis, saponification, or transesterification of tallow; chemical conversion of material obtained by hydrolysis, saponification, or transesterification may be applied to obtain the desired product.


*United States* means the several States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other territories and possessions of the United States. 


*Veterinary Services* means the Veterinary Services unit of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5981, June 13, 1963, as amended at 56 FR 19796, Apr. 30, 1991; 56 FR 63869, Dec. 6, 1991; 62 FR 56024, Oct. 28, 1997; 66 FR 42600, Aug. 14, 2001; 70 FR 551, Jan. 4, 2005; 70 FR 71218, Nov. 28, 2005; 74 FR 66226, Dec. 15, 2009; 78 FR 73001, Dec. 4, 2013; 79 FR 71007, Dec. 1, 2014; 83 FR 15493, Apr. 11, 2018; 86 FR 68862, Dec. 3, 2021]




