# ยง 457.480   Prohibited coverage limitations, preexisting condition exclusions, and relation to other laws.

(a) *Prohibited coverage limitations.* The State may not impose any annual, lifetime or other aggregate dollar limitations on any medical or dental services which are covered under the State plan.


(b) *Preexisting condition exclusions.* (1) Except as permitted under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the State may not permit the imposition of any pre-existing condition exclusion for covered services under the State plan. 


(2) If the State obtains health benefits coverage through payment or a contract for health benefits coverage under a group health plan or group health insurance coverage, the State may permit the imposition of a pre-existing condition exclusion but only to the extent that the exclusion is permitted under the applicable provisions of part 7 of subtitle B of title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act. 


(c) *Relation of title XXI to other laws.* (1) ERISA. Nothing in this title affects or modifies section 514 of ERISA with respect to a group health plan as defined by section 2791(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act. 


(2) *Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).* Health benefits coverage provided under a State plan and coverage provided as a cost-effective alternative, as described in subpart J of this part, is creditable coverage for purposes of part 7 of subtitle B of title II of ERISA, title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act, and subtitle K of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 


(3) *Mental Health Parity Act (MHPA).* Health benefits coverage under a group health plan provided under a State plan must comply with the requirements of the MHPA of 1996 regarding parity in the application of annual and lifetime dollar limits to mental health benefits in accordance with 45 CFR 146.136. 


(4) *Newborns and Mothers Health Protection Act (NMHPA).* Health benefits coverage under a group health plan provided under a State plan must comply with the requirements of the NMHPA of 1996 regarding requirements for minimum hospital stays for mothers and newborns in accordance with 45 CFR 146.130 and 148.170. 



---

[N] [66 FR 2678, Jan. 11, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 22876, Apr. 2, 2024]






