# § 1.1411-3   Application to estates and trusts.

(a) *Estates and trusts to which tax applies*—(1) *In general*—(i) *General application.* Section 1411 and the regulations thereunder apply to all estates and trusts that are subject to the provisions of part I of subchapter J of chapter 1 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code, unless specifically exempted under paragraph (b) of this section.


(ii) *Calculation of tax.* The tax imposed by section 1411(a)(2) for each taxable year is equal to 3.8 percent of the lesser of—


(A) The estate's or trust's undistributed net investment income for such taxable year; or


(B) The excess (if any) of—


(*1*) The estate's or trust's adjusted gross income (as defined in section 67(e) and as adjusted under § 1.1411-10(e)(2), if applicable) for such taxable year; over


(*2*) The dollar amount at which the highest tax bracket in section 1(e) begins for such taxable year.


(2) *Taxable year of less than twelve months*—(i) *General rule.* In the case of an estate or trust that has a taxable year consisting of less than twelve months (short taxable year), the dollar amount described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section is not reduced or prorated.


(ii) *Change of annual accounting period.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, an estate or trust that has a short taxable year resulting from a change of annual accounting period (but not from an individual's death) reduces the dollar amount described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section to an amount that bears the same ratio to that dollar amount as the number of months in the short taxable year bears to twelve.


(3) *Rules with respect to CFCs and PFICs.* Additional rules in § 1.1411-10 apply to an estate or trust that holds an interest in a controlled foreign corporation (CFC) or a passive foreign investment company (PFIC).


(b) *Application to certain trusts and estates*—(1) *Exception for certain trusts and estates.* The following trusts are not subject to the tax imposed by section 1411:


(i) A trust or decedent's estate all of the unexpired interests in which are devoted to one or more of the purposes described in section 170(c)(2)(B).


(ii) A trust exempt from tax under section 501.


(iii) A charitable remainder trust described in section 664. However, see paragraph (d) of this section for special rules regarding the treatment of annuity or unitrust distributions from such a trust to persons subject to tax under section 1411.


(iv) Any other trust, fund, or account that is statutorily exempt from taxes imposed in subtitle A. For example, see sections 220(e)(1), 223(e)(1), 529(a), and 530(a).


(v) A trust, or a portion thereof, that is treated as a grantor trust under subpart E of part I of subchapter J of chapter 1. However, in the case of any such trust or portion thereof, each item of income or deduction that is included in computing taxable income of a grantor or another person under section 671 is treated as if it had been received by, or paid directly to, the grantor or other person for purposes of calculating such person's net investment income.


(vi) Electing Alaska Native Settlement Trusts subject to taxation under section 646.


(vii) Cemetery Perpetual Care Funds to which section 642(i) applies.


(viii) Foreign trusts (as defined in section 7701(a)(31)(B) and § 301.7701-7(a)(2)) (but see §§ 1.1411-3(e)(3)(ii) and 1.1411-4(e)(1)(ii) for rules related to distributions from foreign trusts to United States beneficiaries).


(ix) Foreign estates (as defined in section 7701(a)(31)(A)) (but see § 1.1411-3(e)(3)(ii) for rules related to distributions from foreign estates to United States beneficiaries).


(2) *Special rules for certain taxable trusts and estates*—(i) *Qualified funeral trusts.* For purposes of the calculation of any tax imposed by section 1411, section 1411 and the regulations thereunder are applied to each qualified funeral trust (within the meaning of section 685) by treating each beneficiary's interest in each such trust as a separate trust.


(ii) *Bankruptcy estates.* A bankruptcy estate in which the debtor is an individual is treated as a married taxpayer filing a separate return for purposes of section 1411. See § 1.1411-2(a)(2)(v) and (d)(1)(ii).


(c) *Application to electing small business trusts (ESBTs)*—(1) *General application.* The S portion and non-S portion (as defined in § 1.641(c)-1(b)(2) and (3), respectively) of a trust that has made an ESBT election under section 1361(e)(3) and § 1.1361-1(m)(2) are treated as separate trusts for purposes of the computation of undistributed net investment income in the manner described in paragraph (e) of this section, but are treated as a single trust for purposes of determining the amount subject to tax under section 1411. If a grantor or another person is treated as the owner of a portion of the ESBT, the items of income and deduction attributable to the grantor portion (as defined in § 1.641(c)-1(b)(1)) are included in the grantor's calculation of net investment income and are not included in the ESBT's computation of tax described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) *Computation of tax.* This paragraph (c)(2) provides the method for an ESBT to compute the tax under section 1411.


(i) *Step one.* The S portion and non-S portion computes each portion's undistributed net investment income as separate trusts in the manner described in paragraph (e) of this section and then combine these amounts to calculate the ESBT's undistributed net investment income.


(ii) *Step two.* The ESBT calculates its adjusted gross income (as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section). The ESBT's adjusted gross income is the adjusted gross income of the non-S portion, increased or decreased by the net income or net loss of the S portion, after taking into account all deductions, carryovers, and loss limitations applicable to the S portion, as a single item of ordinary income (or ordinary loss).


(iii) *Step three.* The ESBT pays tax on the lesser of—


(A) The ESBT's total undistributed net investment income; or


(B) The excess of the ESBT's adjusted gross income (as calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section) over the dollar amount at which the highest tax bracket in section 1(e) begins for the taxable year.


(3) *Example.* (i) In Year 1 (a year that section 1411 is in effect), the non-S portion of Trust, an ESBT, has dividend income of $15,000, interest income of $10,000, and capital loss of $5,000. Trust's S portion has net rental income of $21,000 and a capital gain of $7,000. The Trustee's annual fee of $1,000 is allocated 60% to the non-S portion and 40% to the S portion. Trust makes a distribution from income to a single beneficiary of $9,000.


(ii) *Step one.* (A) Trust must compute the undistributed net investment income for the S portion and non-S portion in the manner described in paragraph (c) of this section.


The undistributed net investment income for the S portion is $27,600 and is determined as follows:


(B) The undistributed net investment income for the non-S portion is $12,400 and is determined as follows:


(C) Trust combines the undistributed net investment income of the S portion and non-S portion from (ii)(A) and (B) to arrive at Trust's combined undistributed net investment income.


(iii) *Step two.* (A) The ESBT calculates its adjusted gross income. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the ESBT's adjusted gross income is the non-S portion's adjusted gross income increased or decreased by the net income or net loss of the S portion.


(B) The adjusted gross income for the ESBT is $40,000 and is determined as follows:


(C) The S portion's single item of ordinary income used in the ESBT's adjusted gross income calculation is $27,600. This item of income is determined by starting with net rental income of $21,000 and capital gain of $7,000 and reducing it by the S portion's $400 share of the annual trustee fee.


(iv) *Step three.* Trust pays tax on the lesser of—


(A) The combined undistributed net investment income ($40,000); or


(B) The excess of adjusted gross income ($40,000) over the dollar amount at which the highest tax bracket in section 1(e) applicable to a trust begins for the taxable year.


(d) *Application to charitable remainder trusts (CRTs)*—(1) *Operational rules*—(i) *Treatment of annuity or unitrust distributions.* If one or more items of net investment income comprise all or part of an annuity or unitrust distribution from a CRT, such items retain their character as net investment income in the hands of the recipient of that annuity or unitrust distribution.


(ii) *Apportionment among multiple beneficiaries.* In the case of a CRT with more than one annuity or unitrust beneficiary, the net investment income is apportioned among such beneficiaries based on their respective shares of the total annuity or unitrust amount paid by the CRT for that taxable year.


(iii) *Accumulated net investment income.* The accumulated net investment income of a CRT is the total amount of net investment income received by a CRT for all taxable years that begin after December 31, 2012, less the total amount of net investment income distributed for all prior taxable years of the trust that begin after December 31, 2012.


(2) *Application of Section 664*—(i) *General rule.* The Federal income tax rate of the item of net investment income, to be used to determine the proper classification of that item within the appropriate income category as described in § 1.664-1(d)(1)(i)(b), is the sum of the income tax rate applicable to that item under chapter 1 and the tax rate under section 1411. Thus, the accumulated net investment income and excluded income (as defined in § 1.1411-1(d)(4)) of a CRT in the same income category constitute separate classes of income within that category as described in § 1.664-1(d)(1)(i)(b).


(ii) *Special rules for CRTs with income from CFCs or PFICs.* [Reserved]


(iii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (d)(2).


(3) *Elective simplified method.* [Reserved]


(e) *Calculation of undistributed net investment income*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (e) provides special rules for the computation of certain deductions and for the allocation of net investment income between an estate or trust and its beneficiaries. Generally, an estate's or trust's net investment income is calculated in the same manner as that of an individual. See § 1.1411-10(c) for special rules regarding CFCs, PFICs, and estates and trusts holding interests in such entities.


(2) *Undistributed net investment income.* An estate's or trust's undistributed net investment income is the estate's or trust's net investment income reduced by distributions of net investment income to beneficiaries and by deductions under section 642(c) in the manner described in paragraphs (e)(3) and (e)(4) of this section.


(3) *Distributions of net investment income to beneficiaries.* (i) In computing the estate's or trust's undistributed net investment income, net investment income is reduced by distributions of net investment income made to beneficiaries. The deduction allowed under this paragraph (e)(3) is limited to the lesser of the amount deductible to the estate or trust under section 651 or section 661, as applicable, or the net investment income of the estate or trust. In the case of a deduction under section 651 or section 661 that consists of both net investment income and excluded income (as defined in § 1.1411-1(d)(4)), the distribution must be allocated between net investment income and excluded income in a manner similar to § 1.661(b)-1 as if net investment income constituted gross income and excluded income constituted amounts not includible in gross income. See § 1.661(c)-1 and *Example 1* in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.


(ii) If one or more items of net investment income comprise all or part of a distribution for which a deduction is allowed under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, such items retain their character as net investment income under section 652(b) or section 662(b), as applicable, for purposes of computing net investment income of the recipient of the distribution who is subject to tax under section 1411. The provisions of this paragraph (e)(3)(ii) also apply to distributions to United States beneficiaries of current year income described in section 652 or section 662, as applicable, from foreign estates and foreign nongrantor trusts.


(4) *Deduction for amounts paid or permanently set aside for a charitable purpose.* In computing the estate's or trust's undistributed net investment income, the estate or trust is allowed a deduction for amounts of net investment income that are allocated to amounts allowable under section 642(c). In the case of an estate or trust that has items of income consisting of both net investment income and excluded income, the allowable deduction under this paragraph (e)(4) must be allocated between net investment income and excluded income in accordance with § 1.642(c)-2(b) as if net investment income constituted gross income and excluded income constituted amounts not includible in gross income. For an estate or trust with deductions under both sections 642(c) and 661, see § 1.662(b)-2 and *Example 2* in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (e). In each example, Year 1 is a year in which section 1411 is in effect and the taxpayer is not a foreign estate or trust:


(f) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, except that paragraph (d) of this section applies to taxable years of CRTs that begin after December 31, 2012. However, taxpayers other than CRTs may apply this section to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, in accordance with § 1.1411-1(f).



---

[N] [T.D. 9644, 78 FR 72424, Dec. 2, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 18160, Apr. 1, 2014]




