# § 98.393   Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) *Calculation for individual products produced, imported, or exported.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, any refiner, importer, or exporter shall calculate CO_2_ emissions from each individual petroleum product and natural gas liquid using Equation MM-1 of this section.


(2) In the event that an individual petroleum product is produced as a solid rather than liquid any refiner, importer, or exporter shall calculate CO_2_ emissions using Equation MM-1 of this section.


(b) *Calculation for individual products that enter a refinery as a non-crude feedstock.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, any refiner shall calculate CO_2_ emissions from each non-crude feedstock using Equation MM-2 of this section.


(2) In the event that a non-crude feedstock enters a refinery as a solid rather than liquid, the refiner shall calculate CO_2_ emissions using Equation MM-2 of this section.


(c) *Calculation for biomass co-processed with petroleum feedstocks.* (1) Refiners shall calculate CO_2_ emissions from each type of biomass that enters a refinery and is co-processed with petroleum feedstocks using Equation MM-3 of this section.


(2) In the event that biomass enters a refinery as a solid rather than liquid and is co-processed with petroleum feedstocks, the refiner shall calculate CO_2_ emissions from each type of biomass using Equation MM-3 of this section.


(d) *Summary calculation for refinery products.* Refiners shall calculate annual CO_2_ emissions from all products using Equation MM-4 of this section.


(e) *Summary calculation for importer and exporter products.* Importers and exporters shall calculate annual CO_2_ emissions from all petroleum products and natural gas liquids imported or exported, respectively, using Equations MM-1 and MM-5 of this section.


(f) *Emission factors for petroleum products and natural gas liquids.* The emission factor (EF_i,j_) for each petroleum product and natural gas liquid shall be determined using either of the calculation methods described in paragraphs (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section. The same calculation method must be used for the entire quantity of the product for the reporting year. For refiners, the quantity of a product that enters a refinery (i.e., a non-crude feedstock) is considered separate from the quantity of a product ex refinery gate.


(1) *Calculation Method 1.* To determine the emission factor (i.e., EF_i_ in Equation MM-1) for solid products, multiply the default carbon share factor (i.e., percent carbon by mass) in column B of Table MM-1 to this subpart for the appropriate product by 44/12. For all other products, use the default CO_2_ emission factor listed in column C of Table MM-1 of this subpart for the appropriate product.


(2) *Calculation Method 2.* (i) For solid products, develop emission factors according to Equation MM-6 of this section using a value of 1 for density and direct measurements of carbon share according to methods set forth in § 98.394(c). For all other products, develop emission factors according to Equation MM-6 of this section using direct measurements of density and carbon share according to methods set forth in § 98.394(c).


(ii) If you use a standard method that involves gas chromatography to determine the percent mass of each component in a product, calculate the product's carbon share using Equation MM-7 of this section.


(g) *Emission factors for biomass co-processed with petroleum feedstocks.* Refiners shall use the most appropriate default CO_2_ emission factor (EF_m_) for biomass in Table MM-2 of this subpart to calculate CO_2_ emissions in paragraph (c) of this section.


(h) *Special procedures for blended biomass-based fuels.* In the event that some portion of a petroleum product is biomass-based and was not derived by co-processing biomass and petroleum feedstocks together (i.e., the petroleum product was produced by blending a petroleum-based product with a biomass-based fuel), the reporting party shall calculate emissions for the petroleum product according to one of the methods in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(4) of this section, as appropriate.


(1) A reporter using Calculation Method 1 to determine the emission factor of a petroleum product shall calculate the CO_2_ emissions associated with that product using Equation MM-8 of this section in place of Equation MM-1 of this section.


(2) A refinery using Calculation Method 1 of this subpart to determine the emission factor of a non-crude petroleum feedstock shall calculate the CO_2_ emissions associated with that feedstock using Equation MM-9 of this section in place of Equation MM-2 of this section.


(3) *Calculation Method 2 procedures for products.* (i) A reporter using Calculation Method 2 of this subpart to determine the emission factor of a petroleum product that does not contain denatured ethanol must calculate the CO_2_ emissions associated with that product using Equation MM-10 of this section in place of Equation MM-1 of this section.


(ii) In the event that a petroleum product contains denatured ethanol, importers and exporters must follow Calculation Method 1 procedures in paragraph (h)(1) of this section; and refineries must sample the petroleum portion of the blended biomass-based fuel prior to blending and calculate CO_2_ emissions using Equation MM-10a of this section.


(4) *Calculation Method 2 procedures for non-crude feedstocks.* (i) A refiner using Calculation Method 2 of this subpart to determine the emission factor of a non-crude petroleum feedstock that does not contain denatured ethanol must calculate the CO_2_ emissions associated with that feedstock using Equation MM-11 of this section in place of Equation MM-2 of this section.


(ii) In the event that a non-crude feedstock contains denatured ethanol, refiners must follow Calculation Method 1 procedures in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.


(i) *Optional procedures for blended products that do not contain biomass.* (1) In the event that a reporter produces, imports, or exports a blended product that does not include biomass, the reporter may calculate emissions for the blended product according to the method in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. In the event that a refiner receives a blended non-crude feedstock that does not include biomass, the refiner may calculate emission for the blended non-crude feedstock according to the method in paragraph (i)(3) of this section. The procedures in this section may be used only if all of the following criteria are met:


(i) The reporter knows the relative proportion of each component of the blend (i.e., the mass or volume percentage).


(ii) Each component of blended product “i” or blended non-crude feedstock “j” meets the strict definition of a product listed in Table MM-1 to subpart MM.


(iii) The blended product or non-crude feedstock is not comprised entirely of natural gas liquids.


(iv) The reporter uses Calculation Method 1.


(v) Solid components are blended only with other solid components.


(2) The reporter must calculate emissions for the blended product using Equation MM-12 of this section in place of Equation MM-1 of this section.


(3) For refineries, the reporter must calculate emissions for the blended non-crude feedstock using Equation MM-13 of this section in place of Equation MM-2 of this section.


(4) For refineries, if a blending component “k” used in paragraph (i)(2) of this section enters the refinery before blending as non-crude feedstock:


(i) The emissions that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of non-crude feedstock “k” must still be calculated separately using Equation MM-2 of this section and applied in Equation MM-4 of this section.


(ii) The quantity of blending component “k” applied in Equation MM-12 of this section and the quantity of non-crude feedstock “k” applied in Equation MM-2 of this section must be determined using the same method or practice.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66475, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71973, Nov. 29, 2013]




