# § 1.148   Depositions.

(a) *Motion for taking deposition.* Upon the motion of a party to the proceeding, the Judge may, at any time after the filing of the complaint, order the taking of testimony by deposition. The Motion shall be in writing, shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk, and shall set forth: 


(1) The name and address of the proposed deponent;


(2) The name and address of the person (referred to hereafter in this section as the “officer”) qualified under the regulations in this part to take depositions, before whom the proposed examination is to be made;


(3) The proposed time and place of the examination, which shall be at least 15 days after the date of the mailing of the motion; and


(4) The reasons why such deposition should be taken, which shall be solely for the purpose of eliciting testimony which otherwise might not be available at the time of hearing, for uses as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.


(b) *Judge's order for taking deposition.* (1) If the Judge finds that the testimony may not be otherwise available at the hearing, the taking of the deposition may be ordered. The order shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk and shall state:


(i) The time of the deposition;


(ii) The place of the deposition;


(iii) The manner of the deposition (telephone, audio-visual telecommunication, or personal attendance of those who are to participate in the deposition);


(iv) The name of the officer before whom the deposition is to be made; and


(v) The name of the deponent. The officer and the time, place, and manner need not be the same as those suggested in the motion for the deposition.


(2) The deposition shall be conducted by telephone unless the Judge determines that conducting the deposition by audio-visual telecommunication:


(i) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;


(ii) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the deposition; or


(iii) Would cost less than conducting the deposition by telephone. If the Judge determines that a deposition conducted by audio-visual telecommunication would measurably increase the United States Department of Agriculture's cost of conducting the deposition, the deposition shall be conducted by personal attendance of any individual who is expected to participate in the deposition or by telephone.


(3) If the deposition is not conducted by telephone, the deposition shall be conducted by audio-visual telecommunication unless the Judge determines that conducting the deposition by personal attendance of any individual who is expected to participate in the deposition:


(i) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;


(ii) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the deposition; or


(iii) Would cost less than conducting the deposition by telephone or audio-visual telecommunication.


(c) *Qualifications of officer.* The deposition shall be made before the Judge or before an officer authorized by the law of the United States or by the law of the place of the examination to administer oaths, or before an officer authorized by the Secretary to administer oaths.


(d) *Procedure on examination.* (1) The deponent shall be examined under oath or affirmation and shall be subject to cross-examination. Objections to questions or documents shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objections relied upon. The questions proponded, together with all objections made (but not including argument or debate), shall be recorded verbatim. In lieu of oral examination, parties may transmit written questions to the officer prior to the examination and the officer shall propound such questions to the deponent.


(2) The applicant shall arrange for the examination of the witness either by oral examination, or by written questions upon agreement of the parties or as directed by the Judge. If the examination is conducted by means of written questions, copies of the applicant's questions must be received by the other party to the proceeding and the officer at least 10 days prior to the date set for the examination unless otherwise agreed, and any cross questions of a party other than the applicant must be received by the applicant and the officer at any time prior to the time of the examination.


(e) *Certification by officer.* The officer shall certify on the deposition that the deponent was duly sworn and that the deposition is a true record of the deponent's testimony. The officer shall then securely seal the deposition, together with one copy thereof (unless there are more than two parties in the proceeding, in which case there should be another copy for each additional party), in an envelope and mail the same by registered or certified mail to the Hearing Clerk.


(f) *Corrections to the transcript or recording.* (1) At any time prior to the hearing, any party may file a motion proposing corrections to the transcript or recording of the deposition.


(2) Unless a party files such a motion in the manner prescribed, the transcript or recording shall be presumed, except for obvious typographical errors, to be a true, correct, and complete transcript or recording of the testimony given in the deposition proceeding and to contain an accurate description or reference to all exhibits in connection therewith, and shall be deemed to be certified correct without further procedure.


(3) At any time prior to use of the deposition in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section and after consideration of any objections filed thereto, the Judge may issue an order making any corrections in the transcript or recording which the Judge finds are warranted, which corrections shall be entered onto the original transcript or recording by the Hearing Clerk (without obscuring the original text).


(g) *Use of deposition.* A deposition ordered and taken in accordance with the provisions of this section may be used in a proceeding under these rules if the Judge finds that the evidence is otherwise admissible and (1) that the witness is dead; (2) that the witness is unable to attend or testify because of age, sickness, infirmity, or imprisonment; (3) that the party offering the deposition has endeavored to procure the attendance of the witness by subpoena, but has been unable to do so; or (4) that such exceptional circumstances exist as to make it desirable, in the interests of justice, to allow the deposition to be used. If the party upon whose motion the deposition was taken refuses to offer it in evidence, any other party may offer the deposition or any part thereof in evidence. If only part of a deposition is offered in evidence by a party, an adverse party may require the introduction of any other part which ought in fairness to be considered with the part introduced, and any party may introduce any other parts.



---

[N] [42 FR 743, Jan. 4, 1977, as amended at 55 FR 30674, July 27, 1990; 60 FR 8456, Feb. 14, 1995; 68 FR 6341, Feb. 7, 2003]




