# ยง 756.3   Definitions.

The definitions in this section apply for all purposes of OFF Program administration.


*Administrative county office* is the FSA county office where a producer's FSA records are maintained.


*APHIS* means Animal Plant Health and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Application period* means the dates established by the Deputy Administrator for producers to apply for OFF Program benefits.


*Calendar year* means January 1st through December 31st.


*Deputy Administrator* means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA.


*FSA* means the Farm Service Agency, U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*NAP* means Non-insured Crop Disaster Assistance Program.


*OFF Program* means the Oriental Fruit Fly Program.


*OFF quarantine period* means August 28, 2015, through February 13, 2016.


*Oriental fruit fly quarantine* means the quarantine put in place during the OFF quarantine period in the quarantine area to protect against the entry and spread of the Oriental fruit fly by requiring strict adherence to treatment or destruction of the host crop.


*Prevented planting* means when producers chose not to plant an annual crop during the 2015 through 2016 season due to the Oriental fruit fly quarantine.


*Producer* means a person, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or other legal entity that produces an eligible crop as a landowner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper.


*Program year* means the relevant application year. The program year for OFF will be 2015 and include total revenue losses for calendar year 2015 and calendar year 2016.


*Quarantine area* means the area mapped by The Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services Division, Division of Plant Industry (FDACS-DPI). The map identifies areas where the Oriental Fruit Fly was detected and the associated boundaries of the area quarantined by APHIS. The map is available by contacting FDACS-DPI, The Doyle Conner Building, 1911 SW 34th St., Gainesville, FL 32608-7100 or *https://www.fdacs.gov/Divisions-Offices/Plant-Industry.*

*Reliable documentation* means evidence provided by the participant that is used to substantiate the amount of revenue reported when verifiable documentation is not available, including copies of receipts, ledgers of income, income statements of deposit slips, register tapes, invoices for custom harvesting, and records to verify production costs, contemporaneous measurements truck scale tickets, and contemporaneous diaries that are determined acceptable by the FSA county committee. To determine whether the records are acceptable, the FSA county committee will consider whether they are consistent with the records of other producers of the crop in that area.


*Revenue* means the gross income from crop sales received during the applicable calendar years for the crops that suffered a loss due to the Oriental fruit fly quarantine. Revenue does not mean revenue received for crops grown under contract for crop owners unless the grower had an ownership share of the crop.


*RMA* means Risk Management Agency.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture, or the Secretary's delegate.


*Verifiable documentation* means evidence that can be verified by FSA through an independent source.






