# § 393.93   Seats, seat belt assemblies, and seat belt assembly anchorages.

(a) *Buses*—(1) *Buses manufactured on or after January 1, 1965, and before July 1, 1971.* After June 30, 1972, every bus manufactured on or after January 1, 1965, and before July 1, 1971, must be equipped with a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 209 
1 (§ 571.209) installed at the driver's seat and seat belt assembly anchorages that conform to the location and geometric requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 210 
1 (§ 571.210) for that seat belt assembly.


(2) *Buses manufactured on or after July 1, 1971.* Every bus manufactured on or after July 1, 1971, must conform to the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 208 
1 (§ 571.208) (relating to installation of seat belt assemblies) and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 210 
1 (§ 571.210) (relating to installation of seat belt assembly anchorages).


(3) *Buses manufactured on or after January 1, 1972.* Every bus manufactured on or after January 1, 1972, must conform to the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 207 
1 (§ 571.207) (relating to seating systems).


(b) *Trucks and truck tractors*—(1) *Trucks and truck tractors manufactured on and after January 1, 1965, and before July 1, 1971.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, after June 30, 1972, every truck and truck tractor manufactured on or after January 1, 1965, and before July 1, 1971, must be equipped with a Type 1 or Type 2 seat belt assembly that conforms to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 209 (§ 571.209) installed at the driver's seat and at the right front outboard seat, if the vehicle has one, and seat belt assembly anchorages that conform to the location and geometric requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 210 (§ 571.210) for each seat belt assembly that is required by this subparagraph.


(2) *Trucks and truck tractors manufactured on or after July 1, 1971.* Every truck and truck tractor manufactured on or after July 1, 1971, except a truck or truck tractor being transported in driveaway-towaway operation and having an incomplete vehicle seating and cab configuration, must conform to the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 208 
1 (§ 571.208) (relating to installation of seat belt assemblies) and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 210 
1 (§ 571.210) (relating to installation of seat belt assembly anchorages).


(3) *Trucks and truck tractors manufactured on or after January 1, 1972.* Every truck and truck tractor manufactured on or after January 1, 1972, except a truck or truck tractor being transported in driveaway-towaway operation and having an incomplete vehicle seating and cab configuration, must conform to the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 207 
1 (§ 571.207) (relating to seating systems).


(c) *Effective date of standards.* Whenever paragraph (a) or (b) of this section requires conformity to a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard, the vehicle or equipment must conform to the version of the Standard that is in effect on the date the vehicle is manufactured or on the date the vehicle is modified to conform to the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, whichever is later.


(d) Trucks and truck tractors manufactured on or after January 1, 1965, and before July 1, 1971, and operated in the State of Hawaii, must comply with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section on and after January 1, 1976.



---

[N] [35 FR 16839, Oct. 30, 1970, as amended at 39 FR 32561, Sept. 9, 1974; 40 FR 32336, Aug. 1, 1975; 72 FR 55703, Oct. 1, 2007]




