# § 92.301   Project-specific assistance to community housing development organizations.

(a) *Project-specific technical assistance and site control loans*—(1) *General.* Within the percentage specified in § 92.300(c), HOME funds may be used by a participating jurisdiction to provide technical assistance and site control loans to community housing development organizations in the early stages of site development for an eligible project. These loans may not exceed amounts that the participating jurisdiction determines to be customary and reasonable project preparation costs allowable under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. All costs must be related to a specific eligible project or projects. 


(2) *Allowable costs.* A loan may be provided to cover project costs necessary to determine project feasibility (including costs of an initial feasibility study), consulting fees, costs of preliminary financial applications, legal fees, architectural fees, engineering fees, engagement of a development team, option to acquire property, site control and title clearance. General operational expenses of the community housing development organization are not allowable costs. 


(3) *Repayment.* The community housing development organization must repay the loan to the participating jurisdiction from construction loan proceeds or other project income. The participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loan, in part or in whole, if there are impediments to project development that the participating jurisdiction determines are reasonably beyond the control of the borrower. 


(b) *Project-specific seed money loans*—(1) *General.* Within the percentage specified in § 92.300(c), HOME funds may be used to provide loans to community housing development organizations to cover preconstruction project costs that the participating jurisdiction determines to be customary and reasonable, including, but not limited to the costs of obtaining firm construction loan commitments, architectural plans and specifications, zoning approvals, engineering studies, and legal fees. 


(2) *Eligible sponsors.* A loan may be provided only to a community housing development organization that has, with respect to the project concerned, site control (evidenced by a deed, a sales contract, or an option contract to acquire the property), a preliminary financial commitment, and a capable development team. 


(3) *Repayment.* The community housing development organization must repay the loan to the participating jurisdiction from construction loan proceeds or other project income. The participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loan, in whole or in part, if there are impediments to project development that the participating jurisdiction determines are reasonably beyond the control of the community housing development organization. 




