# ยง 1.15   OST structure.

(a) *Secretary and Deputy Secretary.* The Secretary and Deputy Secretary are assisted by the following, all of which report directly to the Secretary:


(1) The Chief of Staff;


(2) The Executive Secretariat;


(3) The Departmental Office of Civil Rights;


(4) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization;


(5) The Office of Intelligence, Security and Emergency Response;


(6) The Office of Public Affairs;


(7) The Office of the Chief Information Officer; and


(8) The Office of Drug & Alcohol Policy & Compliance.


(b) The Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy, the General Counsel, and the Assistant Secretaries for Administration, Budget and Programs, and Governmental Affairs also report directly to the Secretary.


(c) *Office of the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy.* This Office is composed of:


(1) The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, which includes:


(i) The Office of Policy Development, Strategic Planning and Performance;


(ii) The Office of Infrastructure Finance and Innovation; and


(iii) The Office of the Chief Economist.


(2) The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, which includes:


(i) The Office of International Transportation and Trade;


(ii) The Office of International Aviation; and


(iii) The Office of Aviation Analysis.


(d) *Office of the General Counsel.* This Office is composed of:


(1) The Office of General Law;


(2) The Office of International Law;


(3) The Office of Litigation;


(4) The Office of Legislation;


(5) The Office of Regulation and Enforcement;


(6) The Office of Operations, which includes the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Office;


(7) The Office of Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, which includes the Aviation Consumer Protection Division; and


(8) The Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution.


(e) *Office of the Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs.* This Office is composed of:


(1) The Office of Budget and Program Performance;


(2) The Office of Financial Management;


(3) The Office of the Chief Financial Officer for the Office of the Secretary; and


(4) The Office of Credit Oversight and Risk Management.


(f) *Office of the Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs.* This Office contains the following functional areas: Congressional Affairs and Intergovernmental Affairs; and includes a Deputy Assistant Secretary for Tribal Government Affairs.


(g) *Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration.* This Office is composed of:


(1) The Office of Audit Relations;


(2) The Office of Human Resource Management;


(3) The Office of Hearings;


(4) The Office of Security;


(5) The Office of the Senior Procurement Executive;


(6) The Office of Financial Management and Transit Benefit Programs; and


(7) The Office of Facilities, Information and Asset Management.




