# § 393.3   Marine Highway Projects.

(a) *What are the minimum eligibility requirements for MARAD to recommend a Marine Highway Project for the Secretary to designate?* (1) MARAD may recommend only those Marine Highway Projects that will use U.S. documented vessels and mitigate landside congestion or promote short sea transportation.


(2) MARAD may recommend only those Marine Highway Projects that:


(i) Involve the carriage of cargo in Short Sea Transportation as defined in paragraph (k) of this section;


(ii) Involve new or expand existing services for the carriage of cargo; and


(iii) Are on a designated Marine Highway Route.


(3) Proposed Route Designations are accepted at any time, and may be submitted together with the proposed Project Designation.


(4) Successful Project Applicants must demonstrate a direct connection between a proposed Marine Highway Project and the carriage of cargo through ports on Designated Marine Highway Routes.


(b) *When does the Program Office accept Marine Highway Project designation applications?* (1) The Administrator will announce by notice in the _Federal Register_ and on MARAD's AMHP Web site open season periods to allow Project Applicants opportunities to submit Marine Highway Project designation applications.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *What should Project Applicants include when preparing a Marine Highway Project designation application?* (1) The market or customer base to be served by the service and the service's value proposition to customers. This includes—


(i) A description of how the market is currently served by transportation options;


(ii) Identities of shippers that have indicated an interest in, and level of commitment to, the proposed service;


(iii) Specific commodities, markets, and shippers the Project is expected to attract;


(iv) Extent to which interested entities have been educated about the Project and expressed support, and


(v) A marketing strategy for the project if one exists.


(2) *Operational framework.* A description of the proposed operational framework of the project including origin/destination pairs, transit times, vessel types, and service frequency.


(3) *The cost model for the proposed service.* The cost model should be broken down by container, trailer, or other freight unit, including loading and discharge costs, vessel operating costs, drayage costs, and other ancillary costs. Provide a comparison cost model outlining the current costs for transportation using landside mode (truck and rail) alternatives for the identified market that the proposed project will serve. Provide the project's financial plan and provide projected revenues and expenses. Include labor and operating costs, drayage, fixed and recurring infrastructure and maintenance costs, vessel or equipment acquisition or construction costs, etc. Include any anticipated changes in local or regional short sea transportation, policy or regulations, ports, industry, or other developments affecting the project. In the event that public sector financial support is being sought, describe the amount, form and duration of public investment required. Applicants may email *mh@dot.gov* to request a sample cost model.


(4) An overall quantification of the net public benefits estimated to be gained through the successful initiation of the Marine Highway Project, including highway miles saved, road maintenance savings, air emissions savings, and safety and resiliency impacts.


(5) *Marine Highway Route(s).* Identify the designated Marine Highway Routes the Project will utilize.


(6) *Organization.* Provide the organizational structure of the proposed project, including an outline of the business affiliations, environmental, non-profit organizations and governmental or private sector stakeholders.


(7) *Partnerships:*—(i) *Private sector partners.* Identify private sector partners and describe their levels of commitment to the proposed service. Private sector partners can include terminals, vessel operators, shipyards, shippers, trucking companies, railroads, third-party logistics providers, shipping lines, labor, workforce and other entities deemed appropriate by the Secretary.


(ii) *Public sector partners.* Identify State Departments of Transportation, metropolitan planning organizations, municipalities and other governmental entities, including tribal entities, that Project Applicants have engaged and the extent to which they support the service. Include any affiliations with environmental groups or civic associations.


(iii) *Documentation.* Provide documents affirming commitment or support from entities involved in the project.


(8) *Public benefits.* These measures reflect current law and are consistent with USDOT's Strategic Goals. Project Applicants should organize external net cost savings and public benefits of the Project based on the following six categories:


(i) *Emissions benefits.* Address any net savings, in quantifiable terms, now and in the future, over current emissions practices, including greenhouse gas emissions, criteria air pollutants or other environmental benefits the project offers.


(ii) *Energy savings.* Provide an analysis of potential net reductions in energy consumption, in quantifiable terms, now and in the future, over the current practice.


(iii) *Landside transportation infrastructure maintenance savings.* To the extent the data is available indicate, in dollars per year, the projected net savings of public funds that would result in road or railroad maintenance or repair, including pavement, bridges, tunnels or related transportation infrastructure from a proposed project. Include the impacts of accelerated infrastructure deterioration caused by vehicles currently using the route, especially in cases of oversize or overweight vehicles. This information applies only to projects for a marine highway service where a landside alternative exists.


(iv) *Economic competitiveness.* To the extent the data is available, describe how the project will measurably result in transportation efficiency gains for the U.S. public. For purposes of aligning a project with this outcome, applicants should provide evidence of how improvements in transportation outcomes (such as time savings, operating cost savings, and increased utilization of assets) translate into long-term economic productivity benefits.


(v) *Safety improvements.* Describe, in measurable terms, the projected safety improvements that would result from the proposed operation.


(vi) *System resiliency and redundancy.* To the extent data is available, describe, if applicable, how a proposed Marine Highway Project offers a resilient route or service that can benefit the public. Where land transportation routes serving a locale or region are limited, describe how a proposed project offers an alternative and the benefit this could offer when other routes are interrupted as a result of natural or man-made incidents.


(9) *Proposed project timeline.* Include a proposed project timeline with estimated start dates and key milestones. If applicable, include the point in the timeline at which the enterprise is anticipated to attain self-sufficiency.


(10) *Support and investment required.* Describe any known or anticipated obstacles to either implementation or long-term success of the project. Include any strategies, either in place or proposed, to mitigate impediments. Identify specific infrastructure gaps such as docks, cranes, ramps, etc. that will need to be addressed in order for the project to become economically viable. Include estimates for the required investments needed to address the infrastructure gaps.


(11) *Environmental considerations.* Project Applicants must provide all information necessary to assist MARAD's environmental analysis of the proposed project, pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*) and other environmental requirements.


(d) *How will the Program Office evaluate and recommend Marine Highway Project applications for designation?* (1) The Program Office will evaluate and recommend for designation by the Secretary those Projects based on an analysis and technical review of the information provided by the Project Applicant. MARAD will recommend Projects that operate on a designated Marine Highway Route, receive a favorable technical review, and meet other criteria described in this part, for designation by the Secretary.


(2) The Program Office may consider additional factors and may request supplemental information during the review process. USDOT will notify Project Applicants as to the status of their application in writing once the Secretary makes a determination.


(e) *How will MARAD support designated America's Marine Highway Projects?* (1) Upon designation as a Marine Highway Project, the Department Program Office will coordinate with the Project Applicants to identify the most appropriate departmental actions to support the project. USDOT support could include any of the following, as appropriate and subject to agency resources:


(i) Promote the service with appropriate governmental, regional, State, local or tribal government transportation planners, private sector entities or other decision makers to the extent permitted by law.


(ii) Coordinate with ports, State Departments of Transportation, metropolitan planning organizations, localities, other public agencies and the private sector to support the designated service. Efforts can be aimed at identifying resources, obtaining access to land or terminals, developing landside facilities and infrastructure, and working with Federal, regional, State, local or Tribal governmental entities to remove barriers to success.


(iii) Pursue commitments from Federal entities to transport Federally owned or generated cargo using the services of the designated project, when practical or available.


(iv) In cases where transportation infrastructure is needed, Project Applicants may request to be included on the Secretary's list of high-priority transportation infrastructure projects under E.O. 13274, “Environmental Stewardship and Transportation Infrastructure Project Review.”


(v) Assist with developing individual performance measures for Marine Highway Projects.


(vi) Work with Federal entities and regional, State, local and tribal governments to include designated Projects in transportation planning.


(vii) Coordinate with public and private entities to resolve impediments to the success of Marine Highway Projects.


(viii) Conduct research on issues specific to Marine Highway Projects.


(ix) Advise Project Applicants on the availability of various Federal funding mechanisms to support the Projects.


(x) Maintain liaison with Project Applicants and representatives of designated Projects to provide ongoing support and identify lessons learned and best practices for other projects and the overall Marine Highway program.


(2) [Reserved]


(f) *How will the Department protect confidential information?* (1) If your application, including attachments, includes information that you consider to be a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information, or otherwise exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), as implemented by the Department at 49 CFR part 7, you may assert a claim of confidentiality.


(2) *What should I do if I believe my Project designation application contains confidential or business sensitive information?* (i) Note on the front cover that the submission “Contains Confidential Business Information (CBI);”


(ii) Mark each affected page “CBI;” and


(iii) Clearly highlight or otherwise denote the CBI portions. The USDOT protects such information from disclosure to the extent allowed under applicable law.


(3) *What will happen if information related to my Project designation application is the subject of a request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)?* We will apply the procedures contained in 49 CFR part 7 to a request from non-Federal third-parties for information related to documents you submit under this part. We will consider your claim of confidentiality at the time someone requests the information under FOIA. Only information that is ultimately determined to be confidential under that procedure will be exempt from disclosure under FOIA.


(g) *Is there a specific format required for project designation applications and attached documents?* (1) When responding to specific solicitations for Marine Highway Projects by the Program Office, Project Applicants should include all of the information requested by paragraph (c) of this section organized in a manner consistent with the elements set forth in that section. The Program Office reserves the right to ask any applicant to supplement the data in its application, but expects applications to be complete upon submission. The narrative portion of an application should not exceed 20 pages in length. Documentation supporting the assertions made in the narrative portion may also be provided in the form of appendices, but limited to relevant information. Applications may be submitted electronically via *regulations.gov* (*http://www.regulations.gov*). Applications submitted in writing must include the original and three copies and must be on 8.5″ x 11″ single spaced paper, excluding maps, Geographic Information Systems (GIS) representations, *etc.*

(2) In the event that the Project Applicant of a Marine Highway Project that has already been designated by the Secretary seeks a modification to the designation because of a change in project scope, an expansion of the project, or other significant change to the project, the Project Applicant should request the change in writing to the Secretary via the Maritime Administrator. The request must contain any changed or new information that is relevant to the project.


(h) *What does the Program Office do to ensure designated projects are developing properly?* (1) Once designated projects enter the operational phase (either start of a new service, or expansion of existing service), the Program Office will evaluate them regularly to determine if the project is likely to achieve its objectives.


(2) Overall project performance will be assessed according to three categories—exceeds, meets, or does not meet original projections—in each of the three areas defined below:


(i) *Public benefit.* Does the Project meet the stated goals in shifting specific numbers of vehicles (number of trucks, rail cars or automobiles) off the designated landside routes? The Program Office will assume other public benefits, including energy savings, reduced emissions, and safety improvements to be a direct derivative of either numbers of vehicles reduced, or vehicle/ton miles avoided, unless specific factors change (such as a change in vessel fuel or emissions).


(ii) *Public cost.* Is the overall cost to the Federal Government (if any) on track with estimates at the time of designation? The overall cost to the Federal Government represents the amount of Federal investment (*i.e.,* direct funding, loan guarantees or similar mechanisms) reduced by the offsetting savings the project represents (road/bridge wear and tear avoided, infrastructure construction or expansion deferred).


(iii) *Timeliness factor.* Is the project on track for the point at which the enterprise is projected to attain self-sufficiency? For example, if the project was anticipated to attain self-sufficiency after 36 months of operation, is it on track at the point of evaluation to meet that objective? This can be determined by assessing revenues, cargo and passenger trends, expenses and other factors established in the application review process.


(i) *Can a Project designation expire or be terminated?* (1) Project Designations are effective for a period of five years, or until the date the project is completed, or MARAD cancels the designation. Project Designation will expire after three years of inactivity.


(2) Project Applicants wishing to extend a Project Designation must submit an updated application no later than six months before the five-year designation period ends. Project Applicants who no longer wish to maintain project designation may submit a request to the Secretary to revoke their designation.




