# ยง 550.225   What information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany the EP?

The following information on the onshore support facilities you will use must accompany your EP:


(a) *General.* A description of the onshore facilities you will use to provide supply and service support for your proposed exploration activities (e.g., service bases and mud company docks).


(1) Indicate whether the onshore support facilities are existing, to be constructed, or to be expanded.


(2) If the onshore support facilities are, or will be, located in areas not adjacent to the Western GOM, provide a timetable for acquiring lands (including rights-of-way and easements) and constructing or expanding the facilities. Describe any State or Federal permits or approvals (dredging, filling, *etc.*) that would be required for constructing or expanding them.


(b) *Air emissions.* A description of the source, composition, frequency, and duration of the air emissions (attributable to your proposed exploration activities) likely to be generated by the onshore support facilities you will use.


(c) *Unusual solid and liquid wastes.* A description of the quantity, composition, and method of disposal of any unusual solid and liquid wastes (attributable to your proposed exploration activities) likely to be generated by the onshore support facilities you will use. Unusual wastes are those wastes not specifically addressed in the relevant National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.


(d) *Waste disposal.* A description of the onshore facilities you will use to store and dispose of solid and liquid wastes generated by your proposed exploration activities (see ยง 550.217) and the types and quantities of such wastes.




