# § 412.8   Publication of schedules for determining prospective payment rates.

(a) *Initial prospective payment rates*—(1) *For inpatient operating costs.* Initial prospective payment rates for inpatient operating costs (for the period October 1, 1983 through September 30, 1984) were determined in accordance with documents published in the _Federal Register_ on September 1, 1983 (48 FR 39838), and January 3, 1984 (49 FR 324).


(2) *For inpatient capital-related costs.* Initial prospective payment rates for inpatient capital-related costs (for the period October 1, 1991 through September 30, 1992) were determined in accordance with the final rule published in the _Federal Register_ on August 30, 1991 (56 FR 43196).


(b) *Annual publication of schedule for determining prospective payment rates.* (1) CMS proposes changes in the methods, amounts, and factors used to determine inpatient prospective payment rates in a _Federal Register_ document published for public comment not later than the April 1 before the beginning of the Federal fiscal year in which the proposed changes would apply. 


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, CMS publishes a _Federal Register_ document setting forth final methods, amounts, and factors for determining inpatient prospective payment rates not later than the August 1 before the Federal fiscal year in which the rates would apply.


(c) *Publication schedule for FY 2007.* For FY 2007, not later than August 1, 2006, CMS publishes a _Federal Register_ document setting forth a description of the methodology and data used in computing the inpatient prospective payment rates for that year.



---

[N] [57 FR 39820, Sept. 1, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 46025, Aug. 29, 1997; 71 FR 48136, Aug. 18, 2006]




