# § 945.103   General policies.

(a) *Agency participation.* Participation in this program is limited to public housing agencies (PHAs) (as this term is defined in 24 CFR 913.102) that elect to designate public housing projects for occupancy by disabled families, elderly families, or disabled families and elderly families, as provided by this part. 


(b) *Eligible housing*—(1) *Designation of public housing.* Projects eligible for designation under this part are public housing projects as described in the definition of “project” in § 945.105. 


(2) *Additional housing resources.* To meet the housing and supportive service needs of elderly families, and disabled families, including non-elderly disabled families, who will not be housed in a designated project, PHAs shall utilize housing resources that they own, control, or have received preliminary notification that they will obtain (e.g., section 8 vouchers). They also may utilize housing resources for which they plan to apply during the period covered by the allocation plan, and that they have a reasonable expectation of obtaining. PHAs also may utilize, to the extent practicable, any housing facilities that they own or control in which supportive services are already provided, facilitated or coordinated, such as mixed housing, shared housing, family housing, group homes, and congregate housing. 


(3) *Exemption of mixed population projects.* A PHA with a public housing project with a mixed population of elderly families and disabled families that plans to house them in such project in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 960, subpart D, is not required to meet the designation requirements of this part. 


(c) *Family Participation in designated housing*—(1) *Voluntary participation.* The election to reside in designated housing is voluntary on the part of a family. No disabled family or elderly family may be required to reside in designated housing, nor shall a decision not to reside in designated housing adversely affect the family with respect to occupancy of another appropriate project. 


(2) *Meeting stated eligibility requirements.* Nothing in this part shall be construed to require or permit a PHA to accept for admission to a designated project a disabled family or elderly family who does not meet the stated eligibility requirements for occupancy in the project (for example, income), as set forth in HUD's regulations in 24 CFR parts 912 and 913, and in the PHA's admission policies. 



---

[N] [59 FR 17662, Apr. 13, 1994, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]






