# 809.406-270   Additional causes for debarment.

(a) *Discretionary causes.* (1) In addition to the causes listed in FAR 9.406-2 (a) through (c), the SDO may debar contractors, based upon a preponderance of the evidence (as defined at FAR 2.101), for the Government's protection, for—


(i) Any deliberate violation of the limitation on subcontracting clause requirements for acquisitions under subpart 819.70; or


(ii) Failure to observe the material provisions of a voluntary exclusion or an administrative agreement.


(2) The period of debarment shall be commensurate with the seriousness of the action.


(b) *Statutory cause.* (1) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), Enforcement Penalties for Misrepresentation, the SDO shall debar, from contracting with VA, for a period of not less than five years, any business concern that has willfully and intentionally misrepresented the status of that concern as a small business concern owned and controlled by Veterans or as a small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled Veterans.


(2) Debarment of a business concern pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g) shall include the debarment of all principals in the business concern. Debarment shall be for a period of not less than five years.


(3) “Willful and intentional” misrepresentations, for the purpose of debarment actions taken pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8127(g), are defined as deliberate misrepresentations concerning the status of the concern as a small business concern owned and controlled by Veterans or as a small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled Veterans as supported by the preponderance of evidence. Examples of a preponderance of evidence for deliberate misrepresentation of SDVOSB and/or VOSB status include but are not limited to: Criminal convictions, plea agreements, deferred prosecution agreements, Board of Contract Appeals decisions, and admissions of guilt.




