# ยง 1130.1   Purpose, scope, and effective date.

(a) *Purpose.* This part prescribes a consumer product safety rule establishing requirements for consumer registration of durable infant or toddler products. These requirements are intended to improve the effectiveness of recalls of, and safety alerts regarding, such products.


(b) *Scope.* Part 1130 applies to manufacturers, including importers, of durable infant or toddler products, as defined in ยง 1130.2(a). It does not apply to infant or child restraint systems intended for use in automobiles that are covered by the registration program of the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration (NHTSA) at 49 CFR 571.213, or to products that comprise a travel system, and are sold with a child restraint system that is covered by the NHTSA registration program at 49 CFR 571.213.


(c) *Compliance Date.* Compliance with this part 1130 shall be required on June 28, 2010 for the following products: full-size cribs and nonfull-size cribs; toddler beds; high chairs, booster chairs, and hook-on chairs; bath seats; gates and other enclosures for confining a child; play yards; stationary activity centers; infant carriers; strollers; walkers; swings; and bassinets and cradles. Compliance with this part 1130 shall be required on December 29, 2010 for the following products: Children's folding chairs, changing tables, infant bouncers, infant bath tubs, bed rails and infant slings.  Compliance with this part 1130 shall be required on September 24, 2020 for contoured changing pads (a type of baby changing product). The rule shall apply to durable infant or toddler products, as defined in ยง 1130.2(a), that are manufactured on or after those dates.



---

[N] [74 FR 68676, Dec. 29, 2009, as amended at 84 FR 49949, Sept. 24, 2019]






