# § 3570.273   Scoring.

The Agency will score each application using the following scoring factors unless otherwise provided in an annual Notice in the _Federal Register_:


(a) *Experience:* Applicant Experience at developing and implementing successful technical assistance and/or training programs:


(1) More than 10 years—40 points.


(2) More than 5 years to 10 years—25 points.


(3) 3 to 5 years—10 points.


(b) *No prior grants received:*

(1) Applicant has never received a TAT Grant—5 points.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Population:* The average population of proposed area(s) to be served:


(1) 2,500 or less—15 points.


(2) 2,501 to 5,000—10 points.


(3) 5,001 to 10,000—5 points.


(d) *MHI:* The average median household income (MHI) of proposed area to be served is below the higher of the poverty line or:


(1) 60 percent of the State's MHI—15 points.


(2) 70 percent of the State MHI—10 points.


(3) 90 percent of the State's MHI—5 points.


(e) *Multi-jurisdictional:* The proposed technical assistance or training project a part of a Multi-jurisdictional project comprised of:


(1) More than 10 jurisdictions—15 points.


(2) More than 5 to 10 jurisdictions—10 points.


(3) 3 to 5 jurisdictions—5 points.


(f) *Soundness of approach:* Up to 10 points.


(1) Needs assessment: The problem/issue being addressed is clearly defined, supported by data, and addresses the needs;


(2) Goals & objectives are clearly defined, tied to the need as defined in the work plan, and are measurable;


(3) Work plan clearly articulates a well thought out approach to accomplishing objectives & clearly identifies who will be served by the project;


(4) The proposed activities are needed in order for a complete Community Facilities loan and/or grant application.


(g) *Matching funds:*

(1) There is evidence of the commitment of other cash funds of 20% of the total project costs 10 points.


(2) There is evidence of the commitment of other cash funds of 10% of the total project costs 5 points.


(h) *State Director discretionary points.* The State Director may award up to 10 discretionary points for the highest priority project in each state, up to 7 points for the second highest priority project in each state and up to 5 points for the third highest priority project that address unforeseen exigencies or emergencies, such as the loss of a community facility due to an accident or natural disaster, or other areas of need in their particular state. The State Director will place written documentation in the project file each time the State Director assigns these points—Up to 10 points.


(i) *Administrator discretionary points.* The Administrator may award up to 20 discretionary points for projects to address geographic distribution of funds, emergency conditions caused by economic problems, natural disasters and other initiatives identified by the Secretary—Up to 20 points.




