# ยง 93.11   Definitions.

Words used in the regulations in this subpart in the singular form will import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. As used throughout the regulations in this subpart, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms will be construed to mean:


*Aflatoxin.* A toxic metabolite produced by the molds *Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus parasiticus,* and *Aspergillus nomius.* The aflatoxin compounds fluoresce when viewed under UV light as follows: aflatoxin B_1_ and derivatives with a blue fluorescence, aflatoxin B_2_ with a blue-violet fluorescence, aflatoxin G_1_ with a green fluorescence, aflatoxin G_2_ with a green-blue fluorescence, aflatoxin M_1_ with a blue-violet fluorescence, and aflatoxin M_2_ with a violet fluorescence. These closely related molecular structures are referred to as aflatoxin B_1_, B_2_, G_1_, G_2_, M_1_, M_2_, GM_1_, B_2a_, G_2a_, R_0_, B_3_, 1-OCH_3_B_2_, and 1-CH_3_G_2_. 


*Peanut Administrative Committee (PAC).* The committee established under the United States Department of Agriculture Marketing Agreement for Peanuts, 7 CFR part 998, which administers the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the aflatoxin control program for domestically produced raw peanuts, for peanut shellers. The Peanut Administrative Committee (PAC) headquarters are at 2537 Lafayette Plaza Drive Suite A; Albany, Georgia 31707. 


*Peanut Marketing Agreement.* The agreement concerning the regulations and instructions set forth since July 12, 1965, by the Peanut Administrative Committee for the marketing of peanuts entered into by handlers of domestically produced peanuts under the authority of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*).


*Peanuts.* The seeds of the legume *Arachis* hypogaea, and includes both inshell and shelled nuts.


*Seed.* Any vegetable or other agricultural plant ovule having an embryo that is capable of germinating to produce a plant.



---

[N] [61 FR 51351, Oct. 2, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 16375, Apr. 2, 1998; 65 FR 64317, Oct. 26, 2000]




