# ยง 2570.44   Withdrawal of exemption applications.

(a) An applicant may withdraw an application for an exemption at any time by oral or written (including electronic) notice to the Department. A withdrawn application generally shall not prejudice any subsequent applications for the same exemption transaction submitted by an applicant.


(b) Upon receiving an applicant's notice of withdrawal regarding an application for an individual exemption, the Department will issue a final denial letter in accordance with ยง 2570.41(e) and will terminate all proceedings relating to the application. If a notice of proposed exemption has been published in the _Federal Register,_ the Department will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ withdrawing the proposed exemption.


(c) Upon receiving an applicant's notice of withdrawal regarding an application for a class exemption or an individual exemption that is being considered with other applications as a request for a class exemption, the Department will inform any other applicants for the exemption of the withdrawal. The Department will continue to process other applications for the same exemption. If all applicants for a particular class exemption withdraw their applications, the Department may either terminate all proceedings relating to the exemption or propose the exemption on its own motion.


(d) If, following the withdrawal of an exemption application, an applicant decides to reapply for the same exemption, they may contact the Department in writing (including electronically) to request the Department to reinstate the application. The applicant should refer to the application number assigned to the original application. If, at the time the original application was withdrawn, any additional information required to be submitted to the Department under ยง 2570.39 was outstanding, that information must accompany the request for reinstatement of the application. The applicant must also update all previously furnished information to the Department in connection with a withdrawn application.


(e) Any request for reinstatement of a withdrawn application submitted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section will be granted by the Department, and the Department will take whatever steps remained to process the application when the applicant withdrew the application.


(f) Following the withdrawal of an exemption application, the administrative record will remain subject to public inspection and copy pursuant to ยง 2570.51.






