# § 1065.656   Hydrogen-based chemical balances of fuel, DEF, intake air, and exhaust.

(a) *General.* Chemical balances of fuel, DEF, intake air, and exhaust may be used to calculate flows, the amount of water in their flows, and the wet concentration of constituents in their flows. See § 1065.520(f) for information about when to use this hydrogen-based chemical balance procedure. With one flow rate of either fuel, intake air, or exhaust, you may use chemical balances to determine the flows of the other two. For example, you may use chemical balances along with either intake air or fuel flow to determine raw exhaust flow. Note that chemical balance calculations allow measured values for the flow rate of diesel exhaust fluid for engines with urea-based selective catalytic reduction.


(b) *Procedures that require chemical balances.* We require chemical balances when you determine the following:


(1) A value proportional to total work, when you choose to determine brake-specific emissions as described in § 1065.650(f).


(2) Raw exhaust molar flow rate either from measured intake air molar flow rate or from fuel mass flow rate as described in paragraph (f) of this section.


(3) Raw exhaust molar flow rate from measured intake air molar flow rate and dilute exhaust molar flow rate as described in paragraph (g) of this section.


(4) The amount of water in a raw or diluted exhaust flow, *x*_H2Oexh_, when you do not measure the amount of water to correct for the amount of water removed by a sampling system. Correct for removed water according to § 1065.659.


(5) The calculated total dilution air flow when you do not measure dilution air flow to correct for background emissions as described in § 1065.667(c) and (d).


(c) *Chemical balance procedure.* The calculations for a chemical balance involve a system of equations that require iteration. We recommend using a computer to solve this system of equations. You must guess the initial values of two of the following quantities: the amount of hydrogen in the measured flow, *x*_H2exhdry_, the fraction of dilution air in diluted exhaust, *x*_dil/exhdry_, and the amount of intake air required to produce actual combustion products per mole of dry exhaust, *x*_int/exhdry_. You may use time-weighted mean values of intake air humidity and dilution air humidity in the chemical balance; as long as your intake air and dilution air humidities remain within tolerances of ±0.0025 mol/mol of their respective mean values over the test interval. For each emission concentration, *x,* and amount of water, *x*_H2Oexh_, you must determine their completely dry concentrations, *x*_dry_ and *x*_H2Oexhdry_. You must also use your fuel mixture's carbon mass fraction, *w*_C_, hydrogen mass fraction, *w*_H_, oxygen mass fraction, *w*_O_, sulfur mass fraction, *w*_S_, and nitrogen mass fraction, *w*_N_; you may optionally account for diesel exhaust fluid (or other fluids injected into the exhaust), if applicable. Calculate *w*_C_, w_H_, *w*_O_, w_S_, and *w*_N_ as described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. You may alternatively use any combination of default values and measured values as described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. Use the following steps to complete a chemical balance:


(1) Convert your measured concentrations such as *x*_H2meas_, x_NH3meas_, *x*_CO2meas_, *x*_COmeas_, *x*_THCmeas_, *x*_O2meas_, *x*_H2meas_, *x*_NOmeas_, *x*_NO2meas_, and *x*_H2Oint_, to dry concentrations by dividing them by one minus the amount of water present during their respective measurements; for example: *x*_H2Omeas_, *x*_H2OxO2meas_, *x*_H2OxNOmeas_, and *x*_H2Oint_. If the amount of water present during a “wet” measurement is the same as an unknown amount of water in the exhaust flow, *x*_H2Oexh_, iteratively solve for that value in the system of equations. If you measure only total NO_X_ and not NO and NO_2_ separately, use good engineering judgment to estimate a split in your total NO_X_ concentration between NO and NO_2_ for the chemical balances. For example, if you measure emissions from a stoichiometric combustion engine, you may assume all NO_X_ is NO. For a lean-burn combustion engine, you may assume that your molar concentration of NO_X_, *x*_NOx_, is 75% NO and 25% NO_2_. For NO_2_ storage aftertreatment systems, you may assume *x*_NOx_ is 25% NO and 75% NO_2._ Note that for calculating the mass of NO_X_ emissions, you must use the molar mass of NO_2_ for the effective molar mass of all NO_X_ species, regardless of the actual NO_2_ fraction of NO_X_.


(2) Enter the equations in paragraph (c)(5) of this section into a computer program to iteratively solve for *x*_H2exhdry_, *x*_dil/exhdry_, and *x*_int/exhdry_. Use good engineering judgment to guess initial values for *x*_H2exhdry_, *x*_dil/exhdry_, and *x*_int/exhdry_. We recommend guessing an initial amount of hydrogen of 0 mol/mol. We recommend guessing an initial *x*_int/exhdry_ of 1 mol/mol. We also recommend guessing an initial *x*_dil/exhdry_ of 0.8 mol/mol. Iterate values in the system of equations until the most recently updated guesses are all within ±1% or ±1 µmol/mol, whichever is larger, of their respective most recently calculated values.


(3) Use the following symbols and subscripts in the equations for performing the chemical balance calculations in this paragraph (c):


(4) Use the equations specified in this section to iteratively solve for *x*_int/exhdry_, *x*_dil/exhdry_, and *x*_H2exhdry_. The following exceptions apply:


(i) For *x*_H2exhdry_ multiple equations are provided, see table 2 to paragraph (c)(6) of this section to determine for which cases the equations apply.


(ii) The calculation of *x*_O2exhdry_ is only required when *x*_O2meas_ is measured.


(iii) The calculation of *x*_NH3exhdry_ is only required for engines that use ammonia as fuel and engines that are subject to NH_3_ measurement under the standard setting part, for all other engines *x*_NH3exhdry_ may be set to zero.


(iv) The calculation of *x*_CO2exhdry_ is only required for engines that use carbon-containing fuels or fluids, either as single fuel or as part of the fuel mixture, and for engines that are subject to CO_2_ measurement under the standard setting part, for all other engines *x*_CO2exhdry_ may be set to a value that yields for *x*_Ccombdry_ a value of zero. (v) The calculation of *x*_COexhdry_ and *x*_THCexhdry_ is only required for engines that use carbon-containing fuels and for engines that are subject to CO and THC measurement under the standard setting part, for all other engines *x*_COexhdry_ and *x*_THCexhdry_ may be set to zero. (vi) The calculation of *x*_N2Oexhdry_ is only required for engines that are subject to N_2_O measurement under the standard setting part, for all other engines *x*_N2Oexhdry_ may be set to zero.


(5) The chemical balance equations are as follows:


(6) Depending on your measurements, use the equations and guess the quantities specified in the following table:


(7) The following example is a solution for _x__int/exhdry,__x__dil/exhdry,_ and _x__HOexhdry_ using the equations in paragraph (c)(5) of this section:


(d) *Mass fractions of fuel.* (1) For fuels other than carbon-containing fuels determine the mass fractions of fuel *W*_C_, *W*_H_, *W*_O_, *W*_S_, and *W*_N,_ based on the fuel properties as determined in paragraph (e) of this section. Calculate *W*_C_, *W*_H_, *W*_O_, *W*_S_, and *W*_N_ using the following equations:


*Example for NH*_3_*fuel:*

(2) For carbon-containing fuels and diesel exhaust fluid determine the mass fractions of fuel, *W*_C_, *W*_H_, *W*_O_, *W*_S_, and *W*_N_, based on properties determined according to § 1065.655(d). Calculate *W*_C_, *W*_H_, *W*_O_, *W*_S_, and *W*_N_ using the following equations:


*Example:*

(3) For nonconstant fuel mixtures, you must account for the varying proportions of the different fuels. This paragraph (d)(3) generally applies for dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, but optionally it may also be applied if diesel exhaust fluid or other fluids injected into the exhaust are injected in a way that is not strictly proportional to fuel flow. Account for these varying concentrations either with a batch measurement that provides averaged values to represent the test interval, or by analyzing data from continuous mass rate measurements. Application of average values from a batch measurement generally applies to situations where one fluid is a minor component of the total fuel mixture; consistent with good engineering judgment. Calculate *W*_C_, *W*_H_, *W*_O_, *W*_S_, and *W*_N_ of the fuel mixture using the following equations:


*Example for a mixture of diesel and NH*_3_*fuel where diesel represents 15% of energy:*

*w*_C_ = 0.0581014 g/g


*w*_H_ = 0.1737586 g/g


*w*_O_ = 0.00386983 g/g


*w*_S_ = 0.0000465341 g/g


*w*_N_ = 0.76422359 g/g


(e) *Fuel and diesel exhaust fluid composition.* (1) For carbon-containing fuels and diesel exhaust fluid determine the composition represented by *α, β,**γ,* and *δ,* as described in § 1065.655(e).


(2) For fuels other than carbon-containing fuels use the default values for *τ, χ,**ϕ, ξ,* and *ω* in table 3 to this section, or use good engineering judgment to determine those values based on measurement. If you determine compositions based on measured values and the default value listed in table 3 to this section is zero, you may set *τ, ϕ,**ξ,* and *ω* to zero; otherwise determine *τ, ϕ,**ξ,* and *ω* (along with *χ*) based on measured values.


(3) If your fuel mixture contains carbon-containing fuels and your testing requires fuel composition values referencing carbon, calculate *α, β,**γ,* and *δ* for the fuel mixture as described in § 1065.655(e)(4).






(f) *Calculated raw exhaust molar flow rate from measured intake air molar flow rate or fuel mass flow rate.* You may calculate the raw exhaust molar flow rate from which you sampled emissions, , based on the measured intake air molar flow rate, , or the measured fuel mass flow rate, , and the values calculated using the chemical balance in paragraph (c) of this section. The chemical balance must be based on raw exhaust gas concentrations. Solve for the chemical balance in paragraph (c) of this section at the same frequency that you update and record or . For laboratory tests, calculating raw exhaust molar flow rate using measured fuel mass flow rate is valid only for steady-state testing. See § 1065.915(d)(5)(iv) for application to field testing.


(1) *Crankcase flow rate.* If engines are not subject to crankcase controls under the standard-setting part, you may calculate raw exhaust flow based on or using one of the following:


(i) You may measure flow rate through the crankcase vent and subtract it from the calculated exhaust flow.


(ii) You may estimate flow rate through the crankcase vent by engineering analysis as long as the uncertainty in your calculation does not adversely affect your ability to show that your engines comply with applicable emission standards.


(iii) You may assume your crankcase vent flow rate is zero.


(2) *Intake air molar flow rate calculation.* Calculate *n
* based on using the following equation:


Example:


(3) *Fluid mass flow rate calculation.* This calculation may be used only for steady-state laboratory testing. See § 1065.915(d)(5)(iv) for application to field testing. Calculate based on using the following equation:


Example:


(g) *Calculated raw exhaust molar flow rate from measured intake air molar flow rate, dilute exhaust molar flow rate, and dilute chemical balance.* You may calculate the raw exhaust molar flow rate, *n
*_exh_, based on the measured intake air molar flow rate, *n
*_int_, the measured dilute exhaust molar flow rate, *n
*_dexh_, and the values calculated using the chemical balance in paragraph (c) of this section. Note that the chemical balance must be based on dilute exhaust gas concentrations. For continuous-flow calculations, solve for the chemical balance in paragraph (c) of this section at the same frequency that you update and record *n
*_int_ and *n
*_dexh_. This calculated *n
*_dexh_ may be used for the PM dilution ratio verification in § 1065.546; the calculation of dilution air molar flow rate in the background correction in § 1065.667; and the calculation of mass of emissions in § 1065.650(c) for species that are measured in the raw exhaust.


(1) *Crankcase flow rate.* If engines are not subject to crankcase controls under the standard-setting part, calculate raw exhaust flow as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(2) Dilute exhaust and intake air molar flow rate calculation. Calculate as follows:


*Example:*


---

[N] [89 FR 29810, Apr. 22, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 51238, June 17, 2024]










