# § 1252.2   Definitions.

The following definitions are established for terms used in this subchapter. 


*Archives or archival records* mean Federal records that have been determined by NARA to have sufficient historical or other value to warrant their continued preservation by the U.S. Government, and have been transferred to the National Archives of the United States. 


*Director* means the head of a Presidential library, the head of a Presidential Materials Staff, the head of a NARA division, branch, archival center, or unit responsible for servicing archival records, the head of a regional archives, or the head of a Federal records center.


*Documents* mean, for purposes of part 1254 of this chapter, archives, FRC records, donated historical materials, Nixon Presidential historical materials, and Presidential records, regardless of the media on which they are contained. Document form may include paper, microforms, photographs, sound recordings, motion pictures, maps, drawings, and electronic files.


*Donated historical materials* means books, correspondence, documents, papers, pamphlets, magnetic tapes, pictures, photographs, plats, maps, films, motion pictures, sound recordings, and other documental media having historical or commemorative value accepted by NARA from a source other than an agency of the U.S. Government. 


*Federal records center* includes the Washington National Records Center, the National Personnel Records Center, and the Federal records centers listed in § 1253.6 of this chapter.


*Federal records center records (FRC records)* mean records which, pending their transfer to the National Archives of the United States or their disposition in any other manner authorized by law, have been transferred to a Federal records center operated by NARA.


*Nixon Presidential historical materials* has the meaning specified in § 1275.16 of this chapter.


*Presidential records* has the meaning specified in § 1270.14 of this chapter.


*Records* mean records or microfilm copies of records transferred to NARA under 44 U.S.C. 2107 and 3103; namely, archives and Federal records center records as the terms are defined in § 1252.2. The term *records* does not include current operating records of NARA, the public availability of which is governed by part 1250 of this chapter, or donated historical materials as defined in this section.


*Researcher* means a person who has been granted access to original documents or copies of documents.



---

[N] [33 FR 4885, Mar. 22, 1968, 42 FR 13022, Mar. 8, 1977, and 49 FR 33253, Aug. 22, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 50 FR 15723, 15726, Apr. 19, 1985; 59 FR 29191, June 6, 1994] 




