# ยง 1.1238-1   Amortization in excess of depreciation.

(a) *In general.* Section 1238 provides that if a taxpayer is entitled to a deduction for amortization of an emergency facility under section 168, and if the facility is later sold or exchanged, any gain realized shall be considered as ordinary income to the extent that the amortization deduction exceeds normal depreciation. Thus, under section 1238 gain from a sale or exchange of property shall be considered as ordinary income to the extent that its adjusted basis is less than its adjusted basis would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. If an entire facility is certified under section 168(e), the taxpayer may use allowances for depreciation based on any rate and method which would have been proper if the basis of the facility were not subject to amortization under section 168, in determining what the adjusted basis of the facility would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. If only a portion of a facility is certified under section 168(e), allowances for depreciation based on the rate and method properly used with respect to the uncertified part of the facility are used in determining what the adjusted basis of the facility would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. The principles of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:


(b) *Substituted basis.* If a taxpayer acquires other property in an exchange for an emergency facility with respect to which amortization deductions have been allowed or allowable, and if the basis in his hands of the other property is determined by reference to the basis of the emergency facility, then the basis of the other property is determined with regard to section 168, and therefore the provisions of section 1238 apply with respect to gain realized on a subsequent sale or exchange of the other property. The provisions of section 1238 also apply to gain realized on the sale or exchange of an emergency facility (or other property acquired, as described in the preceding sentence, in exchange for an emergency facility) by a taxpayer in whose hands the basis of the facility (or other property) is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of another person to whom deductions were allowable or allowed with respect to the facility under section 168.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12020, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6825, 30 FR 7281, June 2, 1965]




