# § 751.319   Workplace requirements for wastewater.

(a) Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to the following disposal sub-conditions of use for their respective phaseouts, in accordance with § 751.305 (b) (14), (23), (24), and (26):


(1) Cleanup of sites with TCE water contamination; and,


(2) Publicly owned treatment works.


(b) Cleanup sites. Beginning September 15, 2025 the owner or operator of the location where potentially exposed persons are involved in the disposal of TCE to industrial pre-treatment, industrial treatment, or publicly owned treatment works for the purposes of facilitating cleanup projects of TCE-contaminated water and groundwater must ensure that potentially exposed persons involved with the activity of removing the TCE-contaminated water and groundwater from the location where it was located and treating the removed TCE-contaminated water and groundwater on site are protected to the interim ECEL level of 0.2 ppm and protected from dermal contact with TCE-containing wastewater in accordance with the following requirements. For the purposes of this paragraph (b) of this section, cross-referenced provisions in 29 CFR 1910.120 applying to an “employee” apply equally to potentially exposed persons and cross-referenced provisions applying to an “employer” also apply equally to owners or operators.


(1) *Written site-specific safety and health plan.* Owners and operators must have a site-specific safety and health plan that addresses the health hazards presented by TCE to potentially exposed persons involved in the disposal of TCE-containing wastewater and that contains elements consistent with 29 CFR 1910.120(b)(4)(ii)(A), (B), (C), (E) and (F).


(2) *Training.* Owners and operators must provide training consistent with § 751.315(d) to potentially exposed persons prior to or at the time of initial assignment to a cleanup site job that involves the disposal of TCE-containing wastewater.


(3) *Engineering controls, work practices and PPE.* Engineering controls, work practices, and, if necessary, PPE must be implemented and provided in compliance with 40 CFR 751.315(c)(1) and (e).


(4) *Exposure monitoring.* (i) By September 15, 2025 or upon initial entry to a cleanup site, whichever is later, owners and operators must perform representative air monitoring consistent with 29 CFR 1910.120(h)(2) to identify any exposures to airborne TCE above the interim ECEL.


(ii) Owners and operators must perform periodic air monitoring consistent with 29 CFR 1910.120(h)(3) when there is any indication that exposures may have exceeded the interim ECEL since prior monitoring.


(iii) Owners and operators must monitor the exposures of those persons likely to have the highest exposures to airborne TCE above the interim ECEL by using personal air sampling frequently enough to characterize their exposures consistent with 29 CFR 1910.120(h)(4).


(iv) Owners and operators must perform exposure monitoring at least once every five years.


(c) Publicly owned treatment works. By September 15, 2025 owners or operators of publicly owned treatment works, where there is a reasonable possibility of the presence of TCE, must comply with one of the following:


(1) *Water screening level.* (i) Screen industrial wastewater discharge received at publicly owned treatment works by sampling and analyzing for a water concentration of TCE.


(ii) If the TCE concentration in wastewater exceeds 0.00284 mg/L of TCE, owners or operators must comply with the Workplace Chemical Protection Program provisions in § 751.315, except for the initial monitoring requirements in paragraph § 751.315(b)(3)(ii).


(2) *Alternative to water screening level.* (i) As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (1) of this section, the owner or operator may choose to follow the Workplace Chemical Protection Program (WCPP) provisions in § 751.315.


(ii) Owners or operators who choose to follow the WCPP as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (1) of this section must comply with the WCPP provisions in § 751.315 and document compliance in accordance with § 751.323(b).






