# § 582.105   Rental assistance amounts and payments.

(a) *Eligible activity.* S+C grants may be used for providing rental assistance for housing occupied by participants in the program and administrative costs as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, except that the housing may not be currently receiving Federal funding for rental assistance or operating costs under other HUD programs. Recipients may design a housing program that includes a range of housing types with differing levels of supportive services. Rental assistance may include security deposits on units in an amount up to one month's rent.


(b) *Amount of the grant.* The amount of the grant is based on the number and size of units proposed by the applicant to be assisted over the grant period. The grant amount is calculated by multiplying the number of units proposed times the applicable Fair Market Rent (FMR) of each unit times the term of the grant.


(c) *Payment of grant.* (1) The grant amount will be reserved for rental assistance over the grant period. An applicant's grant request is an estimate of the amount needed for rental assistance. Recipients will make draws from the reserved amount to pay the actual costs of rental assistance for program participants. For TRA, on demonstration of need, up to 25 percent of the total rental assistance awarded may be spent in any one of the five years, or a higher percentage if approved by HUD, where the applicant provides evidence satisfactory to HUD that it is financially committed to providing the housing assistance described in the application for the full five-year period.


(2) A recipient must serve at least as many participants as shown in its application. Where the grant amount reserved for rental assistance over the grant period exceeds the amount that will be needed to pay the actual costs of rental assistance, due to such factor as contract rents being lower than FMRs and participants are being able to pay a portion of the rent, recipients may use the remaining funds for the costs of administering the housing assistance, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, for damage to property, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, for covering the costs of rent increases, or for serving a great number of participants.


(d) *Vacancies.* (1) If a unit assisted under this part is vacated before the expiration of the occupancy agreement described in § 582.315 of this part, the assistance for the unit may continue for a maximum of 30 days from the end of the month in which the unit was vacated, unless occupied by another eligible person. No additional assistance will be paid until the unit is occupied by another eligible person.


(2) As used in this paragraph (d), the term “vacate” does not include brief periods of inpatient care, not to exceed 90 days for each occurrence.


(e) *Administrative costs.* (1) Up to eight percent of the grant amount may be used to pay the costs of administering the housing assistance. Recipients may contract with another entity approved by HUD to administer the housing assistance.


(2) Eligible administrative activities include processing rental payments to landlords, examining participant income and family composition, providing housing information and assistance, inspecting units for compliance with housing quality standards, and receiving into the program new participants. This administrative allowance does not include the cost of administering the supportive services or the grant (*e.g.,* costs of preparing the application, reports or audits required by HUD), which are not eligible activities under a S+C grant.


(f) *Property damage.* Recipients may use grant funds in an amount up to one month's rent to pay for any damage to housing due to the action of a participant.



---

[N] [58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 51170, Sept. 30, 1996]




