# § 122.31   Notice of arrival.

(a) *Application.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all aircraft entering the United States from a foreign area must give advance notice of arrival.


(b) *Exceptions for scheduled aircraft of a scheduled airline.* Advance notice is not required for aircraft of a scheduled airline arriving under a regular schedule. The regular schedule must have been filed with the port director for the airport where the first landing is made.


(c) *Giving notice of arrival*—(1) *Procedure*—(i) *Private aircraft.* The pilot of a private aircraft must give advance notice of arrival in accordance with § 122.22 of this part.


(ii) [Reserved]


(iii) *Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the United States.* Certain aircraft arriving from areas south of the United States must follow the advance notice of arrival procedures set forth in § 122.23 of this part.


(iv) *Other aircraft.* The commander of an aircraft not otherwise covered by paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(iii) of this section must give advance notice of arrival as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Notice must be given to the port director at the place of first landing, either:


(A) Directly by radio, telephone, or other method; or


(B) Through Federal Aviation Administration flight notification procedure (see International Flight Information Manual, Federal Aviation Administration).


(2) *Reliable facilities.* When reliable means for giving notice are not available (for example, when departure is from a remote place) a departure must be made at a place where notice can be sent prior to coming into the U.S.


(d) *Contents of notice.* The advance notice of arrival required by aircraft covered in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section must include the following information:


(1) Type of aircraft and registration number;


(2) Name (last, first, middle, if available) of aircraft commander;


(3) Place of last foreign departure;


(4) International airport of intended landing or other place at which landing has been authorized by CBP;


(5) Number of alien passengers;


(6) Number of citizen passengers; and


(7) Estimated time of arrival.


(e) *Time of notice.* Notice of arrival as required pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section must be furnished far enough in advance to allow inspecting CBP officers to reach the place of first landing of the aircraft prior to the aircraft's arrival.


(f) *Notice of other Federal agencies.* When advance notice is received, the port director will inform any other concerned Federal agency.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 08-43, 73 FR 68312, Nov. 18, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-06, 81 FR 14953, Mar. 21, 2016]




