# § 98.438   Definitions.

Except as provided in this section, all of the terms used in this subpart have the same meaning given in the Clean Air Act and subpart A of this part. If a conflict exists between a definition provided in this subpart and a definition provided in subpart A, the definition in this subpart must take precedence for the reporting requirements in this subpart.


*Appliance* means any device which contains and uses a fluorinated greenhouse gas refrigerant and which is used for household or commercial purposes, including any air conditioner, refrigerator, chiller, or freezer.


*Closed-cell foam* means any foam product, excluding packaging foam, that is constructed with a closed-cell structure and a blowing agent containing a fluorinated GHG. Closed-cell foams include but are not limited to polyurethane (PU) foam contained in equipment, PU continuous and discontinuous panel foam, PU one component foam, PU spray foam, extruded polystyrene (XPS) boardstock foam, and XPS sheet foam. Packaging foam means foam used exclusively during shipment or storage to temporarily enclose items.


*Electrical equipment* means gas-insulated substations, circuit breakers, other switchgear, gas-insulated lines, or power transformers.


*Fluorinated GHG refrigerant* means, for purposes of this subpart, any substance consisting in part or whole of a fluorinated greenhouse gas and that is used for heat transfer purposes and provides a cooling effect.


*Pre-charged appliance* means any appliance charged with fluorinated greenhouse gas refrigerant prior to sale or distribution or offer for sale or distribution in interstate commerce. This includes both appliances that contain the full charge necessary for operation and appliances that contain a partial “holding” charge of the fluorinated greenhouse gas refrigerant (e.g., for shipment purposes).


*Pre-charged appliance component* means any portion of an appliance, including but not limited to condensers, compressors, line sets, and coils, that is charged with fluorinated greenhouse gas refrigerant prior to sale or distribution or offer for sale or distribution in interstate commerce.


*Pre-charged electrical equipment* means any electrical equipment, including but not limited to gas-insulated substations, circuit breakers, other switchgear, gas-insulated lines, or power transformers containing a fluorinated GHG prior to sale or distribution, or offer for sale or distribution in interstate commerce. This includes both equipment that contain the full charge necessary for operation and equipment that contain a partial “holding” charge of the fluorinated GHG (e.g., for shipment purposes).


*Pre-charged electrical equipment component* means any portion of electrical equipment that is charged with a fluorinated greenhouse gas prior to sale or distribution or offer for sale or distribution in interstate commerce.


*Pre-charged equipment* means any pre-charged appliance, pre-charged appliance component, pre-charged electrical equipment, or pre-charged electrical equipment component.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 78 FR 71978, Nov. 29, 2013]




