# § 28.31   Quality control plans; contents.

(a) Each quality control plan shall contain provisions for the management of quality, including:


(1) Requirements for the production of quality data and the use of quality control records;


(2) Control of engineering drawings, documentations, and changes;


(3) Control and calibration of measuring and test equipment;


(4) Control of purchased material to include incoming inspection;


(5) Lot identification, control of processes, manufacturing, fabrication, and assembly work conducted in the applicant's plant;


(6) Audit or final inspection of the completed product; and,


(7) The organizational structure necessary to carry out these provisions. 


(b) The sampling plan shall include inspection tests and sampling procedures developed in accordance with Military Specification MIL-F-15160D, “Fuses; Instrument, Power, and Telephone” (which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof), Group A tests and Group B tests, except that the continuity and/or resistance characteristics of each fuse shall be tested. Military Specification MIL-F-15160D is available for examination at the U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, Approval and Certification Center, 765 Technology Drive, Triadelphia, WV 26059. Copies of the document may be purchased from Information Dissemination (Superintendent of Documents), P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954; Telephone: 866-512-1800, *http://bookstore.gpo.gov.*

(c) The sampling procedure shall include a list of the characteristics to be tested by the applicant or his agent and shall include but not be limited to:


(1) Continuity and/or resistance determination for each fuse;


(2) Carry current capability (not less than 110 percent of the rated current); and,


(3) Overload current interruption capability (not less than 135 percent of the rated current). 


(d) The quality control inspection test method to be used by the applicant or his agent for each characteristic required to be tested shall be described in detail.



---

[N] [37 FR 7562, Apr. 15, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 12316, Mar. 24, 1978; 60 FR 35694, July 11, 1995; 71 FR 16666, Apr. 3, 2006; 73 FR 52212, Sept. 9, 2008]




