# § 704.104   Hexafluoropropylene oxide.

(a) *Definitions.* (1) “HFPO” means the chemical substance hexafluoropropylene oxide, CAS Number 428-59-1. [Listed in TSCA Inventory as oxirane, trifluoro(trifluoromethyl)-] 


(2) “Enclosed process” means a process that is designed and operated so that there is no intentional release of any substance present in the process. A process with fugitive, inadvertent, or emergency pressure relief releases remains an enclosed process so long as measures are taken to prevent worker exposure to and environmental contamination from the releases. 


(3) “Small processor” means a processor that meets either the standard in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section or the standard in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. 


(i) *First standard.* A processor of a chemical substance is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company, if any, are less than $40 million. However, if the annual processing volume of a particular chemical substance at any individual site owned or controlled by the processor is greater than 45,400 kilograms (100,000 pounds), the processor shall not qualify as small for purposes of reporting on the processing of that chemical substance at that site, unless the processor qualifies as small under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. 


(ii) *Second standard.* A processor of a chemical substance is small if its total annual sales, when combined with those of its parent company (if any), are less than $4 million, regardless of the quantity of the particular chemical substance processed by that company. 


(iii) *Inflation index.* EPA will use the Inflation Index described in the definition of “small manufacturer” that is set forth in § 704.3 for purposes of adjusting the total annual sales values of this small processor definition. EPA will provide _Federal Register_ notification when changing the total annual sales values of this definition. 


(b) *Persons who must report.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the following persons are subject to this section: 


(1) Persons who manufacture or propose to manufacture HFPO for use as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed process. 


(2) Persons who import or propose to import HFPO for use as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed process. 


(3) Persons who process or propose to process HFPO as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed process. 


(c) *Persons not subject to this rule.* The following persons are not subject to this rule:


(1) Small processors. 


(2) Persons described in § 704.5(a) through (f).


(3) Persons who have already submitted to EPA a completed copy of the Preliminary Assessment Information Manufacturer's Report (EPA Form 7710-35, as described at § 712.28 of this chapter) for HFPO are not required to report under this section with respect to activities previously reported on. 


(d) *What information to report.* Persons identified in paragraph (b) of this section must submit a Premanufacture Notice Form (EPA Form 7710-25).


(e) *When to report.* (1) Persons who are manufacturing, importing, or processing, or who propose to manufacture, import, or process HFPO for use as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed process as of December 10, 1987, must report by February 8, 1988. 


(2) Persons who propose to manufacture, import, or process HFPO for use as an intermediate in the manufacture of fluorinated substances in an enclosed process after December 10, 1987, must report within 30 days after making a firm management decision to commit financial resources for the manufacturing, importing, or processing of HFPO. 


(f) *Recordkeeping.* Persons subject to the reporting requirements of this section must retain documentation of information contained in their reports for a period of 5 years from the date of submission of the reports. 


(g) *Where to send reports.* Reports must be submitted by certified mail to the Document Control Office (DCO) (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001, ATTN: HFPO Reporting. 



---

[N] [52 FR 41299, Oct. 27, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 60 FR 16308, Mar. 29, 1995; 60 FR 31920, June 19, 1995; 60 FR 34463, July 3, 1995; 71 FR 33641, June 12, 2006; 85 FR 31995, May 28, 2020]




