# § 1.863-3A   Income from the sale of personal property derived partly from within and partly from without the United States.

(a) *General*—(1) *Classes of income.* Income from the sale of property to which paragraph (b)(2) and (3) of § 1.863-2 applies is divided into two classes for purposes of this section, namely, income which is treated as derived partly from sources within the United States and partly from sources within a foreign country, and income which is treated as derived partly from sources within the United States and partly from sources within a possession of the United States.


(2) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, the word “produced” includes created, fabricated, manufactured, extracted, processed, cured, or aged. For determining the time and place of sale of personal property for purposes of this section, see paragraph (c) of § 1.861-7.


(b) *Income partly from sources within a foreign country*—(1) *General.* This paragraph relates to gains, profits, and income derived from the sale of personal property produced (in whole or in part) by the taxpayer within the United States and sold within a foreign country, or produced (in whole or in part) by the taxpayer within a foreign country and sold within the United States. Pursuant to section 863(b) such items shall be treated as derived partly from sources within the United States and partly from sources within a foreign country.


(2) *Allocation or apportionment.* The taxable income from sources within the United States, in the case of the items to which this paragraph applies, shall be determined according to the examples set forth in this subparagraph. For such purposes, the deductions for the personal exemptions shall not be taken into account, but the special deductions described in paragraph (c) of § 1.861-8 shall be taken into account.


(c) *Income partly from sources within a possession of the United States*—(1) *General.* This paragraph relates to gains, profits, and income which, pursuant to section 863(b), are treated as derived partly from sources within the United States and partly from sources within a possession of the United States. The items so treated are described in subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this paragraph.


(2) *Allocation or apportionment.* The taxable income from sources within the United States, in the case of the items to which this paragraph applies, shall be determined according to the examples set forth in subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this paragraph. For such purposes, the deductions for the personal exemptions shall not be taken into account, but the special deductions described in paragraph (c) of § 1.861-8 shall be taken into account.


(3) *Personal property produced and sold.* This subparagraph relates to gross income derived from the sale of personal property produced (in whole or in part) by the taxpayer within the United States and sold within a possession of the United States, or produced (in whole or in part) by the taxpayer within a possession of the United States and sold within the United States.


(4) *Personal property purchased and sold.* This subparagraph relates to gross income derived from the purchase of personal property within a possession of the United States and its sale within the United States.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7456, 42 FR 1214, Jan. 6, 1977; T.D. 8228, 53 FR 35506, Sept. 14, 1988. Redesignated by T.D. 8687, 61 FR 60545, Nov. 29, 1996]




