# § 203.1   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part, any term not defined herein shall have the meaning given it in the Noise Control Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-574). 


(1) *Act* means the Noise Control Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-574). 


(2) *Federal Government* includes the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of the Government of the United States, and the government of the District of Columbia. 


(3) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 


(4) *Product* means any manufactured article or goods or component thereof; except that such term does not include—


(i) Any aircraft, aircraft engine, propellor or appliance, as such terms are defined in section 101 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958; or 


(ii)(*a*) Any military weapons or equipment which are designed for combat use; (*b*) any rockets or equipment which are designed for research, experimental or developmental work to be performed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; or (*c*) to the extent provided by regulations of the Administrator, any other machinery or equipment designed for use in experimental work done by or for the Federal Government. 


(5) *Low-Noise-Emission Product Determination* means the Administrator's determination whether or not a product, for which a properly filed application has been received, meets the low-noise-emission product criterion. 


(6) *Suitable Substitute Decision* means the Administrator's decision whether a product which the Administrator has determined to be a low-noise-emission product is a suitable substitute for a product or products presently being purchased by the Federal Government. 




