# § 1.597-2   Taxation of FFA.

(a) *Inclusion in income*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in the regulations under section 597, all FFA is includible as ordinary income to the recipient at the time the FFA is received or accrued in accordance with the recipient's method of accounting. The amount of FFA received or accrued is the amount of any money, the fair market value of any property (other than an Agency Obligation), and the issue price of any Agency Obligation (determined under § 1.597-3(c)(2)). An Institution (and not the nominal recipient) is treated as receiving directly any FFA that an Agency provides in a taxable year to a direct or indirect shareholder of the Institution, to the extent the money or property is transferred to the Institution pursuant to an agreement with an Agency.


(2) *Cross references.* See paragraph (c) of this section for rules regarding the timing of inclusion of certain FFA. See paragraph (d) of this section for additional rules regarding the treatment of FFA received in connection with transfers of money or property to an Agency or a Controlled Entity, or paid pursuant to a Loss Guarantee. See § 1.597-5(c)(1) for additional rules regarding the inclusion of Net Worth Assistance in the income of an Institution.


(b) *Basis of property that is FFA.* If FFA consists of property, the Institution's basis in the property equals the fair market value of the property (other than an Agency Obligation) or the issue price of the Agency Obligation (as determined under § 1.597-3(c)(2)).


(c) *Timing of inclusion of certain FFA*—(1) *Scope.* This paragraph (c) limits the amount of FFA an Institution must include in income currently under certain circumstances and provides rules for the deferred inclusion in income of amounts in excess of those limits. This paragraph (c) does not apply to a New Entity or an Acquiring.


(2) *Amount currently included in income by an Institution without Continuing Equity.* The amount of FFA an Institution without Continuing Equity must include in income in a taxable year under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is limited to the sum of—


(i) The excess at the beginning of the taxable year of the Institution's liabilities over the adjusted bases of the Institution's assets; and


(ii) The amount by which the excess for the taxable year of the Institution's deductions allowed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) (other than net operating and capital loss carryovers) over its gross income (determined without regard to FFA) is greater than the excess at the beginning of the taxable year of the adjusted bases of the Institution's assets over the Institution's liabilities.


(3) *Amount currently included in income by an Institution with Continuing Equity.* The amount of FFA an Institution with Continuing Equity must include in income in a taxable year under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is limited to the sum of—


(i) The excess at the beginning of the taxable year of the Institution's liabilities over the adjusted bases of the Institution's assets;


(ii) The greater of—


(A) The excess for the taxable year of the Institution's deductions allowed by chapter 1 of the Code (other than net operating and capital loss carryovers) over its gross income (determined without regard to FFA); or


(B) The excess for the taxable year of the deductions allowed by chapter 1 of the Code (other than net operating and capital loss carryovers) of the consolidated group of which the Institution is a member on the last day of the Institution's taxable year over the group's gross income (determined without regard to FFA); and


(iii) The excess of the amount of any net operating loss carryover of the Institution (or in the case of a carryover from a consolidated return year of the Institution's current consolidated group, the net operating loss carryover of the group) to the taxable year over the amount described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(4) *Deferred FFA*—(i) *Maintenance of account.* An Institution must establish a deferred FFA account commencing in the first taxable year in which it receives FFA that is not currently included in income under paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section, and must maintain that account in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (c)(4). The Institution must add the amount of any FFA that is not currently included in income under paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section to its deferred FFA account. The Institution must decrease the balance of its deferred FFA account by the amount of deferred FFA included in income under paragraphs (c)(4)(ii), (iv), and (v) of this section. (See also paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5)(i)(B) of this section for other adjustments that decrease the deferred FFA account.) If, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, FFA is not currently included in income in a taxable year, the Institution thereafter must maintain its deferred FFA account on a FIFO (first in, first out) basis (for example, for purposes of the first sentence of paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section).


(ii) *Deferred FFA recapture.* In any taxable year in which an Institution has a balance in its deferred FFA account, it must include in income an amount equal to the lesser of the amount described in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section or the balance in its deferred FFA account.


(iii) *Annual recapture amount*—(A) *Institutions without Continuing Equity*—(*1*) *In general.* In the case of an Institution without Continuing Equity, the amount described in this paragraph (c)(4)(iii) is the amount by which—


(*i*) The excess for the taxable year of the Institution's deductions allowed by chapter 1 of the Code (other than net operating and capital loss carryovers) over its gross income (taking into account FFA included in income under paragraph (c)(2) of this section) is greater than


(*ii*) The Institution's remaining equity as of the beginning of the taxable year.


(*2*) *Remaining equity.* The Institution's remaining equity is—


(*i*) The amount at the beginning of the taxable year in which the deferred FFA account was established equal to the adjusted bases of the Institution's assets minus the Institution's liabilities (which amount may be positive or negative); plus


(*ii*) The Institution's taxable income (computed without regard to any carryover from any other year) in any subsequent taxable year or years; minus


(*iii*) The excess in any subsequent taxable year or years of the Institution's deductions allowed by chapter 1 of the Code (other than net operating and capital loss carryovers) over its gross income.


(B) *Institutions with Continuing Equity.* In the case of an Institution with Continuing Equity, the amount described in this paragraph (c)(4)(iii) is the amount by which the Institution's deductions allowed by chapter 1 of the Code (other than net operating and capital loss carryovers) exceed its gross income (taking into account FFA included in income under paragraph (c)(3) of this section).


(iv) *Additional deferred FFA recapture by an Institution with Continuing Equity.* To the extent that, as of the end of a taxable year, the cumulative amount of FFA deferred under paragraph (c)(3) of this section that an Institution with Continuing Equity has recaptured under this paragraph (c)(4) is less than the cumulative amount of FFA deferred under paragraph (c)(3) of this section that the Institution would have recaptured if that FFA had been included in income ratably over the six taxable years immediately following the taxable year of deferral, the Institution must include that difference in income for the taxable year. An Institution with Continuing Equity must include in income the balance of its deferred FFA account in the taxable year in which it liquidates, ceases to do business, transfers (other than to a Bridge Bank) substantially all of its assets and liabilities, or is deemed to transfer all of its assets under § 1.597-5(b).


(v) *Optional accelerated recapture of deferred FFA.* An Institution that has a deferred FFA account may include in income the balance of its deferred FFA account on its timely filed (including extensions) original federal income tax return for any taxable year that it is not under Agency Control. The balance of its deferred FFA account is income on the last day of that year.


(5) *Exceptions to limitations on use of losses.* In computing an Institution's taxable income or alternative minimum taxable income for a taxable year, sections 56(d)(1), 382, and 383 and §§ 1.1502-15, 1.1502-21, and 1.1502-22 (or §§ 1.1502-15A, 1.1502-21A, and 1.1502-22A, as appropriate) do not limit the use of the attributes of the Institution to the extent, if any, that the inclusion of FFA (including recaptured FFA) in income results in taxable income or alternative minimum taxable income (determined without regard to this paragraph (c)(5)) for the taxable year. This paragraph (c)(5) does not apply to any limitation under section 382 or 383 or § 1.1502-15, § 1.1502-21, or § 1.1502-22 (or § 1.1502-15A, § 1.1502-21A, or § 1.1502-22A, as appropriate) that arose in connection with or prior to a corporation becoming a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Institution.


(6) *Operating rules*—(i) *Bad debt reserves.* For purposes of paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, the adjusted bases of an Institution's assets are reduced by the amount of the Institution's reserves for bad debts under section 585 or 593, other than supplemental reserves under section 593.


(ii) *Aggregation of Consolidated Subsidiaries.* For purposes of this paragraph (c), an Institution is treated as a single entity that includes the income, expenses, assets, liabilities, and attributes of its Consolidated Subsidiaries, with appropriate adjustments to prevent duplication.


(iii) *Alternative minimum tax.* To compute the alternative minimum taxable income attributable to FFA of an Institution for any taxable year under section 55, the rules of this section, and related rules, are applied by using alternative minimum tax basis, deductions, and all other items required to be taken into account. All other alternative minimum tax provisions continue to apply.


(7) *Earnings and profits.* FFA that is not currently included in income under this paragraph (c) is included in earnings and profits for all purposes of the Code to the extent and at the time it is included in income under this paragraph (c).


(d) *Transfers of money or property to an Agency, and Covered Assets*—(1) *Transfers of property to an Agency.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section, the transfer of property to an Agency or a Controlled Entity is a taxable sale or exchange in which the Institution is treated as realizing an amount equal to the property's fair market value.


(2) *FFA with respect to Covered Assets other than on transfer to an Agency*—(i) FFA provided pursuant to a Loss Guarantee with respect to a Covered Asset is included in the amount realized with respect to the Covered Asset.


(ii) If an Agency makes a payment to an Institution pursuant to a Loss Guarantee with respect to a Covered Asset owned by an entity other than the Institution, the payment will be treated as made directly to the owner of the Covered Asset and included in the amount realized with respect to the Covered Asset when the Covered Asset is sold or charged off. The payment will be treated as further transferred through chains of ownership to the extent necessary to reflect the actual receipt of such payment. Any such transfer, if a deemed distribution, will not be a preferential dividend for purposes of sections 561, 562, 852, or 857.


(iii) For the purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), references to an amount realized include amounts obtained in whole or partial satisfaction of loans, amounts obtained by virtue of charging off or marking to market a Covered Asset, and other amounts similarly related to property, whether or not disposed of.


(3) *Treatment of FFA received in exchange for property.* FFA included in the amount realized for property under this paragraph (d) is not includible in income under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The amount realized is treated in the same manner as if realized from a person other than an Agency or a Controlled Entity. For example, gain attributable to FFA received with respect to a capital asset retains its character as capital gain. Similarly, FFA received with respect to property that has been charged off for federal income tax purposes is treated as a recovery to the extent of the amount previously charged off. Any FFA provided in excess of the amount realized under this paragraph (d) is includible in income under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(4) *Adjustment to FFA*—(i) *In general.* If an Institution pays or transfers money or property to an Agency or a Controlled Entity, the amount of money and the fair market value of the property is an adjustment to its FFA to the extent the amount paid and transferred exceeds the amount of money and the fair market value of any property that an Agency or a Controlled Entity provides in exchange.


(ii) *Deposit insurance.* This paragraph (d)(4) does not apply to amounts paid to an Agency with respect to deposit insurance.


(iii) *Treatment of an interest held by an Agency or a Controlled Entity*—(A) *In general.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), an interest described in § 1.597-3(b) is not treated as property when transferred by the issuer to an Agency or a Controlled Entity nor when acquired from an Agency or a Controlled Entity by the issuer.


(B) *Dispositions to persons other than issuer.* On the date an Agency or a Controlled Entity transfers an interest described in § 1.597-3(b) to a holder other than the issuer, an Agency, or a Controlled Entity, the issuer is treated for purposes of this paragraph (d)(4) as having transferred to an Agency an amount of money equal to the sum of the amount of money and the fair market value of property that was paid by the new holder as consideration for the interest.


(iv) *Affiliated groups.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), an Institution is treated as having made any transfer to an Agency or a Controlled Entity that was made by any other member of its affiliated group. The affiliated group must make appropriate basis adjustments or other adjustments to the extent the member transferring money or other property is not the member that received FFA.


(5) *Manner of making adjustments to FFA*—(i) *Reduction of FFA and deferred FFA.* An Institution adjusts its FFA under paragraph (d)(4) of this section by reducing in the following order and in an aggregate amount not greater than the adjustment—


(A) The amount of any FFA that is otherwise includible in income for the taxable year (before application of paragraph (c) of this section); and


(B) The balance (but not below zero) in the deferred FFA account, if any, maintained under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(ii) *Deduction of excess amounts.* If the amount of the adjustment exceeds the sum of the amounts described in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, the Institution may deduct the excess to the extent the deduction does not exceed the amount of FFA included in income for prior taxable years reduced by the amount of deductions allowable under this paragraph (d)(5)(ii) in prior taxable years.


(iii) *Additional adjustments.* Any adjustment to FFA in excess of the sum of the amounts described in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section is treated—


(A) By an Institution other than a New Entity or an Acquiring, as a deduction of the amount in excess of FFA received that is required to be transferred to an Agency under section 11(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(g)); or


(B) By a New Entity or an Acquiring, as an adjustment to the purchase price paid in the Taxable Transfer (see § 1.338-7).


(e) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section:



---

[N] [T.D. 9825, 82 FR 48620, Oct. 19, 2017]














