# § 406.13   Individual who has end-stage renal disease.

(a) *Statutory basis and applicability.* This section explains the conditions of entitlement to hospital insurance benefits on the basis of end-stage renal disease, and specifies the beginning and end of the period of entitlement. It implements section 226A of the Social Security Act.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*End-stage renal disease* (ESRD) means that stage of kidney impairment that appears irreversible and permanent and requires a regular course of dialysis or kidney transplantation to maintain life.


*Child* or *spouse* means a child or spouse whose relationship to the parent or spouse meets the relationship requirements for entitlement to child's monthly social security benefits or to wife's, husband's, widow's, widower's, mother's or father's monthly benefits, as set forth in 20 CFR part 404. However, the duration of relationship requirements apply only to divorced spouses. (See 20 CFR 404.331.)


*Dependent child* means a person who, on the first day he or she has end-stage renal disease, is unmarried and meets the dependency requirements for entitlement to child's social security benefits on the basis of a parent's earnings (see 20 CFR 404.350-404.365) and who—


(1) Is under age 22;


(2) Is under a disability that began before age 22; or


(3) Is under age 26, is receiving at least one-half support from that parent, and has continuously received at least one-half support from that parent since the day before attaining age 22.


*One-half support* means regular contributions, in cash or in kind, that equals or exceeds one-half of the child's total support.


(c) *Requirements.* An individual is entitled to hospital insurance benefits if—


(1) He or she is medically determined to have ESRD;


(2) He or she is:


(i) Fully or currently insured under the social security program (title II of the Act) or would be fully or currently insured if his or her employment (after 1936) as defined under the Railroad Retirement Act were considered “employment” under the Social Security Act;


(ii) Entitled to monthly social security or railroad retirement benefits; or


(iii) The spouse or dependent child of a person who meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section;


(3) He or she has filed an application for Medicare Part A; and


(4) He or she has satisfied the waiting period explained in paragraph (e) of this section.


(d) *Filing an application.* (1) An individual may obtain an application form, and help in completing it, from any social security office.


(2) An application is not valid if it is filed earlier than the third month before the month in which the individual meets the conditions of paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(4) of this section.


(3) If an individual who has ESRD dies before he or she has filed an application, or is unable to file because of physical or mental condition, a relative or other person responsible for his or her affairs may file in his or her behalf. If a responsible person is not available, the hospital or dialysis facility that furnished treatment may file the application.


(e) *Beginning of entitlement*—(1) *Basic limitations.* Entitlement can begin no earlier than the first month in which the individual meets the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section, or the 12th month before the month of application, whichever is later.


(2) *Waiting period.* Entitlement begins on the first day of the third month after the month in which the individual initiates a regular course of renal dialysis, if the course is maintained throughout the waiting period, unless entitlement would begin earlier under paragraph (e) (3) or (4) of this section. This means that if dialysis began in January, entitlement would begin April 1.


(3) *Exceptions: Early kidney transplant.* If the individual receives a transplant, entitlement begins with the first day of the month in which the transplant was performed. However, if the individual is admitted as an inpatient to a hospital that is an approved renal transplantation center or renal dialysis center (see § 405.2102) for procedures preliminary to transplant surgery, entitlement begins—


(i) On the first day of the month in which he or she initially enters the hospital, if the transplant is performed in that month or in either of the next 2 months; or


(ii) On the first day of the second month before the month of kidney transplantation, if the transplant is delayed more than 2 months after the month of initial hospital stay.


(4) *Exceptions: Self-dialysis training.* Entitlement begins on the first day of the month in which a regular course of renal dialysis began if:


(i) Before the end of the waiting period, the individual participates in a self-dialysis training program offered by a participating Medicare facility that is approved to provide such training;


(ii) The patient's physician has certified that it is reasonable to expect the individual will complete the training program and will self-dialyze on a regular basis; and


(iii) The regular course of dialysis is maintained throughout the time that would otherwise be the waiting period (unless it is terminated earlier because the individual dies).


(f) *End of entitlement.* Entitlement ends with—


(1) The end of the 12th month after the month in which a regular course of dialysis ends; or 


(2) The end of the 36th month after the month in which the individual received a kidney transplant. Beginning January 1, 2023, an individual who is no longer entitled to Part A benefits due to this paragraph may be eligible to enroll in Part B solely for purposes of coverage of immunosuppressive drugs as described in § 407.55 of this subchapter.




(g) *Resumption of entitlement.* Entitlement is resumed under the following conditions: 


(1) An individual who initiates a regular course of renal dialysis or has a kidney transplant during the 12-month period after the previous course of dialysis ended is entitled to Part A benefits and eligible to enroll in Part B with the month the regular course of dialysis is resumed or the month the kidney is transplanted. 


(2) An individual who initiates a regular course of renal dialysis or has a kidney transplant during the 36-month period after an earlier kidney transplant is entitled to Part A benefits and eligible to enroll in Part B with the month the regular course of dialysis begins or with the month the subsequent kidney transplant occurs. 


(3) An individual who initiates a regular course of renal dialysis more than 12 months after the previous course of regular dialysis ended or more than 36 months after the month of a kidney transplant is eligible to enroll in Part A and Part B with the month in which the regular course of dialysis is resumed. If he or she is otherwise entitled under the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section, including the filing of an application, entitlement begins with the month in which dialysis is initiated or resumed, without a waiting period, subject to the limitations of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [48 FR 12536, Mar. 25, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 22535, May 8, 1995; 87 FR 66503, Nov. 3, 2022]




