# § 721.633   Aluminosilicates, phospho-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as aluminosilicates, phospho- (PMN P-98-1275 and SNUN S-11-10; CAS No. 201167-69-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following NIOSH-certified respirators with an APF of at least 50 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting full facepiece and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters; NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in positive pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood, or helmet or tight-fitting facepiece. As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for these substances. The NCEL is 0.1 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average verified by actual monitoring data.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1) (vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 81399, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 37164, June 30, 2015]




