# ยง 102.119   Privacy Act Regulations: Notification as to whether a system of records contains records pertaining to requesting individuals; requests for access to records, amendment of such records, or accounting of disclosures; time limits for response; appeal from denial of requests; fees for document duplication; files and records exempted from certain Privacy Act requirements.

(a)(1) An individual will be informed whether a system of records maintained by the Agency contains a record pertaining to such individual. An inquiry may be made in writing or in person during normal business hours to the official of the Agency designated for that purpose and at the address set forth in a notice of a system of records published by this Agency, in a Notice of Systems of Government-wide Personnel Records published by the Office of Personnel Management, or in a Notice of Government-wide Systems of Records published by the Department of Labor. Copies of such notices, and assistance in preparing an inquiry, may be obtained from any Regional Office of the Board or at the Board offices in Washington, DC. The inquiry may contain sufficient information, as defined in the notice, to identify the record.


(2) Reasonable verification of the identity of the inquirer, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, will be required to assure that information is disclosed to the proper person. The Agency will acknowledge the inquiry in writing within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) and, wherever practicable, the acknowledgment will supply the information requested. If, for good cause shown, the Agency cannot supply the information within 10 days, the inquirer will within that time period be notified in writing of the reasons therefor and when it is anticipated the information will be supplied. An acknowledgment will not be provided when the information is supplied within the 10-day period. If the Agency refuses to inform an individual whether a system of records contains a record pertaining to an individual, the inquirer will be notified in writing of that determination and the reasons therefor, and of the right to obtain review of that determination under the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (a)(2) do not apply to the extent that requested information from the relevant system of records has been exempted from this Privacy Act requirement.


(b)(1) An individual will be permitted access to records pertaining to such individual contained in any system of records described in the notice of system of records published by the Agency, or access to the accounting of disclosures from such records. The request for access must be made in writing or in person during normal business hours to the person designated for that purpose and at the address set forth in the published notice of system of records. Copies of such notices, and assistance in preparing a request for access, may be obtained from any Regional Office of the Board or at the Board offices in Washington, DC. Reasonable verification of the identity of the requester, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, will be required to assure that records are disclosed to the proper person. A request for access to records or the accounting of disclosures from such records will be acknowledged in writing by the Agency within 10 days of receipt (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) and, wherever practicable, the acknowledgment will inform the requester whether access will be granted and, if so, the time and location at which the records or accounting will be made available. If access to the record of accounting is to be granted, the record or accounting will normally be provided within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) of the request, unless for good cause shown the Agency is unable to do so, in which case the individual will be informed in writing within that 30-day period of the reasons therefor and when it is anticipated that access will be granted. An acknowledgment of a request will not be provided if the record is made available within the 10-day period.


(2) If an individual's request for access to a record or an accounting of disclosure from such a record under the provisions of this paragraph (b) is denied, the notice informing the individual of the denial will set forth the reasons therefor and advise the individual of the right to obtain a review of that determination under the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) do not apply to the extent that requested information from the relevant system of records has been exempted from this Privacy Act requirement.


(c) An individual granted access to records pertaining to such individual contained in a system of records may review all such records. For that purpose, the individual may be accompanied by a person of the individual's choosing, or the record may be released to the individual's representative who has written consent of the individual, as described in paragraph (e) of this section. A first copy of any such record or information will ordinarily be provided without charge to the individual or representative in a form comprehensible to the individual. Fees for any other copies of requested records will be assessed at the rate of 12 cents for each sheet of duplication.


(d) An individual may request amendment of a record pertaining to such individual in a system of records maintained by the Agency. A request for amendment of a record must be in writing and submitted during normal business hours to the person designated for that purpose and at the address set forth in the published notice for the system of records containing the record of which amendment is sought. Copies of such notices, and assistance in preparing a request for amendment, may be obtained from any Regional Office of the Board or at the Board offices in Washington, DC. The requester must provide verification of identity as described in paragraph (e) of this section, and the request must set forth the specific amendment requested and the reason for the requested amendment. The Agency will acknowledge in writing receipt of the request within 10 days of receipt (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) and, whenever practicable, the acknowledgement will advise the individual of the determination of the request. If the review of the request for amendment cannot be completed and a determination made within 10 days, the review will be completed as soon as possible, normally within 30 days (Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays excluded) of receipt of the request unless unusual circumstances preclude completing the review within that time, in which event the requester will be notified in writing within that 30-day period of the reasons for the delay and when the determination of the request may be expected. If the determination is to amend the record, the requester will be so notified in writing and the record will be amended in accordance with that determination. If any disclosures accountable under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) have been made, all previous recipients of the record which was amended must be advised of the amendment and its substance. If it is determined that the request may not be granted, the requester will be notified in writing of that determination and of the reasons therefor, and advised of the right to obtain review of the adverse determination under the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (d) do not apply to the extent that requested information from the relevant system of records has been exempted from this Privacy Act requirement.


(e) Verification of the identification of individuals required under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section to assure that records are disclosed to the proper person will be required by the Agency to an extent consistent with the nature, location, and sensitivity of the records being disclosed. Disclosure of a record to an individual will normally be made upon the presentation of acceptable identification. Disclosure of records by mail may be made on the basis of the identifying information set forth in the request. Depending on the nature, location, and sensitivity of the requested record, a signed notarized statement verifying identity may be required by the Agency. Proof of authorization as representative to have access to a record of an individual must be in writing, and a signed notarized statement of such authorization may be required by the Agency if the record requested is of a sensitive nature.


(f)(1) Review may be obtained with respect to:


(i) A refusal, under paragraph (a) or (g) of this section, to inform an individual if a system of records contains a record concerning that individual;


(ii) A refusal, under paragraph (b) or (g) of this section, to grant access to a record or an accounting of disclosure from such a record; or


(iii) A refusal, under paragraph (d) of this section, to amend a record.


(iv) The request for review may be made to the Chairman of the Board if the system of records is maintained in the office of a Member of the Board, the Office of the Executive Secretary, the Office of the Solicitor, the Office of Congressional and Public Affairs, or the Division of Administrative Law Judges. Consistent with the provisions of Section 3(d) of the Act, and the delegation of authority from the Board to the General Counsel, the request may be made to the General Counsel if the system of records is maintained by an office of the Agency other than those enumerated above. Either the Chairman of the Board or the General Counsel may designate in writing another officer of the Agency to review the refusal of the request. Such review will be completed within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the receipt of the request for review unless the Chairman of the Board or the General Counsel, as the case may be, for good cause shown, extends such 30-day period.


(2) If, upon review of a refusal under paragraph (a) or (g) of this section, the reviewing officer determines that the individual may be informed of whether a system of records contains a record pertaining to that individual, such information will be promptly provided. If the reviewing officer determines that the information was properly denied, the individual will be so informed in writing with a brief statement of the reasons therefor.


(3) If, upon review of a refusal under paragraph (b) or (g) of this section, the reviewing officer determines that access to a record or to an accounting of disclosures may be granted, the requester will be so notified and the record or accounting will be promptly made available to the requester. If the reviewing officer determines that the request for access was properly denied, the individual will be so informed in writing with a brief statement of the reasons therefor, and of the right to judicial review of that determination under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(B).


(4) If, upon review of a refusal under paragraph (i) of this section, the reviewing official grants a request to amend, the requester will be so notified, the record will be amended in accordance with the determination, and, if any disclosures accountable under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c) have been made, all previous recipients of the record which was amended will be advised of the amendment and its substance. If the reviewing officer determines that the denial of a request for amendment may be sustained, the Agency will advise the requester of the determination and the reasons therefor, and that the individual may file with the Agency a concise statement of the reason for disagreeing with the determination, and may seek judicial review of the Agency's denial of the request to amend the record. In the event a statement of disagreement is filed, that statement:


(i) Will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed together with, at the discretion of the Agency, a brief statement summarizing the Agency's reasons for declining to amend the record; and


(ii) Will be supplied, together with any Agency statements, to any prior recipients of the disputed record to the extent that an accounting of disclosure was made.


(g) To the extent that portions of systems of records described in notices of Government-wide systems of records published by the Office of Personnel Management are identified by those notices as being subject to the management of an officer of this Agency, or an officer of the Agency is designated as the official to contact for information, access, or contents of those records, individual requests for access to those records, requests for their amendment, and review of denials of requests for amendment will be in accordance with the provisions of 5 CFR 297.101 through 297.501, as promulgated by the Office of Personnel Management. To the extent that portions of systems of records described in notices of Government-wide systems of records published by the Department of Labor are identified by those notices as being subject to the management of an officer of the Agency, or an officer of the Agency is designated as the official to contact for information, access, or contents of those records, individual requests for access to those records, requests for their amendment, and review of denials of requests for amendment will be in accordance with the provisions of this section. Review of a refusal to inform an individual whether such a system of records contains a record pertaining to that individual and review of a refusal to grant an individual's request for access to a record in such a system may be obtained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section.


(h) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), the system of records maintained by the Office of the Inspector General of the National Labor Relations Board that contains Investigative Files will be exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, except subsections (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), and (11), and (i), from 29 CFR 102.117(c) and (d), and from 29 CFR 102.119(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f), insofar as the system contains investigatory material compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes.


(i) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the system of records maintained by the Office of the Inspector General of the National Labor Relations Board that contains the Investigative Files must be exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f), from 29 CFR 102.117(c) and (d), and from 29 CFR 102.119(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f), insofar as the system contains investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes not within the scope of the exemption at 29 CFR 102.119(h).


(j) Privacy Act exemptions contained in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section are justified for the following reasons:


(1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make the accounting of each disclosure of records available to the individual named in the record at that individual's request. These accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record and the name and address of the recipient. Accounting for each disclosure would alert the subjects of an investigation to the existence of the investigation and the fact that they are subjects of the investigation. The release of such information to the subjects of an investigation would provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation and could seriously impede or compromise the investigation, endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, law enforcement personnel, and their families and lead to the improper influencing of witnesses, the destruction of evidence, or the fabrication of testimony.


(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(4) requires an agency to inform any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute made by the agency in accordance with subsection (d) of the Act. Since this system of records is being exempted from subsection (d) of the Act, concerning access to records, this section is inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempted from subsection (d) of the Act.


(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) requires an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records pertaining to the individual, to request amendment to such records, to request a review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and to contest the information contained in such records. Granting access to records in this system of records could inform the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal violation, of the existence of that investigation, of the nature and scope of the information and evidence obtained as to the individual's activities, or of the identity of confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel and could provide information to enable the subject to avoid detection or apprehension. Granting access to such information could seriously impede or compromise an investigation, endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, law enforcement personnel, and their families, lead to the improper influencing of witnesses, the destruction of evidence, or the fabrication of testimony, and disclose investigative techniques and procedures. In addition, granting access to such information could disclose classified, security-sensitive, or confidential business information and could constitute an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of others.


(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires each agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or by executive order of the President. The application of this provision could impair investigations and law enforcement because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of specific information in the early stages of an investigation. Relevance and necessity are often questions of judgment and timing, and it is only after the information is evaluated that the relevance and necessity of such information can be established. In addition, during the course of the investigation, the investigator may obtain information which is incidental to the main purpose of the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. Such information cannot readily be segregated. Furthermore, during the course of the investigation, the investigator may obtain information concerning the violation of laws other than those which are within scope of the investigator's jurisdiction. In the interest of effective law enforcement, OIG investigators may retain this information, since it can aid in establishing patterns of criminal activity and can provide valuable leads for other law enforcement agencies.


(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(2) requires an agency to collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs. The application of this provision could impair investigations and law enforcement by alerting the subject of an investigation, thereby enabling the subject to avoid detection or apprehension, to influence witnesses improperly, to destroy evidence, or to fabricate testimony. Moreover, in certain circumstances, the subject of an investigation cannot be required to provide information to investigators and information must be collected from other sources. Furthermore, it is often necessary to collect information from sources other than the subject of the investigation to verify the accuracy of the evidence collected.


(6) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) requires an agency to inform each person whom it asks to supply information, on a form that can be retained by the person, of the authority under which the information is sought and whether disclosure is mandatory or voluntary; of the principal purposes for which the information is intended to be used; of the routine uses which may be made of the information; and of the effects on the person, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information. The application of this provision could provide the subject of an investigation with substantial information about the nature of that investigation that could interfere with the investigation. Moreover, providing such a notice to the subject of an investigation could seriously impede or compromise an undercover investigation by revealing its existence and could endanger the physical safety of confidential sources, witnesses, and investigators by revealing their identities.


(7) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) require an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning its procedures for notifying an individual, at the individual's request, if the system of records contains a record pertaining to the individual, how to gain access to such a record, and how to contest its content. Since this system of records is being exempted from subsection (f) of the Act, concerning agency rules, and subsection (d) of the Act, concerning access to records, these requirements are inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempt from subsections (f) and (d) of the Act. Although the system would be exempt from these requirements, OIG has published information concerning its notification, access, and contest procedures because, under certain circumstances, OIG could decide it is appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of the individual's records in this system of records.


(8) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning the categories of sources of records in the system of records. Exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of the sources of information, to protect the privacy and physical safety of confidential sources and witnesses, and to avoid the disclosure of investigative techniques and procedures. Although the system will be exempt from this requirement, OIG has published such a notice in broad generic terms.


(9) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) requires an agency to maintain its records with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in making any determination about the individual. Since the Act defines *maintain* to include the collection of information, complying with this provision could prevent the collection of any data not shown to be accurate, relevant, timely, and complete at the moment it is collected. In collecting information for criminal law enforcement purposes, it is not possible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. Facts are first gathered and then placed into a logical order to prove or disprove objectively the criminal behavior of an individual. Material which seems unrelated, irrelevant, or incomplete when collected can take on added meaning or significance as the investigation progresses. The restrictions of this provision could interfere with the preparation of a complete investigative report, thereby impeding effective law enforcement.


(10) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8) requires an agency to make reasonable efforts to serve notice on an individual when any record on such individual is made available to any person under compulsory legal process when such process becomes a matter of public record. Complying with this provision could prematurely reveal an ongoing criminal investigation to the subject of the investigation.


(11) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(1) requires an agency to promulgate rules that establish procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to the individual's request if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to the individual. The application of this provision could impede or compromise an investigation or prosecution if the subject of an investigation were able to use such rules to learn of the existence of an investigation before it could be completed. In addition, mere notice of the fact of an investigation could inform the subject and others that their activities are under or may become the subject of an investigation and could enable the subjects to avoid detection or apprehension, to influence witnesses improperly, to destroy evidence, or to fabricate testimony. Since this system would be exempt from subsection (d) of the Act, concerning access to records, the requirements of subsection (f)(2) through (5) of the Act, concerning agency rules for obtaining access to such records, are inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempted from subsection (d) of the Act. Although this system would be exempt from the requirements of subsection (f) of the Act, OIG has promulgated rules which establish agency procedures because, under certain circumstances, it could be appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of the individual's records in this system of records.


(12) 5 U.S.C. 552a(g) provides for civil remedies if an agency fails to comply with the requirements concerning access to records under subsections (d)(1) and (3) of the Act; maintenance of records under subsection (e)(5) of the Act; and any other provision of the Act, or any rule promulgated thereunder, in such a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual. Since this system of records would be exempt from subsections (c) (3) and (4), (d), (e)(1), (2), and (3) and (4)(G) through (I), (e)(5), and (8), and (f) of the Act, the provisions of subsection (g) of the Act would be inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempted from those subsections of the Act.


(k)-(l) [Reserved]




(m) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes that is contained in the Next Generation Case Management System (NxGen) (NLRB-33), are exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).




(n) The reasons for exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) are as follows:


(1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make the accounting of each disclosure of records available to the individual named in the record at such individual's request. These accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record, and the name and address of the recipient. Providing such an accounting of investigatory information to a party in an unfair labor practice or representation matter under investigation could inform that individual of the precise scope of an Agency investigation, or the existence or scope of another law enforcement investigation. Accordingly, this Privacy Act requirement could seriously impede or compromise either the Agency's investigation, or another law enforcement investigation, by causing the improper influencing of witnesses, retaliation against witnesses, destruction of evidence, or fabrication of testimony.


(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) requires an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records pertaining to such individual, to request amendment to such records, to request review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and, where the Agency refuses to amend records, to submit a statement of disagreement to be included with the records. Such disclosure of investigatory information could seriously impede or compromise the Agency's investigation by revealing the identity of confidential sources or confidential business information, or causing the improper influencing of witnesses, retaliation against witnesses, destruction of evidence, fabrication of testimony, or unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an undue administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.


(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or by executive order of the President. This requirement could foreclose investigators from acquiring or receiving information the relevance and necessity of which is not readily apparent and could only be ascertained after a complete review and evaluation of all the evidence.


(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) require an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning its procedures for notifying an individual, at the individual's request, if the system of records contains a record pertaining to the individual, for gaining access to such a record, and for contesting its content. Because certain information from this system of records is exempt from subsection (d) of the Act concerning access to records, and consequently, from subsection (f) of the Act concerning Agency rules governing access, these requirements are inapplicable to that information.


(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning the categories of sources of records in the system of records. Exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information, to protect against the disclosure of investigative techniques and procedures, to avoid threats or reprisals against informers by subjects of investigations, and to protect against informers refusing to give full information to investigators for fear of having their identities as sources revealed.


(6) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) requires an agency to promulgate rules for notifying individuals of Privacy Act rights granted by subsection (d) of the Act concerning access and amendment of records. Because certain information from this system is exempt from subsection (d) of the Act, the requirements of subsection (f) of the Act are inapplicable to that information.


(o) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (2), (3), (5), (6), and (7) of the Privacy Act, the system of records maintained by the NLRB containing Personnel Security Records shall be exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) insofar as the system may contain:


(1) Records properly classified pursuant to an Executive Order, within the meaning of section 552(b)(1);


(2) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2);


(3) Information maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to section 3056 of title 18 of the U.S. Code;


(4) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility or qualifications for Federal civilian employment and Federal contact or access to classified information;


(5) Testing and examination materials used for a personnel investigation for employment or promotion in the Federal service;


(6) Evaluation materials, compiled during the course of a personnel investigation, that are used solely to determine potential for promotion in the armed services.




(p) The Privacy Act exemptions contained in paragraph (o) of this section are justified for the following reasons:


(1)(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make the accounting of each disclosure of records available to the individual named in the record at his/her request. These accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record and the name and address of the recipient. 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) requires an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records pertaining to him/her, to request amendment to such records, to request a review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and to contest the information contained in such records.


(ii) Personnel investigations may contain properly classified information which pertains to national defense and foreign policy obtained from another Federal agency. Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to and amendment of such classified information under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).


(iii) Personnel investigations may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to or amendment of such records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d).


(iv) Personnel investigations may also contain information obtained from another Federal agency that relates to providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056. Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to and amendment of such records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).


(v) Exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is claimed with respect to the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d) because this system contains investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal employment. To the extent that the disclosure of material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the applicability of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) will be required to honor promises of confidentiality should an individual request access to or amendment of the record, or access to the accounting of disclosures of the record. Similarly, personnel investigations may contain evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services. Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) is necessary to the extent that the disclosure of data would compromise the anonymity of a source under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. Both of these exemptions are necessary to safeguard the integrity of background investigations by minimizing the threat of harm to confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel. Additionally, these exemptions reduce the risks of improper influencing of sources, the destruction of evidence, and the fabrication of testimony.


(vi) All information in this system that meets the criteria articulated in exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to and amendment of records by an individual. This exemption is claimed because portions of this system relate to testing or examining materials used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion to the Federal service. Access to or amendment to this information by an individual would compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examining process.


(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or by executive order of the President. This requirement could foreclose investigators from acquiring or receiving information the relevance and necessity of which is not readily apparent and could only be ascertained after a complete review and evaluation of all the evidence. This system of records is exempt from this requirement because in the course of personnel background investigations, the accuracy of information obtained or introduced occasionally may be unclear, or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to favorably or unfavorably adjudicate a specific investigation at a specific point in time. However, in the interests of protecting the public trust and national security, it is appropriate to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns in such areas as criminal conduct, alcohol and drug use, financial dishonesty, allegiance, foreign preference or influence, and psychological conditions, that are relevant to future personnel security or suitability determinations.


(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) require an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning its procedures for notifying an individual, at his/her request, if the system of records contains a record pertaining to him/her, how to gain access to such a record and how to contest its content. Since this system of records is being exempted from subsection (f) of the Privacy Act, concerning agency rules, and subsection (d) of the Privacy Act, concerning access to records, these requirements are inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempt from subsections (f) and (d) of the Privacy Act. Although the system would be exempt from these requirements, the NLRB has published information concerning its notification, access, and contest procedures because, under certain circumstances, it may be appropriate for a subject to have access to a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.


(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning the categories of sources of records in the system of records. Exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of the sources of information, to protect the privacy and physical safety of confidential sources and witnesses, and to avoid the disclosure of investigative techniques and procedures. Although the system will be exempt from this requirement, the agency has published source information in the accompanying notice in broad generic terms.


(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) requires an agency to promulgate rules which shall establish procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to that individual. The application of this provision could compromise the progress of an investigation concerning the suitability, eligibility, and fitness for service of applicants for Federal employment and impede a prompt assessment of the appropriate access to the Agency's facilities. Although this system would be exempt from the requirements of subsection (f) of the Privacy Act, the Agency has promulgated rules which establish agency procedures because, under certain circumstances, it could be appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.


(q) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (2), and (5), the system of records maintained by the NLRB containing NLRB iTrak and Banned Entry List records shall be exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) insofar as the system may contain:


(1) Records properly classified pursuant to an Executive order, within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1);


(2) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2); and


(3) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts or access to classified information.


(r) The Privacy Act exemptions contained in paragraph (q) of this section are justified for the following reasons:


(1)(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make the accounting of each disclosure of records available to the individual named in the record at his/her request. These accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record and the name and address of the recipient. 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) requires an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records pertaining to him/her, to request amendment to such records, to request a review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and to contest the information contained in such records.


(ii) iTrak and Banned Entry List records may contain properly classified information which pertains to national defense and foreign policy obtained from another Federal agency. Application of exemption (k)(1) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to and amendment of such classified information under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), which would pose a risk of harm to national defense and foreign policy interests.


(iii) iTrak and Banned Entry List records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to or amendment of such records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d), which would pose a risk of harm to law enforcement interests. Specifically, this exemption is necessary to safeguard the integrity of law enforcement investigations by minimizing the threat of harm to confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel. Additionally, this exemption reduces the risks of improper influencing of sources, the destruction of evidence, and the fabrication of testimony.


(iv) Exemption (k)(5) is claimed with respect to the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d) because this system contains investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal employment. To the extent that the disclosure of material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the applicability of exemption (k)(5) will be required to honor promises of confidentiality should an individual request access to or amendment of the record, or access to the accounting of disclosures of the record. This exemption is necessary to safeguard the integrity of security investigations by minimizing the threat of harm to confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel. Additionally, this exemption reduces the risks of improper influencing of sources, the destruction of evidence, and the fabrication of testimony.


(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or by Executive order of the President. This requirement could foreclose investigators from acquiring or receiving information the relevance and necessity of which is not readily apparent and could only be ascertained after a complete review and evaluation of all the evidence. This system of records is exempt from this requirement because in the course of security investigations, the accuracy of information obtained or introduced occasionally may be unclear, or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to favorably or unfavorably adjudicate a specific investigation at a specific point in time. However, in the interests of protecting the public trust and national security, it is appropriate to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns in such areas as criminal conduct, alcohol and drug use, financial dishonesty, allegiance, foreign preference or influence, and psychological conditions, that are relevant to future security determinations.


(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) require an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning its procedures for notifying an individual, at his/her request, if the system of records contains a record pertaining to him/her, how to gain access to such a record, and how to contest its content. Since this system of records is being exempted from subsection (f) of the Privacy Act concerning agency rules, and subsection (d) of the Privacy Act concerning access to records, these requirements are inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempt from subsections (d) and (f) of the Act. Although the system would be exempt from these requirements, the NLRB has published information concerning its notification, access, and contest procedures because, under certain circumstances, it may be appropriate for a subject to have access to a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.


(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish a _Federal Register_ notice concerning the categories of sources of records in the system of records. Exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of the sources of information, to protect the privacy and physical safety of confidential sources and witnesses, and to avoid the disclosure of investigative techniques and procedures. Although the system will be exempt from this requirement, the agency has published source information in the accompanying notice in broad generic terms.


(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) requires an agency to promulgate rules which shall establish procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to that individual. The application of this provision could compromise the progress of a law enforcement investigation regarding security and impede a prompt assessment of the appropriate access to the Agency's facilities. Although this system would be exempt from the requirements of subsection (f) of the Act, the Agency has promulgated rules which establish agency procedures because, under certain circumstances, it could be appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.





---

[N] [82 FR 11754, Feb. 24, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 70425, Dec. 23, 2020; 85 FR 75855, Nov. 27, 2020; 89 FR 24714, Apr. 9, 2024]






