# § 1207.513   Payment of assessments.

(a) *Time of payment.* The assessment on domestically produced potatoes shall become due at the time a determination of assessable potatoes is made in the normal handling process, pursuant to § 1207.511. If no determination is made of the utilization of a lot, assessments shall be due on the entire lot when it enters the current of commerce. The assessment on imported potatoes, potato products, and seed potatoes shall become due at the time of entry, or withdrawal, for consumption into the United States. 


(b) *Responsibility for payment.* (1) The designated handler is responsible for payment of the assessment on domestically produced potatoes. He may pay with no reimbursement from the producer. In the alternative, he may collect the assessment from the producer, or deduct such assessment from the proceeds paid to the producer on whose potatoes the assessment is made, provided he furnishes the producer with evidence of such payment. Any such collection or deduction of assessment shall be made not later than the time when the assessment becomes payable by the handler to the Board. Failure of the handler to collect or deduct such assessment does not relieve the handler of his obligation to remit the assessment to the Board. 


(2) The Customs Service shall collect payment of assessment on imported potatoes, potato products, and seed potatoes from importers and forward such assessment per agreement between the Customs Service and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Importers shall be responsible for payment of assessment directly to the Board of any assessment due but not collected by the Customs Service at the time of entry, or withdrawal, for consumption into the United States. An importer may apply to the Board for reimbursement of assessments paid on exempted products. 


(c) *Payment directly to the Board.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, each designated handler or importer shall remit assessments directly to the Board by check or electronic payment. Checks are to be made payable to the National Potato Promotion Board or the Board's official doing business as name. Payment is due not later than 10 days after the end of the month such assessment is due together with a report (preferably on Board forms) thereon. 




(2) All designated handlers, including a designated handler whose own production is handled and assessments to the Board paid by another designated handler, shall report to the Board: 


(i) Date of report (which is also date of payment to the Board). 


(ii) The name and address of the designated handler; 


(iii) The period potatoes were handled; 


(iv) The total quantity of potatoes determined to be assessable during the period potatoes were handled, pursuant to § 1207.511. 


(3) Designated handlers who collect assessments from producers or withhold assessments from their accounts or pay the assessment themselves shall also include a list of all such producers whose potatoes were handled during the period, their addresses and the total assessable quantities handled for each such producer. 


(i) In lieu of such a list, the designated handler may substitute authentic copies of settlement sheets given to each producer provided such settlement sheets contain all the information listed above. 


(ii) The words “final report” shall be shown on the last report at the close of his marketing season or at the end of each fiscal period if such handler markets potatoes on a year-round basis. 


(4) Prepayment of assessment: (i) In lieu of the monthly assessment and reporting requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Board may permit designated handlers to make advance payments of their total estimated assessments for the season to the Board prior to their actual determination of assessable potatoes. Such procedure may be permitted when it is considered by the designated handler to be the more practical method of payment. 


(ii) Persons using such procedure shall provide a final annual accounting of actual handling and assessments. 


(iii) Specific requirements, instructions, and forms for making such advance payments shall be provided by the Board upon request. 


(d) *Payment through cooperating agency.* The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments in its behalf. In any State or area in which the Board has negotiated an agreement to collect assessments with an agency such as a State Potato Commission or a Potato Association approved by the Secretary, the designated handler shall pay the assessment to such agency in the time and manner, and with such identifying information as specified in such agreement. Such an agreement shall not provide any cooperating agency with authority to collect confidential information from handlers; to qualify, the cooperating agency must on its own accord have access to all information required by the Board for collection purposes. If the Board requires further evidence of payment than provided, it may acquire such evidence from individual designated handlers. 


(1) All such agreements are subject to the requirement of § 1207.352 *Confidential treatment,* of the plan, the provisions of section 310(c) of the Act, and all applicable rules and regulations and financial safeguards in effect under the Act and the plan; and all affected persons shall agree to, and conduct their operations and activities in accordance with, such requirements.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended by Amdt. 6, 42 FR 55879, Oct. 20, 1977; 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991; 62 FR 46179, Sept. 2, 1997; 87 FR 22436, Apr. 15, 2022] 




