# § 140.735-6   Practice by former members and employees of the Commission.

(a) *Personal and substantial participation or nonpublic knowledge of a particular matter.* No person who has been a member or employee of the Commission shall ever knowingly make, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before the Commission in connection with any particular matter involving a specific party or parties 
12 in which such person, or one participating with him or her in the particular matter, participated personally and substantially, or gained nonpublic knowledge of facts thereof, while with the Commission. 
13

(b) *Particular matter under an individual's official responsibility.* No person who has been a member or employee of the Commission shall, within two years after that employment has ceased, knowingly make, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before the Commission in connection with a particular matter involving a specific party or parties which was actually pending under his official responsibility as a member or employee of the Commission at any time within one year prior to the termination of government service. 
14

(c) *Restrictions on former members and senior employees.* A former member or employee of the Commission who occupied a “senior” position specified in 18 U.S.C. 207(c)(2), as amended, shall not within one year after such “senior” employment has ceased, knowingly make, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before the Commission on behalf of any other person in connection with any matter in which such person seeks official action by the Commission. 
15

(d) *Exceptions.* The prohibitions contained in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section do not apply to communications solely for the purpose of furnishing scientific or technological information if approved by the Commission or generally to giving testimony under oath or making a statement which is subject to penalty or perjury. Further, the prohibition contained in paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to an uncompensated statement in a particular area within the special knowledge of the former Commission member or employee. 
16

(e) *Reporting requirement.* Any former member or employee of the Commission who, within two years after ceasing to be such, is employed or retained as the representative of any person (except the United States) in connection with a matter in which it is contemplated that he will appear before or communicate with the Commission shall, within ten days of such retainer or employment, or of the time when appearance before or communication with the Commission is first contemplated, file with the General Counsel of the Commission a statement as to the nature thereof together with any desired explanation as to why it is deemed consistent with this section. Employment of a recurrent character may be covered by a single comprehensive statement. Each such statement should include an appropriate caption indicating that it is filed pursuant to this section. The reporting requirement of this paragraph does not apply to communications incidental to court appearances in litigation involving the Commission.


(f) *Definitions.* As used in this section, the phrase “appearance before the Commission” means any formal or informal appearance on behalf of any person (except the United States) before the Commission, or any member or employee thereof with an intent to influence. As used in this section, the phrase “communication with the Commission” means any oral or written communication made to the Commission, or any member or employee thereof, on behalf of any person (except the United States) with an intent to influence.


(g) *Advisory ruling.* Persons in doubt as to the applicability of this section may apply for an advisory ruling by addressing a letter requesting such a ruling to the General Counsel.


(h) *Procedures for administrative enforcement of statutory restrictions on post-government employment conflicts of interest*17—(1) *Scope.* The provisions of this paragraph prescribe procedures for administrative enforcement of the restrictions which 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b), and (c), as amended, place on appearances before or communications with Federal (and District of Columbia) departments, agencies and courts, and other enumerated entities, as well as the officers and employees thereof, by former Commission members and employees.


(2) *Investigations.* The General Counsel of the Commission, or his or her designee, shall conduct such investigations as he or she deems appropriate to determine whether any former Commission member or employee have violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), as amended. The General Counsel shall report the results of his or her investigations to the Commission and shall recommend to the Commission such action as he or she deems appropriate.


(3) *Hearings.* Hearings required to be held under the provisions of this section shall be held before an Administrative Law Judge, utilizing the procedures prescribed by the Commission's rules of practice for adjudicatory proceedings (17 CFR part 10), except to the extent that those rules are inconsistent with the provisions of this section. Any proceeding brought under the provisions of this section shall be prosecuted by the General Counsel or his or her designee.


(4) *Sanctions.* If the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that a former Commission member or employee has violated 18 U.S.C. 207 (a), (b) or (c), as amended, the Commission may prohibit that person from making, on behalf of any other person (except the United States), any formal or informal appearance before, or with the intent to influence any oral or written communication to, the Commission on a pending matter of business for a period not to exceed five years, or may take other appropriate disciplinary action.



---

[N] [58 FR 52658, Oct. 12, 1993; 58 FR 58593, Nov. 2, 1993]




