# § 747.25   Request for document discovery from parties.

(a) *Document requests.* (1) Any party may serve on any other party a request to produce and permit the requesting party or its representative to inspect or copy any discoverable documents that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served. In the case of a request for inspection, the responding party may produce copies of documents or of electronically stored information instead of permitting inspection.


(2) The request:


(i) Must describe with reasonable particularity each item or category of items to be inspected or produced; and


(ii) Must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for the inspection or production.


(b) *Production or copying*—(1) *General.* Unless otherwise specified by the ALJ or agreed upon by the parties, the producing party must produce copies of documents as they are kept in the usual course of business or organized to correspond to the categories of the request, and electronically stored information must be produced in a form in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a reasonably usable form.


(2) *Costs.* The producing party must pay its own costs to respond to a discovery request, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.


(c) *Obligation to update responses.* A party who has responded to a discovery request with a response that was complete when made is not required to supplement the response to include documents thereafter acquired, unless the responding party learns:


(1) The response was materially incorrect when made; or


(2) The response, though correct when made, is no longer true and a failure to amend the response is, in substance, a knowing concealment.


(d) *Motions to limit discovery.* (1) Any party that objects to a discovery request may, within 20 days of being served with such request, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 747.23 to strike or otherwise limit the request. If an objection is made to only a portion of an item or category in a request, the portion objected to must be specified. Any objections not made in accordance with this paragraph and § 747.23 are waived.


(2) The party who served the request that is the subject of a motion to strike or limit may file a written response within ten days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.


(e) *Privilege.* At the time other documents are produced, the producing party must reasonably identify all documents withheld on the grounds of privilege and must produce a statement of the basis for the assertion of privilege. When similar documents that are protected by attorney-client privilege, attorney work-product doctrine, bank examination privilege, law enforcement privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative process privilege, or any other privileges of the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law, or are voluminous, these documents may be identified by category instead of by individual document. The ALJ retains discretion to determine when the identification by category is insufficient.


(f) *Motions to compel production.* (1) If a party withholds any documents as privileged or fails to comply fully with a discovery request, the requesting party may, within ten days of the assertion of privilege or of the time the failure to comply becomes known to the requesting party, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 747.23 for the issuance of a subpoena compelling production.


(2) The party who asserted the privilege or failed to comply with the document request may file a written response to a motion to compel within ten days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.


(g) *Ruling on motions.* After the time for filing responses pursuant to this section has expired, the ALJ will rule promptly on all motions filed pursuant to this section. If the ALJ determines that a discovery request, or any of its terms, calls for irrelevant material, is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or seeks to obtain privileged documents, the ALJ may deny or modify the request, and may issue appropriate protective orders, upon such conditions as justice may require. The pendency of a motion to strike or limit discovery or to compel production is not a basis for staying or continuing the proceeding, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ. Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the ALJ may not release, or order a party to produce, documents withheld on grounds of privilege if the party has stated to the ALJ its intention to file a timely motion for interlocutory review of the ALJ's order to produce the documents, and until the motion for interlocutory review has been decided.


(h) *Enforcing discovery subpoenas.* If the ALJ issues a subpoena compelling production of documents by a party, the subpoenaing party may, in the event of noncompliance and to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to any appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the subpoena. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a subpoena will not in any manner limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ against a party who fails to produce subpoenaed documents.






