# ยง 1421.406   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Report of changes.* A DMA must furnish information to CCC within thirty calendar days relating to any substantial change in the DMA operations including but not limited to the following:


(1) A change in its articles of incorporation;


(2) A resolution affecting MAL or LDP operations.


(3) A change to the DMAs name, address, phone number, or related information on the DMA agreement.


(b) *Other Information.* The DMA must supply such additional information as CCC may request related to the DMAs continued approval by CCC to process MALs and LDPs under the authority provided in this subpart.


(c) *CCC request for information.* CCC may require a DMA to submit updated information, a new application, or a request for recertification whenever CCC becomes aware of any changes or has any reason to be uncertain that the DMA is operating in a manner that is consistent with the information already submitted, or consistent with this part.


(d) *Annual recertification.* Within 4 months after the end of the DMAs fiscal year, a DMA must submit the following information to CCC:


(1) A current financial statement prepared according to generally accepted accounting principles;


(2) A report of audit or review of the financial statement conducted by an independent Certified Public Accountant. The accountant's report of audit or review must include the accountant's certifications, assurances, opinions, comments, and notes with respect to such financial statements.


(3) Additional financial security as determined by CCC, if the financial security on file with CCC does not meet current requirements or has expired.


(4) A report of changes as required under paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) *Activity report.* DMAs must provide CCC reports of MAL and LDP volume and benefit earnings made by the DMA for individual producers, and gains received on behalf of each peanut producer, in a format as directed by CCC.



---

[N] [70 FR 33799, June 10, 2005. Redesignated at 74 FR 15656, Apr. 7, 2009; 80 FR 128, Jan. 2, 2015]




