# § 1.466-4   Manner of and time for making election under section 373(c) of the Revenue Act of 1978.

(a) *In general.* Section 373(c)(2) of the Revenue Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 2865) provides an election for taxpayers who satisfy the requirements of section 373(c)(2)(A) (i) and (ii) of the Act. The election is made with respect to a method of accounting for the redemption costs of discount coupons used by the electing taxpayer in a continuous period of one or more taxable years ending before January 1, 1979. The election must be made in the manner prescribed by this section. The election does not require the prior consent of the Internal Revenue Service.


(b) *Manner of and time for making election*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the election under section 373(c) of the Revenue Act of 1978 is made by filing a statement of election containing the information described in paragraph (c) of this section with the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxpayer's first taxable year ending after December 31, 1978. The election must be made not later than the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the income tax return for the taxpayer's first taxable year ending after December 31, 1978. Thus, the election may not be made with an amended income tax return for such year filed after the time prescribed (including extensions) for filing the original return.


(2) *Transitional rule.* If the last day of the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing a taxpayer's income tax return for the taxpayer's first taxable year ending after December 31, 1978, falls before December 3, 1979, and the taxpayer does not make an election in the manner prescribed by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an election is made under section 373(c) of the Act and this section with respect to a continuous period if—


(i) Within the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxpayer's first taxable year ending after December 31, 1978, the taxpayer has made a reasonable effort to notify the Commissioner of the taxpayer's intent to make election under section 373(c) of the Act with respect to the continuous period, and


(ii) Before January 2, 1980, the taxpayer files a statement of election containing the information described in paragraph (c) of this section to be associated with the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxpayer's first taxable year ending after December 31, 1978.


(c) *Required information.* The statement of election required by paragraph (b) of this section must indicate that the taxpayer (identified by name, address, and taxpayer identification number) is making an election under section 373(c) of the Revenue Act of 1978 and must set forth the taxable years in the continuous period for which the election is made. The statement of election should be made on the same form 3115 on which the taxpayer has made a statement of election under section 466. The Form 3115 need contain no information other than that required by this paragraph or paragraph (c) of § 1466-3.



---

[N] [T.D. 8022, 50 FR 18478, May 1, 1985]




