# § 600.101   Testing overview.

Perform testing under this part as described in § 600.111. This involves the following specific requirements:


(a) Perform the following tests and calculations for LDV, LDT, and MDPV_FE_:


(1) Testing to demonstrate compliance with Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards and greenhouse gas emission standards generally involves a combination of two cycles—the Federal Test Procedure and the Highway Fuel Economy Test (see 40 CFR 1066.801). Testing to determine values for fuel economy labeling under subpart D of this part generally involves testing with three additional test cycles; § 600.210 describes circumstances in which testing with these additional test cycles does not apply for labeling purposes.


(2) Calculate fuel economy and CREE values for vehicle subconfigurations, configurations, base levels, and model types as described in §§ 600.206 and 600.208. Calculate fleet average values for fuel economy and CREE as described in § 600.510.


(3) Determine fuel economy values for labeling as described in § 600.210 using either the vehicle-specific 5-cycle method or the derived 5-cycle method as described in § 600.115.


(i) For vehicle-specific 5-cycle labels, the test vehicle (subconfiguration) data are adjusted to better represent in-use fuel economy and CO_2_ emissions based on the vehicle-specific equations in § 600.114. Sections 600.207 and 600.209 describe how to use the “adjusted” city and highway subconfiguration values to calculate adjusted values for the vehicle configuration, base level, and the model type. These “adjusted” city, highway, and combined fuel economy estimates and the combined CO_2_ emissions for the model type are shown on fuel economy labels.


(ii) For derived 5-cycle labels, calculate “unadjusted” fuel economy and CO_2_ values for vehicle subconfigurations, configurations, base levels, and model types as described in §§ 600.206 and 600.208. Section 600.210 describes how to use the unadjusted model type values to calculate “adjusted” model type values for city, highway, and combined fuel economy and CO_2_ emissions using the derived 5-cycle equations for the fuel economy label.


(4) Diesel-fueled Tier 3 vehicles are not subject to cold temperature emission standards; however, you must test at least one vehicle in each test group over the cold temperature FTP to comply with requirements of this part. This paragraph (a)(4) does not apply for Tier 4 vehicles.


(b) Perform the following tests and calculations for all chassis-tested vehicles other than LDV, LDT, and MDPV_FE_ that are subject to standards under 40 CFR part 86, subpart S:


(1) Test vehicles as described in 40 CFR 86.1811, 86.1816, and 86.1819. Testing to demonstrate compliance with CO_2_ emission standards generally involves a combination of two cycles for each test group—the Federal Test Procedure and the Highway Fuel Economy Test (see 40 CFR 1066.801). Fuel economy labeling requirements do not apply for vehicles above 8,500 pounds GVWR, except for MDPV_FE_.


(2) Determine fleet average CO_2_ emissions as described in 40 CFR 86.1819-14(d)(9). These CO_2_ emission results are used to calculate corresponding fuel consumption values to demonstrate compliance with fleet average fuel consumption standards under 49 CFR part 535.


(c) Manufacturers must use E10 gasoline test fuel as specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) for new testing to demonstrate compliance with all emission standards and to determine fuel economy values. This requirement starts in model year 2027. Interim provisions related to test fuel apply as described in § 600.117.



---

[N] [89 FR 28201, Apr. 18, 2024]




