# ยง 648.100   Summer flounder Annual Catch Limit (ACL).

(a) *Annual catch limits.* The Monitoring Committee shall recommend to the MAFMC separate ACLs for the commercial and recreational summer flounder fisheries, the sum total of which shall be equal to the ABC recommended by the SSC.


(1) *Sector allocations.* The commercial and recreational fishing sector ACLs will be established based on the allocations defined in the Summer Flounder, Scup, and Black Sea Bass Fishery Management Plan (FMP).


(2) *Periodicity.* The summer flounder commercial and recreational sector ACLs may be established on an annual basis for up to 3 years at a time, dependent on whether the SSC provides single or multiple year ABC recommendations.


(b) *Performance review.* The Monitoring Committee shall conduct a detailed review of fishery performance relative to the sector ACLs at least every 5 years.


(1) If one or both of the sector-specific ACLs is exceeded with a frequency greater than 25 percent (*i.e.,* more than once in 4 years or any 2 consecutive years), the Monitoring Committee will review fishery performance information and consider whether changes in measures are needed.


(2) The MAFMC may specify more frequent or more specific ACL performance review criteria as part of a stock rebuilding plan following a determination that the summer flounder stock has become overfished.


(3) Performance reviews shall not substitute for annual reviews that occur to ascertain if prior year ACLs have been exceeded but may be conducted in conjunction with such reviews.



---

[N] [76 FR 60626, Sept. 29, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 68929, Nov. 17, 2022; 88 FR 14507, Mar. 9, 2023]




