# § 191.71   Drawback on articles destroyed under Customs supervision.

(a) *Procedure.* At least 7 working days before the intended date of destruction of merchandise or articles upon which drawback is intended to be claimed, a Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback on Customs Form 7553 shall be filed by the claimant with the Customs port where the destruction is to take place, giving notification of the date and specific location where the destruction is to occur. Within 4 working days after receipt of the Customs Form 7553, Customs shall advise the filer in writing of its determination to witness or not to witness the destruction. If the filer of the notice is not so notified within 4 working days, the merchandise may be destroyed without delay and will be deemed to have been destroyed under Customs supervision. Unless Customs determines to witness the destruction, the destruction of the articles following timely notification on Customs Form 7553 shall be deemed to have occurred under Customs supervision. If Customs attends the destruction, it must certify the Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback.


(b) *Evidence of destruction.* When Customs does not attend the destruction, the claimant must submit evidence that destruction took place in accordance with the approved Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback. The evidence must be issued by a disinterested third party (for example, a landfill operator). The type of evidence depends on the method and place of destruction, but must establish that the merchandise was, in fact, destroyed within the meaning of “destruction” in § 191.2(g) (*i.e.,* that no articles of commercial value remained after destruction).


(c) *Completion of drawback entry.* After destruction, the claimant must provide the Customs Form 7553, certified by the Customs official witnessing the destruction in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, to Customs as part of the completed drawback claim based on the destruction (see § 191.51(a) of this part). If Customs has not attended the destruction, the claimant must provide the evidence that destruction took place in accordance with the approved Customs Form 7553, as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, as part of the completed drawback claim based on the destruction (see § 191.51(a) of this part).




