# § 108.380   Final approval as a NMVC Company.

(a) *General rule.* With respect to each Conditionally Approved NMVC Company, SBA will either:


(1) Grant final approval to participate in the NMVC program and designate such company as a NMVC Company, if such Conditionally Approved NMVC Company:


(i) Within the specific period of time SBA gave to it when SBA conditionally approved it for participation in the NMVC program, has raised:


(A) The amount of Regulatory Capital set forth in its application, pursuant to § 108.310(a)(1); and 


(B) The amount of matching resources for its Operational Assistance grant award set forth in its application, pursuant to § 108.310(a)(2); and 


(ii) Enters into a Participation Agreement with SBA; or


(2) Revoke SBA's conditional approval of the company, at which time it is no longer a Conditionally Approved NMVC Company and must not participate in the NMVC program or represent itself as a Conditionally Approved NMVC Company.


(b) *Exception to requirement to raise matching resources*—(1) *General.* At its discretion and based upon a showing of good cause, SBA may consider a Conditionally Approved NMVC Company to have satisfied the requirement in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section to raise matching resources in the amount of at least 30 percent of its Regulatory Capital if the Conditionally Approved NMVC Company—


(i) Already has raised at least 20 percent of the total amount of required matching resources; and


(ii) Has a viable plan that reasonably projects its capacity to raise the remainder of the required amount of matching resources.


(2) *Request for exception.* Before the expiration of the time period given to it by SBA to meet the requirements to become a NMVC Company, a Conditionally Approved NMVC Company may submit to SBA a request that SBA grant the exception described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Such Conditionally Approved NMVC must present to SBA evidence of good cause for such request, as well as evidence supporting the elements of the exception described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) *No applicability to Regulatory Capital.* The exception described in this section applies only to matching resources for the Operational Assistance grant award. Under no circumstances will SBA designate a Conditionally Approved NMVC Company as a NMVC Company if such Conditionally Approved NMVC Company does not raise the required amount of Regulatory Capital within the time period SBA gave it to do so. 



---

[N] [66 FR 28609, May 23, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 68503, Nov. 12, 2002]




