# ยง 301.89-12   Cleaning, disinfection, and disposal.

(a) Mechanized harvesting equipment that has been used to harvest host crops that test positive for Karnal bunt based on the presence of bunted kernels must be cleaned and, if disinfection is determined to be necessary by an inspector, disinfected in accordance with part 305 of this chapter prior to movement from a regulated area.


(b) Seed conditioning equipment that was used in the conditioning of seed that was tested and found to contain spores or bunted kernels of *Tilletia indica* must be cleaned and disinfected in accordance with part 305 of this chapter prior to being used in the conditioning of seed that has tested negative for the spores of *Tilletia indica* or to being moved from a regulated area.


(c) Any grain storage facility, including on-farm storage, that is used to store seed that has tested bunted-kernel or spore positive or grain that has tested bunted-kernel positive must be cleaned and, if disinfection is determined to be necessary by an inspector, disinfected in accordance with part 305 of this chapter if the facility will be used to store grain or seed in the future.


(d) Conveyances used to move bunted-kernel-positive host crops, including trucks, railroad cars, and other containers, that have sloping metal sides leading directly to a bottom door or slide chute, are self cleaning, and will not be required to be cleaned and disinfected.


(e) Spore-positive wheat, durum wheat, or triticale seed that has been treated with any chemical that renders it unfit for human or animal consumption must be disposed of by means of burial under a minimum of 24 inches of soil in a nonagricultural area that will not be cultivated or in an approved landfill.



---

[N] [69 FR 8096, Feb. 23, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 4241, Jan. 26, 2010]




