# ยง 247.6   State Plan.

(a) *What is the State Plan?* The State Plan is a document that describes how the State agency will operate CSFP and the caseload needed to serve eligible applicants. The State agency must submit the State Plan to FNS for approval. Once submitted and approved, the State Plan is considered permanent, with amendments submitted at the State agency's initiative, or at FNS request. All amendments are subject to FNS approval. The State Plan may be submitted in the format provided in FNS guidance, in an alternate format, or in combination with other documents required by Federal regulations. The State Plan must be signed by the State agency official responsible for program administration. A copy of the State Plan must be kept on file at the State agency and must also be posted on a publicly available internet web page for public inspection.


(b) *When must the State Plan be submitted?* The State Plan must be submitted by August 15 to take effect for the fiscal year beginning in the following October. FNS will provide notification of the approval or disapproval of the State Plan within 30 days of receipt, and will notify the State agency within 15 days of receipt if additional information is needed. Disapproval of the Plan will include a reason for the disapproval. Approval of the Plan is a prerequisite to the assignment of caseload and allocation of administrative funds, but does not ensure that caseload and funds will be provided.


(c) *What must be included in the State Plan?* The State Plan must include:


(1) The names and addresses of all local agencies and subdistributing agencies with which the State agency has entered into agreement;


(2) The income eligibility standards and the options to be used relating to income or other eligibility requirements, as provided under ยง 247.9;


(3) The nutritional risk criteria to be used, if the State chooses to establish such criteria;


(4) A description of plans for serving participants and the caseload needed to serve them;


(5) A description of plans for conducting outreach to participants;


(6) A description of the system for storing and distributing USDA Foods;


(7) A description of plans for providing nutrition education to participants;


(8) A description of the means by which the State agency will detect and prevent dual participation;


(9) A description of the standards the State agency will use in determining if the pursuit of a claim against a participant is cost-effective;


(10) A description of the means by which the State will meet the needs of homebound participants;


(11) Copies of all agreements entered into by the State agency;


(12) The length of the State agency's certification period; and


(13) A description of the process in place to verify the identity of participants before receipt of USDA Foods.


(d) *When must the State agency submit amendments to the State Plan?* The State agency must submit amendments to FNS to reflect any changes in program operations or administration described in the State Plan, and to request additional caseload for the following caseload cycle. FNS may also require that the State Plan be amended to reflect changes in Federal law or policy. The State agency may submit amendments to the State Plan at any time during the fiscal year, for FNS approval. The amendments will take effect immediately upon approval, unless otherwise specified by FNS. If a State agency would like to receive additional caseload for the caseload cycle beginning the following January 1, it must submit an amendment to the Plan which conveys the request for additional caseload by November 5. The State agency must also describe in this submission any plans for serving participants at new sites. FNS action on the State agency's request for additional caseload is part of the caseload assignment process, as described under ยง 247.21.



---

[N] [70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38750, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87245, Oct. 31, 2024]




