# § 1090.725   Credit generation.

(a) *Parties that may generate credits.* (1) No person other than a gasoline manufacturer may generate credits for use towards an average standard specified in subpart C of this part.


(2) No credits may be generated for gasoline produced by any of the following activities:


(i) Transmix processing.


(ii) Transmix blending.


(iii) Oxygenate blending.


(iv) Certified butane blending.


(v) Certified pentane blending.


(vi) Importation of gasoline by rail and truck using the alternative sampling and testing requirements in § 1090.1610.


(3) No sulfur credits may be generated at a facility if that facility used sulfur credits in that same compliance period.


(4) No benzene credits may be generated at a facility if that facility used benzene credits in that same compliance period.


(b) *Credit year.* Credits generated under this section must be identified by the compliance period of generation. For example, credits generated on gasoline produced in 2021 must be identified as 2021 credits.


(c) *Sulfur credit generation.* (1) The number of sulfur credits generated is determined as follows:


(2) The value of C_S,y_ must be positive to generate credits.


(3) Sulfur credits calculated under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be expressed to the nearest ppm-gallon. Fractional values must be rounded in accordance with § 1090.50.


(d) *Benzene credit generation.* (1) The number of benzene credits generated is determined as follows:


(2) The value of C_Bz,y_ must be positive to generate credits.


(3) Benzene credits calculated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be expressed to the nearest benzene gallon. Fractional values must be rounded in accordance with § 1090.50.


(e) *Credit generation limitation.* A gasoline manufacturer may only generate credits after they have finished producing or importing gasoline for the compliance period.


(f) *Credit generation reporting.* A gasoline manufacturer that generates credits under this section must report to EPA all credit generation information as specified in § 1090.905 using forms and procedures specified by EPA.




