# § 60.6   Procedures.

(a) *Reporting requirements.* Any person with a reasonable belief that an incident of child abuse has occurred in a DoD-sanctioned activity must report it to:


(1) The appropriate civilian agency in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 13031 and 28 CFR 81.1-81.5.


(2) The installation FAP as required by DoD Directive 6400.1.


(b) *Notification of suspected abuse*—(1) *Physical or emotional abuse or neglect.* If a report of suspected child physical abuse, emotional abuse, or neglect in a DoD-sanctioned activity is made to the FAP, the FAPM shall:


(i) Notify the appropriate military or civilian law enforcement agency, or multiple law enforcement agencies as appropriate.


(ii) Contact the appropriate civilian child protective services agency, if any, to request assistance.


(2) *Sexual abuse.* If a report of suspected child sexual abuse in a DoD-sanctioned activity is made to the FAP, the FAPM, in addition to the procedures noted in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall:


(i) Immediately notify the servicing MCIO and civilian law enforcement as appropriate.


(ii) Forward the report DD Form 2951, “Initial Report of Suspected Child Sexual Abuse in DoD Operated or Sponsored Activities,” required by 10 U.S.C. 1794 through DoD Component FAP channels to the DASD(MC&FP) within 72 hours.


(iii) Consult with the person in charge of the DoD-sanctioned activity and the appropriate law enforcement agency to estimate the number of potential victims and determine whether an installation response team may be appropriate to address the investigative, medical, psychological, and public affairs issues that may arise.


(iv) Notify the installation commander of the allegation and recommend whether an installation response team may be appropriate to assess the current situation and coordinate the installation's response to the incidents.


(v) Submit a written follow-up report using DD Form 2952, “Closeout Report of Suspected Child Sexual Abuse in DoD Operated or Sponsored Activities,” through DoD Component channels regarding all allegations of child sexual abuse to the DASD(MC&FP) when:


(A) There have been significant changes in the status of the case;


(B) There are more than five potential victims;


(C) The sponsors of the victims are from different Military Services or DoD Components;


(D) There is increased community sensitivity to the allegation; or


(E) The DASD(MC&FP) has requested a follow-up report.


(c) *Requesting a FACAT.* An installation commander may request a FACAT through appropriate DoD Component channels from the DASD(MC&FP) when alleged child sexual abuse by a care provider in a DoD-sanctioned-activity has been reported and at least one of the following apply:


(1) Additional personnel are needed to:


(i) Fully investigate a report of child sexual abuse by a care provider or employee in a DoD-sanctioned activity;


(ii) Assess the needs of the child victims and their families; or


(iii) Provide supportive treatment to the child victims and their families.


(2) The victims are from different Military Services or DoD Components, or there are multiple care providers who are the subjects of the report from different Military Services or DoD Components.


(3) Significant issues in responding to the allegations have arisen between the Military Services or DoD Components and other Federal agencies or civilian authorities.


(4) The situation has potential for widespread public interest that could negatively impact performance of the DoD mission.


(d) *Deployment of a FACAT.* (1) The DASD(MC&FP) shall deploy a FACAT at the request of a DoD Component.


(2) The DASD(MC&FP) may deploy a FACAT at the request of the Head of the DoD Component without a request from the installation commander. Such circumstances include a case where:


(i) The victims are from different Military Services or DoD Components, or there are multiple care providers who are the subjects of the report from different Military Services or DoD Components;


(ii) Significant issues in responding to the allegations have arisen between the Military Services or DoD Components and other Federal agencies or civilian authorities; or


(iii) The situation has potential for widespread public interest that could negatively impact performance of the DoD mission.


(3) The DASD(MC&FP) shall configure the FACAT based on the information and recommendations of the requestor, the installation FAPM, and the FAPD of the DoD Component.


(4) The DASD(MC&FP) shall:


(i) Request the FAPDs to identify several individuals from the FACAT roster who are available for deployment.


(ii) Request, through the appropriate channels of the DoD Component, that the individuals' supervisors release them from normal duty positions to serve on temporary duty with the deploying FACAT.


(5) The DASD(MC&FP) shall provide fund citations to the FACAT members for their travel orders and per diem and shall provide information regarding travel arrangements. The FACAT members shall be responsible for preparing travel orders and making travel arrangements.


(6) FACAT members who are subject to DoD Instruction 6025.13, “Medical Quality Assurance (MQA) and Clinical Quality Management in the Military Health System (MHS)” (see *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/602513p.pdf*) shall be responsible for arranging temporary clinical privileges in accordance with DoD 6025.13-R, “Military Health System (MHS) Clinical Quality Assurance (CQA) Program Regulation” (see *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/602513r.pdf*) at the installation to which they shall be deployed.


(e) *FACAT tasks.* The FACAT shall meet with the installation's commanding officer, the MCIO, or designated response team to assess the current situation and assist in coordinating the installation's response to the incidents. Depending on the composition of the team, such tasks may include:


(1) Investigating the allegations.


(2) Conducting medical and mental health assessment of the victims and their families.


(3) Developing and implementing plans to provide appropriate treatment and support for the victims and their families and for the non-abusing staff of the DoD-sanctioned activity.


(4) Coordinating with local officials to manage public affairs tasks.


(f) *Reports of FACAT activities.* The FACAT chief shall prepare three types of reports:


(1) Daily briefs for the installation commander or designee.


(2) Periodic updates to the FAPD of the DoD Component and to the DASD(MC&FP).


(3) An after-action brief for the installation commander briefed at the completion of the deployment and transmitted to the DASD(MC&FP) and the FAPD of the DoD Component.




