# § 99.21   How will the WEC applicable emissions for a WEC applicable facility be determined?

Except for WEC applicable facilities with a waste emissions threshold of zero as determined in § 99.20(e), the total facility applicable emissions and WEC applicable emissions for each WEC applicable facility for the reporting year will be calculated as described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable. If the waste emissions threshold for a WEC applicable facility is zero as determined in § 99.20(e), then the total facility applicable emissions and WEC applicable emissions for the WEC applicable facility are zero and paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section do not apply to the WEC applicable facility.


(a) The total facility applicable emissions for each WEC applicable facility will be calculated using equation B-6 of this section.


(b) If the total facility applicable emissions calculated using equation B-6 of this section are less than or equal to 0 mt, then the WEC applicable emissions are equal to the total facility applicable emissions.


(c) If the total facility applicable emissions calculated using equation B-6 of this section are greater than 0 mt and the regulatory compliance exemption as specified in § 99.41 applies for the entire reporting year and to all sites at the WEC applicable facility, the WEC applicable emissions for that facility are equal to 0 mt.


(d) If the total facility applicable emissions calculated using equation B-6 of this section are greater than 0 mt and the regulatory compliance exemption as specified in § 99.41 does not apply for the entire reporting year or does not apply to all sites at the WEC applicable facility, the WEC applicable emissions for each WEC applicable facility will be calculated using equation B-7 of this section. If the result of this calculation is less than 0 mt CH_4_, the WEC applicable emissions for the facility are equal to 0 mt CH_4_.


