# § 22.161   Records.

(a) *General.* All persons qualified under this part shall keep accurate records of all receipts, shipments, usage, destructions and claims pertaining to the withdrawal and use of tax-free alcohol. These records shall be in sufficient detail to enable the permittee to reconcile any losses or gains for the semi-annual inventory, and to enable appropriate TTB officers to verify all transactions and to ascertain whether there has been compliance with law and regulations. All records required by this section shall identify tax-free alcohol by proof, date of transaction, and quantity involved, and shall include alcohol received from the General Services Administration and the recovery of alcohol and its disposition. Records shall be kept current at all times.


(b) *Records of receipt and shipment.* Records of receipt and shipment shall consist of the consignor's or consignee's (as the case may be) invoice, bill or bill of lading, or another document used for the intended purpose. Records of receipt shall record only the quantity of tax-free alcohol actually received. Losses in transit shall not be considered as received, but may be the subject of a claim for allowances of losses, as prescribed in subpart I of this part.


(c) *Records of usage.* For the purpose of this subpart, tax-free or recovered alcohol shall be considered as “used” when permanently removed from a permittee's supply storeroom, compartment, or tank for any authorized use. Records of usage shall identify the tax-free alcohol by quantity, proof, and purpose of removal (office, department or location to which dispensed). This record shall list separately, the usage of tax-free alcohol from recovered alcohol or alcohol received from the General Services Administration.


(d) *Records of destruction.* Records of destruction shall consist of a copy of the notice of intention to destroy, prescribed in § 22.141, signed by an appropriate TTB officer or employee witnessing the destruction.


(e) *Claims.* Claims for allowance of losses of tax-free alcohol, required to be filed under subpart I of this part, shall consist of Forms 2635 (5620.8) and supporting data.


