# § 63.11500   What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another Federal standard?

For any CMPU, heat exchange system, or wastewater system subject to the provisions of both this subpart and another rule, you may elect to comply only with the more stringent provisions as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. You must consider all provisions of the rules, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. You must identify the subject CMPU, heat exchange system, and/or wastewater system, and the provisions with which you will comply in your NOCS report required by § 63.11501(b). You also must demonstrate in your NOCS report that each provision with which you will comply is at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable requirement in this subpart VVVVVV. You are responsible for making accurate determinations concerning the more stringent standards and noncompliance with this rule is not excused if it is later determined that your determination was in error and, as a result, you are violating this subpart. Compliance with this rule is your responsibility and the NOCS report does not alter or affect that responsibility.


(a) *Compliance with other subparts of this part 63.* (1) If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of another subpart of 40 CFR part 63, then compliance with any of the requirements in the other subpart of this part 63 that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.11494, at an offsite reloading or cleaning facility subject to § 63.1253(f), as referenced from § 63.2470(e) and Table 4 to subpart VVVVVV, compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of any other subpart of this part 63 constitutes compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of § 63.1253(f)(7)(ii) or (iii). You must identify in your notification of compliance status report required by § 63.11501(b) the subpart of this part 63 with which the owner or operator of the offsite reloading or cleaning facility complies.


(b) *Compliance with subparts of 40 CFR part 60.* If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of subpart VV, DDD, III, NNN, RRR, or YYY in 40 CFR part 60, then compliance with any of the requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, DDD, III, NNN, RRR, or YYY that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.


(c) *Compliance with subparts of 40 CFR part 61.* If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of subpart V, Y, BB, or FF of 40 CFR part 61, then compliance with any of the requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, Y, BB, or FF that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.


(d) *Compliance with 40 CFR parts 260 through 272.* If any part of a CMPU that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272, then compliance with any of the requirements in 40 CFR part 260 through 272 rule that are at least as stringent as the corresponding requirements in this subpart VVVVVV constitutes compliance with this subpart VVVVVV.



---

[N] [74 FR 56041, Oct. 29, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 75757, Dec. 21, 2012]




