# § 63.10031   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in this section that applies to you.


(1) If you are required to (or elect to) monitor Hg emissions continuously, you must meet the electronic reporting requirements of appendix A to this subpart.


(2) If you elect to monitor HCl and/or HF emissions continuously, you must meet the electronic reporting requirements of appendix B to this subpart. Notwithstanding this requirement, if you opt to certify your HCl monitor according to Performance Specification 18 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter and to use Procedure 6 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter for on-going QA of the monitor, then, on and prior to December 31, 2023, report only hourly HCl emissions data and the results of daily calibration drift tests and relative accuracy test audits (RATAs) performed on or prior to that date; keep records of all of the other required certification and QA tests and report them, starting in 2024.


(3) If you elect to monitor filterable PM emissions continuously, you must meet the electronic reporting requirements of appendix C to this subpart. Electronic reporting of hourly PM emissions data shall begin with the later of the first operating hour on or after January 1, 2024; or the first operating hour after completion of the initial PM CEMS correlation test.




(4) Before July 6, 2027, if you elect to demonstrate continuous compliance using a PM CPMS, you must meet the electronic reporting requirements of appendix D to this subpart. Except for IGCC units, on or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS for compliance demonstrations. Electronic reporting of the hourly PM CPMS output shall begin with the later of the first operating hour on or after January 1, 2024; or the first operating hour after completion of the initial performance stack test that establishes the operating limit for the PM CPMS.




(5) If you elect to monitor SO_2_ emission rate continuously as a surrogate for HCl, you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit the following information to EPA (except where it is already required to be reported or has been previously provided under the Acid Rain Program or another emissions reduction program that requires the use of part 75 of this chapter):




(i) Monitoring plan information for the SO_2_ CEMS and for any additional monitoring systems that are required to convert SO_2_ concentrations to units of the emission standard, in accordance with sections 75.62 and 75.64(a)(4) of this chapter;




(ii) Certification, recertification, quality-assurance, and diagnostic test results for the SO_2_ CEMS and for any additional monitoring systems that are required to convert SO_2_ concentrations to units of the emission standard, in accordance with section 75.64(a)(5); and


(iii) Quarterly electronic emissions reports. You must submit an electronic quarterly report within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, starting with a report for the calendar quarter in which the initial 30 boiler operating day performance test begins. Each report must include the following information:


(A) The applicable operating data specified in section 75.57(b) of this chapter;


(B) An hourly data stream for the unadjusted SO_2_ concentration (in ppm, rounded to one decimal place), and separate unadjusted hourly data streams for the other parameters needed to convert the SO_2_ concentrations to units of the standard. (*Note:* If a default moisture value is used in the emission rate calculations, an hourly data stream is not required for moisture; rather, the default value must be reported in the electronic monitoring plan.);


(C) An hourly SO_2_ emission rate data stream, in units of the standard (*i.e.,* lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh, as applicable), calculated according to 40 CFR 63.10007(e) and (f)(1), rounded to the same precision as the emission standard (*i.e.,* with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place), expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged;


(D) The results of all required daily quality-assurance tests of the SO_2_ monitor and the additional monitors used to convert SO_2_ concentration to units of the standard, as specified in appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; and


(E) A compliance certification, which includes a statement, based on reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all SO_2_ emissions from the affected EGUs under this subpart have been correctly and fully monitored, by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete. You must submit such a compliance certification statement in support of each quarterly report.


(b) You must submit semiannual compliance reports according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in 40 CFR 63.9984 (or, if applicable, the extended compliance date approved under 40 CFR 63.6(i)(4)) and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date that occurs at least 180 days after the compliance date that is specified for your source in 40 CFR 63.9984 (or, if applicable, the extended compliance date approved under 40 CFR 63.6(i)(4)).


(2) The first compliance report must be submitted electronically no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in 40 CFR 63.9984 (or, if applicable, the extended compliance date approved under 40 CFR 63.6(i)(4)).


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be submitted electronically no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to part 70 or part 71 of this chapter, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), through the reporting period that ends December 31, 2023, you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(6) The final semiannual compliance report shall cover the reporting period from July 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023. Quarterly compliance reports shall be submitted thereafter, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, starting with a report covering the first calendar quarter of 2024.


(c) The semiannual compliance report must contain the information required in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) The information required by the summary report located in 63.10(e)(3)(vi).


(2) The total fuel use by each affected source subject to an emission limit, for each calendar month within the semiannual reporting period, including, but not limited to, a description of the fuel, whether the fuel has received a non-waste determination by EPA or your basis for concluding that the fuel is not a waste, and the total fuel usage amount with units of measure.


(3) Indicate whether you burned new types of fuel during the reporting period. If you did burn new types of fuel you must include the date of the performance test where that fuel was in use.


(4) Include the date of the most recent tune-up for each EGU. The date of the tune-up is the date the tune-up provisions specified in § 63.10021(e)(6) and (7) were completed.


(5) Should you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 for your EGU (only allowed before January 2, 2025), for each instance of startup or shutdown you shall:






(i) Include the maximum clean fuel storage capacity and the maximum hourly heat input that can be provided for each clean fuel determined according to the requirements of § 63.10032(f).


(ii) Include the information required to be monitored, collected, or recorded according to the requirements of § 63.10020(e).


(iii)—(v) [Reserved]


(6) You must report emergency bypass information annually from EGUs with LEE status.


(7) A summary of the results of the annual performance tests and documentation of any operating limits that were reestablished during the test, if applicable. If you are conducting stack tests once every 3 years to maintain LEE status, consistent with § 63.10006(b), the date of each stack test conducted during the previous 3 years, a comparison of emission level you achieved in each stack test conducted during the previous 3 years to the 50 percent emission limit threshold required in § 63.10005(h)(1)(i), and a statement as to whether there have been any operational changes since the last stack test that could increase emissions.


(8) A certification.


(9) If you have a deviation from any emission limit, work practice standard, or operating limit, you must also submit a brief description of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, emissions point identification, and the cause of the deviation.


(10) If you had any process or control equipment malfunction(s) during the reporting period, you must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the semiannual reporting period which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded.


(d) Excess emissions and deviation reporting. For EGUs whose owners or operators rely on a CMS to comply with an emissions or operating limit, the semiannual compliance reports described in paragraph (c) of this section must include the excess emissions and monitor downtime summary report described in 40 CFR 63.10(e)(3)(vi). However, starting with the first calendar quarter of 2024, reporting of the information under 40 CFR 63.10(e)(3)(vi) (and under paragraph (e)(3)(v), if the applicable excess emissions and/or monitor downtime threshold is exceeded) is discontinued for all CMS, and you must, instead, include in the quarterly compliance reports described in paragraph (g) of this section the applicable data elements in section 13 of appendix E to this subpart for any “deviation” (as defined in 40 CFR 63.10042 and elsewhere in this subpart) that occurred during the calendar quarter. If there were no deviations, you must include a statement to that effect in the quarterly compliance report.


(e) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to part 70 or part 71 of this chapter must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, or two quarterly compliance reports covering the appropriate calendar half pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report(s) includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report(s) satisfies any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. Submission of the compliance report(s) does not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permit authority.


(f) For each performance stack test completed prior to January 1, 2024, (including 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day Hg LEE demonstration tests and PM tests to establish operating limits for PM CPMS), you must submit a PDF test report in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, no later than 60 days after the date on which the testing is completed. For each test completed on or after January 1, 2024, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(g), submit the applicable reference method information in sections 17 through 31 of appendix E to this subpart along with the quarterly compliance report for the calendar quarter in which the test was completed.


(1) For each RATA of an Hg, HCl, HF, or SO_2_ monitoring system completed prior to January 1, 2024, and for each PM CEMS correlation test, each relative response audit (RRA) and each response correlation audit (RCA) of a PM CEMS completed prior to that date, you must submit a PDF test report in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, no later than 60 days after the date on which the test is completed. For each SO_2_ or Hg RATA completed on or after January 1, 2024, you must submit the applicable reference method information in sections 17 through 31 of appendix E to this subpart prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly emissions report. For HCl or HF RATAs, and for correlation tests, RRAs, and RCAs of PM CEMS that are completed on or after January 1, 2024, submit the appendix E reference method information together with the summarized electronic test results, in accordance with section 11.4 of appendix B to this subpart or section 7.2.4 of appendix C to this part, as applicable.




(2) If, for a particular EGU or a group of EGUs serving a common stack, you have elected to demonstrate compliance using a PM CEMS, an approved HAP metals CMS, or a PM CPMS (on or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS for compliance demonstrations, unless it is for an IGCC unit), you must submit quarterly PDF reports in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, which include all of the 30-boiler operating day rolling average emission rates derived from the CEMS data or the 30-boiler operating day rolling average responses derived from the PM CPMS data (as applicable). The quarterly reports are due within 60 days after the reporting periods ending on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th, and December 31st. Submission of these quarterly reports in PDF files shall end with the report that covers the fourth calendar quarter of 2023. Beginning with the first calendar quarter of 2024, the compliance averages shall no longer be reported separately, but shall be incorporated into the quarterly compliance reports described in paragraph (g) of this section. In addition to the compliance averages for PM CEMS, PM CPMS, and/or HAP metals CMS, the quarterly compliance reports described in paragraph (g) of this section must also include the 30- (or, if applicable 90-) boiler operating day rolling average emission rates for Hg, HCl, HF, and/or SO_2_, if you have elected to (or are required to) continuously monitor these pollutants. Further, if your EGU or common stack is in an averaging plan, your quarterly compliance reports must identify all of the EGUs or common stacks in the plan and must include all of the 30- (or 90-) group boiler operating day rolling weighted average emission rates (WAERs) for the averaging group.






(3) [Reserved]


(4) You must submit semiannual compliance reports as required under paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, ending with a report covering the semiannual period from July 1 through December 31, 2023, and Notifications of Compliance Status as required under section 63.10030(e), as PDF files. Quarterly compliance reports shall be submitted in XML format thereafter, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, starting with a report covering the first calendar quarter of 2024.


(5) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (f) introductory text and (f)(1) through (4) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of an EGU, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraphs (f) introductory text and (f)(1) through (4) of this section in paper format.


(6) All reports and notifications described in paragraphs (f) introductory text, (f)(1), (2), and (4) of this section shall be submitted to the EPA in the specified format and at the specified frequency, using the ECMPS Client Tool. Each PDF version of a stack test report, CEMS RATA report, PM CEMS correlation test report, RRA report, and RCA report must include sufficient information to assess compliance and to demonstrate that the reference method testing was done properly. Note that EPA will continue to accept, as necessary, PDF reports that are being phased out at the end of 2023, if the submission deadlines for those reports extend beyond December 31, 2023. The following data elements must be entered into the ECMPS Client Tool at the time of submission of each PDF file:


(i) The facility name, physical address, mailing address (if different from the physical address), and county;


(ii) The ORIS code (or equivalent ID number assigned by EPA's Clean Air Markets Division (CAMD)) and the Facility Registry System (FRS) ID;


(iii) The EGU (or EGUs) to which the report applies. Report the EGU IDs as they appear in the CAMD Business System;


(iv) If any of the EGUs in paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section share a common stack, indicate which EGUs share the stack. If emissions data are monitored and reported at the common stack according to part 75 of this chapter, report the ID number of the common stack as it is represented in the electronic monitoring plan required under § 75.53 of this chapter;


(v) If any of the EGUs described in paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section are in an averaging plan under § 63.10009, indicate which EGUs are in the plan and whether it is a 30- or 90-day averaging plan;


(vi) The identification of each emission point to which the report applies. An “emission point” is a point at which source effluent is released to the atmosphere, and is either a dedicated stack that serves one of the EGUs identified in paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section or a common stack that serves two or more of those EGUs. To identify an emission point, associate it with the EGU or stack ID in the CAMD Business system or the electronic monitoring plan (*e.g.,* “Unit 2 stack,” “common stack CS001,” or “multiple stack MS001”);


(vii) An indication of the type of PDF report or notification being submitted;


(viii) The pollutant(s) being addressed in the report;


(ix) The reporting period being covered by the report (if applicable);


(x) The relevant test method that was performed for a performance test (if applicable);


(xi) The date the performance test was completed (if applicable) and the test number (if applicable); and

(xii) The responsible official's name, title, and phone number.


(g) Starting with a report for the first calendar quarter of 2024, you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit quarterly electronic compliance reports. Each quarterly compliance report shall include the applicable data elements in sections 2 through 13 of appendix E to this subpart. For each stack test summarized in the compliance report, you must also submit the applicable reference method information in sections 17 through 31 of appendix E to this subpart. The compliance reports and associated appendix E information must be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter.


(h) On and after January 1, 2024, initial Notifications of Compliance Status (if any) shall be submitted in accordance with 40 CFR 63.9(h)(2)(ii), as PDF files, using the ECMPS Client Tool. The applicable data elements in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with each Notification.


(i) If you have elected to use paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in 40 CFR 63.10042 (only allowed before January 2, 2025), then, for startup and shutdown incidents that occur on or prior to December 31, 2023, you must include the information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5) in the semiannual compliance report, in a PDF file. If you have elected to use paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in 40 CFR 63.10042, then, for startup and shutdown event(s) that occur on or after January 1, 2024, you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit the information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5) and 40 CFR 63.10020(e) along with each quarterly compliance report, in a PDF file, starting with a report for the first calendar quarter of 2024. The applicable data elements in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with each startup and shutdown report.






(j) If you elect to use a certified PM CEMS to monitor PM emissions continuously to demonstrate compliance with this subpart and have begun recording valid data from the PM CEMS prior to November 9, 2020, you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit a detailed report of your PS 11 correlation test (see appendix B to part 60 of this chapter) in a PDF file no later than 60 days after that date. For a correlation test completed on or after November 9, 2020, but prior to January 1, 2024, you must submit the PDF report no later than 60 days after the date on which the test is completed. For a correlation test completed on or after January 1, 2024, you must submit the PDF report according to section 7.2.4 of appendix C to this subpart. The applicable data elements in paragraph (f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with the PDF report.




(k) If you elect to demonstrate compliance using a PM CPMS (on or after July 6, 2027 you may not demonstrate compliance with filterable PM emissions limits using a PM CPMS, unless it is for an IGCC unit) or an approved HAP metals CMS, you must submit quarterly reports of your QA/QC activities (*e.g.,* calibration checks, performance audits), in a PDF file, beginning with a report for the first quarter of 2024, if the PM CPMS or HAP metals CMS is used for the compliance demonstration in that quarter. Otherwise, submit a report for the first calendar quarter in which the PM CPMS or HAP metals CMS is used to demonstrate compliance. These reports are due no later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter. The applicable data elements in paragraph (f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with the PDF report.





---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23404, Apr. 19, 2012; 79 FR 68791, Nov. 19, 2014; 79 FR 68799, Nov. 19, 2014; 80 FR 15514, Mar. 24, 2015; 81 FR 20188, Apr. 6, 2016; 82 FR 16739, Apr. 6, 2017; 83 FR 30883, July 2, 2018; 85 FR 55760, Sept. 9, 2020; 89 FR 38568, May 7, 2024]




