# § 946.12   State program provisions and amendments not approved.

(a) The following provisions are disapproved effective April 22, 1983: Paragraphs 3.01(a)(1), 3.01(a)(4) and 3.01 (a)(5) of the Virginia Coal Surface Mining and Reclamation Regulations for Operations Disturbing Two Surface Acres or Less.


(b) The following provisions of the coal surface mining reclamation regulations promulgated pursuant to Chapter 19, Title 45.1 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as submitted on November 8, 1985, as hereby disapproved: 


(1) The definition of “affected area” in section 480-03-19.700.5 to the extent that it could be interpreted as excluding all public roads with more than incidental public use; 


(2) Section 480-03-19.761.11(h), which prohibits mining on certain Federal lands, in its entirety; and 


(c)(1) We are not approving the words, “or the UCP revision current at the time of issuance of the letter of credit,” in the definition of “Collateral bond,” paragraph (d), at 4 VAC 25-130-700.5; and


(2) We are not approving the words, “or revision current at the time of issuance of the letter of credit” at 4 VAC 25-130-800.21(c)(1).


(d) We are not approving the following portions of provisions of the proposed program amendment that Virginia submitted on June 12, 2015:


(1) We are deferring our decision on the removal of 4 VAC 25-130-801.13(d) of the self-bonding regulations until all previously approved self-bonds have either been lawfully released based on an accurate determination that the permittee has satisfactorily completed all reclamation obligations or replaced with an adequate substitute financial assurance under the approved Virginia regulatory program.


(2) We are deferring our decision on the provisions of 45.1-270.4.B and C of the Virginia Code that address reclamation tax revenue to the extent that they impose a cap of $20 million. We are approving the continuing collection of the tax beyond $2 million but deferring our decision on the cessation of the tax collection when the Fund reaches $20 million until such time as Virginia either takes legislative action to remove the cap from this statute or demonstrates that $20 million is a sufficient amount of money to complete the reclamation, including water treatment, on any site covered by the Fund.



---

[N] [50 FR 32851, Aug. 15, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 42554, Nov. 25, 1986; 52 FR 26973, July 17, 1987; 66 FR 43483, Aug. 20, 2001; 88 FR 85850, Dec. 11, 2023]




