# ยง 904.111   Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve (NRMR).

(a) *Purpose of reserve.* The LHA shall establish and maintain a separate NRMR for each home, using a portion of the homebuyer's monthly payment. The purpose of the NRMR is to provide funds for the nonroutine maintenance of the home, which consists of the infrequent and costly items of maintenance and replacement shown on the Nonroutine Maintenance Schedule for the home (see paragraph (b) of this section). Such maintenance may include the replacement of dwelling equipment (such as range and refrigerator), replacement of roof, exterior painting, major repairs to heating and plumbing systems, etc. The NRMR shall not be used for nonroutine maintenance of common property, or for nonroutine maintenance relating to the home to the extent such maintenance is attributable to the Homebuyer's negligence or to defective materials or workmanship. 


(b) *Amount of reserve.* The amount of the monthly payments to be set aside for NRMR shall be determined by the LHA, with the approval of HUD, on the basis of the Nonroutine Maintenance Schedule showing the amount likely to be needed for nonroutine maintenance of the home during the term of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement, taking into consideration the type of construction and dwelling equipment. This Schedule shall (1) list each item of nonroutine maintenance (e.g., range, refrigerator, plumbing, heating system, roofing, tile flooring, exterior painting, etc.), (2) show for each listed item the estimated frequency of maintenance or useful life before replacement, the estimated cost of maintenance or replacement (including installation) for each occasion, and the annual reserve requirement, and (3) show the total reserve requirements for all the listed items, on an annual and a monthly basis. This Schedule shall be prepared by the LHA and approved by HUD as part of the submission required to determine the financial feasibility of the Project. The Schedule shall be revised after approval of the working drawings and specifications, and shall thereafter be reexamined annually in the light of changing economic conditions and experience. 


(c) *Charges to NRMR.* (1) The LHA shall provide the nonroutine maintenance necessary for the home and the cost thereof shall be funded as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Such maintenance may be provided by the homebuyer but only pursuant to a prior written agreement with the LHA covering the nature and scope of the work and the amount of credit the homebuyer is to receive. The amount of any credit shall, upon completion of the work, be credited to the homebuyer's EHPA and charged as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(2) The cost of nonroutine maintenance shall be charged to the NRMR for the home except that (i) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to the fault or negligence of the homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the homebuyer's EHPA after consultation with the HBA if the hombuyer disagrees, and (ii) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to defective materials or workmanship not covered by warranty, or even though covered by warranty if not paid for thereunder through no fault or negligence of the homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the appropriate operating expense account of the Project. 


(3) In the event the amount charged against the NRMR exceeds the balance therein, the difference (deficit) shall be made up from continuing monthly credits to the NRMR based upon the homebuyer's monthly payments. If there is still a deficit when the homebuyer acquires title, the homebuyer shall pay such deficit at settlement (see paragraph (d)(2) of this section). 


(d) *Transfer of NRMR.* (1) In the event the Homebuyer's Ownership Opportunity Agreement is terminated, the homebuyer shall not receive any balance or be required to pay any deficit in the NRMR. When a subsequent homebuyer moves in, the NRMR shall continue to be applicable to the home in the same amount as if the preceding homebuyer had continued in occupancy. 


(2) In the event the homebuyer purchases the home, and there remains a balance in the NRMR, the LHA shall pay such balance to the homebuyer at settlement. In the event the homebuyer purchases and there is a deficit in the NRMR, the homebuyer shall pay such deficit to the LHA at settlement. 


(e) *Investment of excess.* (1) When the aggregate amount of the NRMR balances for all the homes exceeds the estimated reserve requirements for 90 days the LHA shall invest the excess in federally insured savings accounts, federally insured credit unions, and/or securities approved by HUD. Income earned on the investment of such funds shall be prorated and credited to each homebuyer's NRMR in proportion to the amount in each reserve account. 


(2) Periodically, but not less often than semi-annually, the LHA shall prepare a statement showing (i) the aggregate amount of all NRMR balances, (ii) the aggregate amount of investments (savings accounts and/or securities) held for the account of the NRMRs, and (iii) the aggregate uninvested balance of the NRMRs. A copy of this statement shall be made available to any authorized representative of the HBA. 




