# ยง 201.12   Recordation of certain contracts by cable systems located outside of the forty-eight contiguous States.

(a) Written, nonprofit contracts providing for the equitable sharing of costs of videotapes and their transfer, as identified in 17 U.S.C. 111(e)(2), will be filed in the Copyright Office Licensing Section by recordation upon payment of the prescribed fee. The document submitted for recordation shall meet the following requirements:


(1) It shall be an original instrument of contract; or it shall be a copy of an original, accompanied by a certification that shall include a legally binding signature, including an electronic signature as defined in 15 U.S.C. 7006, of at least one of the parties to the contract, or an authorized representative of that party, that the reproduction is a true copy;


(2) It shall bear the signatures of all persons identified as parties to the contract, or of their authorized agents or representatives;


(3) It shall be complete on its face, and shall include any schedules, appendixes, or other attachments referred to in the instrument as being part of it; and


(4) It shall be clearly identified, in its body or a covering transmittal letter, as being submitted for recordation under 17 U.S.C. 111(e).


(b) The fee for recordation of a document is prescribed in ยง 201.3(e).


(c) The date of recordation is the date when all of the elements required for recordation, including the prescribed fee, have been received in the Copyright Office. A document is filed in the Copyright Office and a filing in the Copyright Office takes place on the date of recordation. After recordation the document is returned to the sender with a certificate of recordation.



---

[N] [42 FR 53961, Oct. 4, 1977, as amended at 56 FR 59885, Nov. 26, 1991; 64 FR 29521, June 1, 1999; 82 FR 9357, Feb. 6, 2017; 85 FR 19667, Apr. 8, 2020; 86 FR 32642, June 22, 2021]




