# ยง 431.400   Basis and purpose.

(a) *Basis.* This subpart implements provisions in section 1115(d) of the Act, which requires all of the following:


(1) The establishment of application requirements for Medicaid and CHIP demonstration projects that provide for:


(i) A process for public notice and comment at the State level, including public hearings, sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input and that does not impose requirements that are in addition to, or duplicative of, requirements imposed under the Administrative Procedure Act, or requirements that are unreasonable or unnecessarily burdensome with respect to State compliance.


(ii) Requirements relating to all of the following:


(A) The goals of the program to be implemented or renewed under the demonstration project.


(B) Expected State and Federal costs and coverage projections of the State demonstration project.


(C) Specific plans of the State to ensure the demonstration project will be in compliance with titles XIX or XXI of the Act.


(2) A process for public notice and comment after a demonstration application is received by the Secretary that is sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input.


(3) A process for the submission of reports to the Secretary by a State relating to the implementation of a demonstration project.


(4) Periodic evaluation of demonstration projects by the Secretary.


(b) *Purpose.* This subpart sets forth a process for application and review of Medicaid and CHIP demonstration projects that provides for transparency and public participation.




