# § 412.210   Puerto Rico rates for Federal fiscal years 1989 through 2003.

(a) *General rule.* (1) CMS determines the Puerto Rico adjusted prospective payment rate for inpatient operating costs for each inpatient hospital discharge occurring in Federal fiscal years 1989 through 2003 that involves inpatient hospital services of a hospital in Puerto Rico subject to the prospective payment system for which payment may be made under Medicare Part A.


(2) The rate is determined for hospitals located in large urban, other urban, or rural areas within Puerto Rico, as described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(b) *Geographic classifications.* (1) For purposes of this section, the definitions set forth in § 412.208(f)(1) apply.


(2) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1988, a hospital located in a rural county adjacent to one or more urban areas is deemed to be located in an urban area and receives the Federal payment amount for the urban area to which the greatest number of workers in the county commute if the rural county would otherwise be considered part of an urban area, under the standards for designating MSAs if the commuting rates used in determining outlying counties were determined on the basis of the aggregate number of resident workers who commute to (and, if applicable under the standards, from) the central county or central counties of all adjacent MSAs.


(3) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1988, for hospitals that consist of two or more separately located inpatient hospital facilities, the national adjusted prospective payment rate for inpatient operating costs is based on the geographic location of the hospital at which the discharge occurs.


(c) *Updating previous standardized amounts.* CMS computes separate average standardized amounts for hospitals in large urban, other urban, and rural areas within Puerto Rico equal to the respective average standardized amount computed for fiscal year 1988 under § 412.208(e)—


(1) Increased by the applicable percentage changes determined under § 412.63 (g) and (h); and


(2) Reduced by a proportion equal to the proportion (estimated by CMS) of the total amount of prospective payments that are additional payment amounts to hospitals located in Puerto Rico attributable to outlier cases under subpart F of this part.


(d) *Computing Puerto Rico rates for large urban, other urban, and rural hospitals.* For each discharge classified within a DRG, CMS establishes for the fiscal year a Puerto Rico prospective payment rate for inpatient operating costs as follows:


(1) For hospitals located in a large urban or other urban area in Puerto Rico, the rate equals the product of—


(i) The average standardized amount (computed under paragraph (c) of this section) for the fiscal year for hospitals located in a large urban or other urban area; and


(ii) The weighting factor determined under § 412.60(b) for that DRG.


(2) For hospitals located in a rural area in Puerto Rico, the rate equals the product of—


(i) The average standardized amount (computed under paragraph (c) of this section) for the fiscal year for hospitals located in a rural area; and


(ii) The weighting factor (determined under § 412.60(b)) for that DRG.


(e) *Adjusting for different area wage levels.* CMS adjusts the proportion (as estimated by CMS from time to time) of Puerto Rico rates computed under paragraph (d) of this section that is attributable to wages and labor-related costs for area differences in hospital wage levels by a factor (established by CMS) reflecting the relative hospital wage level in the geographic area (that is, urban or rural area as determined under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section) of the hospital compared to the Peurto Rico average hospital wage level.



---

[N] [52 FR 33058, Sept. 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 38533, Sept. 30, 1988; 57 FR 39825, Sept. 1, 1992; 62 FR 46030, Aug. 29, 1997; 69 FR 49247, Aug. 11, 2004]




