# ยง 60.5509   What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, the GHG standards included in this subpart apply to any steam generating unit or IGCC that commenced construction after January 8, 2014, or commenced modification or reconstruction after June 18, 2014, that meets the relevant applicability conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. The GHG standards included in this subpart also apply to any stationary combustion turbine that commenced construction after January 8, 2014, but on or before May 23, 2023, or commenced reconstruction after June 18, 2014, but on or before May 23, 2023, that meets the relevant applicability conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Has a base load rating greater than 260 gigajoules per hour (GJ/h) (250 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/h)) of fossil fuel (either alone or in combination with any other fuel); and


(2) Serves a generator or generators capable of selling greater than 25 megawatts (MW) of electricity to a utility power distribution system.


(b) You are not subject to the requirements of this subpart if your affected EGU meets any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) Your EGU is a steam generating unit or IGCC whose annual net-electric sales have never exceeded one-third of its potential electric output or 219,000 megawatt-hour (MWh), whichever is greater, and is currently subject to a federally enforceable permit condition limiting annual net-electric sales to no more than one-third of its potential electric output or 219,000 MWh, whichever is greater.


(2) Your EGU is capable of deriving 50 percent or more of the heat input from non-fossil fuel at the base load rating and is also subject to a federally enforceable permit condition limiting the annual capacity factor for all fossil fuels combined of 10 percent (0.10) or less.


(3) Your EGU is a combined heat and power unit that is subject to a federally enforceable permit condition limiting annual net-electric sales to no more than either 219,000 MWh or the product of the design efficiency and the potential electric output, whichever is greater.


(4) Your EGU serves a generator along with other steam generating unit(s), IGCC, or stationary combustion turbine(s) where the effective generation capacity (determined based on a prorated output of the base load rating of each steam generating unit, IGCC, or stationary combustion turbine) is 25 MW or less.


(5) Your EGU is a municipal waste combustor that is subject to subpart Eb of this part.


(6) Your EGU is a commercial or industrial solid waste incineration unit that is subject to subpart CCCC of this part.


(7) Your EGU is a steam generating unit or IGCC that undergoes a modification resulting in an hourly increase in CO_2_ emissions (mass per hour) of 10 percent or less (2 significant figures). Modified units that are not subject to the requirements of this subpart pursuant to this paragraph (b)(7) continue to be existing units under section 111 with respect to CO_2_ emissions standards.


(8) Your EGU is a stationary combustion turbine that is not capable of combusting natural gas (*e.g.,* not connected to a natural gas pipeline).


(9) Your EGU derives greater than 50 percent of the heat input from an industrial process that does not produce any electrical or mechanical output or useful thermal output that is used outside the affected EGU.


(10) Your EGU is subject to subpart TTTTa of this part.



---

[N] [89 FR 40028, May 9, 2024]




