# § 721.4568   Methylpolychloro aliphatic ketone.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as methylpolychloro aliphatic ketone (PMN No. P-91-1321) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). The employer is able to demonstrate that the gloves selected for handling P-91-1321 provide an impervious barrier to prevent dermal exposure during normal and expected duration and conditions of exposure within the work area by testing the material used to make the gloves and the construction of the gloves to establish that they will be impervious for the expected duration and conditions of exposure. The testing must subject the gloves to the expected conditions of exposure, including the likely combinations of chemical substances to which the gloves may be exposed in the work area. There must be no permeation of P-91-1321 greater than 0.017 mg/cm
2/min after 8 h of testing in accordance with the most recent versions of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739 “Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases” and ASTM F1194 “Guide for Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation Testing of Protective Clothing Materials.” The employer must submit all test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval of the test results for each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. Neoprene gloves with a minimum thickness of 1.50 mm have already been tested and found to satisfy the terms of this rule. Nitrile gloves with a minimum thickness of 0.61 mm also satisfy the terms of this rule, as long as the duration of exposure to P-91-1321 is less than 2 h per work shift. If the duration of exposure is longer than 2 h, nitrile gloves shall be discarded and replaced every 2 h. Unless otherwise indicated, gloves contaminated with P-91-1321 shall be disposed of after every work shift. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(v), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (g) and (q). 


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (d) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [58 FR 32239, June 8, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993]




