# § 11.319   Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement as Officer in Charge of a Navigational Watch of vessels of less than 500 GT (operational level).

(a) To qualify for an STCW endorsement as Officer in Charge of a Navigational Watch (OICNW), an applicant must—


(1) Provide evidence of seagoing service as follows:


(i) Provide evidence of 36 months of service in the deck department on vessels operating in oceans, near-coastal waters, and/or Great Lakes. Service on inland waters, bays, or sounds that are navigable waters of the United States may be substituted for up to 50 percent of the required service. Experience gained in the engine department may be creditable for up to 3 months of the service requirements; or


(ii) Provide evidence of not less than 12 months of seagoing service as part of an approved training program that includes onboard training that meets the requirements of Section A-II/1 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see § 11.102).


(2) Provide evidence of having performed during the required seagoing service, bridge watchkeeping duties, under the supervision of an officer holding the STCW endorsement as Master, Chief Mate, or OICNW, for a period of not less than 6 months. The Coast Guard will accept service on vessels as Boatswain, Able Seafarer, or quartermaster while holding the appropriate deck watchkeeping rating endorsement, which may be accepted on a two-for-one basis to a maximum allowable substitution of 3 months (6 months of experience equals 3 months of creditable service);


(3) Provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/1 of the STCW Code; and


(4) Provide evidence of having satisfactorily completed approved training in the following subject areas:


(i) Medical First-aid Provider.


(ii) Radar Observer, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.


(iii) Watchkeeping, including COLREGS and IMO standard marine communication phrases (SMCP).


(iv) Basic and Advanced Firefighting in accordance with § 11.303.


(v) Proficiency in Survival Craft and Rescue Boats other than Fast Rescue Boats (PSC) or Proficiency in Survival Craft and Rescue Boats other than Lifeboats and Fast Rescue Boats (PSC-Limited).


(vi) Visual signaling.


(vii) Bridge resource management;


(viii) ARPA, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.


(ix) GMDSS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.


(x) ECDIS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.


(b) For a renewal of an STCW endorsement as OICNW of vessels of less than 500 GT to be valid on or after January 1, 2017, each candidate must provide the following:


(1) Evidence of meeting the standard of competence in leadership and teamworking skills.


(2) Completion of approved training in ECDIS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.


(c) The Coast Guard may exempt an applicant from meeting any individual knowledge, understanding, and proficiency required in Section A-II/1 of the STCW Code. These exemptions must be approved by the Coast Guard based upon vessel type. Under these circumstances, the credential may include a corresponding limitation.


(d) Seafarers with one of the following national officer endorsements are eligible to apply for this endorsement upon completion of the requirements in the following table:



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77909, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2014-0688, 79 FR 58276, Sept. 29, 2014; USCG-2018-0874, 84 FR 30882, June 28, 2019; USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93074, Nov. 25, 2024; 89 FR 105473, Dec. 27, 2024]





