# ยง 158.1703   Application categories.

The following terms are defined for purposes of this subpart.


*Bait treatment* means a pesticide product intended to be ingested by the target pest that kills or controls an invertebrate pest such as ants, cockroaches, or termites. This is normally through the insect feeding on the product directly, but may also include products which the target will contact and later ingest during grooming/cleaning. The attractiveness of these products is through the use of a palatable food base, however they may also incorporate an attractant (e.g., pheromone) which is intended to attract the target pests over a greater distance.


*Soil-applied termiticides* means pesticide products that are applied to the soil beneath and/or adjacent to the structure, pre- or post-construction, to kill or control termites. Treatments can be preventive (*i.e.,* to provide structural protection before a termite infestation is present) or remedial (*i.e.,* to kill and control a termite infestation when present).


*Spatial repellents* include treatments of both indoor and outdoor sites where the product is applied into the air rather than onto a surface or the skin in order to drive away insects or other arthropods from that space. They are intended to repel the target pest through the dispersal of pesticide into the atmosphere of a room or other open space.


*Structural protection* means the prevention of termite or other wood-destroying pest activity in an entire structure as the result of an application of a pesticide product.


*Wood protectants and other non-structural protection* means the prevention of termite or other wood-destroying pest activity only to the treated wood (or other treated material), whereas structural protectants, however applied, claim to prevent damage to the structure.






