# § 4.64   Electronic passenger and crew member departure manifests.

(a) *Definitions.* The definitions contained in § 4.7b(a) also apply for purposes of this section.


(b) *Electronic departure manifest*—(1) *General requirement.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an appropriate official of each commercial vessel departing from the United States to any port or place outside the United States must transmit to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) an electronic passenger departure manifest and an electronic crew member departure manifest. Each electronic departure manifest:


(i) Must be transmitted to CPB at the place and time specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section by means of an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP. If the transmission is in US EDIFACT format, the passenger manifest and the crew member manifest must be transmitted separately; and


(ii) Must set forth the information specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(2) *Place and time for submission*—(i) *General requirement.* The appropriate official must transmit each electronic departure manifest required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the CBP Data Center, CBP Headquarters, no later than 60 minutes before the vessel departs from the United States.


(ii) *Amended crew member manifests.* If a crew member boards the vessel after submission of the manifest under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the appropriate official must transmit amended manifest information to CBP reflecting the data required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for the additional crew member. The amended manifest information must be transmitted to the CBP Data Center, CBP Headquarters, no later than 12 hours after the vessel has departed from the United States.


(3) *Information required.* Each electronic departure manifest required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must contain the following information for all passengers and crew members, except that the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv), (ix), (xi), (xv), and (xvi), of this section must be included on the manifest only on or after October 4, 2005:


(i) Full name (last, first, and, if available, middle);


(ii) Date of birth;


(iii) Gender (F = female; M = male);


(iv) Citizenship;


(v) Status on board the vessel;


(vi) Travel document type (*e.g.,* P = passport; A = alien registration card);


(vii) Passport number, if a passport is required;


(viii) Passport country of issuance, if a passport is required;


(ix) Passport expiration date, if a passport is required;


(x) Alien registration number, where applicable;


(xi) Passenger Name Record locator, if available;


(xii) Departure port code (CBP port code);


(xiii) Port/place of final arrival (foreign port code);


(xiv) Vessel name;


(xv) Vessel country of registry/flag;


(xvi) International Maritime Organization number or other official number of the vessel;


(xvii) Voyage number (applicable only for multiple departures on the same calendar day); and


(xviii) Date of vessel departure.


(c) *Exceptions.* The electronic departure manifest requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section is subject to the following conditions:


(1) No passenger or crew member departure manifest is required if the departing commercial vessel is operating as a ferry;


(2) If the departing commercial vessel is not transporting passengers, only a crew member departure manifest is required;


(3) No passenger departure manifest is required for active duty U.S. military personnel on board a departing Department of Defense commercial chartered vessel.


(d) *Carrier responsibility for comparing information collected with travel document.* The carrier collecting the information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is responsible for comparing the travel document presented by the passenger or crew member with the travel document information it is transmitting to CBP in accordance with this section in order to ensure that the information is correct, the document appears to be valid for travel purposes, and the passenger or crew member is the person to whom the travel document was issued.


(e) *Sharing of manifest information.* Information contained in passenger and crew member manifests that is received by CBP electronically may, upon request, be shared with other Federal agencies for the purpose of protecting national security. CBP may also share such information as otherwise authorized by law.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 05-12, 70 FR 17851, Apr. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 07-64, 72 FR 48342, Aug. 23, 2007]




