# ยง 989.91   Suspension or termination.

(a) The Secretary may, at any time, terminate the provisions of this amended subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.


(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this amended subpart, whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.


(c) No less than five crop years and no later than six crop years after the effective date of this amendment, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by producers. Subsequent referenda to ascertain continuance shall be conducted every six crop years thereafter. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any crop year in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this part is not favored by a two-thirds majority of voting producers, or a two-thirds majority of volume represented thereby, who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of grapes used in the production of raisins in the State of California. Such termination shall be announced on or before the end of the crop year.


(d) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this amended subpart at the end of any crop year whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of the producers who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of grapes used in the production of raisins in the State of California: *Provided,* That such majority have, during such representative period, produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of such grapes produced for market within said State; but such termination shall be effective only if announced before July 31 of the then current crop year.


(e) The provisions of this amended subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.



---

[N] [25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 41 FR 32417, Aug. 3, 1976; 83 FR 53972, Oct. 26, 2018]




