# § 721.10931   Kaolin, reaction products with polysiloxane (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as kaolin, reaction products with polysiloxane (PMN P-14-413) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(4), (a)(6) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. A NIOSH-certified powered air purifying full facepiece respirator with an Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 1,000 equipped with an appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or substance specific) cartridge in combination with HEPA filters or a NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied air respirator equipped with a full facepiece meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4).


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.1 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), through (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d), and (f), through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 81265, Nov. 17, 2016]




