# § 625.8   Applications for Disaster Unemployment Assistance.

(a) *Initial application.* An initial application for DUA shall be filed by an individual with the State agency of the applicable State within 30 days after the announcement date of the major disaster as the result of which the individual became unemployed, and on a form prescribed by the Secretary which shall be furnished to the individual by the State agency. An initial application filed later than 30 days after the announcement date of the major disaster shall be accepted as timely by the State agency if the applicant had good cause for the late filing, but in no event shall an initial application be accepted by the State agency if it is filed after the expiration of the Disaster Assistance Period. If the 30th day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday in the major disaster area, the 30-day time limit shall be extended to the next business day. 


(b) *Weekly applications.* Applications for DUA for weeks of unemployment shall be filed with respect to the individual's applicable State at the times and in the manner as claims for regular compensation are filed under the applicable State law, and on forms prescribed by the Secretary which shall be furnished to the individual by the State agency. 


(c) *Filing in person.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, all applications for DUA, including initial applications, shall be filed in person. 


(2) Whenever an individual has good cause for not filing any application for DUA in person, the application shall be filed at such time, in such place, and in such a manner as directed by the State agency and in accordance with this part and procedures prescribed by the Secretary. 


(d) *IBPP.* The “Interstate Benefit Payment Plan” shall apply, where appropriate, to an individual filing applications for DUA. 


(e) *Wage combining.* The “Interstate Arrangement for Combining Employment and Wages” (part 616 of this chapter) shall apply, where appropriate, to an individual filing applications for DUA: *Provided,* That the “Paying State” shall be the applicable State for the individual as prescribed in § 625.12. 


(f) *Procedural requirements.* (1) The procedures for reporting and filing applications for DUA shall be consistent with this part, and with the Secretary's “Standard for Claim Filing, Claimant Reporting, Job Finding and Employment Services,” *Employment Security Manual.* Part V, sections 5000 *et seq.* (appendix A of this part), insofar as such standard is not inconsistent with this part.


(2) The provisions of the applicable State law which apply hereunder to applications for and the payment of DUA shall be applied consistent with the requirements of title III of the Social Security Act and the Federal Unemployment Tax Act which are pertinent in the case of regular compensation, including but not limited to those standards and requirements specifically referred to in the provisions of this part.



---

[N] [42 FR 46712, Sept. 16, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984; 55 FR 555, Jan. 5, 1990] 




