# § 12.37   Comprehensive assessment.

A comprehensive assessment must include:


(a) *Review of prior reports and analyses of record.* The independent consultant team must review and consider all relevant reports on the safety of the development made by or written under the direction of Federal or state agencies, submitted under Commission regulations, or made by other consultants. The licensee must provide to the independent consultant team all information, reports, and analyses of record necessary to fulfill the requirements of this section.


(1) In addition to the requirements of § 12.35(a), the independent consultant team must have a full understanding of the risk associated with the project works.


(2) The independent consultant team shall perform a detailed review of the as-built drawings; monitoring data; and the methods, assumptions, calculations, results, and conclusions of the analyses of record pertaining to:


(i) Geology and seismicity;


(ii) Hydrology and hydraulics;


(iii) Stability and structural integrity of project works; and


(iv) Any other analyses relevant to the safety, stability, and operation of project works.


(b) *Physical field inspection.* The independent consultant team must perform a physical field inspection that complies with § 12.35(b).


(c) *Review of surveillance and monitoring plan and data.* The independent consultant team must perform a review of surveillance and monitoring plan and data that complies with § 12.35(c).


(d) *Review of dam and public safety programs.* The independent consultant team must perform a review of dam and public safety programs that complies with § 12.35(d).


(e) *Supporting Technical Information Document.* The comprehensive assessment shall include a review of the Supporting Technical Information Document.


(f) *Potential failure mode analysis.* The comprehensive assessment shall include a potential failure mode analysis.


(g) *Risk analysis.* The comprehensive assessment shall include a risk analysis. The Regional Engineer may, for good cause shown, grant a waiver of the requirement to complete a risk analysis. Any petition for waiver under this paragraph must be filed in accordance with § 385.207 of this chapter.






