# ยง 35.130   Purpose of Performance Partnership Grants.

(a) *Purpose of section.* Sections 35.130 through 35.138 govern Performance Partnership Grants to States and interstate agencies authorized in the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996, (Pub. L. 104-134; 110 Stat. 1321, 1321-299 (1996)) and the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, (Pub. L. 105-65; 111 Stat. 1344, 1373 (1997)). 


(b) *Purpose of program.* Performance Partnership Grants enable States and interstate agencies to combine funds from more than one environmental program grant into a single grant with a single budget. Recipients do not need to account for Performance Partnership Grant funds in accordance with the funds' original environmental program sources; they need only account for total Performance Partnership Grant expenditures subject to the requirements of this subpart. The Performance Partnership Grant program is designed to: 


(1) Strengthen partnerships between EPA and State and interstate agencies through joint planning and priority-setting and better deployment of resources; 


(2) Provide State and interstate agencies with flexibility to direct resources where they are most needed to address environmental and public health priorities; 


(3) Link program activities more effectively with environmental and public health goals and program outcomes; 


(4) Foster development and implementation of innovative approaches such as pollution prevention, ecosystem management, and community-based environmental protection strategies; and 


(5) Provide savings by streamlining administrative requirements. 




