# § 113.64   International carrier bond conditions.

A bond for international carriers must contain the conditions listed in this section and may be either a single transaction or continuous bond. 


(a) *Agreement to Pay Penalties, Duties, Taxes, and Other Charges.* If any vessel, vehicle, or aircraft, or any master, owner, or person in charge of a vessel, vehicle or aircraft, slot charterer, or any non-vessel operating common carrier as defined in § 4.7(b)(3)(ii) of this chapter or other party as specified in § 122.48a(c)(1)(ii)-(c)(1)(iv) or § 122.48b(c)(2) of this chapter, incurs a penalty, duty, tax or other charge provided by law or regulation, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay the sum upon demand by CBP. If the principal (carrier or operator) fails to pay the fees for processing letters, documents, records, shipments, merchandise, or other items on or before the last day of the month that follows the close of the calendar quarter to which the processing fees relate pursuant to § 24.23(b)(4) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the processing fees not timely paid to CBP as prescribed by regulation.


(b) *Agreement to pay liquidated damages*—(1) *Passenger processing fees:* If the principal (carrier) fails to pay passenger processing fees to CBP within 31 calendar days after the close of the calendar quarter in which they were required to be collected pursuant to § 24.22(g) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the passenger processing fees that were required to be collected but not timely remitted to CBP, regardless of whether such fees were in fact collected from passengers, as prescribed by regulation.


(2) *Railroad car processing fees:* If the principal (carrier) fails to pay railroad car processing fees to CBP within 60 calendar days after the close of the calendar month in which they were collected pursuant to § 24.22(d) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the railroad car processing fees which have not been timely paid to CBP as prescribed by regulation.


(3) *Reimbursement fees payable by express consignment carrier and centralized hub facilities.* If the principal (carrier) fails to timely pay the reimbursement fees payable to CBP by express consignment carrier facilities and centralized carrier facilities pursuant to the terms set forth in § 24.23(b)(4) of this chapter, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages equal to two times the fees which have not been timely paid to CBP as prescribed by that section.


(c) *Agreement on Unlading, Safekeeping, and Disposition of Merchandise, Supplies, Crew Purchases, Etc.* The principal agrees to comply with all laws and CBP regulations applicable to unlading, safekeeping, and disposition of merchandise, supplies, crew purchases, and other articles on board the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft; and to redeliver the foregoing to CBP upon demand as provided by CBP regulations. If principal defaults, obligors agree to pay liquidated damages equal to the value of the merchandise involved in the default or three times the value of the merchandise involved in the default if the merchandise is restricted or prohibited merchandise or alcoholic beverages, or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation. It is understood and agreed that the amount to be collected under this condition will be based upon the quantity and value of the merchandise as determined by CBP. Value as used in these provisions means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.


(d) *Agreement to provide advance cargo information.* The incoming carrier agrees to provide advance cargo information to CBP in the manner and in the time period required under §§ 4.7 and 4.7a of this chapter. If the incoming carrier, as principal, defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival.


(e) *Non-vessel operating common carrier (NVOCC); other party.* If a slot charterer, non-vessel operating common carrier (NVOCC) as defined in § 4.7(b)(3)(ii) of this chapter, or other party specified in § 122.48a(c)(1)(ii)-(c)(1)(iv) of this chapter, elects to provide advance cargo information to CBP electronically, the NVOCC or other party, as a principal under this bond, in addition to compliance with the other provisions of this bond, also agrees to provide such cargo information to CBP in the manner and in the time period required under those respective sections. If the NVOCC or other party, as principal, defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival. 


(f) *Agreement to comply with Importer Security Filing requirements.* If the principal elects to provide the Importer Security Filing information to Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the principal agrees to comply with all Importer Security Filing requirements set forth in part 149 of this chapter including but not limited to providing security filing information to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to any obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation.


(g) *Agreement to comply with vessel stow plan requirements.* If the principal causes a vessel to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States, the principal agrees to submit a stow plan in the manner and in the time period required pursuant to part 4.7c of this chapter. If the principal defaults with regard to this obligation, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $50,000 for each vessel arrival.


(h) *Agreement to comply with container status message requirements.* If the principal causes a vessel to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States, the principal agrees to submit container status messages in the manner and in the time period required pursuant to part 4.7d of this chapter. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per vessel arrival.


(i) *Agreement to comply with Air Cargo Advance Screening (ACAS) requirements.* (1) The inbound air carrier agrees to comply with all ACAS requirements set forth in §§ 122.48a and 122.48b of this chapter including, but not limited to, providing ACAS data to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation and taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions as prescribed by regulation. If the inbound air carrier, as principal, defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival.


(2) If a party specified in § 122.48b(c)(2) of this chapter provides the ACAS data to CBP, that party, as principal under this bond, agrees to comply with all ACAS requirements set forth in §§ 122.48a and 122.48b of this chapter including, but not limited to, providing ACAS data to CBP in the manner and in the time period prescribed by regulation and taking the necessary action to address ACAS referrals and Do-Not-Load (DNL) instructions as prescribed by regulation. If the principal defaults with regard to these obligations, the principal and surety (jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $5,000 for each violation, to a maximum of $100,000 per conveyance arrival.


(j) *Agreement to Deliver Export Documents.* If the principal's vessel, vehicle, or aircraft is granted clearance without filing a complete outward manifest and all required export documents, the principal agrees to file timely the required manifest and all required export documents. If the principal defaults, the obligors agree to pay liquidated damages of $1,100 for each day's delinquency beyond the prescribed period, but not more than $10,000 per violation.


(k) *Agreement to comply with CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports.* If access to customs security areas at airports is desired, the principal (including its employees, agents, and contractors) agrees to comply with the CBP regulations applicable to customs security areas at airports. If the principal defaults, the obligors (principal and surety, jointly and severally) agree to pay liquidated damages of $1000 for each default or such other amount as may be authorized by law or regulation.


(l) *Exoneration of the United States.* The obligors agree to exonerate the United States and its officers from any risk, loss, or expense arising out of entry or clearance of the carrier, or handling of the articles on board.


(m) *Unlawful disposition.* (1) Principal agrees that it will not allow seized or detained merchandise, marked with warning labels of the fact of seizure or detention, to be placed on board a vessel, vehicle, or aircraft for exportation or to be otherwise disposed of without written permission from CBP, and that if it fails to prevent such placement or other disposition, it will redeliver the merchandise to CBP within 30 days, upon demand made within 10 days of CBP discovery of the unlawful placement or other disposition.


(2) Principal agrees that it will act, in regard to merchandise in its possession on the date the redelivery demand is issued, in accordance with any CBP demand for redelivery made within 10 days of CBP discovery that there is reasonable cause to believe that the merchandise was exported in violation of the export control laws.


(3) Obligors agree that if the principal defaults in either of these obligations, they will pay, as liquidated damages, an amount equal to three times the value of the merchandise which was not redelivered.



---

[N] [T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984] 


