# § 880.601   Responsibilities of owner.

(a) *Marketing.* (1) The owner must commence diligent marketing activities in accordance with the Agreement not later than 90 days prior to the anticipated date of availability for occupancy of the first unit of the project.


(2) Marketing must be done in accordance with the HUD-approved Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan and all Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity requirements. The purpose of the Plan and requirements is to assure that eligible families of similar income in the same housing market area have an equal opportunity to apply and be selected for a unit in projects assisted under this part regardless of their race, color, creed, religion, sex or national origin.


(3) With respect to non-elderly family units, the owner must undertake marketing activities in advance of marketing to other prospective tenants in order to provide opportunities to reside in the project to non-elderly families who are least likely to apply, as determined in the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, and to non-elderly families expected to reside in the community by reason of current or planned employment.


(4) At the time of Contract execution, the owner must submit a list of leased and unleased units, with justification for the unleased units, in order to qualify for vacancy payments for the unleased units.


(b) *Management and maintenance.* The owner is responsible for all management functions, including determining eligibility of applicants, selection of tenants, reexamination and verification of family income and composition, determination of family rent (total tenant payment, tenant rent and utility reimbursement), collection of rent, termination of tenancy and eviction, and performance of all repair and maintenance functions (including ordinary and extraordinary maintenance), and replacement of capital items. (See part 5 of this title.) All functions must be performed in accordance with applicable equal opportunity requirements. 


(c) *Contracting for services.* (1) For this part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects, with HUD approval, the owner may contract with a private or public entity (except the contract administrator) for performance of the services or duties required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(2) For 24 CFR part 883 projects, with approval of the Agency, the owner may contract with a private or public entity (but not with the Agency unless temporarily necessary for the Agency to protect its financial interest and to uphold its program responsibilities where no alternative management agent is immediately available) for performance of the services or duties required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(3) However, such an arrangement does not relieve the owner of responsibility for these services and duties.


(d) *Submission of financial and operating statements.* After execution of the Contract, the owner must submit to the contract adminstrator: 


(1) Financial information in accordance with 24 CFR part 5, subpart H; and


(2) Other statements as to project operation, financial conditions and occupancy as HUD may require pertinent to administration of the Contract and monitoring of project operations. 


(e) *Use of project funds.* (1) Project funds must be used for the benefit of the project, to make required deposits to the replacement reserve in accordance with § 880.602 and to provide distributions to the owner as provided in § 880.205, § 881.205 of this chapter, or § 883.306 of this chapter, as appropriate.


(2) For this part 880 and 24 CFR part 881 projects:


(i) Any remaining project funds must be deposited with the mortgagee or other HUD-approved depository in an interest-bearing residual receipts account. Withdrawals from this account will be made only for project purposes and with the approval of HUD.


(ii) Partially-assisted projects are exempt from the provisions of this section. 


(iii) In the case of HUD-insured projects, the provisions of this paragraph (e) will apply instead of the otherwise applicable mortgage insurance provisions. 


(3) For 24 CFR part 883 projects: 


(i) Any remaining project funds must be deposited with the Agency, other mortgagee or other Agency-approved depository in an interest-bearing account. Withdrawals from this account may be made only for project purposes and with the approval of the Agency. 


(ii) In the case of HUD-insured projects, the provisions of this paragraph will apply instead of the otherwise applicable mortgage insurance provisions, except in the case of partially-assisted projects which are subject to the applicable mortgage insurance provisions.



---

[N] [44 FR 59410, Oct. 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 18924, Mar. 24, 1980; 51 FR 11224, Apr. 1, 1986; 53 FR 846, Jan. 13, 1988; 53 FR 1145, Jan. 15, 1988; 53 FR 6601, Mar. 2, 1988; 54 FR 39702, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7536, Feb. 22, 1991; 60 FR 14841, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 13588, Mar. 27, 1996; 63 FR 46593, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 16722, Mar. 29, 2000]




