# ยง 154.301   CMS's determinations of Effective Rate Review Programs.

(a) *Effective Rate Review Program.* In evaluating whether a State has an Effective Rate Review Program, CMS will apply the following criteria for the review of rates for the small group market and the individual market, and also, as applicable depending on State law, the review of rates for different types of products within those markets:


(1) The State receives from issuers data and documentation in connection with rate increases that are sufficient to conduct the examination described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(2) The State conducts an effective and timely review of the data and documentation submitted by a health insurance issuer in support of a proposed rate increase.


(3) The State's rate review process includes an examination of:


(i) The reasonableness of the assumptions used by the health insurance issuer to develop the proposed rate increase and the validity of the historical data underlying the assumptions.


(ii) The health insurance issuer's data related to past projections and actual experience.


(iii) The reasonableness of assumptions used by the health insurance issuer to estimate the rate impact of the reinsurance and risk adjustment programs under sections 1341 and 1343 of the Affordable Care Act.


(iv) The health insurance issuer's data related to implementation and ongoing utilization of a market-wide single risk pool, essential health benefits, actuarial values and other market reform rules as required by the Affordable Care Act.


(4) The examination must take into consideration the following factors to the extent applicable to the filing under review:


(i) The impact of medical trend changes by major service categories.


(ii) The impact of utilization changes by major service categories.


(iii) The impact of cost-sharing changes by major service categories, including actuarial values.


(iv) The impact of benefit changes, including essential health benefits and non-essential health benefits.


(v) The impact of changes in enrollee risk profile and pricing, including rating limitations for age and tobacco use under section 2701 of the Public Health Service Act.


(vi) The impact of any overestimate or underestimate of medical trend for prior year periods related to the rate increase.


(vii) The impact of changes in reserve needs;


(viii) The impact of changes in administrative costs related to programs that improve health care quality;


(ix) The impact of changes in other administrative costs;


(x) The impact of changes in applicable taxes, licensing or regulatory fees.


(xi) Medical loss ratio.


(xii) The health insurance issuer's capital and surplus.


(xiii) The impacts of geographic factors and variations.


(xiv) The impact of changes within a single risk pool to all products or plans within the risk pool.


(xv) The impact of reinsurance and risk adjustment payments and charges under sections 1341 and 1343 of the Affordable Care Act.


(5) The State's determination of whether a rate increase is unreasonable is made under a standard that is set forth in State statute or regulation.


(b) *Public disclosure and input.* (1) In addition to satisfying the provisions in paragraph (a) of this section, a State with an Effective Rate Review Program must provide:


(i) For proposed rate increases subject to review, access from its Web site to at least the information contained in Parts I, II, and III of the Rate Filing Justification that CMS makes available on its Web site (or provide CMS's Web address for such information), and have a mechanism for receiving public comments on those proposed rate increases, no later than the date specified in guidance by the Secretary.


(ii) Beginning with rates filed for coverage effective on or after January 1, 2016, for all final rate increases (including those not subject to review), access from its Web site to at least the information contained in Parts I, II, and III of the Rate Filing Justification (as applicable) that CMS makes available on its Web site (or provide CMS's Web address for such information), no later than the first day of the annual open enrollment period in the individual market for the applicable calendar year.


(2) If a State intends to make the information in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section available to the public prior to the date specified by the Secretary, or if it intends to make the information in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section available to the public prior to the first day of the annual open enrollment period in the individual market for the applicable calendar year, the State must notify CMS in writing, no later than five (5) business days prior to the date it intends to make the information public, of its intent to do so and the date it intends to make the information public.


(3) A State with an Effective Rate Review Program must ensure the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section is made available to the public at a uniform time for all proposed and final rate increases, as applicable, in the relevant market segment and without regard to whether coverage is offered through or outside an Exchange.


(c) CMS will determine whether a State has an Effective Rate Review Program for each market based on information available to CMS that a rate review program meets the criteria described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(d) CMS reserves the right to evaluate from time to time whether, and to what extent, a State's circumstances have changed such that it has begun to or has ceased to satisfy the criteria set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [76 FR 29985, May 23, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 13441, Feb. 27, 2013; 80 FR 10864, Feb. 27, 2015; 83 FR 17060, Apr. 17, 2018]




