# § 1951.223   Reamortization.

(a) *State Director authorization.* The State Director is authorized to approve reamortization of loans under the following conditions:


(1) The account is delinquent and cannot be brought current within one year while maintaining a reasonable reserve;


(2) The borrower has demonstrated for at least one year by actual performance or has presented a budget which clearly indicates that it is able to meet the proposed payment schedule;


(3) The amount being reamortized is within the State Director's loan approval authorization; and


(4) There is no extension of the final maturity date.


(b) *Requests requiring National Office approval.* Reamortizations not meeting the above conditions require prior National Office approval. Requests will be forwarded to the National Office with the case file, including:


(1) Current budget and cash flow prepared on RD 442-2, schedules 1 and 2, or similar form;


(2) Current balance sheet and income statement;


(3) Exhibit A of this subpart, appropriately completed;


(4) Form RD 1951-33, “Reamortization Request,” completed in accordance with § 1951.223(c)(3) of this subpart, when applicable; and


(5) Any other necessary supporting information.


(c) *Processing.* When legally permissible and administratively acceptable, the total outstanding principal and interest balances will be reamortized rather than only the delinquent amount. Accrued interest will be at the rate currently reflected in Finance Office records.


(1) Reamortizations will be perfected in accordance with OGC closing instructions.


(2) When debt instruments are being modified or new debt instruments executed, bond counsel or local counsel, as appropriate, must provide an opinion indicating any effect on Rural Development's security position. The Rural Development's approval official must determine that the government's interest will remain adequately protected if the security position will be affected.


(3) *Notes.* Except as provided in § 1951.223(c)(4), loans evidenced by notes will be reamortized through a new evidence of debt unless OGC recommends that the terms of the existing document be modified. Form RD 1951-33 may be used to effect such modifications, if legally adequate, or other forms may be used if acceptable to Rural Development. The original of a new note or any endorsement required by OGC is to be attached to the existing note, filed in the servicing office, and retained until the account is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. A copy will be forwarded to the Finance Office.


(4) *Bonds and notes with other than real or chattel security pledged to Rural Development.* Loans evidenced by bonds, or by notes with other than real or chattel security pledged to Rural Development, may be reamortized using procedures acceptable to the State Director and legally permissible under State statutes in the opinion of the borrower's counsel and the OGC.


(i) The procedure may consist of a new debt instrument or agreement for the total Rural Development indebtedness, including the delinquency, or a new instrument or agreement whereby the borrower agrees to repay the delinquency plus interest. If a new instrument or agreement for only the delinquent amount is used, a new loan number will be assigned to the delinquent amount, and the borrower will be required to pay the amounts due under both the original and the new instruments.


(ii) When a delinquent or problem loan cannot be reamortized by issuing a new debt instrument due to State statutes, or the cost of preparation and closing is prohibitive, the rescheduling agreement provided as Exhibit H of this subpart (available in any Rural Development office), may be used.


(iii) Section 1942.19 of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter applies to any new bonds issued unless precluded by State statutes or an exception is approved by the National Office.


(iv) If State statutes do not require the release of existing bonds, they will be retained with the new bond instrument or agreement in the Rural Development office authorized to store such documents. If State statutes require release of existing bonds, the exchange will be accomplished by the District Director, and the new bond and/or agreement will be retained in the appropriate office.


(5) *New debt instruments or agreements.* (i) A copy will be sent to the Finance Office after execution, except that if serial bonds are used, the original bond(s) will be submitted to the Finance Office.


(ii) Any agreement used will contain:


(A) The amount delinquent, which must equal the total delinquency on the account and net advances (the unpaid principal on any advance and the accrued interest on any advance through the date of reamortization, less interest payments credited on the advance account);


(B) The effective date of the reamortization;


(C) The number of years over which the delinquency will be amortized;


(D) The repayment schedule; and


(E) The interest rate.


(iii) A payment will be due on the next scheduled due date. Deferment of interest and/or principal payments is not authorized.


(iv) A separate new instrument will be required for each loan being reamortized.


(v) If amortized payments are not used, the schedule of principal installments developed will be such that combined payments of principal and interest closely approximate an amortized payment.


(d) *Reamortization with interest rate adjustment—Water and waste borrowers only.* A borrower that is seriously delinquent in loan payments may be eligible for loan reamortization with interest rate adjustment. The purpose of loan reamortization with interest rate adjustment is to provide relief for a borrower that is unable to service the outstanding loan in accordance with its existing terms and to enhance recovery on the loan. A borrower must meet the conditions of this subpart to be considered eligible for this provision.


(1) *Eligibility determination.* The State Director, Rural Development, may submit to the Administrator for approval an adjustment in the rate of interest charged on outstanding loans only for those borrowers who meet the following requirements:


(i) The borrower has exhausted all other servicing provisions contained in this subpart;


(ii) The borrower is experiencing severe financial problems;


(iii) Any management deficiencies must have been corrected or the borrower must submit a plan acceptable to the State Office to correct any deficiencies before an interest rate adjustment may be considered;


(iv) Borrower user rates must be comparable to similar systems. In addition, the operating expenses reported by the borrower must appear reasonable in relation to similar system expenses;


(v) The borrower has cooperated with Rural Development in exploring alternative servicing options and has acted in good faith with regard to eliminating the delinquency and complying with its loan agreements and agency regulations; and


(vi) The borrower's account must be delinquent at least one annual debt payment for 180 days.


(2) *Conditions of approval.* All borrowers approved for an adjustment in the rate of interest by the Administrator shall agree to the following conditions:


(i) The borrower shall agree not to maintain cash or cash reserves beyond what is reasonable at the time of interest rate adjustment to meet debt service, operating, and reserve requirements.


(ii) A review of the borrower's management and business operations may be required at the discretion of the State Director. This review shall be performed by an independent expert who has been recommended by the State Director and approved by the National Office. The borrower must agree to implement all recommendations made by the State Director as a result of the review.


(iii) If requested, a copy of the latest audited financial statements or management report must be submitted to the Administrator.


(3) *Reamortization.* At the discretion of the Administrator, the interest rate charged on outstanding loans of eligible borrowers may be adjusted to no less than the poverty interest rate and the term of the loans may be extended up to a new 40 year term or the remaining useful life of the facility, whichever is less.



---

[N] [55 FR 4399, Feb. 8, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 25351, June 4, 1991; 63 FR 41714, Aug. 5, 1998; 69 FR 69105, Nov. 26, 2004; 73 FR 8008, Feb. 12, 2008]




