# ยง 9.20   Transfer agents.

(a)(1) *Registration.* An application for registration under Section 17A(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of a transfer agent for which the OCC is the appropriate regulatory agency, as defined in section 3(a)(34)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, shall be filed with the OCC on FFIEC Form TA-1, in accordance with the instructions contained therein. Registration shall become effective 30 days after the date an application on Form TA-1 is filed unless the OCC accelerates, denies, or postpones such registration in accordance with section 17A(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


(2) *Amendments to registration.* Within 60 days following the date on which any information reported on Form TA-1 becomes inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete, the registrant shall file an amendment on FFIEC Form TA-1 correcting the inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete information. The filing of an amendment to an application for registration as a transfer agent under this section, which registration has not become effective, shall postpone the effective date of the registration for 30 days following the date on which the amendment is filed unless the OCC accelerates, denies, or postpones the registration in accordance with Section 17A(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


(3) *Withdrawal from registration.* Any registered national bank transfer agent that ceases to engage in activities that require registration under Section 17A(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 may file a written notice of withdrawal from registration with the OCC. Deregistration shall be effective 60 days after filing.


(4) *Reports.* Every registration or amendment filed under this section shall constitute a report or application within the meaning of Sections 17, 17A(c), and 32(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


(b) *Operational and reporting requirements.* The rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 prescribing operational and reporting requirements for transfer agents apply to the domestic activities of registered national bank transfer agents.



---

[N] [73 FR 22242, Apr. 24, 2008]




