# § 183.2   What terms do I need to know?

In this part: 


*Administrative costs* means any cost, including indirect costs, incurred by the Tribe reasonably related to an allowed use of funds under the Settlement Act, including indirect costs. 


*Beneficial use* means any use to which the Tribe's water entitlement is put that is authorized by the Settlement Act, the Settlement Agreement, or by the Tribal Council under the Settlement Act, the Settlement Agreement or otherwise permitted by law. 


*CAP* means the Central Arizona Project, a reclamation project authorized under title III of the Colorado River Basin Project Act of 1968 (43 U.S.C. 1521 *et seq.*). 


*Community development project or purpose* means any business, recreational, social, health, education, environment, or general welfare project approved by the Tribal Council for the benefit of any community within the reservation. 


*Economic development project or purpose* means any commercial, industrial, agricultural, or business project approved by the Tribal Council for the purpose of profit to the Tribe. 


*Income* means interest or income earned or accrued on the principal of the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund and is available for distribution to the Tribe in accordance with the Settlement Act and this part. Beginning with calendar year 2001, any income that has been earned or has accrued on the principal of the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund and that has not been requested for distribution by the Tribe by December 31, shall become part of the principal of the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund on January 1 of the next calendar year. 


*Lease Fund* means the San Carlos Apache Tribe Lease Fund established in the Treasury of the United States under section 3711(d)(3)(E)(iv) of the Settlement Act. 


*Principal* means: 


(1) The amount of funds in the Trust Fund or the Lease Fund as of January 1, 2002; and 


(2) Any income thereon that is not distributed, and has been added to the principal, in accordance with the Settlement Act and this part. 


*Pro forma budget* means a budget, and operating statement, showing the estimated results for operating the economic development project for two years after injection of the principal or income into the operation. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative acting under delegated authority. The term “Secretary': 


(1) Includes the Regional Director for the Western Regional Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and 


(2) Does not include the Superintendent of the San Carlos Agency of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 


*Settlement Act* means the San Carlos Apache Tribe Water Settlement Act of 1992, Title XXXVII of Public Law 102-575, 106 Stat. 4740, and any amendments thereto. 


*Settlement Agreement* means the agreement and any amendments executed and approved in accordance with the Settlement Act. 


*Tribe* means the San Carlos Apache Tribe, a Tribe of Apache Indians, under the Apache Treaty, July 1, 1852, 10 Stat. 970, organized under section 16 of the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 987; 25 U.S.C. 476), and duly recognized by the Secretary of the Interior. 


*Trust Fund* means the San Carlos Apache Tribe Development Trust Fund established in the Treasury of the United States under section 3707(b) of the Settlement Act. 


*We* and *us* mean the Secretary of the Interior as defined in this section. 




