# § 220.3   Administration.

(a) Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program covered by this part.


(b) Within the States, responsibility for the administration of the Program in schools as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of the definition of *School* in § 220.2 shall be in the State educational agency, except that FNSRO shall administer the Program with respect to nonprofit private schools and adding in their place the words “as described in paragraph (1) of the definition of *School* in § 220.2 in any State wherein the State educational agency is not permitted by law to disburse Federal funds paid to it under the Program; *Provided, however,* That FNSRO shall also administer the Program in all other nonprofit private schools which have been under continuous FNS administration since October 1, 1980, unless the administration of such private schools is assumed by a State agency.


(c) Within the States, responsibility for the administration of the Program in schools, as described in paragraph (3) of the definition of *School* in § 220.2, shall be in the State educational agency, or if the State educational agency cannot administer the Program in such schools, such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer the Program in such schools: *Provided, however,* That FNSRO shall administer the Program in such schools if the State agency is not permitted by law to disburse Federal funds paid to it under the Program to such schools; and *Provided, further,* That FNSRO shall also administer the Program in all other such schools which have been under continuous FNS administration since October 1, 1980, unless the administration of such schools is assumed by a State agency.


(d) References in this part to “FNSRO where applicable” are to FNSRO as the agency administering the Program.


(e) Each State agency desiring to take part in any of the programs shall enter into a written agreement with the Department for the administration of the Program in the State in accordance with the provisions of this part, 7 CFR parts 235, 245, 15, 15a, 15b and, as applicable, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 subparts B and D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and FNS Instructions. Such agreement shall cover the operation of the Program during the period specified therein and may be extended at the option of the Department.


(f) *Authority to waive statute and regulations.* (1) As authorized under section 12(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, FNS may waive provisions of such Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, and the provisions of this part with respect to a State agency or eligible service provider. The provisions of this part required by other statutes may not be waived under this authority. FNS may only approve requests for a waiver that are submitted by a State agency and comply with the requirements at section 12(l)(1) and the limitations at section 12(l)(4), including that FNS may not grant a waiver that increases Federal costs.


(2)(i) A State agency may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (f)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l)(2) and the provisions of this part.


(ii) A State agency may submit a request to waive specific statutory or regulatory requirements on behalf of eligible service providers that operate in the State. Any waiver where the State concurs must be submitted to the appropriate FNSRO.


(3)(i) An eligible service provider may submit a request for a waiver under paragraph (e)(1) of this section in accordance with section 12(l) and the provisions of this part. Any waiver request submitted by an eligible service provider must be submitted to the State agency for review. A State agency must act promptly on such a waiver request and must deny or concur with a request submitted by an eligible service provider.


(ii) If a State agency concurs with a request from an eligible service provider, the State agency must promptly forward to the appropriate FNSRO the request and a rationale, consistent with section 12(l)(2), supporting the request. By forwarding the request to the FNSRO, the State agency affirms:


(A) The request meets all requirements for waiver submissions; and,


(B) The State agency will conduct all monitoring requirements related to regular Program operations and the implementation of the waiver.


(iii) If the State agency denies the request, the State agency must notify the requesting eligible service provider and state the reason for denying the request in writing within 30 calendar days of the State agency's receipt of the request. The State agency response is final and may not be appealed to FNS.



---

[N] [Amdt. 25, 41 FR 34759, Aug. 17, 1976, as amended at 47 FR 745, Jan. 7, 1982; Amdt. 42, 47 FR 14133, Apr. 2, 1982; Amdt. 56, 54 FR 2990, Jan. 23, 1989; 71 FR 39517, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 63792, Nov. 13, 2007; 81 FR 66491, Sept. 28, 2016; 87 FR 57354, Sept. 19, 2022; 89 FR 32080, Apr. 25, 2024]






