# ยง 130.420   Renewal applications.

(a) The recipient organization will submit the renewal application to the OSBDC using the submission process outlined in the annual notice of funding opportunity.


(b) If the OSBDC chooses to not renew the award of an existing recipient organization or the recipient organization elects not to reapply, the OSBDC will award a cooperative agreement for the conduct of an SBDC project to a new recipient organization in the same area of service using a competitive process. If the OSBDC has initiated a non-renewal or termination action, the Agency will not issue the new award until all administrative remedies have been exhausted. For further information regarding the termination and non-renewal procedures, see ยง 130.700.


(c) Significant factors considered in the renewal application review will include:


(1) The applicant's ability to obtain matching funds;


(2) The quality of prior performance under the cooperative agreement as measured by client satisfaction rate;


(3) The results of any examination conducted pursuant to ยง 130.810(b);


(4) Corrective measures implemented as a result of examinations conducted; and


(5) The accreditation provisions of ยง 130.810(c) including any conditions, the most current accreditation report, and corrective measures implemented, affecting the recipient organization and the SBDC network.


(d) The OSBDC will review the renewal application for conformity with the notice of funding opportunity. The AA/SBDC may request additional information and documentation prior to issuing the cooperative agreement.



---

[N] [88 FR 76645, Nov. 7, 2023]






