# § 97.734   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) *General provisions.* The designated representative shall comply with all recordkeeping and reporting requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements in subparts F and G of part 75 of this chapter, and the requirements of § 97.714(a).


(b) *Monitoring plans.* The owner or operator of a CSAPR SO_2_ Group 2 unit shall comply with the requirements of § 75.62 of this chapter.


(c) *Certification applications.* The designated representative shall submit an application to the Administrator within 45 days after completing all initial certification or recertification tests required under § 97.731, including the information required under § 75.63 of this chapter.




(d) *Quarterly reports.* The designated representative shall submit quarterly reports, as follows:


(1) The designated representative shall report the SO_2_ mass emissions data and heat input data for a CSAPR SO_2_ Group 2 unit, in an electronic quarterly report in a format prescribed by the Administrator, for each calendar quarter beginning with the later of:


(i) The calendar quarter covering January 1, 2015 through March 31, 2015; or


(ii) The calendar quarter corresponding to the earlier of the date of provisional certification or the applicable deadline for initial certification under § 97.730(b).


(2) The designated representative shall submit each quarterly report to the Administrator within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter covered by the report. Quarterly reports shall be submitted in the manner specified in § 75.64 of this chapter.


(3) For CSAPR SO_2_ Group 2 units that are also subject to the Acid Rain Program, CSAPR NO_X_ Annual Trading Program, CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 Trading Program, CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 2 Trading Program, or CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 3 Trading Program, quarterly reports shall include the applicable data and information required by subparts F through H of part 75 of this chapter as applicable, in addition to the SO_2_ mass emission data, heat input data, and other information required by this subpart.


(4) The Administrator may review and conduct independent audits of any quarterly report in order to determine whether the quarterly report meets the requirements of this subpart and part 75 of this chapter, including the requirement to use substitute data.


(i) The Administrator will notify the designated representative of any determination that the quarterly report fails to meet any such requirements and specify in such notification any corrections that the Administrator believes are necessary to make through resubmission of the quarterly report and a reasonable time period within which the designated representative must respond. Upon request by the designated representative, the Administrator may specify reasonable extensions of such time period. Within the time period (including any such extensions) specified by the Administrator, the designated representative shall resubmit the quarterly report with the corrections specified by the Administrator, except to the extent the designated representative provides information demonstrating that a specified correction is not necessary because the quarterly report already meets the requirements of this subpart and part 75 of this chapter that are relevant to the specified correction.


(ii) Any resubmission of a quarterly report shall meet the requirements applicable to the submission of a quarterly report under this subpart and part 75 of this chapter, except for the deadline set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(e) *Compliance certification.* The designated representative shall submit to the Administrator a compliance certification (in a format prescribed by the Administrator) in support of each quarterly report based on reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all of the unit's emissions are correctly and fully monitored. The certification shall state that:


(1) The monitoring data submitted were recorded in accordance with the applicable requirements of this subpart and part 75 of this chapter, including the quality assurance procedures and specifications; and


(2) For a unit with add-on SO_2_ emission controls and for all hours where SO_2_ data are substituted in accordance with § 75.34(a)(1) of this chapter, the add-on emission controls were operating within the range of parameters listed in the quality assurance/quality control program under appendix B to part 75 of this chapter and the substitute data values do not systematically underestimate SO_2_ emissions.



---

[N] [76 FR 48379, Aug. 8, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 71672, Dec. 3, 2014; 81 FR 74621, Oct. 26, 2016; 88 FR 36900, June 5, 2023]




