# § 151.10-1   Barge hull classifications.

(a) Each barge constructed or converted in conformance with this subpart shall be assigned a hull type number. 


(1) Effective dates for certain requirements: 


(i) Barges constructed or converted between July 1, 1964, and June 1, 1970, in accordance with the construction requirements of §§ 32.63 and 98.03 of this chapter are considered to comply with the basic provisions of this subpart and will retain the hull type classification for the service for which they were originally approved. Changes in product endorsement will not be considered a change in service, except when a change to a product of higher specific gravity necessitates a reevaluation of the intact and damage stability requirements in subpart E of part 172 of this chapter.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) For this purpose the barge hull types shall be defined as follows: 


(1) *Type I barge hull.* Barge hulls classed as Type I are those designed to carry products which require the maximum preventive measures to preclude the uncontrolled release of the cargo. These barges are required to meet:


(i) Standards of intact stability and a modified two compartment standard of subdivision and damage stability, as specified in subpart E of part 172 of this chapter; and


(ii) Hull structural requirements, including an assumed grounding condition.


(2) *Type I-S (special) barge hulls.* Type I-S (special) barge hulls are those constructed or converted for the carriage of chlorine in bulk prior to July 1, 1964, and modified to higher stability standards prior to July 1, 1968, but not meeting the requirements for full Type I classification. 


(3) *Type II barge hull.* Barge hulls classed as Type II are those designed to carry products which require significant preventive measures to preclude the uncontrolled release of the cargo. These barges are required to meet:


(i) Standards of intact stability and a modified one compartment standard of subdivision and damage stability, as specified in subpart E of part 172 of this chapter; and


(ii) Hull structural requirements, including an assumed grounding condition.


(4) *Type III barge hull.* Barge hulls classed as Type III are those designed to carry products of sufficient hazard to require a moderate degree of control. These barges are required to meet:


(i) Standards of intact stability as specified in subpart E of part 172 of this chapter; and


(ii) Hull structural requirements.



---

[N] [CGFR 70-10, 35 FR 3714, Feb. 25, 1970, as amended by CGD 79-023, 48 FR 51008, Nov. 4, 1983; CGD 88-100, 54 FR 40040, Sept. 29, 1989]




