# ยง 195.52   Immediate notice of certain accidents.

(a) *Notice requirements.* At the earliest practicable moment following discovery, of a release of the hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide transported resulting in an event described in ยง 195.50, but no later than one hour after confirmed discovery, the operator of the system must give notice, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section of any failure that:


(1) Caused a death or a personal injury requiring hospitalization;


(2) Resulted in either a fire or explosion not intentionally set by the operator;


(3) Caused estimated property damage, including cost of cleanup and recovery, value of lost product, and damage to the property of the operator or others, or both, exceeding $50,000;


(4) Resulted in pollution of any stream, river, lake, reservoir, or other similar body of water that violated applicable water quality standards, caused a discoloration of the surface of the water or adjoining shoreline, or deposited a sludge or emulsion beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shorelines; or


(5) In the judgment of the operator was significant even though it did not meet the criteria of any other paragraph of this section.


(b) Information required. Each notice required by paragraph (a) of this section must be made to the National Response Center either by telephone to 800-424-8802 (in Washington, DC, 202-267-2675) or electronically at *http://www.nrc.uscg.mil* and must include the following information:


(1) Name, address and identification number of the operator.


(2) Name and telephone number of the reporter.


(3) The location of the failure.


(4) The time of the failure.


(5) The fatalities and personal injuries, if any.


(6) Initial estimate of amount of product released in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(7) All other significant facts known by the operator that are relevant to the cause of the failure or extent of the damages.


(c) Calculation. A pipeline operator must have a written procedure to calculate and provide a reasonable initial estimate of the amount of released product.


(d) *New information.* Within 48 hours after the confirmed discovery of an accident, to the extent practicable, an operator must revise or confirm its initial telephonic notice required in paragraph (b) of this section with a revised estimate of the amount of product released, location of the failure, time of the failure, a revised estimate of the number of fatalities and injuries, and all other significant facts that are known by the operator that are relevant to the cause of the accident or extent of the damages. If there are no changes or revisions to the initial report, the operator must confirm the estimates in its initial report.



---

[N] [75 FR 72907, Nov. 26, 2010, as amended by Amdt. 195-101, 82 FR 7999, Jan. 23, 2017]




