# § 721.11493   2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, dodecyl ester, polymer with ammonium 2-methyl-2-[(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)amino]-1-propanesulfonate (1:1), N,N-dimethyl-2-propenamide and .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-(dodecyloxy)poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, dodecyl ester, polymer with ammonium 2-methyl-2-[(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)amino]-1-propanesulfonate (1:1), N,N-dimethyl-2-propenamide and .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-(dodecyloxy)poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) (PMN P-18-262, CAS No. 1190091-71-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(j). It is a significant new use to process the PMN substance above the confidential percentage in formulation specified in the PMN for use in consumer products.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 30194, June 7, 2021]




