# ยง 721.11405   Heteromonocycle, alkenoic 1:1 salt, polymer with .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-methoxypoly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) and methyl-alkenoic acid (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as heteromonocycle, alkenoic 1:1 salt, polymer with .alpha.-(2-methyl-1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)-.omega.-methoxypoly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) and methyl-alkenoic acid (PMN P-18-300) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in a manner that results in particles less than 50 microns. It is a significant new use to use the substance in a manner that results in consumer inhalation or dermal exposure. It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as sealed single-use packets.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [87 FR 38004, June 27, 2022]








