# § 495.4   Definitions.

In this part, unless otherwise indicated—


*Ambulatory surgical center-based EP* means an EP who furnishes 75 percent or more of his or her covered professional services in sites of service identified by the codes used in the HIPAA standard transaction as an ASC setting in the calendar year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year.


*API* stands for application programming interface.


*Certified electronic health record technology (CEHRT)* means the following:


(1) For any Federal fiscal year or calendar year before 2018, EHR technology (which could include multiple technologies) certified under the ONC Health IT Certification Program that meets one of the following:


(i) The 2014 Edition Base EHR definition (as defined at 45 CFR 170.102) and has been certified to the certification criteria that are necessary to be a Meaningful EHR User (as defined in this section), including the applicable measure calculation certification criterion at 45 CFR 170.314(g)(1) or (2) for all certification criteria that support a meaningful use objective with a percentage-based measure.


(ii) Certification to—


(A) The following certification criteria:


(*1*) CPOE at—


(*i*) 45 CFR 170.314(a)(1), (18), (19) or (20); or


(*ii*) 45 CFR 170.315(a)(1), (2) or (3).


(*2*)(*i*) Record demographics at 45 CFR 170.314(a)(3); or


(*ii*) 45 CFR 170.315(a)(5).


(*3*)(*i*) Problem list at 45 CFR 170.314(a)(5); or


(*ii*) 45 CFR 170.315(a)(6).


(*4*)(*i*) Medication list at 45 CFR 170.314(a)(6); or


(*ii*) 45 CFR 170.315(a)(7).


(*5*)(*i*) Medication allergy list 45 CFR 170.314(a)(7); or


(*ii*) 45 CFR 170.315(a)(8).


(*6*)(*i*) Clinical decision support at 45 CFR 170.314(a)(8); or


(*ii*) 45 CFR 170.315(a)(9).


(*7*) Health information exchange at transitions of care at one of the following:


(*i*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1) and (2).


(*ii*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), and (h)(1).


(*iii*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(8).


(*iv*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(8), and (h)(1).


(*v*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(8) and (h)(1).


(*vi*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), and 170.315(h)(2).


(*vii*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (h)(1), and 170.315(h)(2).


(*viii*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(8), and 170.315(h)(2).


(*ix*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(8), (h)(1), and 170.315(h)(2).


(*x*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(8), (h)(1), and 170.315(h)(2).


(*xi*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), and 170.315(b)(1).


(*xii*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (h)(1), and 170.315(b)(1).


(*xiii*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(8), and 170.315(b)(1).


(*xiv*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(8), (h)(1), and 170.315(b)(1).


(*xv*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(8), (h)(1), and 170.315(b)(1).


(*xvi*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(8), (h)(1), 170.315(b)(1), and 170.315(h)(1).


(*xvii*) 45 CFR 170.314(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(8), (h)(1), 170.315(b)(1), and 170.315(h)(2).


(*xviii*) 45 CFR 170.314(h)(1) and 170.315(b)(1).


(*xix*) 45 CFR 170.315(b)(1) and (h)(1).


(*xx*) 45 CFR 170.315(b)(1) and (h)(2).


(*xxi*) 45 CFR 170.315(b)(1), (h)(1), and (h)(2); and


(B) Clinical quality measures at—


(*1*) 45 CFR 170.314(c)(1) or 170.315(c)(1);


(*2*) 45 CFR 170.314(c)(2) or 170.315(c)(2);


(*3*) Clinical quality measure certification criteria that support the calculation and reporting of clinical quality measures at 45 CFR 170.314(c)(2) and (3); or 45 CFR 170.315(c)(3)(i) and (ii); and can be electronically accepted by CMS if the provider is submitting electronically.


(C) Privacy and security at—


(*1*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(1) or 170.315(d)(1);


(*2*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(2) or 170.315(d)(2);


(*3*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(3) or 170.315(d)(3);


(*4*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(4) or 170.315(d)(4);


(*5*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(5) or 170.315(d)(5);


(*6*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(6) or 170.315(d)(6);


(*7*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(7) or 170.315(d)(7);


(*8*) 45 CFR 170.314(d)(8) or 170.315(d)(8); and


(D) The certification criteria that are necessary to be a Meaningful EHR User (as defined in this section), including the applicable measure calculation certification criterion at 45 CFR 170.314(g)(1) or (2) or 45 CFR 170.315(g)(1) or (2) for all certification criteria that support a meaningful use objective with a percentage-based measure.


(iii) The definition for 2019 and subsequent years specified in paragraph (2) of this definition.


(2) For 2019 and subsequent years, EHR technology (which could include multiple technologies) certified under the ONC Health IT Certification Program that meets the 2015 Edition Base EHR definition, or subsequent Base EHR definition (as defined at 45 CFR 170.102) and has been certified to the ONC health IT certification criteria, as adopted and updated in 45 CFR 170.315-


(i) At 45 CFR 170.315(a)(12) (family health history) and 45 CFR 170.315(e)(3) (patient health information capture); and


(ii) Necessary to be a Meaningful EHR User (as defined in this section), including the following:


(A) The applicable measure calculation certification criterion at 45 CFR 170.315(g)(1) or (2) for all certification criteria that support a meaningful use objective with a percentage-based measure.


(B) Clinical quality measure certification criteria that support the calculation and reporting of clinical quality measures at 45 CFR 170.315(c)(2) and (c)(3)(i) and (ii), and can be electronically accepted by CMS.


*Critical access hospital (CAH)* means a facility that has been certified as a critical access hospital under section 1820(e) of the Act and for which Medicare payment is made under section 1814(l) of the Act for inpatient services and under section 1834(g) of the Act for outpatient services.


*EHR reporting period.* Except with respect to payment adjustment years, EHR reporting period means either of the following:


(1) For an eligible EP—


(i) The following are applicable before 2015:


(A) For the payment year in which the EP is first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within the calendar year;


(B) Except as specified in paragraphs (1)(iii) and (1)(iv) of this definition, for the subsequent payment years following the payment year in which the EP first successfully demonstrates he or she is a meaningful EHR user, the calendar year.


(C) For an EP seeking to demonstrate he or she is a meaningful EHR user for the Medicare EHR incentive program for CY 2014, any of the following 3-month periods:


(*1*) January 1, 2014 through March 31, 2014.


(*2*) April 1, 2014 through June 30, 2014.


(*3*) July 1, 2014 through September 30, 2014.


(*4*) October 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.


(D) For an EP seeking to demonstrate he or she is a meaningful EHR user for the Medicaid EHR incentive program for CY 2014 any continuous 90-day period within CY 2014.


(ii) The following are applicable for 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018:


(A) For the CY 2015 payment year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2015.


(B) For the CY 2016 payment year:


(*1*) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016.


(*2*) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016.


(C) For the CY 2017 payment year under the Medicaid EHR Incentive Program:


(*1*) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017.


(*2*) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017.


(*3*) For the EP demonstrating the Stage 3 objectives and measures at § 495.24, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017.


(D) For the CY 2018 payment year under the Medicaid EHR Incentive Program:


(*1*) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018.


(*2*) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018.


(iii) For the CY 2019 payment year under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program:


(A) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019.


(B) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019.


(iv) For the CY 2020 payment year under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program:


(A) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020.


(B) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020.


(v) Under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program, for the CY 2021 payment year:


(A) For the EP first demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 that ends before October 31, 2021, or that ends before an earlier date in CY 2021 that is specified by the state and approved by CMS in the State Medicaid HIT plan described at § 495.332.


(B) For the EP who has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 that ends before October 31, 2021, or that ends before an earlier date in CY 2021 that is specified by the state and approved by CMS in the State Medicaid HIT plan described at § 495.332.


(2) For an eligible hospital or CAH—


(i) The following are applicable before 2015:


(A) For the payment year in which the eligible hospital or CAH is first demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within the Federal fiscal year;


(B) Except as specified in paragraph (2)(iii) of this definition, for the subsequent payment years following the payment year in which the eligible hospital or CAH first successfully demonstrates it is a meaningful EHR user, the Federal fiscal year.


(C) For an eligible hospital or CAH seeking to demonstrate it is a meaningful EHR user for FY 2014, any of the following 3-month periods:


(*1*) October 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013.


(*2*) January 1, 2014 through March 31, 2014.


(*3*) April 1, 2014 through June 30, 2014.


(*4*) July 1, 2014 through September 30, 2014.


(ii) The following are applicable for 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018:


(A) For the FY 2015 payment year, any continuous 90-day period within the period beginning on October 1, 2014 and ending on December 31, 2015.


(B) For the FY 2016 payment year as follows:


(*1*) For the eligible hospital or CAH first demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016.


(*2*) For the eligible hospital or CAH that has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016.


(C) For the FY 2017 payment year as follows:


(*1*) Under the Medicaid EHR Incentive Program:


(*i*) For the eligible hospital or CAH first demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017.


(*ii*) For the eligible hospital or CAH that has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017.


(*iii*) For the eligible hospital or CAH demonstrating the Stage 3 objectives and measures at § 495.24, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017.


(*2*) Under the Medicare EHR Incentive Program, for a Puerto Rico eligible hospital, any continuous 14-day period within CY 2017.


(D) For the FY 2018 payment year as follows:


(*1*) Under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program:


(*i*) For the eligible hospital or CAH first demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018.


(*ii*) For the eligible hospital or CAH that has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018.


(*2*) Under the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program, for a Puerto Rico eligible hospital, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018.


(iii) For the FY 2019 payment year as follows:


(A) Under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program:


(*1*) For the eligible hospital or CAH first demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019.


(*2*) For the eligible hospital or CAH that has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019.


(B) Under the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program, for a Puerto Rico eligible hospital, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019.


(iv) For the FY 2020 payment year as follows:


(A) Under the Medicaid Promoting Interoperability Program:


(*1*) For the eligible hospital or CAH first demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020.


(*2*) For the eligible hospital or CAH that has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in any prior year, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020.


(B) Under the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program, for a Puerto Rico eligible hospital, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020.


(v) For the FY 2021 payment year as follows: Under the Medicare Promoting Interoperability Program, for a Puerto Rico eligible hospital, any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021.


*EHR reporting period for a payment adjustment year.* For a payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period means the following:


(1) For an EP—


(i) The following are applicable before 2015:


(A)(*1*) Except as provided in paragraphs (1)(i)(A)(*2*), (1)(i)(B), and (1)(i)(C) of this definition, the calendar year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year.


(*2*) The special EHR reporting period for CY 2014 (specified in paragraph (1)(i)(C) of this definition, as applicable) of the definition of “EHR Reporting Period” that occurs within the calendar year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year and is only for EHR reporting periods in CY 2014.


(B) If an EP is demonstrating he or she is a meaningful EHR user for the first time in the calendar year, that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year, then any continuous 90-day period within such (2 years prior) calendar year.


(C)(*1*) If in the calendar year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year and in all prior calendar years, the EP has not successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user, then any continuous 90-day period that both begins in the calendar year 1 year before the payment adjustment year and ends at least 3 months before the end of such prior year.


(*2*) Under this exception, the provider must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than the date October 1 of the year before the payment adjustment year.


(ii) The following are applicable for 2015, 2016, and 2017:


(A) In 2015 as follows:


(*1*) If an EP has not successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2015 and applies for the CY 2016 and 2017 payment adjustment years.


(*2*) If in a prior year an EP has successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2015 and applies for the CY 2017 payment adjustment year.


(B) In 2016 as follows:


(*1*) If an EP has not successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016 and applies for the CY 2017 and 2018 payment adjustment years. For the CY 2017 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the EP must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2016.


(*2*) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016 and applies for the FY 2018 payment adjustment year.


(C) In 2017 as follows:


(*1*) If an EP has not successfully demonstrated he or she is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017 and applies for the CY 2018 payment adjustment year. For the CY 2018 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the EP must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2017.


(*2*) [Reserved] 


(2) For an eligible hospital—


(i) The following are applicable before 2015:


(A)(*1*) Except as provided in paragraphs (2)(i)(A)(*2*), (2)(i)(B), and (2)(i)(C) of this definition, the Federal fiscal year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year.


(*2*) The special EHR reporting period for FY 2014 (defined in paragraph (2)(i)(C) of the definition “EHR Reporting Period”) that occurs within the fiscal year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year and is only for EHR reporting periods in fiscal year 2014.


(B) If an eligible hospital is demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user for the first time in the Federal fiscal year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year, then any continuous 90-day period within such (2 years prior) Federal fiscal year.


(C)(*1*) If in the Federal fiscal year that is 2 years before the payment adjustment year and for all prior Federal fiscal years the eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, then any continuous 90-day period that both begins in the Federal fiscal year that is 1 year before the payment adjustment year and ends at least 3 months before the end of such prior Federal fiscal year.


(*2*) Under this exception, the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than July 1 of the year before the payment adjustment year.


(ii) The following are applicable for 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018:


(A) In 2015 as follows:


(*1*) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within the period beginning on October 1, 2014 and ending on December 31, 2015 and applies for the FY 2016 and 2017 payment adjustment years.


(*2*) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within the period beginning on October 1, 2014 and ending on December 31, 2015 and applies for the FY 2017 payment adjustment year.


(B) In 2016 as follows:


(*1*) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016 and 2017 applies for the FY 2017 and 2018 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2017 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2016.


(*2*) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016 and applies for the FY 2018 payment adjustment year.


(C) In 2017 as follows:


(*1*) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017 and applies for the FY 2018 and 2019 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2018 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2017.


(*2*) If an eligible hospital is demonstrating Stage 3 of meaningful use under § 495.24, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017 and applies for the FY 2019 payment adjustment year.


(*3*) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017 and applies for the FY 2019 payment adjustment year.


(D) In 2018 as follows:


(*1*) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018 and applies for the FY 2019 and 2020 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2019 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2018.


(*2*) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018 and applies for the FY 2020 payment adjustment year.


(iii) The following are applicable for 2019:


(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2020 and FY 2021 payment adjustment years.


(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2021 payment adjustment year.


(iv) The following are applicable for 2020:


(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2021 and 2022 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2021 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2020.


(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2022 payment adjustment year.


(v) The following are applicable for 2021:


(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2022 and 2023 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2022 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2021.


(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2023 payment adjustment year.


(vi) The following are applicable for 2022:


(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2023 and 2024 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2023 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2022.


(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2024 payment adjustment year.


(vii) The following are applicable for 2023:


(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2024 and 2025 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2024 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2023.


(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2025 payment adjustment year.


(viii) The following are applicable for 2024:


(A) If an eligible hospital has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2025 and 2026 payment adjustment years. For the FY 2025 payment adjustment year, the EHR reporting period must end before and the eligible hospital must successfully register for and attest to meaningful use no later than October 1, 2024.


(B) If in a prior year an eligible hospital has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2026 payment adjustment year.


(ix) For an eligible hospital in CY 2025, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2025 and applies for the FY 2027 payment adjustment year.


(3) For a CAH—


(i) The following are applicable before 2015:


(A) Except as provided in paragraph (3)(i)(B) of this definition, the Federal fiscal year that is the payment adjustment year.


(B) If the CAH is demonstrating it is a meaningful EHR user for the first time in the payment adjustment year, any continuous 90-day period within the Federal fiscal year that is the payment adjustment year.


(ii) The following are applicable for 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018:


(A) In 2015 as follows:


(*1*) The EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within the period beginning on October 1, 2014 and ending on December 31, 2015 and applies for the FY 2015 payment adjustment year.


(*2*) [Reserved]


(B) In 2016 as follows:


(*1*) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016 and applies for the FY 2016 payment adjustment year.


(*2*) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2016 and applies for the FY 2016 payment adjustment year.


(C) In 2017 as follows:


(*1*) If the CAH has not successfully demonstrated meaningful EHR use in a prior year the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017 and applies for the FY 2017 payment adjustment year.


(*2*) If a CAH is demonstrating Stage 3 of meaningful use under § 495.24, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017 and applies for that begins on the first day of second quarter of the FY 2017 payment adjustment year.


(*3*) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2017 and applies for the FY 2017 payment adjustment year.


(D) In 2018 as follows:


(*1*) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018 and applies for the FY 2018 payment adjustment year.


(*2*) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2018 and applies for the FY 2018 payment adjustment year.


(iii) The following are applicable for 2019:


(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2019 payment adjustment year.


(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2019 and applies for the FY 2019 payment adjustment year.


(iv) The following are applicable for 2020:


(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2020 payment adjustment year.


(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2020 and applies for the FY 2020 payment adjustment year.


(v) The following are applicable for 2021:


(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2021 payment adjustment year.


(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2021 and applies for the FY 2021 payment adjustment year.


(vi) The following are applicable for 2022:


(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2022 payment adjustment year.


(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2022 and applies for the FY 2022 payment adjustment year.


(vii) The following are applicable for 2023:


(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2023 payment adjustment year.


(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 90-day period within CY 2023 and applies for the FY 2023 payment adjustment year.


(viii) The following are applicable for 2024:


(A) If a CAH has not successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user in a prior year, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2024 payment adjustment year.


(B) If in a prior year a CAH has successfully demonstrated it is a meaningful EHR user, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2024 and applies for the FY 2024 payment adjustment year.


(ix) For a CAH in CY 2025, the EHR reporting period is any continuous 180-day period within CY 2025 and applies for the FY 2025 payment adjustment year.


*Eligible hospital* means an eligible hospital as defined under § 495.100 or Medicaid eligible hospital under subpart D of this part.


*Eligible professional (EP)* means an eligible professional as defined under § 495.100 or a Medicaid eligible professional under subpart D of this part.


*First, second, third, fourth, fifth, or sixth payment years* mean as follows:


(1) The first payment year is: with respect to an EP, the first calendar year for which the EP receives an incentive payment under this part; and with respect to an eligible hospital or CAH, the first FY for which the hospital receives an incentive payment under this part.


(2) The second, third, fourth, fifth, or sixth payment year is:


(i) With respect to a Medicare EP, the second, third, fourth or fifth successive CY immediately following the first payment year; and with respect to a Medicare eligible hospital or CAH, the second, third, or fourth successive Federal FY immediately following the first payment year. (Note: Medicare EPs are not eligible for a sixth payment year and Medicare eligible hospitals are not eligible for a fifth or sixth payment year.)


(ii)(A) With respect to a Medicaid EP, the second, third, fourth, fifth, or sixth CY for which the EP receives an incentive payment under subpart D, regardless of whether the year immediately follows the prior payment year; and


(B) With respect to a Medicaid eligible hospital, for years prior to FY 2017, the second, third, fourth, fifth, or sixth Federal FY for which the hospital receives an incentive payment under subpart D of this part, regardless of whether the year immediately follows the prior payment year. Beginning with FY 2017, payments to Medicaid eligible hospitals must be consecutive, and the hospital is not eligible for an incentive payment under subpart D of this part unless it received such incentive payment for the prior fiscal year.


*Hospital-based EP.* Unless it meets the requirements of § 495.5, a hospital-based EP means an EP who furnishes 90 percent or more of his or her covered professional services in sites of service identified by the codes used in the HIPAA standard transaction as an inpatient hospital or emergency room setting in the year preceding the payment year, or in the case of a payment adjustment year, in either of the 2 years before the year preceding such payment adjustment year.


(1) For Medicare, this is calculated based on—


(i) The Federal fiscal year preceding the payment year; and


(ii) For the payment adjustments, based on—


(A) The Federal fiscal year 2 years before the payment adjustment year; or


(B) The Federal fiscal year 3 years before the payment adjustment year.


(2) For Medicaid, it is at the State's discretion if the data are gathered on the Federal fiscal year or calendar year preceding the payment year.


(3) For the CY 2013 payment year only, an EP who furnishes services billed by a CAH receiving payment under Method II (as described in § 413.70(b)(3) of this chapter) is considered to be hospital-based if 90 percent or more of his or her covered professional services are furnished in sites of service identified by the codes used in the HIPAA standard transaction as an inpatient hospital or emergency room setting in each of the Federal fiscal years 2012 and 2013.


*Meaningful EHR user* means all of the following:


(1) Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) of this definition, an eligible professional, eligible hospital or CAH that, for an EHR reporting period for a payment year or payment adjustment year—


(i) Demonstrates in accordance with § 495.40 meaningful use of certified EHR technology by meeting the applicable objectives and associated measures under §§ 495.20, 495.22, 495.24;


(ii) Does not knowingly and willfully take action (such as to disable functionality) to limit or restrict the compatibility or interoperability of CEHRT;


(iii) Engages in activities related to supporting providers with the performance of CEHRT; and


(iv) Successfully reports the clinical quality measures selected by CMS to CMS or the States, as applicable, in the form and manner specified by CMS or the States, as applicable.


(2)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (2)(ii) of this definition, a Medicaid EP or Medicaid eligible hospital, that meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition and any additional criteria for meaningful use imposed by the State and approved by CMS under §§ 495.316 and 495.332.


(ii) An eligible hospital or CAH is deemed to be a meaningful EHR user for purposes of receiving an incentive payment under subpart D of this part, if the hospital participates in both the Medicare and Medicaid EHR incentive programs, and the hospital meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition.


(3) To be considered a meaningful EHR user, at least 50 percent of an EP's patient encounters during an EHR reporting period for a payment year (or, in the case of a payment adjustment year, during an applicable EHR reporting period for such payment adjustment year) must occur at a practice/location or practices/locations equipped with certified EHR technology.


(4) An eligible professional, eligible hospital or CAH is not a meaningful EHR user in a payment adjustment year if the HHS Inspector General refers a determination that the eligible hospital or CAH committed information blocking as defined at 45 CFR 171.103 during the calendar year of the EHR reporting period.


*Payment adjustment year* means the following:


(1) For an EP, a calendar year beginning with CY 2015.


(2) For a CAH or an eligible hospital, a Federal fiscal year beginning with FY 2015.


(3) For a Puerto Rico eligible hospital, a Federal fiscal year beginning with FY 2022.


*Payment year* means the following:


(1) For an EP, a calendar year beginning with CY 2011.


(2) For a CAH or an eligible hospital, a Federal fiscal year beginning with FY 2011.


(3) For a Puerto Rico eligible hospital, a Federal fiscal year beginning with FY 2016.


*Qualified EHR* has the same definition as this term is defined at 45 CFR 170.102.



---

[N] [75 FR 44565, July 28, 2010]


