# § 319.59-1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, or any employee of the United States Department of Agriculture delegated to act in his or her stead.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Controlled import permit.* A written or electronically transmitted authorization issued by APHIS for the importation into the United States of otherwise prohibited or restricted plant material for experimental, therapeutic, or developmental purposes, under controlled conditions as prescribed by the Administrator in accordance with § 319.6.


*From.* An article is considered to be “from” any country or locality in which it was grown.


*Grain.* Wheat (*Triticum aestivum*), durum wheat (*Triticum durum*), and triticale (*Triticum aestivum* × *Secale cereale*) used for consumption or processing and not for planting.


*Hay.* Host crops cut and dried for feeding to livestock. Hay cut after reaching the dough stage may contain mature kernels of the host crop.


*Host crops.* Plants or plant parts, including grain, seed, or hay, of wheat (*Triticum aestivum*), durum wheat (*Triticum durum*), and triticale (*Triticum aestivum* × *Secale cereale*).


*Inspector.* Any individual authorized by the Administrator of APHIS or the Commissioner of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, to enforce the regulations in this subpart.


*Karnal bunt.* A plant disease caused by the fungus *Tilletia indica* (Mitra) Mundkur.


*Plant.* Any plant (including any plant part) for or capable of propagation, including a tree, a tissue culture, a plantlet culture, pollen, a shrub, a vine, a cutting, a graft, a scion, a bud, a bulb, a root, and a seed.


*Seed.* Wheat (*Triticum aestivum*), durum wheat (*Triticum durum*), and triticale (*Triticum aestivum* × *Secale cereale*) used for propagation.


*Spp. (species).* All species, clones, cultivars, strains, varieties, and hybrids, of a genus.


*Straw.* The vegetative material left after the harvest of host crops. Straw is generally used as animal feed or bedding, as mulch, or for erosion control.


*United States.* The States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.



---

[N] [70 FR 8231, Feb. 18, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 71212, Nov. 28, 2005; 78 FR 25571, May 2, 2013; 83 FR 11866, Mar. 19, 2018]




