# § 62.14640a   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and the operating limits?

(a)(1) The emission standards and operating requirements set forth in this subpart apply at all times.


(2) If you cease combusting solid waste you may opt to remain subject to the provisions of this subpart. Consistent with the definition of CISWI in this subpart, you are subject to the requirements of this subpart at least 6 months following the last date of solid waste combustion. Solid waste combustion is ceased when solid waste is not in the combustion chamber (*i.e.,* the solid waste feed to the combustor has been cut off for a period of time not less than the solid waste residence time).


(3) If you cease combusting solid waste you must be in compliance with any newly applicable standards on the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch. The effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch is a date selected by you, that must be at least 6 months from the date that you ceased combusting solid waste, consistent with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Your source must remain in compliance with this subpart until the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch.


(4) If you own or operate an existing commercial or industrial combustion unit that combusted a fuel or non-waste material, and you commence or recommence combustion of solid waste, you are subject to the provisions of this subpart as of the first day you introduce or reintroduce solid waste to the combustion chamber, and this date constitutes the effective date of the fuel-to-waste switch. You must complete all initial compliance demonstrations for any standards under section 112 of the Clean Air Act that are applicable to your facility before you commence or recommence combustion of solid waste. You must provide 30 days prior notice of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch. The notification must identify:


(i) The name of the owner or operator of the CISWI, the location of the source, the emissions unit(s) that will cease burning solid waste, and the date of the notice;


(ii) The currently applicable subcategory under this subpart, and any subpart and subcategory under 40 CFR part 63 that will be applicable after you cease combusting solid waste;


(iii) The fuel(s), non-waste material(s) and solid waste(s) the CISWI is currently combusting and has combusted over the past 6 months, and the fuel(s) or non-waste materials the unit will commence combusting;


(iv) The date on which you became subject to the currently applicable emission limits; and


(v) The date upon which you will cease combusting solid waste, and the date (if different) that you intend for any new requirements to become applicable (*i.e.,* the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch), consistent with paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.


(5) All air pollution control equipment necessary for compliance with any newly applicable emissions limits which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of combusting solid waste must be installed and operational as of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel, or fuel-to-waste switch.


(6) All monitoring systems necessary for compliance with any newly applicable monitoring requirements which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of combusting solid waste must be installed and operational as of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel, or fuel-to-waste switch. All calibration and drift checks must be performed as of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel, or fuel-to-waste switch. Relative accuracy tests must be performed as of the performance test deadline for PM CEMS (if PM CEMS are elected to demonstrate continuous compliance with the particulate matter emission limits). Relative accuracy testing for other CEMS need not be repeated if that testing was previously performed consistent with monitoring requirements under section 112 of the Clean Air Act or monitoring requirements under this subpart.


(b) You must conduct an annual performance test for the pollutants listed in tables 4 through 7 to this subpart and opacity for each CISWI as required under § 62.14615a. The annual performance test must be conducted using the test methods listed in tables 4 through 7 to this subpart and the procedures in § 62.14615a. Opacity must be measured using EPA Reference Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4. Annual performance tests are not required if you use CEMS or continuous opacity monitoring systems to determine compliance.


(c) You must continuously monitor the operating parameters specified in § 62.14605a or established under § 62.14610a. Operation above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating limits constitutes a deviation from the established operating limits. Three-hour block average values are used to determine compliance (except for baghouse leak detection system alarms) unless a different averaging period is established under § 62.14610a or, for energy recovery units, where the averaging time for each operating parameter is a 30-day rolling average, calculated each hour as the average of the previous 720 operating hours. Operation above the established maximum, below the established minimum, or outside the allowable range of the operating limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes a deviation from your operating limits established under this subpart, except during performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission and operating limits or to establish new operating limits. Operating limits are confirmed or reestablished during performance tests.


(d) You must burn only the same types of waste and fuels used to establish subcategory applicability (for ERUs) and operating limits during the performance test.


(e) For energy recovery units, incinerators, and small remote units, you must perform annual visual emissions tests for ash handling.


(f) For energy recovery units, you must conduct an annual performance test for opacity using EPA Reference Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4 (except where particulate matter continuous monitoring system or CPMS are used), and the pollutants listed in table 5 to this subpart.


(g) For facilities using a CEMS to demonstrate compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit, compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit may be demonstrated by using the CEMS, as described in § 62.14665a(o).


(h) Coal and liquid/gas energy recovery units with annual average heat input rates greater than 250 MMBtu/hr may elect to demonstrate continuous compliance with the particulate matter emissions limit using a particulate matter CEMS according to the procedures in § 62.14665a(n) instead of the CPMS specified in paragraph (i) of this section. Coal and liquid/gas energy recovery units with annual average heat input rates less than 250 MMBtu/hr, incinerators, and small, remote incinerators may also elect to demonstrate compliance using a particulate matter CEMS according to the procedures in § 62.14665a(n) instead of particulate matter testing with EPA Method 5 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, and, if applicable, the continuous opacity monitoring requirements in paragraph (i) of this section.


(i) For energy recovery units with annual average heat input rates greater than or equal to 10 MMBtu/hr but less than 250 MMBtu/hr that do not use a wet scrubber, fabric filter with bag leak detection system, an electrostatic precipitator, particulate matter CEMS, or particulate matter CPMS, you must install, operate, certify, and maintain a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) according to the procedures in § 62.14665a(m).


(j) For waste-burning kilns, you must conduct an annual performance test for the pollutants (except mercury and hydrogen chloride if no acid gas wet scrubber or dry scrubber is used) listed in table 6 to this subpart, unless you choose to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance using CEMS, as allowed in paragraph (u) of this section. If you do not use an acid gas wet scrubber or dry scrubber, you must determine compliance with the hydrogen chloride emissions limit using a HCl CEMS according to the requirements in paragraph (j)(1) of this section. You must determine compliance with the mercury emissions limit using a mercury CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system according to paragraph (j)(2) of this section. You must determine compliance with particulate matter using a PM CPMS according to paragraph (x) of this section.


(1) If you monitor compliance with the HCl emissions limit by operating an HCl CEMS, you must do so in accordance with Performance Specification 15 (PS 15) of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, or, PS 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. You must operate, maintain, and quality assure a HCl CEMS installed and certified under PS 15 according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, except that the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 must be replaced with the validation requirements and criteria of sections 11.1.1 and 12.0 of PS 15. You must operate, maintain and quality assure a HCl CEMS installed and certified under PS 18 according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 6 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F. For any performance specification that you use, you must use Method 321 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, as the reference test method for conducting relative accuracy testing. The span value and calibration requirements in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply to all HCl CEMS used under this subpart:


(i) You must use a measurement span value for any HCl CEMS of 0-10 ppmvw unless the monitor is installed on a kiln without an inline raw mill. Kilns without an inline raw mill may use a higher span value sufficient to quantify all expected emissions concentrations. The HCl CEMS data recorder output range must include the full range of expected HCl concentration values which would include those expected during “mill off” conditions. The corresponding data recorder range shall be documented in the site-specific monitoring plan and associated records;


(ii) In order to quality assure data measured above the span value, you must use one of the three options in paragraphs (j)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section:


(A) Include a second span that encompasses the HCl emission concentrations expected to be encountered during “mill off” conditions. This second span may be rounded to a multiple of 5 ppm of total HCl. The requirements of the appropriate HCl monitor performance specification shall be followed for this second span with the exception that a relative accuracy test audit (RATA) with the mill off is not required;


(B) Quality assure any data above the span value by proving instrument linearity beyond the span value established in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section using the following procedure. Conduct a weekly “above span linearity” calibration challenge of the monitoring system using a reference gas with a certified value greater than your highest expected hourly concentration or greater than 75 percent of the highest measured hourly concentration. The “above span” reference gas must meet the requirements of the applicable performance specification and must be introduced to the measurement system at the probe. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The “above span linearity” challenge is successful if the value measured by the HCl CEMS falls within 10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the HCl CEMS during the above span linearity challenge exceeds 10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, the monitoring system must be evaluated and repaired and a new “above span linearity” challenge met before returning the HCl CEMS to service, or data above span from the HCl CEMS must be subject to the quality assurance procedures established in (j)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. In this manner values measured by the HCl CEMS during the above span linearity challenge exceeding ±20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas must be normalized using equation 1 to paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(D)(*1*) of this section;


(C) Quality assure any data above the span value established in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section using the following procedure. Any time two consecutive one-hour average measured concentration of HCl exceeds the span value you must, within 24 hours before or after, introduce a higher, “above span” HCl reference gas standard to the HCl CEMS. The “above span” reference gas must meet the requirements of the applicable performance specification and target a concentration level between 50 and 150 percent of the highest expected hourly concentration measured during the period of measurements above span, and must be introduced at the probe. While this target represents a desired concentration range that is not always achievable in practice, it is expected that the intent to meet this range is demonstrated by the value of the reference gas. Expected values may include above span calibrations done before or after the above-span measurement period. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The “above span” calibration is successful if the value measured by the HCl CEMS is within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the HCl CEMS is not within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, then you must normalize the stack gas values measured above span as described in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. If the “above span” calibration is conducted during the period when measured emissions are above span and there is a failure to collect the one data point in an hour due to the calibration duration, then you must determine the emissions average for that missed hour as the average of hourly averages for the hour preceding the missed hour and the hour following the missed hour. In an hour where an “above span” calibration is being conducted and one or more data points are collected, the emissions average is represented by the average of all valid data points collected in that hour; and


(D)(*1*) In the event that the “above span” calibration is not successful (*i.e.,* the HCl CEMS measured value is not within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas), then you must normalize the one-hour average stack gas values measured above the span during the 24-hour period preceding or following the “above span” calibration for reporting based on the HCl CEMS response to the reference gas as shown in equation 1 to this paragraph (j)(1)(ii)(D)(*1*):


(*2*) Only one “above span” calibration is needed per 24-hour period.


(2) Compliance with the mercury emissions limit must be determined using a mercury CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system according to the following requirements:


(i) You must operate a mercury CEMS in accordance with performance specification 12A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system in accordance with Performance Specification 12B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B; these monitoring systems must be quality assured according to Procedure 5 of appendix F to 40 CFR part 60. For the purposes of emissions calculations when using an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, the mercury concentration determined for each sampling period must be assigned to each hour during the sampling period. If you choose to comply with the production-rate based mercury limit for your waste-burning kiln, you must also monitor hourly clinker production and determine the hourly mercury emissions rate in pounds per million ton of clinker produced. You must demonstrate compliance with the mercury emissions limit using a 30-day rolling average of these 1-hour mercury concentrations or mass emissions rates, including CEMS data during startup and shutdown as defined in this subpart, calculated using equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. CEMS data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart, are not corrected to 7 percent oxygen, and are measured at stack oxygen content;


(ii) Owners or operators using a mercury CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system to determine mass emission rate must install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the mercury mass emissions rate to the atmosphere according to the requirements of Performance Specification 6 (PS 6) of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and conducting an annual relative accuracy test of the continuous emission rate monitoring system according to section 8.2 of PS 6; and


(iii) The owner or operator of a waste-burning kiln must demonstrate initial compliance by operating a mercury CEMS or integrated sorbent trap monitoring system while the raw mill of the in-line kiln/raw mill is operating under normal conditions and including at least one period when the raw mill is off.


(k) If you use an air pollution control device to meet the emission limitations in this subpart, you must conduct an initial and annual inspection of the air pollution control device. The inspection must include, at a minimum, the following:


(1) Inspect air pollution control device(s) for proper operation; and


(2) Develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in paragraph (l) of this section. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 60.13(i) of this chapter.


(l) For each CMS required in this section, you must develop and submit to the EPA Administrator for approval a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements of this paragraph (l) that addresses paragraphs (l)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section:


(1) You must submit this site-specific monitoring plan at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your continuous monitoring system:


(i) Installation of the continuous monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (*e.g.,* on or downstream of the last control device);


(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer and the data collection and reduction systems;


(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (*e.g.,* calibrations);


(iv) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.11(d) of this chapter;


(v) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.13 of this chapter; and


(vi) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 60.7(b), (c) introductory text, (c)(1) and (4), and (d) through (g) of this chapter.


(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous monitoring system in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.


(3) You must operate and maintain the continuous monitoring system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.


(m) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a flow monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (l) and (m)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) Install the flow sensor and other necessary equipment in a position that provides a representative flow;


(2) Use a flow sensor with a measurement sensitivity at full scale of no greater than 2 percent;


(3) Minimize the effects of swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances; and


(4) Conduct a flow monitoring system performance evaluation in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.


(n) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a pressure monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (l) and (n)(1) through (6) of this section:


(1) Install the pressure sensor(s) in a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure (*e.g.,* PM scrubber pressure drop);


(2) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion;


(3) Use a pressure sensor with a minimum tolerance of 1.27 centimeters of water or a minimum tolerance of 1 percent of the pressure monitoring system operating range, whichever is less;


(4) Perform checks at the frequency outlined in your site-specific monitoring plan to ensure pressure measurements are not obstructed (*e.g.,* check for pressure tap plugging daily);


(5) Conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually; and


(6) If at any time the measured pressure exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range, conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan and confirm that the pressure monitoring system continues to meet the performance requirements in your monitoring plan. Alternatively, install and verify the operation of a new pressure sensor.


(o) If you have an operating limit that requires a pH monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (l) and (o)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) Install the pH sensor in a position that provides a representative measurement of scrubber effluent pH;


(2) Ensure the sample is properly mixed and representative of the fluid to be measured;


(3) Conduct a performance evaluation of the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at least once each process operating day; and


(4) Conduct a performance evaluation (including a two-point calibration with one of the two buffer solutions having a pH within 1 of the pH of the operating limit) of the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than quarterly.


(p) If you have an operating limit that requires a secondary electric power monitoring system for an electrostatic precipitator, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (l) and (p)(1) and (2) of this section:


(1) Install sensors to measure (secondary) voltage and current to the precipitator collection plates; and


(2) Conduct a performance evaluation of the electric power monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.


(q) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a monitoring system to measure sorbent injection rate (*e.g.,* weigh belt, weigh hopper, or hopper flow measurement device), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (l) and (q)(1) and (2) of this section:


(1) Install the system in a position(s) that provides a representative measurement of the total sorbent injection rate; and


(2) Conduct a performance evaluation of the sorbent injection rate monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.


(r) If you elect to use a fabric filter bag leak detection system to comply with the requirements of this subpart, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate a bag leak detection system as specified in paragraphs (l) and (r)(1) through (5) of this section:


(1) Install a bag leak detection sensor(s) in a position(s) that will be representative of the relative or absolute particulate matter loadings for each exhaust stack, roof vent, or compartment (*e.g.,* for a positive pressure fabric filter) of the fabric filter;


(2) Use a bag leak detection system certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter or less;


(3) Conduct a performance evaluation of the bag leak detection system in accordance with your monitoring plan and consistent with the guidance provided in OAQPS Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance, EPA-454/R-98-015 (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (z) of this section).


(4) Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor; and


(5) Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a system that will sound an alarm when an increase in relative particulate matter emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is observed readily by plant operating personnel.


(s) For facilities using a CEMS to demonstrate initial and continous compliance with the sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) emission limit, compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit may be demonstrated by using the CEMS specified in § 62.14665a(l) to measure sulfur dioxide. The sulfur dioxide CEMS must follow the procedures and methods specified in this paragraph (s). For sources that have actual inlet emissions less than 100 parts per million dry volume, the relative accuracy criterion for inlet sulfur dioxide CEMS should be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the reference method test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or 5 parts per million dry volume absolute value of the mean difference between the reference method and the CEMS, whichever is greater:


(1) During each relative accuracy test run of the CEMS required by Performance Specification 2 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, collect sulfur dioxide and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) with both the CEMS and the test methods specified in paragraphs (s)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:


(i) For sulfur dioxide, EPA Reference Method 6 or 6C of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus] must be used (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (z) of this section); and


(ii) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus], as applicable, must be used (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (z) of this section).


(2) The span value of the CEMS at the inlet to the sulfur dioxide control device must be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the unit subject to this subpart. The span value of the CEMS at the outlet of the sulfur dioxide control device must be 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the unit subject to this subpart.


(3) Conduct accuracy determinations quarterly and calibration drift tests daily in accordance with Procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.


(t) For facilities using a CEMS to demonstrate intitial and continuous compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit, compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit may be demonstrated by using the CEMS specified in § 62.14665a to measure nitrogen oxides. The nitrogen oxides CEMS must follow the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (t)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) During each relative accuracy test run of the CEMS required by Performance Specification 2 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, collect nitrogen oxides and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) with both the CEMS and the test methods specified in paragraphs (t)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:


(i) For nitrogen oxides, EPA Reference Method 7 or 7E of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, must be used; and


(ii) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus], as applicable, must be used (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (z) of this section).


(2) The span value of the CEMS must be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential nitrogen oxide emissions of unit.


(3) Conduct accuracy determinations quarterly and calibration drift tests daily in accordance with Procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.


(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. If carbon dioxide is selected for use in diluent corrections, the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels must be established during the initial performance test according to the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (t)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. This relationship may be reestablished during performance compliance tests:


(i) The fuel factor equation in Method 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, must be used to determine the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide at a sampling location. Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus], as applicable, must be used to determine the oxygen concentration at the same location as the carbon dioxide monitor (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (z) of this section);


(ii) Samples must be taken for at least 30 minutes in each hour;


(iii) Each sample must represent a 1-hour average; and


(iv) A minimum of 3 runs must be performed.


(u) For facilities using a CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system for mercury to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with any of the emission limits of this subpart, you must complete the following:


(1) Demonstrate compliance with the appropriate emission limit(s) using a 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations, including CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart, calculated using equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. The 1-hour arithmetic averages for CEMS must be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of this chapter. Except for CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system data during startup and shutdown, the 1-hour arithmetic averages used to calculate the 30-day rolling average emission concentrations must be corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis). Integrated sorbent trap monitoring system or CEMS data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart, are not corrected to 7 percent oxygen, and are measured at stack oxygen content; and


(2) Operate all CEMS and integrated sorbent trap monitoring systems in accordance with the applicable procedures under of 40 CFR part 60, appendices B and F.


(v) Use of the bypass stack at any time is an emissions standards deviation for PM, HCl, lead, cadmium, mercury, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, and dioxin/furans.


(w) For energy recovery units with a design heat input capacity of 100 MMBtu/hr or greater that do not use a carbon monoxide CEMS, you must install, operate, and maintain an oxygen analyzer system as defined in § 62.14785a according to the procedures in paragraphs (w)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) The oxygen analyzer system must be installed by the initial performance test date specified in § 62.14605a;


(2) You must operate the oxygen trim system within compliance with paragraph (w)(3) of this section at all times;


(3) You must maintain the oxygen level such that the 30-day rolling average that is established as the operating limit for oxygen is not below the lowest hourly average oxygen concentration measured during the most recent carbon monoxide (CO) performance test; and


(4) You must calculate and record a 30-day rolling average oxygen concentration using equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.


(x) For energy recovery units with annual average heat input rates greater than or equal to 250 MMBtu/hr and waste-burning kilns, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a PM CPMS and record the output of the system as specified in paragraphs (x)(1) through (8) of this section. For other energy recovery units, you may elect to use PM CPMS operated in accordance with this section. PM CPMS are suitable in lieu of using other CMS for monitoring PM compliance (*e.g.,* bag leak detectors, electrostatic precipitator secondary power, PM scrubber pressure):


(1) Install, calibrate, operate, and maintain your PM CPMS according to the procedures in your approved site-specific monitoring plan developed in accordance with paragraphs (l) and (x)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section:


(i) The operating principle of the PM CPMS must be based on in-stack or extractive light scatter, light scintillation, beta attenuation, or mass accumulation of the exhaust gas or representative sample. The reportable measurement output from the PM CPMS must be expressed as milliamps or the digital signal equivalent;


(ii) The PM CPMS must have a cycle time (*i.e.,* period required to complete sampling, measurement, and reporting for each measurement) no longer than 60 minutes; and


(iii) The PM CPMS must be capable of detecting and responding to particulate matter concentrations increments no greater than 0.5 mg/actual cubic meter.


(2) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, you must adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test according to the procedures specified in § 62.14605a.


(3) Collect PM CPMS hourly average output data for all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours. Express the PM CPMS output as milliamps or the digital signal equivalent.


(4) Calculate the arithmetic 30-day rolling average of all of the hourly average PM CPMS output collected during all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours data (milliamps or their digital equivalent).


(5) You must collect data using the PM CPMS at all times the energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (x)(1)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), and any scheduled maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan.


(6) You must use all the data collected during all energy recovery unit or waste-burning kiln operating hours in assessing the compliance with your operating limit except:


(i) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during monitoring system malfunctions are not used in calculations (report any such periods in your annual deviation report);


(ii) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in your site-specific monitoring plan, repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during out-of-control periods are not used in calculations (report emissions or operating levels and report any such periods in your annual deviation report); and


(iii) Any PM CPMS data recorded during periods of CEMS data during startup and shutdown, as defined in this subpart.


(7) You must record and make available upon request results of PM CPMS system performance audits, as well as the dates and duration of periods from when the PM CPMS is out of control until completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the PM CPMS to operation consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan.


(8) For any deviation of the 30-day rolling average PM CPMS average value from the established operating parameter limit, you must:


(i) Within 48 hours of the deviation, visually inspect the air pollution control device;


(ii) If inspection of the air pollution control device identifies the cause of the deviation, take corrective action as soon as possible and return the PM CPMS measurement to within the established value;


(iii) Within 30 days of the deviation or at the time of the annual compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct a PM emissions compliance test to determine compliance with the PM emissions limit. Within 45 days of the deviation, you must re-establish the CPMS operating limit. You are not required to conduct additional testing for any deviations that occur between the time of the original deviation and the PM emissions compliance test required under this paragraph (x); and


(iv) PM CPMS deviations leading to more than four required performance tests in a 12-month process operating period (rolling monthly) constitute a violation of this subpart.


(y) When kiln emissions are emittted through multiple stacks (*e.g.,* there is an alkali bypass and/or an in-line coal mill that exhaust emissions through a separate stack(s)), the combined emissions are subject to the emission limits applicable to waste-burning kilns. To determine the kiln-specific emission limit for demonstrating compliance, you must:


(1) Calculate a kiln-specific emission limit using equation 2 to this paragraph (y)(1):


(2) Particulate matter concentration must be measured downstream of the in-line coal mill. All other pollutant concentrations must be measured either upstream or downstream of the in-line coal mill.


(3) For purposes of determining the combined emissions from kilns equipped with an alkali bypass or that exhaust kiln gases to a coal mill that exhausts through a separate stack, instead of installing a CEMS or PM CPMS on the alkali bypass stack or in-line coal mill stack, the results of the initial and subsequent performance test can be used to demonstrate compliance with the relevant emissions limit. A performance test must be conducted on an annual basis (between 11 and 13 calendar months following the previous performance test).


(z) These standards are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460, (202) 272-0167, *https://www.epa.gov.* You may also inspect a copy at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.*

(1) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990; phone: 1-800-843-2763; website: *https://www.asme.org/.*

(i) ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus], Issued August 31, 1981.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460; phone (202) 272-0167; website *https://www.epa.gov.*

(i) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance, EPA-454/R-98-015, September 1997. (Available from *www3.epa.gov/ttnemc01/cem/tribo.pdf.*)


(ii) [Reserved]






