# ยง 901.4   Officers.

(a) *General provisions.* The corporate officers of the Corporation shall consist of a President, an Executive Director, two Assistant Directors, a Secretary (who shall be appointed by the Chairman from among the staff of the Corporation), and such other officers as the Board of Directors may from time-to-time appoint. Any corporate officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. 


(b)(1) *Powers and duties of the President.* The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be the President and chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have the general powers and duties of supervision and management usually vested in the office of a president of a corporation. The President shall see that all resolutions and policies of the Board are carried into effect, and shall have power to execute contracts, leases, agreements, and other documents necessary for the operation of the Corporation. 


(2) *Assumption of powers and duties by Vice Chairman.* In the event that the position of Chairman becomes vacant, the Vice Chairman shall promptly notify the President of the United States in writing to that effect and upon giving such notice, shall assume the Chairman's powers and duties as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, including specific powers and duties delegated to the Chairman by the Board of Directors. Such assumption of the Chairman's powers and duties shall cease upon the appointment or designation of a new Chairman or Acting Chairman by the President of the United States. The Vice Chairman shall also assume the powers and duties of the Chairman in the event of the latter's incapacity, if the Chairman so requests in writing, or if a majority of the voting members of the Board of Directors finds by resolution that the Chairman is unable to exercise the powers and duties of his office. Such assumption of the Chairman's powers and duties shall cease upon the Vice Chairman's receipt of a letter from the Chairman stating that he or she is able to resume the exercise of the powers and duties of his office.


(c) *Appointment of certain officers.* The Board of Directors shall appoint an Executive Director and two Assistant Directors, who may be appointed and compensated without regard to the provisions of title 5 U.S.C. governing appointments in the competitive service and chapter 51 and subchapter IV of chapter 53 of title 5 U.S.C. Between meetings of the Board of Directors the Chairman may make appointments to the foregoing positions, when they become vacant by resignation or otherwise. However, the Chairman shall move to have such interim appointments confirmed at the next meeting of the Board. The Chairman shall have power to increase or decrease the salaries of the officers appointed under this section. 


(d) *Powers and duties of the Executive Director.* The Executive Director shall be the chief of the Corporation's staff and shall have general powers of supervision and management over the administration of the Corporation. The Executive Director shall have power to: 


(1) Execute contracts, agreements, and other documents necessary for planning and design work and for ordinary operations of the Corporation. 


(2) Hire staff (including temporary or intermittent experts and consultants). 


(3) Procure space, equipment, supplies, and obtain interagency and commercial support services. 


(4) Direct and manage the day-to-day operations and work of the Corporation. 


(5) Supervise planning and development activities of the Corporation in accordance with the development plan and resolutions of the Board of Directors. 


(6) Perform such other duties and exercise such powers as the President and Board of Directors may prescribe. 


(e) *Powers and duties of the Assistant Director/Legal.* The Assistant Director/Legal shall be the General Counsel of the Corporation, advising the Board of Directors and the staff on all legal matters affecting the functioning of the Corporation. He shall: 


(1) Coordinate with the Department of Justice in assuring that the interests of the Corporation are represented in any litigation arising from its authorities or actions. 


(2) Advise the Board of Directors and the staff of statutory or regulatory requirements, and assure compliance therewith. 


(3) Prepare or review all contracts, agreements or other documents of a legal nature. 


(4) Prepare or review all draft legislation, regulations, official notices and other legal publications. 


(5) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the President, or the Executive Director. 


(f) *Powers and duties of the Assistant Director/Development.* The Assistant Director/Development shall advise the Board of Directors, officers and staff of the Corporation on all development activities to accomplish the goals of the development plan. He shall: 


(1) Manage development activities in accordance with the development plan.


(2) Function as a key management official performing a wide range of duties required to accomplish the rebuilding of Pennsylvania Avenue.


(3) Provide managerial responsibility for the work of all project managers and consultants relating to development projects.


(4) Coordinate the tasks of other staff professionals as required for accomplishment of projects.


(5) Be liaison between the Corporation and other governmental agencies that review projects in the development area.


(6) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the President, or the Executive Director.


(g) *Powers and Duties of the Secretary.* The Secretary, to be appointed by the Chairman from among the Corporation's staff, shall give notice of all meetings of the Board of Directors and record and keep the minutes thereof, keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation, and shall affix the same to any instrument requiring it. When so affixed, the seal shall be attested by the signature of the Secretary. The Secretary shall also perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the President, or the Executive Director. 



---

[N] [40 FR 41524, Sept. 8, 1975, as amended at 47 FR 34536, Aug. 10, 1982] 




