# ยง 165.2015   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart: 


*Atlantic Area* means that area described in 33 CFR 3.04-1 Atlantic Area. 


*Large U.S. naval vessel* means any U.S. naval vessel greater than 100 feet in length overall. 


*Naval defensive sea area* means those areas described in 32 CFR part 761. 


*Naval vessel protection zone* is a 500-yard regulated area of water surrounding large U.S. naval vessels that is necessary to provide for the safety or security of these U.S. naval vessels. 


*Navigable waters of the United States* means those waters defined as such in 33 CFR part 2. 


*Navigation rules* means the Navigation Rules, International-Inland. 


*Official patrol* means those personnel designated and supervised by a senior naval officer present in command and tasked to monitor a naval vessel protection zone, permit entry into the zone, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within the zone, and take other actions authorized by the U.S. Navy. 


*Pacific Area* means that area described in 33 CFR 3.04-3 Pacific Area. 


*Restricted area* means those areas established by the Army Corps of Engineers and set out in 33 CFR part 334. 


*Senior naval officer present in command* is, unless otherwise designated by competent authority, the senior line officer of the U.S. Navy on active duty, eligible for command at sea, who is present and in command of any part of the Department of Navy in the area. 


*U.S. naval vessel* means any vessel owned, operated, chartered, or leased by the U.S. Navy; any pre-commissioned vessel under construction for the U.S. Navy, once launched into the water; and any vessel under the operational control of the U.S. Navy or a Combatant Command. 


*Vessel* means every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water, except U.S. Coast Guard or U.S. naval vessels. 




