# Sec. 12   Disposition of removed equipment and scrap.

(a) Article 8 of the NSA-LUMPSUMREP Contract provides that any ship equipment, fuel, lube oil, supplies, stores, furniture, fixtures, salvage and other movable property removed from the vessel is the property of the United States and shall be disposed of in such manner as the Authority may direct within sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the work. The representative of the Authority, by appropriate item in the specifications, shall cause the Contractor to segregate all equipment, salvageable material and scrap, removed from a vessel in the performance of repairs, in such a manner as to be readily identifiable, and shall submit a list thereof to the local Property and Supply office which is responsible for arranging for retention, disposal, etc., of said equipment, material, and scrap. A copy of the listing is to be attached as a support to the Ship Repair Summary (MA-159).


(b) After the 60-day period, if no direction for disposal is given the Contractor, the Contractor shall store and protect, in the shipyard or outside of the shipyard at its election, such property of the United States, for the additional period directed by said local Property and Supply office who shall furnish a copy of such written direction to the representative of the Authority. The increased contract price for the cost of the storage for such additional period shall be covered by purchase order prepared by the local Property and Supply office.


(c) All scrap removed from the vessel shall be the property of the United States and shall be handled as provided in paragraph (b) of this section: *Provided, however,* That any scrap or salvage may, upon the written approval of the local Property and Supply office, be purchased or disposed of by the Contractor at the prevailing market price, or at not less than the fair value thereof in the absence of an established market therefor. The net sales price of the scrap or salvage disposed of by the Contractor shall be promptly paid to the office of the District Finance Officer, or at the option of the office of the District Finance Officer, shall be credited against the moneys due or to become due the Contractors.



---

[N] [SRM-5, Rev., 18 FR 5035, Aug. 22, 1953, as amended at 33 FR 5952, Apr. 18, 1968. Redesignated at 45 FR 44587, July 1, 1980]




