# § 1.1055-1   General rule with respect to redeemable ground rents.

(a) *Character of a redeemable ground rent.* For purposes of subtitle A of the Code (1) a redeemable ground rent (as defined in section 1055(c) and paragraph (b) of this section) shall be treated as being in the nature of a mortgage, and (2) real property held subject to liabilities under such a redeemable ground rent shall be treated as held subject to liabilities under a mortgage. Thus, under section 1055(a) and this paragraph, the transfer of property subject to a redeemable ground rent has the same effect as the transfer of property subject to a mortgage, the acquisition of property subject to a redeemable ground rent is to be treated the same as the acquisition of property subject to a mortgage, and the holding of property subject to a redeemable ground rent is to be treated in the same manner as the holding of property subject to a mortgage. See section 163(c) for the treatment of any annual or periodic rental payment under a redeemable ground rent as interest.


(b) *Definition of redeemable ground rent.* For purposes of subtitle A of the Code, the term *redeemable ground rent* means only a ground rent with respect to which all the following conditions are met:


(1) There is a lease of land which is assignable by the lessee without the consent of the lessor.


(2) The term of the lease is for a period in excess of 15 years, taking into account all periods for which the lease may be renewed at the option of the lessee.


(3) The lessee has a present or future right to terminate the lease and to acquire the lessor's interest in the land (i.e., to redeem the ground rent) by the payment of a determined or determinable amount, which amount is referred to in §§ 1.1055-2, 1.1055-3, and 1.1055-4 as a *redemption price.* Such right must exist by virtue of State or local law. If the lessee's right to terminate the lease and to acquire the lessor's interest is not granted by State or local law but exists solely by virtue of a private agreement or privately created condition, the ground rent is not a *redeemable ground rent.*

(4) The lessor's interest in the land subject to the lease is primarily a security interest to protect the payment to him of the annual or periodic rental payments due under the lease.


(c) *Effective date.* In general, the provisions of section 1055 and paragraph (a) of this section take effect on April 11, 1963, and apply with respect to taxable years ending on or after such date. See § 1.1055-3 for rules for determining the basis of real property acquired subject to liabilities under a redeemable ground rent regardless of when such property was acquired. See also § 1.1055-4 for rules for determining the basis of a redeemable ground rent in the hands of a holder who reserved or created such ground rent in connection with a transfer, occurring before April 11, 1963, of the right to hold real property subject to liabilities under such ground rent.



---

[N] [T.D. 6821, 30 FR 6216, May 4, 1965]




