# § 301.12   Country of origin of imported furs.

(a)(1) In the case of furs imported into the United States from a foreign country, the country of origin of such furs shall be set forth as a part of the information required by the act in invoicing and advertising.


(2) In the case of fur products imported into the United States from a foreign country, or fur products made from furs imported into the United States from a foreign country, the country of origin of the furs contained in such products shall be set forth as a part of the information required by the act in labeling, invoicing and advertising.


(b) The term *country* means the political entity known as a nation. Colonies, possessions or protectorates outside the boundaries of the mother country shall be considered separate countries and the name thereof shall be deemed acceptable in designating the “country of origin” unless the Commission shall otherwise direct.


(c) The country in which the animal producing the fur was raised, or if in a feral state, was taken, shall be considered the “country of origin.”


(d) When furs are taken within the territorial waters of a country, such country shall be considered the “country of origin.” Furs taken outside such territorial waters, or on the high seas, shall have as their country of origin the country having the nearest mainland.


(e)(1) The English name of the country of origin shall be used. Abbreviations which unmistakably indicate the name of a country, such as “Gt. Britain” for “Great Britain,” are acceptable. Abbreviations such as “N.Z.” for “New Zealand” are not acceptable.


(2) The name of the country of origin, when used as a part of the required information in labeling shall be preceded by the term *fur origin;* as for example:


(3) In addition to the required disclosure of country of origin the name of the country may also appear in adjective form in connection with the name of the animal; as for example:


(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting in any way the information required to be disclosed on labels under the provisions of any Tariff Act of the United States or regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.



---

[N] [17 FR 6075, July 8, 1952, as amended at 26 FR 3186, Apr. 14, 1961; 61 FR 67709, Dec. 24, 1996]




