# § 63.2861   What reports must I submit and when?

After the initial notifications, you must submit the reports in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section to the agency responsible for these NESHAP at the appropriate time intervals: 


(a) *Annual compliance certifications.* The first annual compliance certification is due 12 calendar months after you submit the notification of compliance status. Each subsequent annual compliance certification is due 12 calendar months after the previous annual compliance certification. The annual compliance certification provides the compliance status for each operating month during the 12 calendar months period ending 60 days prior to the date on which the report is due. Include the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section in the annual certification: 


(1) The name and address of the owner or operator. 


(2) The physical address of the vegetable oil production process. 


(3) Each listed oilseed type processed during the 12 calendar months period covered by the report. 


(4) Each HAP identified under § 63.2854(a) as being present in concentrations greater than 1 percent by volume in each delivery of solvent received during the 12 calendar months period covered by the report. 


(5) A statement designating the source as a major source of HAP or a demonstration that the source qualifies as an area source. An area source is a source that is not a major source and is not collocated within a plant site with other sources that are individually or collectively a major source. 


(6) A compliance certification to indicate whether the source was in compliance for each compliance determination made during the 12 calendar months period covered by the report. For each such compliance determination, you must include a certification of the items in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (ii) of this section: 


(i) You are following the procedures described in the plan for demonstrating compliance. 


(ii) The compliance ratio is less than or equal to 1.00. 


(b) *Deviation notification report.* Submit a deviation report for each compliance determination you make in which the compliance ratio exceeds 1.00 as determined under § 63.2840(c) or if you deviate from the work practice standard for an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2). Submit the deviation report by the end of the month following the calendar month in which you determined the deviation. The deviation notification report must include the items in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section if you exceed the compliance ratio, and must include the items in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (5) through (8) of this section if you deviate from the work practice standard:


(1) The name and address of the owner or operator. 


(2) The physical address of the vegetable oil production process. 


(3) Each listed oilseed type processed during the 12 operating months period for which you determined the deviation. 


(4) The compliance ratio comprising the deviation. You may reduce the frequency of submittal of the deviation notification report if the agency responsible for these NESHAP does not object as provided in § 63.10(e)(3)(iii). 


(5) Beginning on September 15, 2020, the number of deviations and for each deviation the date and duration of each deviation. Flag and provide an explanation for any deviation from the compliance ratio for which a deviation report is being submitted for more than one consecutive month (*i.e.,* include a reference to the original date and reporting of the deviation). If the explanation provides that corrective actions have returned the affected unit(s) to its normal operation, you are not required to include the items in paragraphs (b)(6) and (7) of this section.


(6) Beginning on September 15, 2020, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(7) Beginning on September 15, 2020, for each deviation, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of HAP emitted over the emission requirements of § 63.2840, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(8) A description of the deviation from the work practice standard during the initial startup period, including the records of § 63.2862(f) for the deviation.


(c) *Periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction report.* Before September 15, 2020, if you choose to operate your source under an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2) or a malfunction period subject to § 63.2850(e)(2), you must submit a periodic SSM report by the end of the calendar month following each month in which the initial startup period or malfunction period occurred. The periodic SSM report must include the items in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (c) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.


(1) The name, title, and signature of a source's responsible official who is certifying that the report accurately states that all actions taken during the initial startup or malfunction period were consistent with the SSM plan. 


(2) A description of events occurring during the time period, the date and duration of the events, and reason the time interval qualifies as an initial startup period or malfunction period. 


(3) An estimate of the solvent loss during the initial startup or malfunction period with supporting documentation. 


(d) *Immediate SSM reports.* Before September 15, 2020, if you handle a SSM during an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2) or a malfunction period subject to § 63.2850(e)(2) differently from procedures in the SSM plan and the relevant emission requirements in § 63.2840 are exceeded, then you must submit an immediate SSM report. Immediate SSM reports consist of a telephone call or facsimile transmission to the responsible agency within 2 working days after starting actions inconsistent with the SSM plan, followed by a letter within 7 working days after the end of the event. The letter must include the items in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (d) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.


(1) The name, title, and signature of a source's responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report, an explanation of the event, and the reasons for not following the SSM plan. 


(2) A description and date of the SSM event, its duration, and reason it qualifies as a SSM. 


(3) An estimate of the solvent loss for the duration of the SSM event with supporting documentation. 


(e) *Initial startup period reports.* If you choose to operate your source under an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2) on and after September 15, 2020, you must submit an initial startup period report within 30 days after the initial startup period ends. The report must include the items in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.


(2) The physical address of the vegetable oil production process.


(3) A compliance certification indicating whether the source was in compliance with the work practice standard of § 63.2840(h).


(f) *Performance tests.* On and after September 15, 2020, if you conduct performance tests to determine solvent flow rate to a control device or destruction efficiency of a control device according to the requirements of § 63.2853(a)(5)(i), within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Data collected using test methods supported by EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.* Submit the results of the performance test to EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Data collected using test methods that are not supported by EPA's ERT as listed on EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.* The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Confidential business information (CBI).* If you claim some of the information submitted under paragraph (f) or (g) of this section is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to EPA. The file must be generated through the use of EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(g) *Submitting reports electronically.* On and after September 15, 2020, you must submit the initial notification required in § 63.2860(b) and the annual compliance certification, deviation report, and initial startup report required in § 63.2861(a), (b), and (e) to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov*). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable notification in portable document format (PDF). The applicable notification must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. If you claim some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to EPA. The report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(h) *Claims of EPA system outage.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(i) *Claims of force majeure.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the force majeure event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.



---

[N] [66 FR 19011, Apr. 12, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 16321, Apr. 5, 2002; 85 FR 15630, Mar. 18, 2020]




