# § 200.945   Supplementary specific requirements under the HUD building product standards and certification program for carpet.

(a) *Applicable standards.* (1) All carpet shall be designed, manufactured, and tested in compliance with the following standards from the American Society for Testing and Materials and the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists: 


(i) ASTM D418-92—Standard Test Methods for Tuft and Yarn Length of Uncoated Floor Coverings; 


(ii) ASTM D1335-67—(Reapproved 1972) Standard Test Method for Tuft Bind of Pile Floor Coverings; 


(iii) ASTM D 2646-87—Standard Test Methods for Backing Fabrics; 


(iv) ASTM D 3936-80—Standard Test Method for Delamination Strength of Secondary Backing of Pile Floor Coverings; 


(v) AATCC Test Method 16e-82—Colorfastness to Light: Water-Cooled Xenon-Arc Lamp, Continuous Light;


(vi) AATCC Test Method 165-86—Colorfastness to Crocking: Carpets—AATCC Crock Meter Method; 


(vii) ASTM D 3676-78—(Reapproved 1989) Standard Specification for Rubber Cellular Cushion Used for Carpet or Rug Underlay; 


(viii) ASTM D 3574-91—Standard Test Methods for Flexible Cellular Materials—Slab, Bonded and Molded Urethane Foams. 


(2) These standards have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference. The standards are available from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103 and the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, P.O. Box 12215, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709. These standards are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) *Labeling.* Under the procedures set forth in § 200.935(d)(6) concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with UM 44d are required to be on the certification label issued by the Administrator to the manufacturer. The label shall be placed on each carpet every six feet not less than one foot from the edge. 


(c) *Periodic tests and quality assurance inspection.* Under the procedure set forth in § 200.935(d)(8), testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows: 


(1) Every six months, three samples and one annual field sample of carpet shall be submitted to the Administrator for testing in a laboratory accredited by the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program of the U.S. Department of Commerce. 


(2) The administrator also shall review the quality assurance procedures every six months to assure that they are being followed by the manufacturer. 



---

[N] [58 FR 67674, Dec. 22, 1993]




