# § 1.1274-4   Test rate.

(a) *Determination of test rate of interest*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Test rate is the 3-month rate.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the test rate of interest for a debt instrument issued in consideration for the sale or exchange of property is the 3-month rate.


(ii) *The 3-month rate.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the 3-month rate is the lower of—


(A) The lowest applicable Federal rate (based on the appropriate compounding period) in effect during the 3-month period ending with the first month in which there is a binding written contract that substantially sets forth the terms under which the sale or exchange is ultimately consummated; or


(B) The lowest applicable Federal rate (based on the appropriate compounding period) in effect during the 3-month period ending with the month in which the sale or exchange occurs.


(iii) *Special rule if there is no binding written contract.* If there is no binding written contract that substantially sets forth the terms under which the sale or exchange is ultimately consummated, the 3-month rate is the lowest applicable Federal rate (based on the appropriate compounding period) in effect during the 3-month period ending with the month in which the sale or exchange occurs.


(2) *Test rate for certain debt instruments*—(i) *Sale-leaseback transactions.* Under section 1274(e) (relating to certain sale-leaseback transactions), the test rate is 110 percent of the 3-month rate determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. For purposes of section 1274(e)(3), related party means a person related to the transferor within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1).


(ii) *Qualified debt instrument.* Under section 1274A(a), the test rate for a qualified debt instrument is no greater than 9 percent, compounded semiannually, or an equivalent rate based on an appropriate compounding period.


(iii) *Alternative test rate for short-term obligations*—(A) *Requirements.* This paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) provides an alternative test rate under section 1274(d)(1)(D) for a debt instrument with a maturity of 1 year or less. This alternative test rate applies, however, only if the debt instrument provides for adequate stated interest using the alternative test rate, the issuer provides on the face of the debt instrument that the instrument qualifies as having adequate stated interest under section 1274(d)(1)(D), and the issuer and holder treat or agree to treat the instrument as having adequate stated interest.


(B) *Alternative test rate.* For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A), the alternative test rate is the market yield on U.S. Treasury bills with the same maturity date as the debt instrument. If the same maturity date is not available, the market yield on U.S. Treasury bills that mature in the same week or month as the debt instrument is used. The alternative test rate is determined as of the date on which there is a binding written contract that substantially sets forth the terms under which the sale or exchange is ultimately consummated or as of the date of the sale or exchange, whichever date results in a lower rate. If there is no binding written contract, however, the alternative test rate is determined as of the date of the sale or exchange.


(b) *Applicable Federal rate.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, the applicable Federal rate for a debt instrument is based on the term of the instrument (i.e., short-term, mid-term, or long-term). See section 1274(d)(1). The Internal Revenue Service publishes the applicable Federal rates for each month in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii) of this chapter). The applicable Federal rates are based on the yield to maturity of outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of similar maturities during the one month period ending on the 14th day of the month preceding the month for which the rates are applicable.


(c) *Special rules to determine the term of a debt instrument for purposes of determining the applicable Federal rate*—(1) *Installment obligation.* If a debt instrument is an installment obligation (as defined in § 1.1273-1(e)(1)), the term of the instrument is the instrument's weighted average maturity (as defined in § 1.1273-1(e)(3)).


(2) *Certain variable rate debt instruments*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, if a variable rate debt instrument (as defined in § 1.1275-5(a)) provides for stated interest at a qualified floating rate (or rates), the term of the instrument is determined by reference to the longest interval between interest adjustment dates, or, if the variable rate debt instrument provides for a fixed rate, the interval between the issue date and the last day on which the fixed rate applies, if this interval is longer.


(ii) *Restrictions on adjustments.* If, due to significant restrictions on variations in a qualified floating rate or the use of certain formulae pursuant to § 1.1275-5(b)(2) (e.g., 15 percent of 1-year LIBOR, plus 800 basis points), the rate in substance resembles a fixed rate, the applicable Federal rate is determined by reference to the term of the debt instrument.


(3) *Counting of either the issue date or the maturity date.* The term of a debt instrument includes either the issue date or the maturity date, but not both dates.


(4) *Certain debt instruments that provide for principal payments uncertain as to time.* If a debt instrument provides for principal payments that are fixed in total amount but uncertain as to time, the term of the instrument is determined by reference to the latest possible date on which a principal payment can be made or, in the case of an installment obligation, by reference to the longest weighted average maturity under any possible payment schedule.


(d) *Foreign currency loans.* If all of the payments of a debt instrument are denominated in, or determined by reference to, a currency other than the U.S. dollar, the applicable Federal rate for the debt instrument is a foreign currency rate of interest that is analogous to the applicable Federal rate described in this section. For this purpose, an analogous rate of interest is a rate based on yields (with the appropriate compounding period) of the highest grade of outstanding marketable obligations denominated in such currency (excluding any obligations that benefit from special tax exemptions or preferential tax rates not available to debt instruments generally) with due consideration given to the maturities of the obligations.


(e) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 8517, 59 FR 4823, Feb. 2, 1994]




