# § 1.51-1   Amount of credit.

(a) *Determination of amount*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the amount of the targeted jobs credit for purposes of section 38 (formerly designated section 44B) for the taxable year equals 50 percent of the qualified first-year wages (minus any qualified first-year wages paid to individuals while such individuals are qualified summer youth employees) plus 25 percent of the qualified second-year wages. 


(2) *Special rule for employment of qualified summer youth employees.* In the case of an employer who pays or incurs qualified wages after April 30, 1983, to a qualified summer youth employee beginning work for the employer after such date, the amount of the targeted jobs credit for the taxable year is equal to the amount determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section plus an amount equal to 85 percent of the first $3,000 of qualified wages paid to each qualified summer youth employee during the taxable year. Such wages must be attributable to services tendered by the qualified summer youth employee during any 90-day period beginning on or after May 1 and ending on or before September 15. 


(3) *Limitation.* See section 38(c) for rules limiting the amount of the credit to a percentage of the amount of the taxpayer's net tax liability. 


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Qualified wages.* The term “qualified wages” means wages (as defined in paragraph (b)(4)) paid or incurred by the employer during the taxable year to individuals who are members of a targeted group (within the meaning of section 51(d)). 


(2) *Qualified first-year wages*—(i) *General rule.* Except in the case of qualified summer youth employees, the term “qualified first-year wages” means the first $6,000 of wages (as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section) attributable to service rendered by a member of a targeted group during the 1-year period beginning with the day the individual first begins work for the employer. In the case of a vocational rehabilitation referral (as defined in section 51(d)(2)) who begins work for the employer before July 19, 1984, the one-year period begins with the day the individual begins work for the employer on or after the beginning of such individual's rehabilitation plan. However, with the exception of vocational rehabilitation referrals for whom the employer claimed a credit under section 44B (as in effect prior to enactment of the Revenue Act of 1978) for a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1979, members of a targeted group who are first hired after September 26, 1978, and before January 1, 1979, will be treated as if they first began work for the employer on January 1, 1979. The date on which the wages are paid is not determinative of whether the wages are first-year wages; rather, the wages must be attributed to the period during which the work was performed. See paragraph (f)(1) of this section for an additional limitation on the term “qualified first-year wages”. (See examples 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 in paragraph (j) of this section for examples illustrating the application of the rules in this paragraph (b)(2)). 


(ii) *Special rule for qualified summer youth employees.* In the case of a qualified summer youth employee, qualified first-year wages for purposes of the 85 percent credit referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section include only wages attributable to services rendered by a qualified summer youth employee during any 90-day period beginning on or after May 1 and ending on or before September 15. If the individual is retained by the employer after the 90-day period and recertified as a member of another targeted group, the term “qualified first-year wages” for purposes of the 50 percent credit described by section 51(a)(1) has the meaning assigned that term in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section except that the $6,000 limitation for qualified first-year wages shall be reduced by wages up to, but not more than, $3,000 attributable to services rendered during the 90-day period. 


(3) *Qualified second-year wages.* The term “qualified second-year wages” means the first $6,000 of wages attributable to services rendered by a member of a targeted group, other than a qualified summer youth employee, during the 1-year period beginning on the day after the last day of the period for qualified first-year wages. The date on which the wages are paid is not determinative of whether the wages are second-year wages; rather, the wages must be attributed to the period during which the work was performed. 


(4) *Wages*—(i) *General rule.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b)(4) (ii) and (iii) of this section, the term “wages” shall only include amounts paid or incurred after December 31, 1978, for taxable years ending after December 31, 1978. For purposes of this section, the term “wages” has the meaning assigned such term by section 3306(b) (determined without regard to any dollar limitation contained in such subsection).


(ii) *Special rules.* In the case of agricultural labor or railway labor, the term “wages” means unemployment insurance wages within the meaning of subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 51(h)(1). The term “wages” shall not include any amounts paid or incurred by an employer for any pay period to any individual for whom the employer receives federally funded payments for on-the-job training for such individual for such pay period. (See example 7 in paragraph (j) of this section.) The amount of wages which would otherwise be qualified wages under this section with respect to an individual for a taxable year shall be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of payments made to the employer (however utilized by such employer) with respect to such individual for such taxable year under a program established under section 414 of the Social Security Act. In addition, the term “wages” shall not include any amount paid or incurred by the employer in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1982, to an individual with respect to whom the employer claims a credit under section 40 (relating to expenses of work incentive programs). For youths participating in a qualified cooperative education program:


(A) Section 3306(c)(10)(C) (relating to the definition of employment for certain students) does not apply in determining wages under this section; and


(B) The term “wages” shall include only those amounts paid or incurred by the employer that are attributable to services rendered by the individual while he or she meets the conditions specified in section 51(d)(8)(A). For purposes of the preceding sentence, an employee who met the requirement in section 51(d)(8)(A)(iv), dealing with economically disadvantaged status, when hired, shall be deemed to continuously meet the requirement in section 51(d)(8)(A)(iv) during the time the employee is in the cooperative education program. See also paragraph (e) of this section for rules relating to the exclusion of wages paid to certain individuals.


(iii) *Termination.* The term “wages” shall not include any amount paid or incurred to an individual who begins work for the employer after December 31, 1985.


(5) *Special rule for eligible work incentive employees.* In the case of an eligible work incentive employee (as defined in § 1.51-1(c)(4)), this paragraph (b) shall be applied for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1981, as if such employee had been a member of a targeted group for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1982. (See example 8 in paragraph (j) of this section.)


(c) *Members of targeted groups*—(1) *In general.* An individual is a member of a targeted group if the individual is certified as (i) a vocational rehabilitation referral, (ii) an economically disadvantaged youth, (iii) an economically disadvantaged Vietnam-era veteran, (iv) an SSI recipient, (v) a general assistance recipient, (vi) a youth participating in a cooperative education program, (vii) an economically disadvantaged ex-convict, (viii) an eligible work incentive employee, (ix) a qualified summer youth employee, or (x) an involuntarily terminated CETA employee. Except as provided below, see section 51(d) of this section for a definition of these groups. See paragraph (d) of this section for rules concerning the certification of individuals as members of one of these targeted groups. 


(2) *Youths participating in a qualified cooperative education Program*—(i) *Student requirements.* For an individual to qualify as a youth participating in a qualified cooperative education program, the individual must meet each of the following conditions (A) through (D)—


(A) The youth must have attained the age of 16 but not 20. (An individual reaching 19 will be treated as a youth participating in a qualified cooperative education program only for wages paid or incurred after November 26, 1979.)


(B) The youth must not have graduated from a high school or vocational school.


(C) The youth must be enrolled in and actively pursuing a qualified cooperative education program (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section).


(D) With respect to wages paid or incurred after December 31, 1981, the youth must be a member of an economically disadvantaged family when initially hired.


(ii) *Economically disadvantaged family.* See section 51(d)(11) for the rules relating to the determination of whether an individual is a member of an economically disadvantaged family.


(iii) *Qualified cooperative education program.* The term “qualified cooperative education program” means a program of vocational education for individuals who (through written cooperative arrangements between a qualified school and one or more employers) receive instruction (including required academic instruction) by alternation of study in school with a job in any occupational field (but only if these two experiences are planned by the school and employer so that each contributes to the student's education and employability). See section 51(d)(8)(C) for the definition of a “qualified school.” For purposes of this paragraph, the term “program of vocational education” means an organized educational program which is directly related to the preparation of individuals for employment, or for additional preparation for a career requiring other than a baccalaureate or advanced degree. An “organized educational program” means only instruction related to the occupation or occupations for which the students are in training or instruction necessary for students to benefit from such training. The student's employment contributes to his or her education and employability only if it is related to the occupation, or a cluster of closely related occupations, for which the student is in training in school. However, the student's employment need not be directly related to or in the same technical field as the training the student receives in school. For example, a student studying carpentry does not have to work as a carpenter for the program to constitute a “qualified cooperative education program.” The program will qualify if, for example, the student works at a hardware store because the student's work would familiarize the student with the materials and tools used by carpenters. The program would not qualify, however, if the student works at a restaurant and generally performs tasks in such employment not related to carpentry. 


(iv) *Actively pursuing.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), a youth will not be considered to be “actively pursuing” a school's qualified cooperative education program (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section) during summer vacation unless that school program continues during the summer vacation. Whether the school program continues during the summer vacation will be determined by examining the written agreement between the school and the employer. Thus, if a written agreement specifically covers the summer vacation period and provides for a significant degree of involvement by school personnel to provide supervision for the students in the program during that period, the school program will be considered to continue during the summer, regardless of whether classes are held during the vacation period. 


(3) *General assistance recipients.* In order for an individual to qualify as a general assistance recipient, the individual, or another member of the assistance unit (within the meaning of 45 CFR 205.40(a)(1)) that the individual is a member of, must receive assistance for a period of not less than 30 days ending within the preemployment period (as defined in section 51(d)(13)) from a qualified general assistance program. A qualified general assistance program is a program of a State or a political sudivision of a State that the Secretary (after consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services) has designated as providing general assistance (or similar assistance) which is based on need and consists of money payments or voucher or scrip. For purposes of the preceding sentences, a program qualifying as a general assistance program by reason of non-cash assistance (*i.e.,* voucher or scrip) shall be so treated only with respect to amounts paid or incurred after July 1, 1982, to individuals beginning work for the employer after such date. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term “money” means cash or an instrument convertible into cash (e.g., a check).


(4) *Eligible work incentive employees.* An eligible work incentive employee means an individual who has been certified by the designated local agency (as defined in paragraph (d)(10) of this section) as—


(i) Being eligible for financial assistance under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act and as having continuously received such financial assistance during the 90-day period which immediately precedes the date on which such individual is hired by the employer, or


(ii) Having been placed in employment under a work incentive program established under section 432(b)(1) or 445 of the Social Security Act.


(5) *Involuntarily terminated CETA employees*—(i) *In general.* An involuntarily terminated CETA employee is an individual who first began work for an employer after August 13, 1981, in taxable years of the employer ending after August 13, 1981, and is certified by the designated local agency (as defined in paragraph (d)(10) of this section) as having been involuntarily terminated after December 31, 1980, from employment financed in whole, or in part, under a program under part D of title II or title VI of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act.


(ii) *Termination.* Section 51(d)(10) and this paragraph (c)(5) shall not apply to any individual who begins work for the employer after December 31, 1982.


(d) *Certification*—(1) *General rule.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, an individual shall not be treated as a member of a targeted group unless, on or before the day on which such individual begins work for the employer, the employer has received, or has requested in writing, a certification that the individual is a member of a targeted group from the designated local agency (as defined in paragraph (d)(10) of this section). In addition, the employer must receive a certification before the targeted jobs credit can be claimed. However, with respect to individuals who began work for the employer on or before May 11, 1982, the certification will be timely only if requested or received before the day the individual began work for the employer. In the case of a request in writing mailed via the United States Postal Service, the request shall be deemed to be made on the date of the postmark stamped on the cover in which such request was mailed to the designated local agency provided the request is mailed in accordance with the mailing requirements in § 301.7502-1(c) and delivered in accordance with the delivery requirements in § 301.7502-1(d). In the case of a deadline that but for this sentence would fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the deadline for making a timely request in writing for a certification or receiving a timely certification shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. (See section 7503 for the definition of “legal holiday.”) See paragraph (d)(2) of this section for transitional rules applicable to certain employees who began work for the employer before September 26, 1981. See paragraph (d)(3) of this section for special rules applicable to cooperative education students and paragraph (d)(4) of this section for special rules applicable to eligible work incentive employees. 


(2) *Timeliness of certification in the case of an individual to whom a written preliminary eligibility determination has been issued.* If on or before the day on which an individual begins work for the employer, such individual has received from a designated local agency (or other agency or organization designated pursuant to a written agreement with such designated local agency) a written preliminary determination that such individual is a member of a targeted group, then such individual may be treated as a member of a targeted group if on or before the fifth day after the day such individual begins work for the employer such employer receives, or requests in writing, from the designated local agency a certification that such individual is a member of a targeted group. This paragraph (d)(2) only applies to individuals who begin work for the employer after July 18, 1984.


(3) *Transitional rules for certain employees who began work for the employer on or before September 26, 1981.* In the case of an individual, other than a cooperative education student, who began work for the employer before June 29, 1981, the employer must either receive, or request in writing, a certification before July 23, 1981. In the case of an individual, other than a cooperative education student, who began work for the employer after June 28, 1981, and on or before September 26, 1981, the employer must either receive, or request in writing, a certification before September 26, 1981.


(4) *Cooperative education students.* In the case of cooperative education students, the school administering the cooperative education program must issue the certification. Form 6199 is provided for this purpose. If the student begins work for the employer after September 26, 1981, see the general rule in § 1.51-1(d)(1) for the date when this certification must be received or requested. If the student begins work for the employer on or before September 26, 1981, the employer must receive the certification or request it in writing before September 26, 1981. In order for an employer to claim a credit on wages paid or incurred to a cooperative education student after December 31, 1981, the employer must receive or request in writing a determination that the student is a member of an economically disadvantaged family. A request for economic eligibility determination for a cooperative education student must be made in writing by the employer to the participating school. If the student begins work for the employer on or before September 26, 1981, the employer must receive or request in writing such determination before September 26, 1981. However, a request in writing on or after August 13, 1981, to a participating school for certification will be deemed to include a request for an economic eligibility determination. In addition, any certification issued by a school after August 13, 1981, will be deemed to be issued in response to a request for certification which includes a request for an economic eligibility determination. The rule in the preceding sentence does not eliminate the requirement that the employer receive a certification that includes an economic eligibility determination in order to claim a credit for wages paid or incurred after December 31, 1981. If a certification issued by a school after August 13, 1984, does not contain an economic eligibility determination and the employer wishes to claim a credit for wages paid or incurred after December 31, 1981, the employer must receive a completed certification before the date on which the credit is claimed.


(5) *Eligible work incentive employees.* In the case of eligible work incentive employees, the employer must either receive, or request in writing, a certification within the time requirements of paragraph (d) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, whichever is applicable. Before October 12, 1981 (the date the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 codified the State employment security agency as the designated local agency for certifying targeted groups), a certificate may be received or requested in writing from either the designated local agency (as defined in paragraph (d)(10) of this section) or the office or agency that properly issued certifications under former section 50B(h)(1) (relating to the work incentive credit).


(6) *Certifications that are not timely.* Any certification that is not timely received or requested by the employer in accordance with the rules of this paragraph will be treated as invalid. Thus, the employer will not be allowed to claim a credit under section 51 with respect to any wages paid or incurred to an employee whose certification or request for certification is not timely. A timely request for certification does not eliminate the need for the employer to receive a certification before claiming the credit. In the case of a request for certification that was denied, resubmitted, and then approved, the timeliness of the request shall be determined by the timeliness of the first request.


(7) *Incorrect certification*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section, if an individual has been certified as a member of a targeted group, and such certification is based on false information provided by such individual, the certification shall be revoked and wages paid by the employer after the date on which notice of revocation is received by the employer shall not be treated as qualified wages. For purposes of this paragraph, a certification will be revoked only if the individual would not have been certified had correct information been provided to the issuer of the certification. Thus, false information that is not material to an individual's eligibility as a member of a targeted group will not invalidate an otherwise valid certification. 


(ii) *Employer's knowledge that the certification was incorrect.* In the case of an employer who knew, or had reason to know, at the time of certification that the information provided to the designated local agency was false, none of the wages paid by such employer to an individual to whom an incorrect certification has been issued will be qualified wages.


(8) *Certifications issued to certain rehires.* This paragraph (d)(8) applies in the case of an employee who first began work for the employer before August 13, 1981, and was dismissed and rehired by the employer. A certification received or requested by an employer with respect to such an employee will be considered timely only if there was a valid business reason, unrelated to the availability of the credit, for the dismissal and rehire and if the employer did not dismiss and then rehire the employee in order to meet the timing requirement with respect to certification. An individual who is dismissed and then rehired for the purpose described in the preceding sentence will be considered for purposes of section 51(d)(16) and this paragraph to have been continuously employed by the employer during the time between the dismissal and the rehire. Whether the employer was motivated by reason of the certification rules in section 51(d)(16) and this paragraph to dismiss and then rehire an employee is a question of fact to be determined from all the circumstances surrounding the dismissal and rehire. (See paragraph (e)(2) of this section for a separate rule disallowing the credit in the case of nonqualifying rehires.)


(9) *Individuals who continue to be employed by the same employer but as a member of another targeted group.* This paragraph (d)(9) applies in the case of an employee who continues to be employed by the same employer but no longer qualifies as a member of the targeted group for which such employee was first certified (e.g., the employee was orginally certified as a qualified summer youth employee with respect to a ninety-day period between May 1 and September 15, but such ninety-day period has ended). In such case, the employer may request a certification that the employee is a member of another targeted group, and if any wages paid to such individual are qualified first-year wages or qualified second-year wages, the employer may be entitled to a targeted jobs credit with respect to such wages. The second certification will not be invalid merely because it was requested or received after the individual began work for the employer; only the first certification (for example, the certification with respect to an individual hired first as a qualified summer youth employee) must meet the requirement of section 51(d)(16) that a certification must be requested or received by an employer on or before the day on which the individual begins work for the employer. In the case of a former qualified summer youth employee or a youth participating in a qualified cooperative education program who is recertified as an economically disadvantaged youth, the term “hiring date” in section 51(d)(3)(B) does not mean the day the individual is hired by the employer but means the day the individual is certified as a member of the new targeted group. Accordingly, the age requirement of section 51(d)(3)(B) shall be applied as of the day the individual is certified as a member of the second targeted group. In addition, see section 51(d)(11) for rules concerning the viability of the original economic eligibility determination.


(10) *Certification where a trade or business has been transferred to a new employer.* In the case of a transfer of a trade or business in which an individual who is a member of a targeted group is retained as an employee in the trade or business, the certification obtained for such employee by the transferor-employer will apply with respect to the transferee-employer.


(11) *Designated local agency*—(i) *In general.* For the period before October 12, 1981, the term “designated local agency” means the agency for any locality designated jointly by the Secretary and the Secretary of Labor to perform certifications of employees for employers in that locality. On or after October 12, 1981, the term “designated local agency” means a State employment security agency established in accordance with the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended (29 U.S.C. 49 through 49n).


(ii) *Jurisdiction.* The designated local agency is the agency that has, pursuant to its charter, jurisdiction over the individual that is sought to be certified. Thus, any certification that is issued with respect to an individual who is not within the jurisdiction of the designated local agency that issued the certification will be invalid. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a request in writing for certification to the appropriate designated local agency that is made before January 23, 1984, will be considered to be timely if it is made after an otherwise timely request in writing for certification was made to a designated local agency that does not have jurisdiction over the individual sought to be certified.


(e) *Certain ineligible individuals*—(1) *Related individuals.* For purposes of section 51(a), “qualified wages” does not include any amounts paid or incurred by a taxpayer to any of the following individuals: 


(i) An individual who is related (within the meaning of any of paragraphs (1) through (8) of section 152 (a)) to the taxpayer;


(ii) An individual who is a dependent (within the meaning of section 152(a)(9)) of the taxpayer;


(iii) An individual who is related (within the meaning of any of paragraphs (1) through (8) of section 152(a)) to a shareholder who owns (within the meaning of section 267(c)) more than 50 percent in value of the outstanding stock of the taypayer, if the taxpayer is a corporation;


(iv) An individual who is a dependent (within the meaning of section 152(a)(9)) of a shareholder described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section;


(v) An individual who is a grantor, beneficiary or fiduciary of the taxpayer, if the taxpayer is an estate or trust;


(vi) An individual who is a dependent (within the meaning of section 152(a)(9)) of an individual described in paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section; or


(vii) An individual who is related (within the meaning of any of paragraphs (1) through (8) of section 152(a)) to an individual described in paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section.


(2) *Nonqualifying rehires.* For purposes of section 51(a), “qualified wages” does not include wages paid to an employee who had been employed by the employer prior to the current hiring date of the employee if at any time during such prior employment the employee was not a member of a targeted group. The preceding sentence shall not apply to an employee who was previously timely certified as a member of a targeted group with respect to the same employer. An employee shall be treated as not having been a member of a targeted group if the certification requirements of section 51(d)(16) were not met. (See example 8 in paragraph (j) of this section.)


(3) *Effective date.* The provisions of this paragraph (e) are effective with respect to employees first beginning work for an employer after August 13, 1981.


(f) *Limitations*—(1) *Limitation on qualified first-year wages.* With respect to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1982, the amount of the qualified first-year wages which may be taken into account for purposes of the targeted jobs credit for any taxable year shall not exceed 30 percent of the aggregate unemployment insurance wages paid by the employer during the calendar year ending in such taxable year. In the case of a group of trades or businesses under common control (as defined in § 1.52-1(b)), the qualified first-year wages cannot exceed 30 percent of the aggregate unemployment insurance wages paid to all employees of that group of trades or businesses under common control during the calendar year ending in such taxable year. For this purpose, the term “unemployment insurance wages” has the same meaning given to the term “wages” as defined in § 1.51-1(b)(4). In this case of agricultural or railway labor, see section 51(h)(1) for the applicable definition of unemployment insurance wages. (See examples 13 and 14 in paragraph (j) of this section.)


(2) *Remuneration must be for trade or business employment.* Remuneration paid by an employer to an employee during any taxable year shall be taken into account only if more than one-half of the remuneration paid by the employer to an employee is for services in a trade or business of the employer. This determination shall be made by each employer without regard to section 52 (a) or (b). Accordingly, employees of corporations that are members of a controlled group or employees of partnerships, proprietorships, and other trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) which are under common control will be treated as being employed by each separate employer for this purpose. For this purpose, the term “year” means the taxable year of the employer. (See example 15 in paragraph (j) of this section.)


(g) *Election not to claim the targeted jobs credit.* The election under section 51(j) (as amended by section 474(p) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984) not to claim the targeted jobs credit is available for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1983, and shall be made for the taxable year in which such credit is available by not claiming such credit on an original return or amended return at any time before the expiration of the 3-year period beginning on the last date prescribed by law for filing the return for the taxable year (determined without regard to extensions). The election may be revoked within the 3-year period by filing an amended return on which the credit is claimed.


(h) *Treatment of successor-employers.* In the case of a successor-employer referred to in section 3306(b)(1), the determination of the amount of credit under this section with respect to wages paid by such successor-employer shall be made in the same manner as if such wages were paid by the predecessor-employer referred to in such section. Thus, the 1-year period referred to in § 1.51-1(b)(2)(i) will be considered to begin with the day the employee first began work for the transferor-employer, and the amount of qualified first-year wages and qualified second-year wages paid or incurred with respect to the employee must be reduced by the amount of any such wages paid or incurred by the transferor-employer. (See examples 10 and 11 in paragraph (j) of this section.) Also, see paragraph (d)(10) of this section for rules concerning the viability of the employee's certification. 


(i) *Treatment of employees performing services for other persons.* No credit shall be determined under this section with respect to remuneration paid by an employer to an employee for services performed by such employee for another person unless the amount reasonably expected to be received by the employer for such services from such other person exceeds the remuneration paid by the employer to such employee for such services. 


(j) *Examples.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples which, except as otherwise stated, assume that the limitations imposed by §§ 1.51-1(f)(2) and 1.53-3 are inapplicable: 



---

[N] [T.D. 8062, 50 FR 45998, Nov. 6, 1985]




