# § 68.37   Cessation of qualifications.

(a) If the vessel is owned by a not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative and a change occurs which affects the validity of the certificate required by § 68.35(a), or the ownership of the vessel changes so that it no longer meets the criteria of § 68.29, the qualification for the privileges enumerated in § 68.33 is terminated effective as of the date and time of the change. The not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative shall report the change in writing to the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center.


(b) If the vessel is owned by a member or members of a not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative and a change occurs which affects the validity of the certificate required by § 68.35(a), or the ownership of the vessel changes so that it no longer meets the criteria of § 68.29, the qualification of the member or members for the privileges enumerated in § 68.33 is terminated effective as of the date and time of the change. The member or members shall report the change in writing to the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center.


(c) When qualifications are terminated under this section, the certificate of documentation issued under this subpart must be surrendered or exchanged in accordance with part 67 of this chapter.



---

[N] [CGD 89-007; CGD 89-007a, 58 FR 60266, Nov. 15, 1993, 58 FR 65131, Dec. 13, 1993, as amended by CGD 95-014, 60 FR 31606, June 15, 1995; USCG-1999-6216, 64 FR 53225, Oct. 1, 1999. Redesignated and amended by USCG-2005-20258, 71 FR 61418, Oct. 18, 2006]




