# § 1.6052-2   Statements to be furnished employees with respect to wages paid in the form of group-term life insurance.

(a) *Requirement.* Every employer filing a return under section 6052(a) and § 1.6052-1, with respect to group-term life insurance on the life of an employee, shall furnish to the employee whose name is set forth in such return the tax return copy and the employee's copy of Form W-2. Each copy of Form W-2 must show the information required to be shown on the Form W-2 filed under § 1.6052-1. An employer may truncate an employee's social security number to appear in the form of an IRS truncated taxpayer identification number (TTIN) on copies of Forms W-2 furnished to the employee. For provisions relating to the use of TTINs, see § 301.6109-4 of this chapter (Procedure and Administration Regulations). The rules in § 31.6051-1 of this chapter (Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source Regulations) shall apply with respect to the means and time (including extensions thereof) for furnishing the employee's copy of Form W-2 required by this section to the employee and making corrections to such form.




(b) *Definitions.* Terms used in this section and in section 79 and the regulations thereunder have the meaning ascribed to them in section 79 and the regulations thereunder.








(c) *Penalty.* For provisions relating to the penalty provided for failure to furnish a statement under this section, see section 6722 and the regulations in part 301 under section 6722.


(d) *Applicability date.* This section is applicable for statements required to be furnished under section 6052 after December 31, 2020.







---

[N] [T.D. 6888, 31 FR 9205, July 6, 1966, as amended by T.D. 7284, 38 FR 20828, Aug. 3, 1973; T.D. 7580, 43 FR 60160, Dec. 26, 1978; T.D. 7623, 44 FR 28800, May 17, 1979; T.D. 9861, 84 FR 31719, July 3, 2019]




