# ยง 18.34   Motors.

Explosion-proof electric motor assemblies intended for use in approved equipment in underground mines that are specifically addressed in part 7 of this chapter shall be approved under part 7 of this chapter after February 22, 1996. Those motor assemblies not specifically addressed under part 7 of this chapter shall be accepted or certified under this part. 


(a) *General.* (1) Motors shall have explosion-proof enclosures. 


(2) Motors submitted to MSHA for test shall be equipped with unshielded bearings regardless of whether that type of bearing is specified. 


(3) MSHA reserves the right to test motors with the maximum clearance specified between the shaft and the mating part which forms the required flame-arresting path. Also reserved is the right to remachine these parts, at the applicant's expense, to specified dimensions to provide the maximum clearance. 


(4) Ball and roller bearings and oil seals will not be acceptable as flame-arresting paths; therefore, a separate path shall be provided between the shaft and another part, preferably inby the bearing. The length and clearances of such flame-arresting path shall conform to the requirements of ยง 18.31. 


(5) Labyrinths or other arrangements that provide change(s) in direction of escaping gases will be acceptable but the use of small detachable pieces shall not be permitted unless structurally unavoidable. The lengths of flame-arresting path(s) and clearance(s) shall conform to the requirements of ยง 18.31. 


(6) Oil seals shall be removed from motors prior to submission for explosion tests. 


(7) Openings for filling and draining bearing lubricants shall be so located as to prevent escape of flame through them. 


(8) An outer bearing cap will not be considered as forming any part of a flame-arresting path unless the cap is used as a bearing cartridge. 


(9) If unavoidable, holes may be made through motor casings for bolts, studs, or screws to hold essential parts such as pole pieces, brush rigging, and bearing cartridges. Such parts shall be attached to the casing by at least two fastenings. The threaded holes in these parts shall be blind, unless the fastenings are inserted from the inside, in which case the fastenings shall not be accessible with the armature of the motor in place. 


(b) *Direct-current motors.* For direct-current motors with narrow interpoles, the distance from the edge of the pole piece to any bolt hole in the frame shall be not less than 
1/8 inch. If the distance is 
1/8 to 
1/4 inch, the diametrical clearance for the pole bolt shall not exceed 
1/64 inch for not less than 
1/2 inch through the frame. Furthermore, the pole piece shall have the same radius as the inner surface of the frame. Pole pieces may be shimmed as necessary. 


(c) *Alternating-current motors.* Stator laminations that form a part of an explosion-proof enclosure will be acceptable provided: (1) The laminations and their end rings are fastened together under pressure; (2) the joint between the end rings and the laminations is not less than 
1/4 inch, but preferably as close to 1 inch as possible; and (3) it shall be impossible to insert a 0.0015-inch thickness gage to a depth exceeding 
1/8 inch between adjacent laminations or between end rings and laminations. 


(d) *Small motors (alternating- and direct-current).* Motors having internal free volume not exceeding 350 cubic inches and joints not exceeding 32 inches in outer circumference will be acceptable for investigation if provided with rabbet joints between the stator frame and the end bracket having the following dimensions: 



---

[N] [33 FR 4660, Mar. 19, 1968, as amended at 57 FR 61210, Dec. 23, 1992]




