# 52.211-8   Time of Delivery.

As prescribed in 11.404(a)(2), insert the following clause:


*Alternate I* (APR 1984). If the delivery schedule is expressed in terms of specific calendar dates or specific periods and is based on an assumed date of award, the contracting officer may substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause. The time may be expressed by substituting *on or before*; *during the months __________*; or *not sooner than ________ or later than _________* as headings for the third column of paragraph (a) the basic clause.


*Alternate II* (APR 1984). If the delivery schedule is expressed in terms of specific calendar dates or specific periods and is based on an assumed date the contractor will receive notice of award, the contracting officer may substitute the following paragraph (b) for paragraph (b) of the basic clause. The time may be expressed by substituting *within days after the date of receipt of a written notice of award* as the heading for the third column of paragraph (a) of the basic clause.


*Alternate III* (APR 1984). If the delivery schedule is to be based on the actual date the contractor receives a written notice of award, the contracting officer may delete paragraph (b) of the basic clause. The time may be expressed by substituting *within days after the date of receipt of a written notice of award* as the heading for the third column of paragraph (a) of the basic clause.



---

[N] [48 FR 42478, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 56 FR 41732, Aug. 22, 1991; 60 FR 34739, July 3, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 48251, 48256, Sept. 18, 1995; 62 FR 40238, July 25, 1997]




