# § 63.421   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act; in subparts A, K, Ka, Kb, and Xxa of part 60 of this chapter; or in subpart A of this part. All terms defined in both subpart A of part 60 of this chapter and subpart A of this part shall have the meaning given in subpart A of this part. For purposes of this subpart, definitions in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.


*Bulk gasoline terminal* means:


(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship or barge, and has a gasoline throughput greater than 75,700 liters per day. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.


(2) On or after May 8, 2027, any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship, barge, or cargo tank and subsequently loads all or a portion of the gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks for transport to bulk gasoline plants or gasoline dispensing facilities and has a gasoline throughput greater than 20,000 gallons per day (75,700 liters per day). Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput for the facility as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.




*Controlled loading rack,* for the purposes of § 63.420, means a loading rack equipped with vapor collection and processing systems that reduce displaced vapor emissions to no more than 80 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded, as measured using the test methods and procedures in § 60.503 (a) through (c) of this chapter.


*Equipment* means each valve, pump, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, and flange or other connector in the gasoline liquid transfer and vapor collection systems. This definition also includes the entire vapor processing system except the exhaust port(s) or stack(s).


*Flare* means a thermal combustion device using an open or shrouded flame (without full enclosure) such that the pollutants are not emitted through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.


*Gasoline* means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 4.0 pounds per square inch (27.6 kilopascals) or greater, which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.




*Gasoline cargo tank* means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading gasoline or which has loaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.


*In gasoline service* means that a piece of equipment is used in a system that transfers gasoline or gasoline vapors.


*Limitation(s) on potential to emit* means limitation(s) limiting a source's potential to emit as defined in § 63.2 of subpart A of this part.


*Operating parameter value* means a value for an operating or emission parameter of the vapor processing system (e.g., temperature) which, if maintained continuously by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator has complied with the applicable emission standard. The operating parameter value is determined using the procedures outlined in § 63.425(b).


*Oxygenated gasoline* means the same as defined in 40 CFR 80.2.


*Pipeline breakout station* means:


(1) Prior to May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline or to other facilities.


(2) On or after May 8, 2027, a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to relieve surges or receive and store gasoline from the pipeline for reinjection and continued transportation by pipeline to other facilities. *Pipeline breakout stations* do not have loading racks where gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks. If any gasoline is loaded into cargo tanks, the facility is a bulk gasoline terminal for the purposes of this subpart provided the facility-wide gasoline throughput (including pipeline throughput) exceeds the limits specified for bulk gasoline terminals.




*Reformulated gasoline* means the same as defined in 40 CFR 80.2.


*Submerged filling* means the filling of a gasoline cargo tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the 6 inches from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline cargo tanks is included in this definition.


*Thermal oxidation system* means an enclosed combustion device used to mix and ignite fuel, air pollutants, and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize hazardous air pollutants. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat air pollutants to combustion temperatures. *Thermal oxidation systems* emit pollutants through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.










*Uncontrolled loading rack* means a loading rack used to load gasoline cargo tanks that is not a controlled loading rack.


*Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank* means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in § 63.425(e), and which is subject at all times to the test requirements in § 63.425 (f), (g), and (h).


*Volatile organic liquid* (VOL) means, for the purposes of this subpart, gasoline. 



---

[N] [59 FR 64318, Dec. 14, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 9093, Feb. 28, 1997; 68 FR 70965, Dec. 19, 2003; 85 FR 78463, Dec. 4, 2020; 89 FR 39358, May 8, 2024]
















