# § 36.504   Relief.

(a) *Authority of court.* In a civil action under § 36.503, the court—


(1) May grant any equitable relief that such court considers to be appropriate, including, to the extent required by the Act or this part—


(i) Granting temporary, preliminary, or permanent relief; 


(ii) Providing an auxiliary aid or service, modification of policy, practice, or procedure, or alternative method; and 


(iii) Making facilities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities; 


(2) May award other relief as the court considers to be appropriate, including monetary damages to persons aggrieved when requested by the Attorney General; and 


(3) May, to vindicate the public interest, assess a civil penalty against the entity in an amount 


(i) Not exceeding $50,000 for a first violation occurring before September 29, 1999, and not exceeding $55,000 for a first violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999, and before April 28, 2014, and not exceeding $75,000 for a first violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014, except that, for civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, for a first violation occurring after November 2, 2015, the civil penalty shall not exceed the applicable amount set forth in 28 CFR 85.5.


(ii) Not exceeding $100,000 for any subsequent violation occurring before September 29, 1999, and not exceeding $110,000 for any subsequent violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999, and before April 28, 2014, and not exceeding $150,000 for any subsequent violation occurring on or after April 28, 2014, except that, for civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016, for any subsequent violation occurring after November 2, 2015, the civil penalty shall not exceed the applicable amount set forth in 28 CFR 85.5.


(b) *Single violation.* For purposes of paragraph (a) (3) of this section, in determining whether a first or subsequent violation has occurred, a determination in a single action, by judgment or settlement, that the covered entity has engaged in more than one discriminatory act shall be counted as a single violation. 


(c) *Punitive damages.* For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the terms “monetary damages” and “such other relief” do not include punitive damages. 


(d) *Judicial consideration.* In a civil action under § 36.503, the court, when considering what amount of civil penalty, if any, is appropriate, shall give consideration to any good faith effort or attempt to comply with this part by the entity. In evaluating good faith, the court shall consider, among other factors it deems relevant, whether the entity could have reasonably anticipated the need for an appropriate type of auxiliary aid needed to accommodate the unique needs of a particular individual with a disability. 



---

[N] [Order No. 1513-91, 56 FR 35592, July 26, 1991, as amended by Order No. 2249-99, 64 FR 47103, Aug. 30, 1999; AG Order No. 3324-2014, 79 FR 17436, Mar. 28, 2014; AG Order 3690-2016, 81 FR 42499, June 30, 2016]




