# § 63.906   Inspection and monitoring requirements.

(a) Owners and operators that use a tank equipped with a fixed roof in accordance with the provisions of § 63.902 of this subpart shall meet the following requirements:


(1) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the tank wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.


(2) The owner or operator must perform an initial inspection following installation of the fixed roof. Thereafter, the owner or operator must perform the inspections at least once every calendar year except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section.


(3) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.907 (a) of this subpart.


(b) The owner or operator shall repair all detected defects as follows:


(1) The owner or operator shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 calendar days after detection except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 calendar days if the owner or operator determines that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the tank and no alternative tank capacity is available at the site to accept the regulated material normally managed in the tank. In this case, the owner or operator shall repair the defect the next time alternative tank capacity becomes available and the tank can be emptied or temporarily removed from service, as necessary to complete the repair.


(c) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the defect repair in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.907(b) of this subpart. 


(d) *Alternative inspection and monitoring interval.* Following the initial inspection and monitoring of a fixed roof in accordance with this section, subsequent inspection and monitoring of the equipment may be performed at intervals longer than 1 year when an owner or operator determines that performing the required inspection or monitoring procedures would expose a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions and the owner or operator complies with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must prepare and maintain at the plant site written documentation identifying the specific air pollution control equipment designated as “unsafe to inspect and monitor.” The documentation must include for each piece of air pollution control equipment designated as such a written explanation of the reasons why the equipment is unsafe to inspect or monitor using the applicable procedures under this section.


(2) The owner or operator must develop and implement a written plan and schedule to inspect and monitor the air pollution control equipment using the applicable procedures specified in this section during times when a worker can safely access the air pollution control equipment. The required inspections and monitoring must be performed as frequently as practicable but do not need to be performed more frequently than the periodic schedule that would be otherwise applicable to the air pollution control equipment under the provisions of this section. A copy of the written plan and schedule must be maintained at the plant site.



---

[N] [61 FR 34184, July 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 38986, July 20, 1999]




