# ยง 301.48-1   Definitions.

Terms used in the singular form in this subpart shall be deemed to import the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this subpart shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any person authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and a person engaged in the business of moving regulated articles interstate, in which the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart. 


*Inspector.* Any employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or other person, authorized by the Administrator to enforce the provisions of the quarantine and regulations in this subpart. 


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State.


*Japanese beetle.* The live insect known as the Japanese beetle (*Popillia japonica* Newm.) in any stage of development (egg, larva, pupa, or adult).


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, society, or association, or other organized group of any of the foregoing.


*Regulated airport.* Any airport or portions of an airport in a quarantined State declared regulated in accordance with provisions in ยง 301.48-2. 


*Regulated articles.* Aircraft at or from regulated airports.


*State.* Any State, territory, or district of the United States, including Puerto Rico.


*State Plant Regulatory Official.* The authorized official of a State who has responsibility for the operation of the State plant regulatory program. 



---

[N] [44 FR 24035, Apr. 24, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 32640, June 25, 1996; 70 FR 33268, June 7, 2005; 87 FR 80006, Dec. 29, 2022]




