# § 51.22   Passport agents and passport acceptance agents.

(a) *U.S. citizen employees of the Department authorized to serve as passport agents.* The following employees of the Department are authorized by virtue of their positions to serve as passport agents unless the Department in an individual case withdraws authorization:


(1) A passport authorizing officer;


(2) A consular officer, or a U.S. citizen consular agent abroad;


(3) A diplomatic officer specifically authorized by the Department to accept passport applications; and


(4) Such U.S. citizen Department of State employees and contractors as the Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs may designate for the purpose of administering oaths and affirmations for passport applications.


(b) *Persons designated by the Department to serve as passport acceptance agents.* When designated by the Department, the following persons are authorized to serve as passport acceptance agents unless the Department in an individual case withdraws authorization.


(1) An employee of the clerk of any Federal court;


(2) An employee of the clerk of any state court of record;


(3) A postal employee at a United States post office that has been selected to accept passport applications;


(4) An employee of the Department of Defense at a military installation that has been authorized to accept passport applications;


(5) An employee of a federal agency that has been selected to accept passport applications; and


(6) Any other person specifically designated by the Department.


(c) *Qualifications of persons designated by the Department to serve as passport acceptance agents.* Before the Department will designate a person described in § 51.22(b) as a passport acceptance agent, his or her employer must certify that the person:


(1) Is a U.S. citizen or a U.S. non-citizen national;


(2) Is 18 years of age or older;


(3) Is a permanent employee, excluding ad hoc, contractual, and volunteer employees; and


(4) Does not have a record of either:


(i) A Federal or State felony conviction; or


(ii) A misdemeanor conviction for crimes involving moral turpitude or breach of trust, including but not limited to embezzlement, identity theft, misappropriation, document fraud, drug offenses, or dishonesty in carrying out a responsibility involving public trust.


(d) *Training.* A passport acceptance agent described in § 51.22(b) must be trained to apply procedures and practices as detailed in guidance provided by the Department. Training must be successfully completed before accepting passport applications.


(e) *Responsibilities.* The responsibilities of a passport acceptance agent described in § 51.22(b) include but are not limited to the following:


(1) Certifying the identity of each applicant. Passport acceptance agents must certify that they have personally witnessed the applicant signing his or her application, and that the applicant has:


(i) Personally appeared;


(ii) Presented proper identification, as documented on the application;


(iii) Submitted photographs that are a true likeness; and


(iv) Taken the oath administered by the acceptance agent.


(2) Safeguarding passport application information under the Privacy


Act of 1974. Passport acceptance agents described in § 51.22(b) must not retain copies of executed applications, nor release passport application information to anyone other than the applicant and the Department.


(3) Avoiding conflict of interest. Passport acceptance agents described in § 51.22(b) must not participate in any relationship that could be perceived as a conflict of interest, including but not limited to providing commercial services related to the passport process.


(f) *Documentation.* Passport acceptance facilities within the United


States must maintain a current listing of all passport acceptance agents designated under § 51.22(b) working at its facility. This list must be updated at least annually and a copy provided to the officer specified by the Department at the appropriate passport issuing office.


(1) The current listing of all designated passport acceptance agents must include the passport acceptance agents':


(i) Names; and


(ii) Signatures.


(2) Any addition to or deletion from the current listing of designated passport acceptance agents is subject to prior approval by the Department.




