# § 156.265   Enrollment process for qualified individuals.

(a) *General requirement.* A QHP issuer must process enrollment in accordance with this section.


(b) *Enrollment through the Exchange for the individual market.* (1) A QHP issuer must enroll a qualified individual only if the Exchange—


(i) Notifies the QHP issuer that the individual is a qualified individual; and


(ii) Transmits information to the QHP issuer as provided in § 155.400(a) of this subchapter.


(2) If an applicant initiates enrollment directly with the QHP issuer for enrollment through the Exchange, the QHP issuer must either—


(i) Direct the individual to file an application with the Exchange in accordance with § 155.310, or


(ii) Ensure the applicant's completion of an eligibility verification and enrollment application through the Exchange Internet Web site as described in § 155.405, or ensure that the eligibility application information is submitted for an eligibility determination through the Exchange-approved Web service subject to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b)(3) through (5) of this section;


(3) When an Internet Web site of an issuer is used to complete the Exchange eligibility application outlined in this section, at a minimum, the Internet Web site must:


(i) Use exactly the same eligibility application language as appears in the FFE Single Streamlined Application required in § 155.405 of this subchapter, unless HHS approves a deviation;


(ii) Ensure that all necessary information for the consumer's applicable eligibility circumstances are submitted through the Exchange-approved Web service; 


(iii) Ensure that the process used for consumers to complete the eligibility application complies with all applicable Exchange standards, including §§ 155.230 and 155.260(b) of this subchapter; and


(iv) Differentially display all standardized options in accordance with the requirements under § 155.205(b)(1) in a manner consistent with that adopted by HHS for display on the Federally-facilitated Exchange Web site, unless HHS approves a deviation.


(4) An issuer must obtain HHS approval that the requirements of this section have been met prior to completing an applicant's eligibility application through the issuer's Internet Web site.


(5) HHS or its designee may periodically monitor and audit an agent, broker, or issuer to assess its compliance with the applicable requirements of this section.


(c) *Acceptance of enrollment information.* A QHP issuer must accept enrollment information consistent with the privacy and security requirements established by the Exchange in accordance with § 155.260 and in an electronic format that is consistent with § 155.270.


(d) *Premium payment.* A QHP issuer must follow the premium payment process established by the Exchange in accordance with § 155.240 of this subchapter and the payment rules established in § 155.400(e) of this subchapter.


(e) *Enrollment information package.* A QHP issuer must provide new enrollees an enrollment information package that is compliant with accessibility and readability standards established in § 155.230(b).


(f) *Enrollment reconciliation.* A QHP issuer must reconcile enrollment files with the Exchange in a format specified by the Exchange (or, for QHP issuers in State Exchanges on the Federal Platform, the Federal Platform) and resolve assigned updates no less than once a month in accordance with § 155.400(d) of this subchapter, using the most recent enrollment information that is available and that has been verified to the best of the issuer's knowledge or belief.


(g) *Timely updates to enrollment records.* A QHP issuer offering plans through an Exchange must, in a format specified by the Exchange (or, for QHP issuers in State Exchanges on the Federal Platform, the Federal Platform), either:


(1) Verify to the Exchange (or, for QHP issuers in State Exchanges on the Federal Platform, the Federal Platform) that the information in the enrollment reconciliation file received from the Exchange (or, for QHP issuers in State Exchanges on the Federal Platform, the Federal Platform) accurately reflects its enrollment data for the applicable benefit year in its next enrollment reconciliation file submission to the Exchange (or, for QHP issuers in State Exchanges on the Federal Platform, the Federal Platform), and update its internal enrollment records accordingly; or


(2) Describe to the Exchange (or for QHP issuers in State Exchanges on the Federal Platform, the Federal Platform) within one reconciliation cycle any discrepancy it identifies in the enrollment reconciliation files it received from the Exchange (or for QHP issuers in State Exchanges on the Federal Platform, the Federal Platform).



---

[N] [77 FR 18469, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 76218, Dec. 17, 2013; 79 FR 30351, May 27, 2014; 80 FR 10874, Feb. 27, 2015; 81 FR 12350, Mar. 8, 2016; 81 FR 94181, Dec. 22, 2016; 85 FR 29261, May 14, 2020]




