# § 60.5422b   What are my additional reporting requirements for process unit equipment affected facilities?

(a) You must submit semiannual reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 60.5420b(d). If the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available on the CEDRI website at the time that the report is due, submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4. Once the form has been available on the CEDRI website for at least 90 calendar days, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The date reporting forms become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted within 45 days after the end of the semiannual reporting period, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(b) The initial semiannual report must include the following information:


(1) The general information specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(2) For each process unit:


(i) Process unit identification.


(ii) Number of valves subject to the monitoring requirements of §§ 60.5400b(b) and 60.5401b(f).


(iii) Number of pumps subject to the monitoring requirements of §§ 60.5400b(b) and 60.5401b(b).


(iv) Number of connectors subject to the monitoring requirements of §§ 60.5400b(b) and 60.5401b(h).


(v) Number of pressure relief devices subject to the monitoring requirements of §§ 60.5400b(b) and 60.5401b(c).


(vi) The information in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section.


(c) All subsequent semiannual reports must include the following information:


(1) The general information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The company name, facility site name, and address of the affected facility.


(ii) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(iii) A certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (c)(1)(iii).


(2) Process unit identification for each process unit.


(3) For each month during the semiannual reporting period for each process unit report:


(i) Number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.5400b(b) or § 60.5401b(f).


(ii) Number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.5400b(h) or § 60.5401b(i), the number of instances where it was technically infeasible to replace leaking valves with low-e valves or repack existing valves with low-e packing technology, including the reasoning for why it was technically infeasible.


(iii) Number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described § 60.5400b(b) or § 60.5401b(b).


(iv) Number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.5400b(h) or § 60.5401b(i).


(v) Number of connectors for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.5400b(b) or § 60.5401b(h).


(vi) Number of connectors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.5400b(h) or § 60.5401b(i).


(vii) Number of pressure relief devices for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.5400b(b) or § 60.5401b(c).


(viii) Number of pressure relief devices for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.5400b(h) or § 60.5401b(i).


(ix) Number of open-ended valves or lines for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.5400b(e) or § 60.5401b(d).


(x) Number of open-ended valves or lines for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.5400b(h) or § 60.5401b(i).


(xi) Number of pumps, valves, or connectors in heavy liquid service or pressure relief device in light liquid or heavy liquid service for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.5400b(g) or § 60.5401b(g).


(xii) Number of pumps, valves, or connectors in heavy liquid service or pressure relief device in light liquid or heavy liquid service for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.5400b(h) or § 60.5401b(i).


(xiii) The facts that explain each delay of repair and, where appropriate, why a process unit shutdown was technically infeasible.


(4) Dates of process unit shutdowns which occurred within the semiannual reporting period.


(5) Revisions to items reported according to paragraph (b) of this section if changes have occurred since the initial report or subsequent revisions to the initial report.






