# ยง 3602.31   What volume limitations and fees generally apply to noncompetitive mineral materials sales?

(a) BLM may sell, at not less than fair market value, and without advertising or calling for bids, mineral materials not greater than 200,000 cubic yards (or weight equivalent) in any individual sale, when BLM determines it to be: 


(1) In the public interest; and 


(2) Impracticable to obtain competition. 


(b) BLM will charge the purchaser a processing fee on a case-by-case basis as described in ยง 3000.11 of this chapter.


(c) BLM will not approve multiple noncompetitive sales that exceed a total of 300,000 cubic yards (or weight equivalent) made in any one State for the benefit of any one purchaser, whether an individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity, in any period of 12 consecutive months. 


(d) The volume limitations in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section do not apply to sales in the State of Alaska that BLM determines are needed for construction, operation, maintenance, or termination of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System or the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System.


(e) The volume limitations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply if: 


(1) BLM determines that circumstances make it impossible to obtain competition; or 


(2) There is insufficient time to invite competitive bids, because of an emergency situation affecting public property, health, or safety. 



---

[N] [66 FR 58901, Nov. 23, 2001, as amended at 70 FR 58878, Oct. 7, 2005; 73 FR 35592, June 24, 2008]




