# § 498.22   Reconsideration.

(a) *Right to reconsideration.* CMS or one of its contractors reconsiders an initial determination that affects a prospective provider or supplier, or a hospital seeking to qualify to claim payment for all emergency hospital services furnished in a calendar year, if the affected party files a written request in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. For denial or revocation of enrollment, prospective providers and suppliers and providers and suppliers have a right to reconsideration.


(b) *Request for reconsideration: Manner and timing.* The affected party specified in paragraph (a) of this section, if dissatisfied with the initial determination may request reconsideration by filing the request—


(1) With CMS or with the State survey agency, or in the case of prospective supplier the entity specified in the notice of initial determination;


(2) Directly or through its legal representative or other authorized official; and


(3) Within 60 days from receipt of the notice of initial determination, unless the time is extended in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The date of receipt will be presumed to be 5 days after the date on the notice unless there is a showing that it was, in fact, received earlier or later.


(c) *Content of request.* The request for reconsideration must state the issues, or the findings of fact with which the affected party disagrees, and the reasons for disagreement.


(d) *Extension of time to file a request for reconsideration.* (1) If the affected party is unable to file the request within the 60 days specified in paragraph (b) of this section, it may file a written request with CMS, stating the reasons why the request was not filed timely.


(2) CMS will extend the time for filing a request for reconsideration if the affected party shows good cause for missing the deadline.



---

[N] [52 FR 22446, June 12, 1987, as amended at 73 FR 36462, June 27, 2008]




