# § 58.30-15   Pipe, tubing, valves, fittings, pumps, and motors.

(a) The requirements of this section are applicable to those hydraulic and pneumatic systems listed in § 58.30-1.


(b) Materials used in the manufacture of tubing, pipes, valves, flanges, and fittings must be selected from those specifications that appear in table 1 to § 56.60-1 or table 1 to § 56.60-2; or they may be selected from the material specifications of Section I or Section VIII of the ASME BPVC (both incorporated by reference; see § 58.03-1). Materials designated by other specifications must be evaluated on the basis of physical and chemical properties. To assure these properties, the specifications must specify and require such physical and chemical testing as considered necessary by the Commandant. All tubing and pipe materials must be suitable for handling the hydraulic fluid used and must be of such chemical and physical properties as to remain ductile at the lowest operating temperature.


(c) Bolting must meet the requirements of § 56.25-20 of this subchapter except that regular hexagon bolts conforming to SAE J429, grades 2 through 8 (incorporated by reference, see § 58.03-1), or ASTM A193 (incorporated by reference, see § 58.03-1) may be used in sizes not exceeding 1.5 inches.


(d) The maximum allowable working pressure and minimum thickness must be calculated as required by § 56.07-10(e) of this subchapter.


(e) All flared, flareless and compression type joints must be in accordance with § 56.30-25 of this subchapter.


(f) Fluid power motors and pumps installed on vessels subject to inspection must be certified by the manufacturer as suitable for the intended use. Such suitability must be demonstrated by operational tests conducted aboard the vessel which must be witnessed by a marine inspector.






