# § 1777.28   Appointment of conservator for a significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized Enterprise.

(a) *Significantly undercapitalized Enterprise.* At any time after an Enterprise is classified as significantly undercapitalized, OFHEO may issue an order appointing a conservator for the Enterprise upon determining that:


(1) The amount of core capital of the Enterprise is less than the minimum capital level; and


(2) The alternative remedies available to OFHEO under the 1992 Act are not satisfactory.


(b) *Critically undercapitalized Enterprise*—(1) *Appointment upon classification.* Not later than thirty days after issuing a final notice of capital classification pursuant to § 1777.21(a)(3) classifying an Enterprise as significantly undercapitalized, OFHEO shall issue an order appointing a conservator for the Enterprise.


(2) *Exception.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, OFHEO may determine not to appoint a conservator if OFHEO makes a written finding, with the written concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury, that:


(i) The appointment of a conservator would have serious adverse effects on economic conditions of national financial markets or on the financial stability of the housing finance market; and


(ii) The public interest would be better served by taking some other enforcement action authorized under this title.


(c) *Judicial review.* An Enterprise for which a conservator has been appointed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may seek judicial review of the appointment in accordance with section 1369(b) of the 1992 Act (12 U.S.C. 4619(b)). Except as provided therein, no court may take any action regarding the removal of a conservator or otherwise restrain or affect the exercise of the powers or functions of a conservator.


(d) *Termination*—(1) *Upon reaching the minimum capital level.* OFHEO will issue an order terminating a conservatorship appointment under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section upon a determination that the Enterprise has maintained an amount of core capital that is equal to or exceeds the minimum capital level.


(2) *In OFHEO's discretion.* OFHEO may, in its discretion, issue an order terminating a conservatorship appointment under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section upon a determination that such termination order is in the public interest and may safely be accomplished.




