# § 41.3   Petitions.

(a) *Deciding official.* Petitions must be addressed to the Chief Administrative Patent Judge. A panel or an administrative patent judge may certify a question of policy to the Chief Administrative Patent Judge for decision. The Chief Administrative Patent Judge may delegate authority to decide petitions.


(b) *Scope.* This section covers petitions on matters pending before the Board (§§ 41.35, 41.64, 41.103, and 41.205); otherwise, see §§ 1.181 to 1.183 of this title. The following matters are not subject to petition:


(1) Issues committed by statute to a panel, and


(2) In pending contested cases, procedural issues. See § 41.121(a)(3) and § 41.125(c).


(c) *Petition fee.* The fee set in § 41.20(a) must accompany any petition under this section except no fee is required for a petition under this section seeking supervisory review.


(d) *Effect on proceeding.* The filing of a petition does not stay the time for any other action in a Board proceeding.


(e) *Time for action.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this part or as the Board may authorize in writing, a party may:


(i) File the petition within 14 days from the date of the action from which the party is requesting relief, and


(ii) File any request for reconsideration of a petition decision within 14 days of the decision on petition or such other time as the Board may set.


(2) A party may not file an opposition or a reply to a petition without Board authorization.



---

[N] [69 FR 50003, Aug. 12, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 58260, Sept. 30, 2004]




