# ยง 1992.101   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*AMLA* means the provisions relating to anti-retaliation of the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 contained in Sec. 6314 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, Public Law 116-283, 134 Stat. 3388 (January 1, 2021), as amended, codified at 31 U.S.C. 5323(g)(1)-(3) and (6).


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom the Assistant Secretary delegates authority under AMLA.


*Business days* means days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.


*Complainant* means the whistleblower who filed an AMLA complaint or on whose behalf a complaint was filed.


*FinCEN* means the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a bureau of the United States Department of the Treasury.


*OSHA* means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.


*Respondent* means the person named in the complaint who is alleged to have violated AMLA.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor or the person or persons to whom the Secretary delegates authority under certain anti-retaliation provisions of AMLA, 31 U.S.C. 5323(g)(1)-(3).


*Whistleblower* means any individual, or two or more individuals acting jointly, who take any of the actions described in ยง 1992.102(b). A whistleblower includes an individual presently or formerly working for an employer, an individual applying to work for an employer, or an individual whose employment could be affected by an employer.






