# ยง 802.233   Property right.

(a) The term *property right* means, with respect to real estate, any of the following rights or abilities, whether or not exercised, whether or not shared concurrently with any other person, and whether or not the underlying real estate is subject to an easement or other encumbrance:


(1) To physically access the real estate;


(2) To exclude others from physically accessing the real estate;


(3) To improve or develop the real estate; or


(4) To attach fixed or immovable structures or objects to the real estate.


(b) Examples:


(1) *Example 1.* Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate. Although at least one other person shares concurrently with Corporation A the right to access the property, Corporation A retains the right to physically exclude others from access that would interfere with its rights under the lease. Under the lease, Corporation A has the right to exclude others from physically accessing the real estate, and therefore affords the foreign person a property right.


(2) *Example 2.* Corporation A, a foreign person, enters into a lease of real estate that allows Corporation A to develop the real estate. The exercise of the right to develop the real estate is subject to Corporation A obtaining the appropriate regulatory permits. Notwithstanding the fact that Corporation A has not fully exercised its lease right pending the issuance of the permits, Corporation A is a party to lease that affords it a property right for purposes of this part.




