# § 235.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part, the term:


*2 CFR part 200,* means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).


*Act* means the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.


*CND* means the Child Nutrition Division of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Distributing agency* means a State agency which enters into an agreement with the Department for the distribution of donated foods pursuant to part 250 of this title.


*FNS* means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*FNSRO* means the appropriate Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Fiscal year* means a period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1, 1976, and October 1 of each calendar year thereafter and ending with September 30 of the following calendar year.


*Institution* means a child or adult care center or a sponsoring organization as defined in part 226 of this chapter.


*Large school food authority* means, in any State:


(1) All school food authorities that participate in the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210) and have enrollments of 40,000 children or more each; or


(2) If there are less than two school food authorities with enrollments of 40,000 or more, the two largest school food authorities that participate in the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210) and have enrollments of 2,000 children or more each.


*Nonprofit* means exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.


*OIG* means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.


*SAE* means federally provided State administrative expense funds for State agencies under this part.


*School* means the term as defined in §§ 210.2, 215.2, and 220.2 of this chapter, as applicable.


*School Food Authority* means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools and which has the legal authority to operate a breakfast or a lunch program therein. The term “School Food Authority” also includes a nonprofit agency or organization to which such governing body has delegated authority to operate the lunch or breakfast program in schools under its jurisdiction, provided the governing body retains the responsibility to comply with breakfast or lunch program regulations.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture.


*State* means any of the 50 States, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and, as applicable, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.


*State agency* means (1) the State educational agency or (2) such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer programs under part 210, 215, 220, 226 or 250 of this title. Unless otherwise indicated, “State agency” shall also mean *Distributing agency* as defined in this section,, when such agency is receiving funds directly from FNS under this part.


*State educational agency* means, as the State legislature may determine: (1) The chief State school officer (such as the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Commissioner of Education, or similar officer), or (2) a board of education controlling the State department of education.


*USDA implementing regulations* include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.



---

[N] [41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 48957, Aug. 21, 1979; 44 FR 51185, Aug. 31, 1979; Amdt. 9, 48 FR 19355, Apr. 29, 1983; Amdt. 14, 51 FR 27151, July 30, 1986; 54 FR 2991, Jan. 23, 1989; Amdt. 17, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 16, 1990; 60 FR 15461, Mar. 24, 1995; 64 FR 50743, Sept. 20, 1999; 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 63792, Nov. 13, 2007; 81 FR 50194, July 29, 2016; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016]




