# § 63.1003   Equipment identification.

(a) *General equipment identification.* Equipment subject to this subpart shall be identified. Identification of the equipment does not require physical tagging of the equipment. For example, the equipment may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, by designation of process unit or affected facility boundaries by some form of weatherproof identification, or by other appropriate methods.


(b) *Additional equipment identification.* In addition to the general identification required by paragraph (a) of this section, equipment subject to any of the provisions in §§ 63.1006 to 63.1015 shall be specifically identified as required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, as applicable.


(1) *Connectors.* Except for inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connectors meeting the provisions of § 63.1008(d)(2) and instrumentation systems identified pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, identify the connectors subject to the requirements of this subpart. Connectors need not be individually identified if all connectors in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this subpart are identified as a group, and the number of connectors subject is indicated.


(2) *Routed to a process or fuel gas system or equipped with a closed vent system and control device.* Identify the equipment that the owner or operator elects to route to a process or fuel gas system or equip with a closed vent system and control device, under the provisions of § 63.1007(e)(3) (pumps in light liquid service), § 63.1009(e)(3) (agitators in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service), § 63.1011(d) (pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service), § 63.1012(e) (compressors), or § 63.1016 (alternative means of emission limitation for enclosed vented process units) of this subpart.


(3) *Pressure relief devices.* Identify the pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, under the provisions of § 63.1011(e) of this subpart.


(4) *Instrumentation systems.* Identify instrumentation systems subject to the provisions of § 63.1010 of this subpart. Individual components in an instrumentation system need not be identified.


(5) *Equipment in service less than 300 hours per calendar year.* The identity, either by list, location (area or group), or other method, of equipment in regulated material service less than 300 hours per calendar year within a process unit or affected facilities subject to the provisions of this subpart shall be recorded.


(c) *Special equipment designations: Equipment that is unsafe or difficult-to-monitor*—(1) *Designation and criteria for unsafe-to-monitor.* Valves meeting the provisions of § 63.1006(e)(1), pumps meeting the provisions of § 63.1007(e)(5), connectors meeting the provisions of § 63.1008(d)(1), and agitators meeting the provisions of § 63.1009(e)(7) may be designated unsafe-to-monitor if the owner or operator determines that monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the monitoring requirements of this subpart. Examples of an unsafe-to-monitor equipment include, but is not limited to, equipment under extreme pressure or heat.


(2) *Designation and criteria for difficult-to-monitor.* Valves meeting the provisions of § 63.1006(e)(2) may be designated difficult-to-monitor if the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section apply. Agitators meeting the provisions of § 63.1009(f)(5) may be designated difficult-to-monitor if the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) apply.


(i) *Valves.* (A) The owner or operator of the valve determines that the equipment cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in regulated material service.


(B) The process unit or affected facility within which the valve is located is an existing source, or the owner or operator designates less than 3 percent of the total number of valves in a new source as difficult-to-monitor.


(ii) *Agitators.* The owner or operator determines that the agitator cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in regulated material service.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Identification of unsafe or difficult-to-monitor equipment.* The owner or operator shall record the identity of equipment designated as unsafe-to-monitor according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the planned schedule for monitoring this equipment. The owner or operator shall record the identity of equipment designated as difficult-to-monitor according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the planned schedule for monitoring this equipment, and an explanation why the equipment is difficult-to-monitor. This record must be kept at the plant and be available for review by an inspector.


(5) *Written plan requirements.* (i) The owner or operator of equipment designated as unsafe-to-monitor except connectors meeting the provisions of § 63.1008(d)(1) according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment as frequently as practical during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in § 63.1005 if a leak is detected.


(ii) The owner or operator of equipment designated as difficult-to-monitor according to the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment at least once per calendar year, and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in § 63.1005 if a leak is detected.


(d) *Special equipment designations: Unsafe-to-repair*—(1) *Designation and criteria.* Connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.1005(e) may be considered unsafe-to-repair if the owner or operator determines that repair personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the repair requirements of this subpart, and if the connector will be repaired before the end of the next process unit or affected facility shutdown as specified in § 63.1005(e) of this subpart.


(2) *Identification of equipment.* The identity of connectors designated as unsafe-to-repair and an explanation why the connector is unsafe-to-repair shall be recorded.


(e) *Special equipment designations: Equipment operating with no detectable emissions*—(1) *Designation and criteria.* Equipment may be designated as having no detectable emissions if it has no external actuating mechanism in contact with the process fluid and is operated with emissions less than 500 parts per million above background as determined by the method specified in § 63.1004(b) and (c).


(2) *Identification of equipment.* The identity of equipment designated as no detectable emissions shall be recorded.


(3) *Identification of compressors operating under no detectable emissions.* Identify the compressors that the owner or operator elects to designate as operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, under the provisions of § 63.1012(f).



---

[N] [64 FR 34886, June 29, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 63705, Nov. 22, 1999]




