# ยง 630.1212   Greater leave entitlements.

(a) An agency shall comply with any collective bargaining agreement or any agency employment benefit program or plan that provides greater family or medical leave entitlements to employees than those provided under this subpart. Nothing in this subpart prevents an agency from amending such policies, provided the policies comply with the requirements of this subpart.


(b) The entitlements established for employees under this subpart may not be diminished by any collective bargaining agreement or any employment benefit program or plan.


(c) An agency may adopt leave policies more generous than those provided in this subpart, except that such policies may not provide entitlement to paid time off in an amount greater than that otherwise authorized by law or provide sick leaved in any situation in which sick leave would not normally be allowed by law or regulation.


(d) The entitlements under sections 6381 through 6387 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart do not modify or affect any Federal law prohibiting discrimination. If the entitlements under sections 6381 through 6387 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart conflict with any Federal law prohibiting discrimination, an agency must comply with whichever statute provides greater entitlements to employees.



---

[N] [58 FR 39602, July 23, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 64454, Dec. 5, 1996. Redesignated at 76 FR 60704, Sept. 30, 2011, and further redesignated at 76 FR 60705, Sept. 30, 2011]




