# ยง 441.530   Home and Community-Based Setting.

(a) States must make available attendant services and supports in a home and community-based setting consistent with both paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.


(1) Home and community-based settings must have all of the following qualities, and such other qualities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, based on the needs of the individual as indicated in their person-centered service plan:


(i) The setting is integrated in and supports full access of individuals receiving Medicaid HCBS to the greater community, including opportunities to seek employment and work in competitive integrated settings, engage in community life, control personal resources, and receive services in the community, to the same degree of access as individuals not receiving Medicaid HCBS.


(ii) The setting is selected by the individual from among setting options, including non-disability specific settings and an option for a private unit in a residential setting. The setting options are identified and documented in the person-centered service plan and are based on the individual's needs, preferences, and, for residential settings, resources available for room and board.


(iii) Ensures an individual's rights of privacy, dignity and respect, and freedom from coercion and restraint.


(iv) Optimizes but does not regiment individual initiative, autonomy, and independence in making life choices, including but not limited to, daily activities, physical environment, and with whom to interact.


(v) Facilitates individual choice regarding services and supports, and who provides them.


(vi) In a provider-owned or controlled residential setting, in addition to the above qualities at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, the following additional conditions must be met:


(A) The unit or dwelling is a specific physical place that can be owned, rented or occupied under a legally enforceable agreement by the individual receiving services, and the individual has, at a minimum, the same responsibilities and protections from eviction that tenants have under the landlord tenant law of the State, county, city or other designated entity. For settings in which landlord tenant laws do not apply, the State must ensure that a lease, residency agreement or other form of written agreement will be in place for each participant and that the document provides protections that address eviction processes and appeals comparable to those provided under the jurisdiction's landlord tenant law.


(B) Each individual has privacy in their sleeping or living unit:


(*1*) Units have entrance doors lockable by the individual, with only appropriate staff having keys to doors as needed.


(*2*) Individuals sharing units have a choice of roommates in that setting.


(*3*) Individuals have the freedom to furnish and decorate their sleeping or living units within the lease or other agreement.


(C) Individuals have the freedom and support to control their own schedules and activities, and have access to food at any time.


(D) Individuals are able to have visitors of their choosing at any time.


(E) The setting is physically accessible to the individual.


(F) Any modification of the additional conditions, under paragraphs (a)(1)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section, must be supported by a specific assessed need and justified in the person-centered service plan. The following requirements must be documented in the person-centered service plan:


(*1*) Identify a specific and individualized assessed need.


(*2*) Document the positive interventions and supports used prior to any modifications to the person-centered service plan.


(*3*) Document less intrusive methods of meeting the need that have been tried but did not work.


(*4*) Include a clear description of the condition that is directly proportionate to the specific assessed need.


(*5*) Include regulation collection and review of data to measure the ongoing effectiveness of the modification.


(*6*) Include established time limits for periodic reviews to determine if the modification is still necessary or can be terminated.


(*7*) Include the informed consent of the individual.


(*8*) Include an assurance that interventions and supports will cause no harm to the individual.


(2) Home and community-based settings do not include the following:


(i) A nursing facility;


(ii) An institution for mental diseases;


(iii) An intermediate care facility for individuals with intellectual disabilities;


(iv) A hospital providing long-term care services; or


(v) Any other locations that have qualities of an institutional setting, as determined by the Secretary. Any setting that is located in a building that is also a publicly or privately operated facility that provides inpatient institutional treatment, or in a building on the grounds of, or immediately adjacent to, a public institution, or any other setting that has the effect of isolating individuals receiving Medicaid HCBS from the broader community of individuals not receiving Medicaid HCBS will be presumed to be a setting that has the qualities of an institution unless the Secretary determines through heightened scrutiny, based on information presented by the State or other parties, that the setting does not have the qualities of an institution and that the setting does have the qualities of home and community-based settings.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [79 FR 3032, Jan. 16, 2014]




