# § 5.506   General provisions.

(a) *Restrictions on assistance.* Financial assistance under a Section 214 covered program is restricted to: 


(1) *Citizens;* or 


(2) *Noncitizens* who have eligible immigration status under one of the categories set forth in Section 214 (see 42 U.S.C. 1436a(a)). 


(b) *Family eligibility for assistance.* (1) A family shall not be eligible for assistance unless every member of the family residing in the unit is determined to have eligible status, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, or unless the family meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. 


(2) Despite the ineligibility of one or more family members, a mixed family may be eligible for one of the three types of assistance provided in §§ 5.516 and 5.518. A family without any eligible members and receiving assistance on June 19, 1995 may be eligible for temporary deferral of termination of assistance as provided in §§ 5.516 and 5.518. 


(c) *Preferences.* Citizens of the Republic of Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau who are eligible for assistance under paragraph (a)(2) of this section are entitled to receive local preferences for housing assistance, except that, within Guam, such citizens who have such local preference will not be entitled to housing assistance in preference to any United States citizen or national resident therein who is otherwise eligible for such assistance.



---

[N] [61 FR 5202, Feb. 9, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 65273, Oct. 23, 2002]




