# § 203.437   Mortgages involving a dwelling unit in a cooperative housing development.

(a) The provisions of §§ 203.251(d), 203.366 and 203.440 through 203.495 shall not apply to mortgages insured pursuant to section 203(n) of the National Housing Act.


(b) References in this subpart to the term *deed* and *deed in lieu of foreclosure,* or the word *property* when found in the phrases *conveyance of property, acquisition of property,* or other phrases indicating transfer of property, shall be construed to mean the assignment of the Corporate Certificate and Occupancy Certificate. However, when the use of such terms, as interpreted in light of section 203(n) of the National Housing Act, clearly indicates that reference to the dwelling unit is intended, such terms shall mean the dwelling unit identified in the Occupancy Certificate.


(c) In addition to the requirements of § 203.365, the mortgagee shall forward to the Secretary within 45 days after the transfer of the Corporate Certificate:


(1) A statement certified by the officer of the corporation charged with maintenance of the Corporate Certificate Transfer Book that such book currently shows that the Secretary is the owner of the Corporate Certificate; and,


(2) The Occupancy Certificate in the name of the Secretary.


(d) The mortgagee shall tender to the Secretary good and marketable title to the Corporate Certificate and the exclusive right of permanent possession of the dwelling unit.


(e) In lieu of the types of title evidence provided in § 203.385, the Secretary will accept a legal opinion signed by an attorney at law experienced in the examination of titles that the Secretary has good and marketable title to the Corporate Certificate and the exclusive right of possession of the dwelling unit.


(f) The Secretary may accept assignment of mortgages insured under this part if it is determined by the Secretary that it is in the Department's interest to do so provided that the blanket mortgage is in default and the holder of such mortgage has announced an intention to foreclose.



---

[N] [42 FR 40432, Aug. 10, 1977; 42 FR 57435, Nov. 2, 1977]




