# § 98.87   Records that must be retained.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then in addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37.


(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then in addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in this paragraph (b) for each portland cement manufacturing facility.


(1) Documentation of monthly calculated kiln-specific clinker CO_2_ emission factor.


(2) Documentation of quarterly calculated kiln-specific CKD CO_2_ emission factor.


(3) Measurements, records and calculations used to determine reported parameters.


(c) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (17) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (c)(1) through (17) of this section.


(1) Identify per kiln per month if clinker is measured directly, or is calculated from raw feed (Equation H-2 of § 98.83 and the method in § 98.84(d)).


(2) Quantity of raw kiln feed in month from kiln (tons) (Equation H-2 and the method in § 98.84(d)).


(3) Kiln-specific factor per kiln per month (ton clinker per ton raw feed) (Equation H-2 and the method in § 98.84(d)).


(4) Quantity of clinker produced in month from kiln (tons) (Equation H-2 and the method in § 98.84(d)).


(5) Cement kiln dust (CKD) not recycled to the kiln in quarter from kiln (tons) (Equation H-2 and the method in § 98.84(d)).


(6) Monthly total CaO content of clinker per kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-3 of § 98.83).


(7) Monthly non-calcined CaO content of clinker per kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-3).


(8) Monthly total MgO content of clinker per kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-3).


(9) Monthly non-calcined MgO content of clinker per kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-3).


(10) Quarterly total CaO content of cement kiln dust not recycled to each kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-4 of § 98.83).


(11) Quarterly non-calcined CaO content of cement kiln dust not recycled to each kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-4).


(12) Quarterly total MgO content of cement kiln dust not recycled to each kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-4).


(13) Quarterly non-calcined MgO content of cement kiln dust not recycled to each kiln (weight fraction) (Equation H-4).


(14) The amount of each raw material consumed annually per kiln (tons/yr (dry basis)) (Equation H-5 of § 98.83).


(15) The amount of each raw kiln feed consumed annually per kiln (tons/yr (dry basis)) (Equation H-5).


(16) Organic carbon content of each raw material per kiln, as determined in § 98.84(c). Default value is 0.002 weight fraction (Equation H-5).


(17) Organic carbon content of combined raw kiln feed per kiln, as determined in § 98.84(c). Default value is 0.002 weight fraction (Equation H-5).



---

[N] [75 FR 66461, Oct. 28, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 63785, Oct. 24, 2014]




