# ยง 1503.617   Extension of time.

(a) *Oral requests.* The parties may agree to extend for a reasonable period the time for filing a document under this subpart. If the parties agree, the ALJ must grant one extension of time to each party. The party seeking the extension of time must submit a draft order to the ALJ to be signed by the ALJ and filed with the Enforcement Docket Clerk. The ALJ may grant additional oral requests for an extension of time where the parties agree to the extension.


(b) *Written motion.* A party must file a written motion for an extension of time not later than 7 days before the document is due unless the party shows good cause for the late filing. The ALJ may grant the extension of time if the party shows good cause.


(c) *Request for continuance of hearing.* Either party may request in writing a continuance of the date of a hearing, for good cause shown, no later than seven days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Good cause does not include a scheduling conflict involving the parties or their attorneys which by due diligence could have been foreseen.


(d) *Failure to rule.* If the ALJ fails to rule on a written motion for an extension of time by the date the document was due, the motion for an extension of time is deemed granted for no more than 20 days after the original date the document was to be filed. If the ALJ fails to rule on a request for continuance by the scheduled hearing date, the request is deemed granted for no more than 10 days after the scheduled hearing date.




