# § 573.4   When may the Chair issue an order of temporary closure?

(a) *When an order of temporary closure may issue.* Simultaneously with or subsequently to the issuance of a notice of violation under § 573.3, the Chair may issue an order of temporary closure of all or part of an Indian gaming operation if one or more of the following substantial violations are present:


(1) The respondent fails to correct violations within:


(i) The time permitted in a notice of violation; or


(ii) A reasonable time after a tribe is served with notice of a violation.


(2) A gaming operation fails to pay the annual fee required by 25 CFR part 514.


(3) A gaming operation operates for business without a tribal ordinance or resolution that the Chair has approved under part 522 of this chapter.


(4) A gaming operation operates for business without a license from a tribe, in violation of part 522 or part 559 of this chapter.


(5) A gaming operation operates for business without either background investigations completed for, or tribal licenses granted to, all key employees and primary management officials, as provided in § 558.3(b) of this chapter.


(6) There is clear and convincing evidence that a gaming operation defrauds a tribe.


(7) A management contractor operates for business without a contract that the Chair has approved under part 533 of this chapter.


(8) Any person knowingly submits false or misleading information to the Commission or a tribe in response to any provision of the Act, this chapter, or a tribal ordinance or resolution that the Chair has approved under part 522 of this chapter.


(9) A gaming operation refuses to allow an authorized representative of the Commission or an authorized tribal official to enter or inspect a gaming operation, in violation of § 571.5 or § 571.6 of this chapter, or of a tribal ordinance or resolution approved by the Chair under part 522 of this chapter.


(10) A tribe fails to suspend a license upon notification by the Commission that a primary management official or key employee does not meet the standards for employment contained in § 556.5 of this chapter, in violation of § 558.4 of this chapter.


(11) A gaming operation operates class III games in the absence of a tribal-state compact that is in effect, in violation of 25 U.S.C. 2710(d).


(12) A gaming operation's facility is constructed, maintained, or operated in a manner that threatens the environment or the public health and safety, in violation of a tribal ordinance or resolution approved by the Chair under part 522 of this chapter.


(13) A gaming facility operates on Indian lands not eligible for gaming under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act.


(b) *Order effective upon service.* The operator of an Indian gaming operation shall close the operation upon service of an order of temporary closure, unless the order provides otherwise.


(c) *Informal expedited review.* Within seven (7) days after service of an order of temporary closure, the respondent may request, orally or in writing, informal expedited review by the Chair.


(1) The Chair shall complete the expedited review provided for by this paragraph within two (2) days after his or her receipt of a timely request.


(2) The Chair shall, within two (2) days after the expedited review provided for by this paragraph:


(i) Decide whether to continue an order of temporary closure; and


(ii) Provide the respondent with an explanation of the basis for the decision.


(3) Whether or not a respondent seeks informal expedited review under this paragraph, within thirty (30) days after the Chair serves an order of temporary closure the respondent may appeal the order to the Commission under part 584 or part 585 of this chapter. Otherwise, the order shall remain in effect unless rescinded by the Chair for good cause.



---

[N] [58 FR 5844, Jan. 22, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 6030, Feb. 1, 2008; 74 FR 36940, July 27, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 77 FR 47519, Aug. 9, 2012; 78 FR 4324, Jan. 22, 2013; 80 FR 31995, June 5, 2015]




