# § 63.7916   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for transfer systems?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7915 that apply to your affected transfer systems by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, as applicable to your transfer systems. 


(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each individual drain system using controls according to § 63.7915(b) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) You have installed air emission controls for each individual drain system and junction box according to the requirements in § 63.962(a) and (b), and you have records documenting the installation and design. 


(2) You will operate the air emission controls according to the requirements in § 63.962(b)(5). 


(3) You have performed an initial visual inspection of each individual drain system according to the requirements in § 63.964(a), and you have records documenting the inspection results.


(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each transfer system using covers according to § 63.7915(c)(1) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) Each transfer system is equipped with covers and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.689(d)(1) through (4), and you have records documenting the design and installation. 


(2) You have performed an initial inspection of each cover and its closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(d)(1) through (5), and you have records documenting the inspection results. 


(3) You will operate each cover and its closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.689(5). 


(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each transfer system that consists of hard piping according to § 63.7915(c)(2) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) You have installed a transfer system that consists entirely of hard piping and meets the requirements in § 63.7915(c)(2), and you have records documenting the design and installation. 


(2) You have performed an initial inspection of the entire transfer system to verify that all joints or seams between the pipe sections are permanently or semi-permanently sealed (*e.g.,* a welded joint between two sections of metal pipe or a bolted and gasketed flange), and you have records documenting the inspection results. 


(e) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each transfer system that is enclosed and vented to a control device according to § 63.7915(e)(3) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) You have installed a transfer system that is designed and operated such that an internal pressure in the vapor headspace in the enclosure is maintained at a level less than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating, and you have records documenting the design and installation. 


(2) You have met each applicable requirement for demonstrating initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7926. 




