# ยง 425.206   Evaluation procedures for applications.

(a) *Basis for evaluation and determination.* (1) CMS evaluates an ACO's application to determine whether an applicant satisfies the requirements of this part and is qualified to participate in the Shared Savings Program, and approves or denies applications accordingly. Applications are approved or denied on the basis of the following:


(i) Information contained in and submitted with the application by an application deadline specified by CMS.


(ii) Supplemental information that was submitted in response to a CMS request and by a deadline specified by CMS.


(iii) Other information available to CMS.


(2) CMS notifies an ACO applicant when supplemental information is required for CMS to make a determination on the ACO's application and provides an opportunity for the ACO to submit the information.


(3) CMS may deny an application if an ACO applicant fails to submit requested information by the deadlines established by CMS.


(b) *Notice of determination.* (1) CMS notifies in writing each applicant ACO of its determination to approve or deny the ACO's application to participate in the Shared Savings Program.


(2) If CMS denies the application, the notice will indicate that the ACO is not qualified to participate in the Shared Savings Program, specify the reasons why the ACO is not so qualified, and inform the ACO of its right to request reconsideration review in accordance with the procedures specified in subpart I of this part.



---

[N] [76 FR 67973, Nov. 2, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 32838, June 9, 2015]




