# § 410.71   Clinical psychologist services and services and supplies incident to clinical psychologist services.

(a) *Included services.* (1) Medicare Part B covers services furnished by a clinical psychologist, who meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section, that are within the scope of his or her State license, if the services would be covered if furnished by a physician or as an incident to a physician's services.


(2) Medicare Part B covers services and supplies incident to the services of a clinical psychologist if the requirements of § 410.26 are met.


(b) *Application of mental health treatment limitation.* The treatment services of a clinical psychologist and services and supplies furnished as an incident to those services are subject to the limitation on payment for outpatient mental health treatment services set forth in § 410.155.


(c) *Payment for consultations.* A clinical psychologist or an attending or primary care physician may not bill Medicare or the beneficiary for the consultation that is required under paragraph (e) of this section.


(d) *Qualifications.* For purposes of this subpart, a clinical psychologist is an individual who—


(1) Holds a doctoral degree in psychology; and


(2) Is licensed or certified, on the basis of the doctoral degree in psychology, by the State in which he or she practices, at the independent practice level of psychology to furnish diagnostic, assessment, preventive, and therapeutic services directly to individuals.


(e) *Agreement to consult.* A clinical psychologist who bills Medicare Part B must agree to meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. The clinical psychologist's signature on a Medicare provider/supplier enrollment form indicates his or her agreement.


(1) Unless the beneficiary's primary care or attending physician has referred the beneficiary to the clinical psychologist, to inform the beneficiary that it is desirable for the clinical psychologist to consult with the beneficiary's attending or primary care physician (if the beneficiary has such a physician) to consider any conditions contributing to the beneficiary's symptoms.


(2) If the beneficiary assents to the consultation, in accordance with accepted professional ethical norms and taking into consideration patient confidentiality—


(i) To attempt, within a reasonable time after receiving the consent, to consult with the physician; and


(ii) If attempts to consult directly with the physician are not successful, to notify the physician, within a reasonable time, that he or she is furnishing services to the beneficiary.


(3) Unless the primary care or attending physician referred the beneficiary to the clinical psychologist, to document, in the beneficiary's medical record, the date the patient consented or declined consent to consultation, the date of consultation, or, if attempts to consult did not succeed, the date and manner of notification to the physician.



---

[N] [63 FR 20128, Apr. 23, 1998, as amended at 78 FR 74811, Dec. 10, 2013]




