# § 4.1a   Definitions and use of terms.

As used in this part, unless otherwise indicated by the context—


(a) *Act, Service Contract Act,* McNamara-O'Hara Act, or *Service Contract Act of 1965* shall mean the Service Contract Act of 1965 as amended by Public Law 92-473, 86 Stat. 789, effective October 9, 1972, Public Law 93-57, 87 Stat. 140, effective July 6, 1973, and Public Law 94-489, 90 Stat. 2358, effective October 13, 1976 and any subsequent amendments thereto. 


(b) *Secretary* includes the Secretary of Labor or their authorized representative.


(c) *Wage and Hour Division* means the organizational unit of the Department of Labor to which is assigned the performance of functions of the Secretary under the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended.


(d) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, or authorized representative.


(e) *Contract* includes any contract subject wholly or in part to the provisions of the Service Contract Act of 1965 as amended, and any subcontract of any tier thereunder. (See §§ 4.10-4.134.) 


(f) *Contractor* includes a subcontractor whose subcontract is subject to provisions of the Act. Also, the term *employer* means, and is used interchangeably with, the terms *contractor* and *subcontractor* in various sections in this part. The U.S. Government, its agencies, and instrumentalities are not contractors, subcontractors, employers or joint employers for purposes of compliance with the provisions of the Act.


(g) *Affiliate* or *affiliated person* includes a spouse, child, parent, or other close relative of the contractor or subcontractor; a partner or officer of the contractor or subcontractor; a corporation closely connected with a contractor or subcontractor as a parent, subsidiary, or otherwise; and an officer or agent of such corporation. An affiliation is also deemed to exist where, directly or indirectly, one business concern or individual controls or has the power to control the other or where a third party controls or has the power to control both.


(h) *Wage determination* includes any determination of minimum wage rates or fringe benefits made pursuant to the provisions of sections 2(a) and/or 4(c) of the Act for application to the employment in a locality of any class or classes of service employees in the performance of any contract in excess of $2,500 which is subject to the provisions of the Service Contract Act of 1965. A wage determination is effective upon its publication on the WDOL Web site or when a Federal agency receives a response from the Department of Labor to an e98.


(i) *Wage Determinations OnLine (WDOL)* means the Government Internet Web site for both Davis-Bacon Act and Service Contract Act wage determinations available at *http://www.wdol.gov.* In addition, WDOL provides compliance assistance information and a link to submit an e98 or any electronic means the Department of Labor may approve for this purpose. The term will also apply to any other Internet Web site or electronic means that the Department of Labor may approve for these purposes.


(j) The *e98* means a Department of Labor approved electronic application (*http://www.wdol.gov*), whereby a contracting officer submits pertinent information to the Department of Labor and requests a wage determination directly from the Wage and Hour Division. The term will also apply to any other process or system the Department of Labor may establish for this purpose.



---

[N] [48 FR 49762, Oct. 27, 1983, as amended at 70 FR 50895, Aug. 26, 2005; 81 FR 2224, Jan. 9, 2017]




