# ยง 745.3   Single ownership accounts.

(a) Funds owned by an individual and deposited in the manner set forth below shall be added together and insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate. 


(1) *Individual accounts.* Funds owned by an individual (or by the husband-wife community of which the individual is a member) and deposited in one or more accounts in the individual's own name shall be insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate. 


(2) *Accounts held by agents or nominees.* Funds owned by a principal and deposited in one or more accounts in the name or names of agents or nominees shall be added to any individual account of the principal and insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate. This applies to interests created in qualified tuition savings programs established in connection with section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 529). 



 

(3) *Mortgage servicing accounts.* Accounts maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, which are comprised of payments of principal and interest, shall be insured for the cumulative balance paid into the account by mortgagors, or in order to satisfy mortgagors' principal or interest obligations to the lender, up to the limit of the SMSIA per mortgagor. Accounts maintained by a mortgage servicer, in a custodial or other fiduciary capacity, which are comprised of payments by mortgagors of taxes and insurance premiums shall be added together and insured in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section for the ownership interest of each mortgagor in such accounts.




(b) Funds held by a guardian, custodian, or conservator for the benefit of his ward or for the benefit of a minor under a Uniform Gifts to Minors Act and deposited in one or more accounts in the name of the guardian, custodian, or conservator are insured up to the SMSIA in the aggregate, separately from any other accounts of the guardian, custodian, conservator, ward, or minor. 



---

[N] [51 FR 37560, Oct. 23, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 14635, Mar. 23, 2006; 73 FR 62858, Oct. 22, 2008; 74 FR 55749, Oct. 29, 2009; 89 FR 79415, Sept. 30, 2024]




