# § 23.21   Noncompetitive tribal government grants.

(a) *Grant application information and technical assistance.* Information on grant application procedures and related information may be obtained from the appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director. Pre-award and ongoing technical assistance to tribal governments shall be provided in accordance with § 23.42 of this part. 


(b) *Eligibility requirements for tribal governments.* The tribal government(s) of any Indian tribe or consortium of tribes may submit a properly documented application for a grant to the appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director. A tribe may neither submit more than one application for a grant nor be the beneficiary of more than one grant under this subpart. 


(1) Through the publication of a _Federal Register_ announcement at the outset of the implementation of the noncompetitive grant award process during which tribal applications will be solicited, the Assistant Secretary will notify eligible tribal applicants under this subpart of the amount of core funds available for their ICWA program. The funding levels will be based on the service area population to be served. Upon the receipt of this notice from the Agency Superintendent or appropriate Regional Director, tribal applicants shall submit a completed ICWA application no later than 60 days after the receipt of this notice. 


(2) A grant to be awarded under this subpart shall be limited to the tribal governing body(ies) of the tribe(s) to be served by the grant. 


(3) For purposes of eligibility for newly recognized or restored Indian tribes without established reservations, such tribes shall be deemed eligible to apply for grants under this subpart to provide ICWA services within those service areas legislatively identified for such tribes. 


(4) A grantee under this subpart may make a subgrant to another Indian tribe or an Indian organization subject to the provisions of § 23.45. 


(c) *Revision or amendment of grants.* A grantee under this subpart may submit a written request and justification for a post-award grant modification covering material changes to the terms and conditions of the grant, subject to the approval of the grants officer. The request shall include a narrative description of any significant additions, deletions, or changes to the approved program activities or budget in the form of a grant amendment proposal. 


(d) Continued annual funding of an ICWA grant under this subpart shall be contingent upon the fulfillment of the requirements delineated at § 23.23(c). 


(e) Monitoring and program reporting requirements for grantees under this subpart are delineated at §§ 23.44 and 23.47. 




