# ยง 225.5   Pledge of definitive Government obligations.

(a) *Type and assignment.* Definitive Government obligations may be in bearer or registered form, and shall be owned by the obligor.


(1) *Bearer Government obligations.* The obligor shall pledge bearer Government obligations to the bond official with all unmatured interest coupons attached.


(2) *Registered Government obligations; assignment.* The obligor shall pledge registered Government obligations in the obligor's name to the bond official by assignment in accordance with subpart F of part 306 of this title and other codified procedures for issuers that apply to assignment of the registered Government obligations, except that, when so authorized under such procedures, all assignments shall be made in blank.


(b) *Delivery to bond official; receipt.* All deliveries of definitive Government obligations from the obligor to the bond official under this part shall be made at the risk and expense of the obligor. Upon receipt of definitive Government obligations, the bond official will issue the obligor a receipt.


(c) *Risk of loss; safekeeping.* All definitive Government obligations held by the bond official will be held at the risk of the bond official. The bond official will keep safe all definitive Government obligations and may place them with a custodian.


(d) *Delivery to custodian; receipt.* If the bond official is in receipt of definitive Government obligations, and then places those obligations with a custodian, the expense and risk of loss in delivery will rest with the bond official. Upon the placement of definitive Government obligations with a custodian, the custodian will issue the bond official a receipt. All definitive Government obligations held by the custodian will be held at the risk of the custodian.


(e) *Conversion to book-entry.* (1) Treasury bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, or bills deposited with a Federal Reserve Bank under this part may be converted into book-entry Treasury obligations in accordance with part 306 of this title, and the pertinent provisions of that part shall apply to such Treasury obligations.


(2) When converting definitive Government obligations to book-entry form, a Federal Reserve Bank will act pursuant to, and in accordance with, book-entry procedures for issuers that apply to the definitive Government obligations pledged to the bond official's agency, including those set forth in part 306 of this title.




