# § 404.1202   Definitions.

(a) Terms which have special meaning in this subpart are described in this section. Where necessary, further explanation is included in the section where the term is used.


(b) *Coverage terms:*

*Agreement—*The agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and the State containing the conditions under which retirement, survivors, disability and hospital insurance coverage is provided for State and local government employees.


*Coverage—*The extension of Social Security protection (retirement, survivors, disability, and hospital insurance) by agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and a State to employees of the State and its political subdivisions or by agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and an interstate instrumentality to employees of the interstate instrumentality.


*Coverage group—*The grouping by which employees are covered under an agreement.


*Employee—*An employee as defined in section 210(j) of the Act. Usually, the common-law control test is used in determining whether an employer-employee relationship exists. The term also includes an officer of a State or political subdivision.


*Governmental function—*The traditional functions of government: legislative, executive, and judicial.


*Interstate instrumentality—*An independent legal entity organized by two or more States to carry out one or more functions. For Social Security coverage purposes under section 218 of the Act, an interstate instrumentality is treated, to the extent practicable, as a “State.”


*Modification—*A change to the agreement between the Commissioner of Social Security and a State which provides coverage of the services of employees not previously covered or which alters the agreement in some other respect.


*Political subdivision—*A separate legal entity of a State which usually has specific governmental functions. The term ordinarily includes a county, city, town, village, or school district, and in many States, a sanitation, utility, reclamation, drainage, flood control, or similar district. A political subdivision includes an instrumentality of a State, one or more political subdivisions of a State, or a State and one or more of its political subdivisions.


*Proprietary function—*A business engaged in by a State or political subdivision such as a public amusement park or public parking lot.


*Retirement system—*A pension, annuity, retirement, or similar fund or system established by a State or political subdivision.


*SSA—*The Social Security Administration.


*State—*Includes the fifty States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. It does not include the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa. “State” also refers to an interstate instrumentality where applicable.


*We—*The Social Security Administration.


(c) *Contributions, wage reporting, and adjustment terms—for wages paid prior to 1987:*

*Allowance of a credit or refund—*The written notice to a State of the determination by SSA of the amount owed to the State by SSA, the period involved, and the basis for the determination.


*Assessment—*The written notice to a State of the determination by SSA of the amount (contributions or accrued interest) owed to SSA by the State, the period involved, and the basis for the determination.


*Contributions—*Payments made under an agreement which the State deposits in a Federal Reserve bank. The amounts are based on the wages paid to employees whose services are covered under an agreement. These amounts are equal to the taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code on emp1oyers and employees in private employment.


*Contribution return—*Form used to identify and account for all contributions actions.


*Disallowance of a State's claim for credit or refund—*The written notice to a State of the determination by SSA that the State's claim for credit or refund is denied, the period involved, and the basis for the determination.


*Overpayment—*A payment of more than the correct amount of contributions or interest.


*Underpayment—*A payment of less than the correct amount of contributions or interest.


*Wage reports—*Forms used to identify employees who were paid wages for covered employment and the amounts of those wages paid. This includes corrective reports.



---

[N] [53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38450, July 18, 1997; 69 FR 51556, Aug. 20, 2004]




