# § 3174.9   Coriolis measurement systems (CMS)—general requirements and components.

The following Coriolis measurement systems section is intended for Coriolis measurement applications independent of LACT measurement systems.


(a) A CMS must meet the requirements and minimum standards of this section, § 3174.4, and § 3174.10.


(b) The specific makes, models, and sizes of Coriolis meters and associated software that have been reviewed by the PMT, as provided in § 3174.13, approved by the BLM, and identified and described at *www.blm.gov* are approved for use.


(c) A CMS system must be proven at the frequency and under the requirements of § 3174.11 of this subpart.


(d) Measurement tickets must be completed under § 3174.12(b) of this subpart.


(e) A CMS at an FMP must be installed with the components listed in API 5.6 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). Additional requirements are as follows:


(1) The pressure transducer must meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(5) of this subpart.


(2) Temperature determination must meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(6) of this subpart.


(3) If nonzero S&W content is to be used in determining net oil volume, the sampling system must meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(1) through (3) of this subpart. If no sampling system is used, or the sampling system does not meet the requirements of § 3174.8(b)(1) through (3) of this subpart, the S&W content must be reported as zero;


(4) Sufficient back pressure must be applied to ensure single phase flow through the meter.


(f) *Determination of API oil gravity.* The API oil gravity reported for the measurement ticket period must be determined by one of the following methods:


(1) Determined from a composite sample taken pursuant to § 3174.8(b)(1) through (3) of this subpart; or


(2) Calculated from the average density as measured by the CMS over the measurement ticket period under API 21.2, Subsection 9.2.13.2a (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3). Density must be corrected to base temperature and pressure using API 11.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).


(g) *Determination of net standard volume.* Calculate the net standard volume at the close of each measurement ticket following the guidelines in API 12.2.1 and API 12.2.2 (both incorporated by reference, see § 3174.3).




