# § 1.1415   Dispute resolution procedures for pole attachment disputes that impede or delay broadband deployment; functions of the Rapid Broadband Assessment Team.

(a) An inter-bureau team, to be known as the Rapid Broadband Assessment Team (RBAT), shall be established to prioritize and expedite the resolution of pole attachment disputes that are alleged to impede or delay the deployment of broadband facilities and to provide coordinated review and assessment of such disputes. The RBAT shall consist of one or more staff from the Enforcement Bureau and one or more staff from the Wireline Competition Bureau. Senior staff in the Enforcement Bureau and the Wireline Competition Bureau shall designate individuals from their respective bureaus to serve on the RBAT.


(b) The RBAT shall prioritize the resolution of a pole attachment dispute that a party seeking RBAT review has alleged is impeding or delaying an active broadband deployment project, including where the party is also seeking placement of the dispute on the Accelerated Docket pursuant to § 1.736. The RBAT shall gather and promptly review all pertinent information submitted by the parties and shall have discretion to decide the most appropriate process for resolving the dispute, including recommending an RBAT-supervised mediation process pursuant to § 1.737, use of the Accelerated Docket, and/or other appropriate action. Although RBAT-supervised mediation is generally voluntary, the RBAT may require that the parties participate in pre-filing settlement negotiations or mediation under § 1.737 as a condition for including a matter on the Accelerated Docket. The RBAT may recommend to the parties use of the Accelerated Docket where it determines, based upon a totality of the criteria outlined in paragraph (e) of this section, that a complaint, or a portion of a complaint, is suitable for inclusion on the Accelerated Docket.


(c) A party to a pole attachment dispute, prior to filing a formal complaint, may request RBAT review and assessment of such dispute if the party believes the dispute is impeding or delaying the deployment of a broadband facilities project. The party seeking RBAT review and assessment shall first notify the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau's Market Disputes Resolution Division (MDRD) by phone and in writing of the request. The MDRD Chief shall direct the requesting party to the location of a form on the MDRD website—FCC-5653, Request for RBAT Review and Assessment—and to instructions for completing and electronically transmitting the form to the RBAT.


(d) Upon receipt of the completed Request for RBAT Review and Assessment, the RBAT shall schedule a meeting, through a manner of the RBAT's choosing, with all parties as soon as practicable. The RBAT may request a written response from the other party or parties to the dispute with respect to one or more issues raised by the party seeking RBAT review. The RBAT also may request that the party seeking RBAT review or any other party or parties to the dispute provide the RBAT with documentation or other information relevant to the dispute. In the initial meeting, or shortly thereafter, the RBAT shall provide guidance and advice to the parties on the most effective means of resolving their dispute, including RBAT-supervised mediation pursuant to § 1.737; use of the Accelerated Docket; and/or any other appropriate action. If the parties seek RBAT-supervised mediation, the MDRD Chief, in consultation with the RBAT, may waive the procedures or requirements of § 1.737 as appropriate in this context, or as needed in light of the facts or circumstances of a particular case.


(e) The RBAT shall have discretion to decide whether a complaint, or a portion of a complaint, involving a dispute that a party alleges to be impeding or delaying the deployment of broadband facilities is suitable for inclusion on the Accelerated Docket pursuant to § 1.736. In determining whether to accept a complaint, or a portion of a complaint, on the Accelerated Docket, the RBAT shall base its decision on a totality of the factors from the following list:


(1) Whether the prospective complainant states a claim for violation of the Act, or a Commission rule or order that falls within the Commission's jurisdiction;


(2) Whether the expedited resolution of a particular dispute or category of disputes appears likely to advance the deployment of broadband facilities or services, especially in an unserved or underserved area;


(3) Whether the parties to the dispute have exhausted all reasonable opportunities for settlement during any staff-supervised mediation;


(4) The number and complexity of the issues in dispute;


(5) Whether the dispute raises new or novel issues versus settled interpretations of rules or policies;


(6) The likely need for, and complexity of, discovery;


(7) The likely need for expert testimony;


(8) The ability of the parties to stipulate to facts;


(9) Whether the parties have already assembled relevant evidence bearing on the disputed facts;


(10) Willingness of the prospective complainant to seek a ruling on a subset of claims or issues (*e.g.,* threshold or “test cases”); and


(11) Such other factors as the RBAT, within its discretion, may deem appropriate and conducive to the prompt and fair adjudication of the complaint proceeding.





---

[N] [89 FR 2171, Jan. 12, 2024]




