# § 22.28   Motion to reopen a hearing or to set aside a default order.

(a) *Motion to reopen a hearing*—(1) *Filing and content.* A motion to reopen a hearing to take further evidence must be filed no later than 20 days after service of the initial decision and shall state the specific grounds upon which relief is sought. Where the movant seeks to introduce new evidence, the motion shall: State briefly the nature and purpose of the evidence to be adduced; show that such evidence is not cumulative; and show good cause why such evidence was not adduced at the hearing. The motion shall be made to the Presiding Officer and filed with the Headquarters or Regional Hearing Clerk, as appropriate. A copy of the motion shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board in the manner prescribed by § 22.5(a)(1).


(2) *Disposition of motion to reopen a hearing.* Within 15 days following the service of a motion to reopen a hearing, any other party to the proceeding may file with the Headquarters or Regional Hearing Clerk, as appropriate, and serve on all other parties a response. A reopened hearing shall be governed by the applicable sections of these Consolidated Rules of Practice. The timely filing of a motion to reopen a hearing shall automatically toll the running of the time periods for an initial decision becoming final under § 22.27(c), for appeal under § 22.30, and for the Environmental Appeals Board to elect to review the initial decision on its own initiative pursuant to § 22.30(b). These time periods begin again in full when the Presiding Officer serves an order denying the motion to reopen the hearing or an amended decision. The Presiding Officer may summarily deny subsequent motions to reopen a hearing filed by the same party if the Presiding Officer determines that the motion was filed to delay the finality of the decision.


(b) *Motion to set aside default order*—(1) *Filing and content.* A motion to set aside a default order must be filed no later than 20 days after service of the initial decision and shall state the specific grounds upon which relief is sought. The motion shall be made to the Presiding Officer and filed with the Headquarters or Regional Hearing Clerk, as appropriate. A copy of the motion shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board in the manner prescribed by § 22.5(a)(1).


(2) *Effect of motion to set aside default.* The timely filing of a motion to set aside a default order automatically tolls the running of the time periods for an initial decision becoming final under § 22.27(c), for appeal under § 22.30(a), and for the Environmental Appeals Board to elect to review the initial decision on its own initiative pursuant to § 22.30(b). These time periods begin again in full when the Presiding Officer serves an order denying the motion to set aside or an amended decision. The Presiding Officer may summarily deny subsequent motions to set aside a default order filed by the same party if the Presiding Officer determines that the motion was filed to delay the finality of the decision.



---

[N] [82 FR 2235, Jan. 9, 2017]




