# § 1312.8   Standard identification and markings.

(a) *Original classification.* At the time classified material is produced, the classifier shall apply the following markings on the face of each originally classified document, including electronic media: 


(1) *Classification authority.* The name/personal identifier, and position title of the original classifier shall appear on the “Classified By” line. 


(2) *Agency and office of origin.* If not otherwise evident, the agency and office of origin shall be identified and placed below the name on the “Classified By” line. 


(3) *Reasons for classification.* Identify the reason(s) to classify. The classifier shall include, at a minimum, a brief reference to the pertinent classification category(ies), or the number 1.5 plus the letter(s) that corresponds to that classification category in Section 1.5 of the Executive Order. 


(4) *Declassification instructions.* These instructions shall indicate the following: 


(i) The duration of the original classification decision shall be placed on the “Declassify On” line. 


(ii) The date or event for declassification that corresponds to the lapse of the information's national security sensitivity, which may not exceed 10 years from the date of the original decision. 


(iii) When a specific date or event within 10 years cannot be established, the classifier will apply the date that is 10 years from the date of the original decision. 


(iv) The exemption category from declassification. Upon determination that the information must remain classified beyond 10 years, the classifier will apply the letter “X” plus a brief recitation of the exemption category(ies), or the letter “X” plus the number that corresponds to the exemption category(ies) in Section 1.6(d) of the Executive Order. 


(v) An original classification authority may extend the duration of classification for successive periods not to exceed 10 years at a time. The “Declassify On” line shall be revised to include the new declassification instructions and shall include the identity of the person authorizing the extension and the date of the action. 


(vi) Information exempted from automatic declassification at 25 years should on the “Declassify On” line be revised to include the symbol “25X” plus a brief reference to the pertinent exemption categories/numbers of the Executive Order. 


(5) The overall classification of the document is the highest level of information in the document and will be conspicuously placed stamped at the top and bottom of the outside front and back cover, on the title page, and on the first page. 


(6) The highest classification of individual pages will be stamped at the top and bottom of each page, to include “unclassified” when it is applicable. 


(7) The classification of individual portions of the document, (ordinarily a paragraph, but including subjects, titles, graphics) shall be marked by using the abbreviations (TS), (S), (C), or (U), will be typed or marked at the beginning or end of each paragraph or section of the document. If all portions of the document are classified at the same level, this may be indicated by a statement to that effect. 


(b) *Derivative classification.* Information classified derivatively on the basis of source documents shall carry the following markings on those documents: 


(1) The derivative classifier shall concisely identify the source document(s) or the classification guide on the “Derived From” line, including the agency and where available the office of origin and the date of the source or guide. When a document is classified derivatively on the basis of more than one source document or classification guide, the “Derived From” line shall appear as “Derived From: Multiple Sources”. 


(2) The derivative classifier shall maintain the identification of each source with the file or record copy of the derivatively classified document. Where practicable the copies of the document should also have this list attached. 


(3) A document derivatively classified on the basis of a source document that is itself marked “Multiple Sources” shall cite the source document on its “Derived From” line rather than the term “Multiple Sources”. 


(4) The reason for the original classification decision, as reflected in the source document, is not required to be transferred in a derivative classification action. 


(5) Declassification instructions shall carry forward the instructions on the “Declassify On” line from the source document to the derivation document or the duration instruction from the classification guide. Where there are multiple sources, the longest duration of any of its sources shall be used. 


(6) When a source document or classification guide contains the declassification instruction “Originating Agency's Determination Required” (OADR) the derivative document shall carry forward the fact that the source document(s) were so marked and the date of origin of the most recent source document (s). 


(7) The derivatively classified document shall be conspicuously marked with the highest level of classification of information. 


(8) Each portion of a derivatively classified document shall be marked in accordance with its source. 


(9) Each office shall, consistent with Section 3.8 of the Executive Order, establish and maintain a database of information that has been declassified. 


(c) *Additional Requirements.* (1) Markings other than “Top Secret”, “Secret”, and “Confidential” shall not be used to identify classified national security information. 


(2) Transmittal documents will be stamped to indicate the highest classification of the information transmitted, and shall indicate conspicuously on its face the following or something similar “Unclassified When classified Enclosure Removed” to indicate the classification of the transmittal document standing alone. 


(3) The classification data for material other than documents will be affixed by tagging, stamping, recording, or other means to insure that recipients are aware of the requirements for the protection of the material. 


(4) Documents containing foreign government information shall include the markings “This Document Contains (country of origin) Information”. If the identity of the specific government must be concealed, the document shall be marked” This Document Contains Foreign Government Information,” and pertinent portions marked “FGI” together with the classification level, e.g., “(FGI-C)”. In such cases, separate document identifying the government shall be maintained in order to facilitate future declassification actions. 


(5) Documents, regardless of medium, which are expected to be revised prior to the preparation of a finished product—working papers—shall be dated when created, marked with highest classification, protected at that level, and destroyed when no longer needed. When any of the following conditions exist, the working papers shall be controlled and marked in the same manner as prescribed for a finished classified document: 


(i) Released by the originator outside the originating activity; 


(ii) Retained more than 180 days from the date of origin; 


(iii) Filed permanently. 


(6) Information contained in unmarked records, or Presidential or related materials, and which pertain to the national defense or foreign relations of the U.S. and has been maintained and protected as classified information under prior orders shall continue to be treated as classified information under the Executive Order and is subject to its provisions regarding declassification. 




