# § 42.302   Application.

(a) *Recipient* means any State or local unit of government or agency thereof, and any private entity, institution, or organization, to which Federal financial assistance is extended directly, or through such government or agency, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary of such assistance.


(b) The obligation of a recipient to formulate, implement, and maintain an equal employment opportunity program, in accordance with this subpart, extends to State and local police agencies, correctional agencies, criminal court systems, probation and parole agencies, and similar agencies responsible for the reduction and control of crime and delinquency. 


(c) Assignments of compliance responsibility for title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 have been made by the Department of Justice to the Department of Health and Human Services, covering educational institutions and general hospital or medical facilities. Similarly, the Department of Labor, in pursuance of its authority under Executive Orders 11246 and 11375, has assigned responsibility for monitoring equal employment opportunity under government contracts with medical and educational institutions, and non-profit organizations, to the Department of Health and Human Services. Accordingly, monitoring responsibility in compliance matters in agencies of the kind mentioned in this paragraph rests with the Department of Health and Human Services, and agencies of this kind are exempt from the provisions of this subpart, and are not responsible for the development of equal employment opportunity programs in accordance herewith.


(d) Each recipient of LEAA assistance within the criminal justice system which has 50 or more employees and which has received grants or subgrants of $25,000 or more pursuant to and since the enactment of the Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended, and which has a service population with a minority representation of 3 percent or more, is required to formulate, implement and maintain an equal employment opportunity program relating to employment practices affecting minority persons and women within 120 days after either the promulgation of these amended guidelines, or the initial application for assistance is approved, whichever is sooner. Where a recipient has 50 or more employees, and has received grants or subgrants of $25,000 or more, and has a service population with a minority representation of less than 3 percent, such recipient is required to formulate, implement, and maintain an equal employment opportunity program relating to employment practices affecting women. For a definition of “employment practices” within the meaning of this paragraph, see § 42.202(c). 


(e) *Minority persons* shall include persons who are Black, not of Hispanic origin; Asian or Pacific Islanders; American Indians or Alaskan Native; or Hispanics. These categories are defined at 28 CFR 42.402(e).


(f) *Fiscal year* means the 12 calendar months beginning October 1, and ending September 30, of the following calendar year. A fiscal year is designated by the calendar year in which it ends.



---

[N] [43 FR 28802, June 30, 1978, as amended by Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52357, Oct. 27, 1981]




