# § 412.73   Determination of the hospital-specific rate based on a Federal fiscal year 1982 base period.

(a) *Costs on a per discharge basis.* The intermediary will determine the hospital's estimated adjusted base-year operating cost per discharge by dividing the total adjusted operating costs by the number of discharges in the base period. 


(b) *Case-mix adjustment.* The intermediary will divide the adjusted base-year costs by the hospital's 1981 case-mix index. If the hospital's case-mix index is statistically unreliable (as determined by CMS), the hospital's base-year costs will be divided by the lower of the following: 


(1) The hospital's estimated case-mix index. 


(2) The average case-mix index for the appropriate classifications of all hospitals subject to cost limits established under § 413.30 of this chapter for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1982 and before October 1, 1983. 


(c) *Updating base-year costs*—(1) *For Federal fiscal year 1984.* The case-mix adjusted base-year cost per discharge will be updated by the applicable updating factor, that is, the rate-of-increase percentage determined under § 413.40(c)(3) of this chapter, as adjusted for budget neutrality.


(2) *For Federal fiscal year 1985.* The amount determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be updated by the applicable updating factor, as adjusted for budget neutrality. 


(3) *For Federal fiscal year 1986.* (i) The amount determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is updated by—


(A) Zero percent for the first seven months of the hospital's cost reporting period; and


(B) One-half of one percent for the remaining five months of the hospital's cost reporting period.


(ii) For purposes of determining the updated base-year costs for cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1987 (that is, on or after October 1, 1986 and before October 1, 1987), the update factor for the previous cost reporting period is deemed to have been one-half of one percent.


(4) *For Federal fiscal year 1987.* The amount determined under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section is updated by 1.15 percent.


(5) *For Federal fiscal year 1988.* (i) For purposes of determining the prospective payment rates for sole community hospitals under § 412.92(d) for cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1988 (that is, on or after October 1, 1987 and before October 1, 1988), the base-year cost per discharge is updated as follows: 


(A) For the first 51 days of the hospital's cost reporting period, by zero percent. 


(B) For the next 132 days of the hospital's cost reporting period, by 2.7 percent. 


(C) For the remainder of the hospital's cost reporting period, by— 


(*1*) 3.0 percent for hospitals located in rural areas; 


(*2*) 1.5 percent for hospitals located in large urban areas; and 


(*3*) 1.0 percent for hospitals located in other urban areas. 


(ii) For purposes of determining the updated base-year costs for cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1989 (that is, beginning on or after October 1, 1988 and before October 1, 1989), the update factor for the cost reporting period beginning during federal Fiscal year 1988 is deemed to have been— 


(A) 3.0 percent for hospitals located in rural areas; 


(B) 1.5 percent for hospitals located in large urban areas; and 


(C) 1.0 percent for hospitals located in other urban areas. 


(6) *For Federal fiscal year 1989.* For cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1989, the update factor is determined using the methodology set forth in § 412.63(g).


(7) *For Federal fiscal year 1990.* (i) Except as described in paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section, for cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1990, the base-period cost per discharge is updated as follows:


(A) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1989 and before January 1, 1990, by 5.5 percent for discharges occurring before January 1, 1990 and by the factors set forth in paragraph (c)(7)(i)(B) of this section for discharges occurring on or after January 1, 1990.


(B) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 1990 and before October 1, 1990, by— 


(*1*) 9.72 percent for hospitals located in rural areas;


(*2*) 5.62 percent for hospitals located in large urban areas; and 


(*3*) 4.97 percent for hospitals located in other urban areas. 


(ii) For discharges occurring on or after October 21, 1990 and before January 1, 1991, the base-period cost per discharge, updated as set forth in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section, is reduced by 5.5 percent.


(iii) For purposes of determining the updated base-period costs for cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1991 (that is, beginning on or after October 1, 1990 and before October 1, 1991), the update factor for the cost reporting period beginning during Federal fiscal year 1990 is deemed to have been the percentage change provided for in paragraph (c)(7)(i)(B) of this section. 


(8) *For Federal fiscal year 1991.* (i) Except as described in paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section, for cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1991, the base-period cost per discharge is updated by 5.2 percent.


(ii) For discharges occurring on or after October 21, 1990 and before January 1, 1991, the base-period cost per discharge is updated by 0.0 percent.


(iii) For purposes of determining the updated base period costs for cost reporting periods beginning in Federal fiscal year 1992, the update factor for the cost reporting period beginning during Federal fiscal year 1991 is deemed to have been the percentage change provided for in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section.


(9) *For Federal fiscal years 1992 and 1993.* For Federal fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the update factor is the percentage increase in the market basket index for prospective payment hospitals (as defined in § 413.40(a) of this chapter).


(10) *For Federal fiscal year 1994.* For Federal fiscal year 1994, the update factor is the percentage increase in the market basket index for prospective payment hospitals (as defined in § 413.40(a) of the chapter) minus 2.3 percentage points. For purposes of determining the hospital-specific rate for Federal fiscal year 1994 and subsequent years, this update factor is adjusted to take into account the portion of the 12-month cost reporting period beginning during Federal fiscal year 1993 that occurs in Federal fiscal year 1994. 


(11) *For Federal fiscal year 1995.* For Federal fiscal year 1995, the update factor is the percentage increase in the market basket index for prospective payment hospitals (as defined in § 413.40(a) of this chapter) minus 2.2 percentage points. 


(12) *For Federal fiscal years 1996 through 2000.* For Federal fiscal years 1996 through 2000, the update factor is the applicable percentage change for other prospective payment hospitals in each respective year as set forth in §§ 412.63(n) through (r). 


(13) *For Federal fiscal year 2001.* For Federal fiscal year 2001, the update factor is the percentage increase in the market basket index for prospective payment hospitals (as defined in § 413.40(a) of this chapter). 


(14) *For Federal fiscal year 2002.* For Federal fiscal year 2002, the update factor is the percentage increase in the market basket index for prospective payment hospitals (as defined in § 413.40(a) of this chapter) minus 1.1 percentage points. 


(15) *For Federal fiscal year 2003 through Federal fiscal year 2009.* For Federal fiscal year 2003 through Federal fiscal year 2009, the update factor is the percentage increase in the market basket index for prospective payment hospitals (as defined in § 413.40(a) of this chapter).


(16) *For Federal fiscal year 2010 and subsequent years.* For Federal fiscal year 2010 and subsequent years, the update factor is the percentage increase specified in § 412.64(d).


(d) *Budget neutrality*—(1) *Federal fiscal year 1984.* For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1983 and before October 1, 1984, CMS adjusts the target rate percentage used under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This adjustment is based on a factor actuarially estimated to ensure that the estimated amount of aggregate Medicare payments based on the hospital-specific portion of the transition payment rates is neither greater nor less than 75 percent of the amounts that would have been payable for the inpatient operating costs for those same hospitals for fiscal year 1984 under the law in effect before April 20, 1983. 


(2) *Federal fiscal year 1985.* For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1984 and before October 1, 1985, CMS adjusts the target rate percentage used under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. This adjustment is based on a factor actuarially estimated to ensure that the estimated amount of aggregate Medicare payment based on the hospital-specific portion of the transition payment rates is neither greater nor less than 50 percent of the amounts that would have been payable for the inpatient operating costs for those same hospitals for fiscal year 1985 under the Social Security Act as in effect on April 19, 1983. 


(e) *DRG adjustment.* The applicable hospital-specific cost per discharge is multiplied by the appropriate DRG weighting factor to determine the hospital-specific base payment amount (target amount) for a particular covered discharge.


(f) *Maintaining budget neutrality.* CMS makes an adjustment to the hospital-specific rate to ensure that changes to the DRG classifications and recalibrations of the DRG relative weights are made in a manner so that aggregate payments to section 1886(d) hospitals are not affected.



---

[N] [50 FR 12741, Mar. 29, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 16787, May 6, 1986; 51 FR 34793, Sept. 30, 1986; 51 FR 42234, Nov. 24, 1986; 52 FR 33057, Sept. 1, 1987; 53 FR 38528, Sept. 30, 1988; 55 FR 15173, Apr. 20, 1990; 56 FR 573, Jan. 7, 1991; 57 FR 39822, Sept. 1, 1992; 58 FR 46338, Sept. 1, 1993; 59 FR 1658, Jan. 12, 1994; 59 FR 32383, June 23, 1994; 65 FR 47106, Aug. 1, 2000; 70 FR 47485, Aug. 12, 2005; 75 FR 50413, Aug. 16, 2010]




