# § 416.708   What you must report.

This section describes the events that you must report to us. They are—


(a) *A change of address.* You must report to us any change in your mailing address and any change in the address where you live.


(b) *A change in living arrangements.* You must report to us any change in the make-up of your household: That is, any person who comes to live in your household and any person who moves out of your household.


(c) *A change in income.* You must report to us any increase or decrease in your income, and any increase or decrease in the income of—


(1) Your ineligible spouse who lives with you;


(2) Your essential person;


(3) Your parent, if you are an eligible child and your parent lives with you; or


(4) An ineligible child who lives with you.


(d) *A change in resources.* You must report to us any resources you receive or part with, and any resources received or parted with by—


(1) Your ineligible spouse who lives with you;


(2) Your essential person; or


(3) Your parent, if you are an eligible child and your parent lives with you. (For a complete discussion of what we consider a resource, see subpart L. See subpart M, § 416.1324 regarding suspension because of excess resources.)


(e) *Eligibility for other benefits.* You must report to us your eligibility for benefits other than SSI benefits. See §§ 416.210 and 416.1330 regarding your responsibility to apply for any other benefits for which you may be eligible.


(f) *Certain deaths.* (1) If you are an eligible individual, you must report the death of your eligible spouse, the death of your ineligible spouse who was living with you, and the death of any other person who was living with you.


(2) If you are an eligible spouse, you must report the death of your spouse, and the death of any other person who was living with you.


(3) If you are an eligible child, you must report the death of a parent who was living with you, and the death of any other person who was living with you.


(4) If you are a representative payee, you must report the death of an eligible individual, eligible spouse, or eligible child whom you represent; and the death of any other person who was living in the household of the individual you represent.


(5) If you have a representative payee, you must report the death of your representative payee.


(g) *A change in marital status.* You must report to us—


(1) Your marriage, your divorce, or the annulment of your marriage;


(2) The marriage, divorce, or annulment of marriage of your parent who lives with you, if you are an eligible child;


(3) The marriage of an ineligible child who lives with you, if you are an eligible child; and


(4) The marriage of an ineligible child who lives with you if you are an eligible individual living with an ineligible spouse.


(h) *Medical improvements.* If you are eligible for SSI benefits because of disability or blindness, you must report any improvement in your medical condition to us.


(i) [Reserved] 


(j) *Refusal to accept treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism; discontinuance of treatment.* If you have been medically determined to be a drug addict or an alcoholic, and you refuse to accept treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism at an approved facility or institution, or if you discontinue treatment, you must report your refusal or discontinuance to us.


(k) *Admission to or discharge from a medical treatment facility, public institution, or private institution.* You must report to us your admission to or discharge from—


(1) A medical treatment facility; or


(2) A public institution (defined in § 416.201); or


(3) A private institution. *Private institution* means an institution as defined in § 416.201 which is not administered by or the responsibility of a governmental unit.


(l) *A change in school attendance.* You must report to us—


(1) A change in your school attendance if you are an eligible child;


(2) A change in school attendance of an ineligible child who is at least age 18 but less than 21 and who lives with you if you are an eligible child; and


(3) A change in school attendance of an ineligible child who is at least age 18 but less than 21 and who lives with you if you are an eligible individual living with an ineligible spouse.


(m) *A termination of residence in the U.S.* You must report to us if you leave the United States voluntarily with the intention of abandoning your residence in the United States or you leave the United States involuntarily (for example, you are deported).


(n) *Leaving the U.S. temporarily.* You must report to us if you leave the United States for 30 or more consecutive days or for a full calendar month (without the intention of abandoning your residence in the U.S.).


(o) *Fleeing to avoid criminal prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction, or violating probation or parole.* You must report to us that you are— 


(1) Fleeing to avoid prosecution for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); 


(2) Fleeing to avoid custody or confinement after conviction for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); or 


(3) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.



---

[N] [46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 10616, Mar. 14, 1986; 65 FR 40495, June 30, 2000; 68 FR 40124, July 7, 2003; 71 FR 66866, Nov. 17, 2006; 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007]




