# § 0.23   General functions.

The Office of Legal Policy shall be headed by an Assistant Attorney General. The principal responsibilities of the Office shall be to plan, develop, and coordinate the implementation of major policy initiatives of high priority to the Department and to the Administration. In addition, the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Policy, shall:


(a) Examine and study legislation and other policy proposals and coordinate Departmental efforts to secure enactment of those of special interest to the Department and the Administration.


(1) Assist in reviewing and coordinating draft regulatory actions, notices, and significant guidance documents prepared by Department components, including by coordinating with the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) on regulatory actions subject to OMB review under Executive Order 12866 and related directives, and supporting the Department's review of draft documents prepared by other agencies that are referred to the Department by OMB or other agencies as part of interagency regulatory review processes.


(2) Advise and assist the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General regarding the selection and appointment of Federal judges.


(3) Represent the Department on the Administrative Conference of the United States and, as appropriate, on regulatory reform bodies.


(4) Participate, as appropriate, in internal budget meetings of the Department with regard to policy implications of resource allocations and resource implications of major policy initiatives; and advise the Assistant Attorney General for Administration with regard to information requirements for Departmental policy formulation.


(5) Advise appropriate Departmental officials, from time to time, on investigation, litigation, negotiation, penal, or correctional policies to ensure the compatibility of those policies with overall Departmental goals.


(6) Perform such other duties and functions as may be specially assigned by the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General.


(b) In carrying out the responsibilities under this section, the Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Policy, shall have the right to call upon the relevant Departmental units for personnel and other assistance.



---

[N] [Order No. 6146-2025, 90 FR 5608, Jan. 17, 2025]






