# § 128.310   What are the procedures for decertification?

(a) *Proposed decertification.* If SBA has information indicating that a Participant may not meet the eligibility requirements of this part, SBA may propose decertification of the concern. The notice of proposed decertification will notify the concern that it has 30 calendar days from the date it receives the letter to submit a written response to SBA explaining why the proposed ground(s) should not justify decertification. SBA will consider that written notice was provided if SBA sends the notice of proposed decertification to the concern at an email address in the Participant's certification database profile.


(b) *Response to proposed decertification.* The Participant must submit a written response to the notice of proposed decertification within the timeframe specified in the notice. In this response, the Participant must rebut each of the reasons set forth by SBA in the notice of proposed decertification, and where appropriate, the rebuttal must include documents showing that the concern is eligible as of the date specified in the notice. If a Participant fails to cooperate with SBA or fails to provide the information requested, SBA may draw an adverse inference and assume that the information that the concern failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility.


(c) *Decision.* SBA will review the response and determine whether the Participant remains eligible. If SBA determines that the Participant is not eligible, the D/GC will issue a notice of decertification. The notice will set forth the specific facts and reasons for the decision, notify the concern of the right to appeal, and will advise the concern that it may re-apply after it has met all eligibility criteria in this part and completed the waiting period as set forth in § 128.305(a). If SBA finds that the concern is eligible, the Participant will continue to be designated as a VOSB or SDVOSB in the certification database.


(d) *Decertification based on false or misleading information.* (1) If SBA discovers that a VOSB/SDVOSB or its representative knowingly submitted false or misleading information, SBA will propose the firm for decertification. In addition, SBA will refer the matter to the SBA Office of Inspector General for review and may recommend that Government-wide debarment or suspension proceedings be initiated.


(2) A firm that is decertified from the VetCert Program due to the submission of false or misleading information may be removed from SBA's other small business contracting programs, including the 8(a) Business Development Program, the HUBZone Program, the Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Program, and SBA's Mentor-Protégé Program.


(3) A firm that is decertified or terminated from the 8(a) BD Program, the HUBZone Program, or the WOSB Program due to the submission of false or misleading information may be decertified from the VetCert Program.


(4) SBA may require a firm that is decertified or terminated from the VetCert Program, the 8(a) BD Program, the HUBZone Program, or the WOSB Program due to the submission of false or misleading information to enter into an administrative agreement with SBA as a condition of admission or re-admission to the VetCert program.


(e) *Effect of decertification.* On the effective date of a concern's decertification, SBA will remove its designation as a certified VOSB or SDVOSB in the certification database. However, such concern is obligated to perform previously awarded contracts to the completion of their existing term of performance.


(f) *Appeals.* A concern that has been decertified pursuant to this section may file an appeal with OHA in accordance with part 134 of this chapter. The decision on the appeal shall be final. If no appeal is filed, the D/GC's decision is the final agency decision.



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 26216, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024]




