# § 35.720   Multifamily properties receiving up to $5,000 per unit, and single family properties.

Effective September 15, 2000, the requirements of this section shall apply to a multifamily residential property that is receiving an average of up to and including $5,000 per assisted dwelling unit annually in project-based assistance and to a single family residential property that is receiving project-based assistance through the Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation program, the Project-Based Certificate program, or any other HUD program providing project-based assistance.


(a) *Activities at initial and periodic inspection*—(1) *Visual assessment.* During the initial and periodic inspections, an inspector trained in visual assessment for deteriorated paint surfaces in accordance with procedures established by HUD shall conduct a visual assessment of all painted surfaces in order to identify any deteriorated paint.


(2) *Paint stabilization.* The owner shall stabilize each deteriorated paint surface in accordance with § 35.1330(a) and § 35.1330(b) before occupancy of a vacant dwelling unit or, where a unit is occupied, within 30 days of notification of the results of the visual assessment. Paint stabilization is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.


(3) *Notice.* The owner shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with §§ 35.125(b) (1) and (c) describing the results of the clearance examination.


(b) *Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities.* The owner shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities into regular building operations in accordance with § 35.1355(a), unless all lead-based paint has been removed.


(c) *Child with an elevated blood lead level.* If a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this section has an elevated blood lead level, the owner shall comply with the requirements of § 35.730.



---

[N] [64 FR 50210, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]




