# § 60.115c   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Except as otherwise specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, you must keep copies of all records required by this section and all reports required under § 60.116c for at least 5 years.


(b) For each storage vessel affected facility as specified in § 60.110c(a), you must keep readily accessible records for the life of the source showing the dimension of the storage vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel.


(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, for each storage vessel affected facility under this subpart, you must maintain a record of the VOL currently stored, including a description of the VOL stored, the date when the VOL was first stored in the storage vessel, and the maximum true vapor pressure of that VOL.


(1) For each vessel storing a mixture of indeterminate or variable composition that meets the requirements for vapor pressure measurement at least once every 6 calendar months in § 60.113c(d), you must maintain records of each vapor pressure measurement for 5 years.


(2) Each vessel equipped with a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process meeting the specification of § 60.112c(d) is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(d) For each storage vessel as specified in § 60.112c(a), you must keep records as required in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable depending upon the control equipment installed to meet the requirements of § 60.112c.


(1) After installing control equipment for an internal floating roof to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(b), you must keep the following records.


(i) Keep a record of each inspection performed as required by § 60.113c(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(2)(ii). Each record must identify the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed and must contain the date the vessel was inspected and the observed condition of each component of the control equipment (seals, internal floating roof, and fittings).


(ii) For each LEL monitoring event, keep records as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (I) of this section.


(A) Date and time of the LEL monitoring, and the storage vessel being monitored.


(B) A description of the monitoring event (annual monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113c(a)(2)(i); re-monitoring due to high winds during annual monitoring; re-monitoring after repair attempt; other monitoring event as required by the Administrator).


(C) Wind speed at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.


(D) The LEL meter manufacturer and model number used, as well as an indication of whether tubing was used during the LEL monitoring, and if so, the type and length of tubing used.


(E) Calibration checks conducted before and after making the measurements, including both the span check and instrumental offset. This includes the hydrocarbon used as the calibration gas, the Certificate of Analysis for the calibration gas(es), the results of the calibration check, and any corrective action for calibration checks that do not meet the required response.


(F) Location of the measurements and the location of the floating roof.


(G) Each measurement (taken at least once every 15 seconds). The records should indicate whether the recorded values were automatically corrected using the meter's programming. If the values were not automatically corrected, record both the raw (as the calibration gas) and corrected measurements, as well as the correction factor used.


(H) Each of the 5-minute rolling average readings.


(I) If the vapor concentration of the storage vessel was above 25 percent of the LEL on a 5-minute rolling average basis, a description of whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of service.


(2) After installing control equipment for an external floating roof to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(c), you must keep a record of each inspection and gap measurement performed as required by § 60.113c(b). The record must contain:


(i) Identification of the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed;


(ii) The date the storage vessel was inspected;


(iii) The type of inspection [inspection with gap measurements as specified in § 60.113c(b)(1) through (4); visual inspection as specified in § 60.113c(b)(7)];


(iv) The observed condition of each component of the control equipment (seals, internal floating roof, and fittings); and


(v) For each inspection with gap measurements as specified in § 60.113c(b)(1) through (4):


(A) The raw data obtained in the measurement; and


(B) The calculations described in § 60.113c(b)(2) and (b)(3).


(3) After installing a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process to comply with the provisions in § 60.112c(d), you must keep the following records, as well as the records in paragraph (d)(4) or (5) of this section, as applicable.


(i) The make and model of the backpressure regulator valve, date of installation, and inlet flow rating. Maintain records of the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications that identify the pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate, the annual confirmation that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications, and the annual confirmation that the backpressure regulator valve fully closes when not in open position.


(ii) The CMS monitoring plan required by § 60.113c(c)(4), if the closed vent system is routed to a control device. Retain this plan for the life of the control equipment.


(iii) Monitoring for the closed vent system conducted under § 60.113c(c)(2), including the date of inspection.


(iv) The written plan(s) required under § 60.113c(c)(2)(ii) and (iii) for unsafe-to-inspect and difficult-to-inspect portions of the closed vent system.


(v) For each leak detected during the monitoring conducted under § 60.113c(c)(2) and (3), you must record: the date the leak was detected; the location of the leak; the method used to detect the leak (Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part or visible, audible, and olfactory methods); and the maximum concentration reading obtained by Method 21 of appendix A-7, if applicable. For each repair attempt, you must record: the date of each repair attempt; the actions taken to repair the leak during each repair attempt; and date the repair was completed. If the repair is delayed, you must record the reason for the delay and the date you expect to complete the repair.


(vi) For each bypass line, maintain a record of the following, as applicable: readings from the flow indicator; each inspection of the seal or closure mechanism; the date and time of each instance when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out.


(vii) For each pressure relief device or vacuum breaking device on a storage vessel or closed vent system required to be monitored according to § 60.112c(d)(1)(iii) or (d)(2)(iii): the device type; the monitoring device or system used for the device; data from the device or system indicating whether a pressure release occurred; and the date, time, and duration of each pressure release, if applicable.


(4) After installing a closed vent system routed to a control device other than a flare or enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d), you must keep the following records.


(i) Each performance test.


(ii) All CMS performance checks, audits, maintenance, and repairs.


(iii) The hourly values recorded by the CMS and all 3-hour rolling averages.


(iv) The periods when the CMS is not operational.


(5) After installing a closed vent system routed to a flare to comply with § 60.112c(d) or an enclosed combustion device for which you elected to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), you must keep the following records.


(i) Pilot flame or flare flame monitoring as specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in 40 CFR 63.670(b). Retain these records for a minimum of 2 years.


(B) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least 1 minute that no pilot flame was present when VOL vapors were routed to the flare. Each record must identify the start and end time and date of each 15-minute block.


(ii) Visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(A) through (B) of this section, as applicable.


(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part, the record must identify the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, include separate records for each visible emissions observation performed.


(B) For each 2-hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours but visible emissions observations according to Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part were not conducted for the full 2-hour period, the record must include the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.


(iii) Each 15-minute block period during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in 40 CFR 63.670(d) through (f) when vapors from a storage vessel affected facility are directed to the flare for at least 15-minutes identifying each specific operating limit that was not met.


(iv) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for the enclosed combustion device vent gas or flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under 40 CFR 63.670(i), along with the date and start and end time for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the flare vent gas, enclosed combustion device vent gas, or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years.


(v) The flare vent gas or enclosed combustion device vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under 40 CFR 63.670(j). Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If an NHV_vg_ analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years, as well as records of quality assurance activities conducted on the analyzer and any cylinder gas certificates. If you demonstrate your gas streams have consistent composition using the provisions in 40 CFR 63.670(j)(6), retain records of the current application for which you are using for as long as you use the fixed NHV_vg_ as determined using the provisions in 40 CFR 63.670(j)(6).


(vi) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in 40 CFR 63.670(k) through (n), as applicable.


(vii) All periods during which you did not perform monitoring according to the procedures in 40 CFR 63.670(g), (i), and (j) as applicable. Note the start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period.


(viii) If you conduct a one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment according to § 60.113c(c)(1)(iv)(C), a copy of the assessment, including all calculations for as long as you use this compliance method.


(ix) For each parameter monitored using a CMS, retain the records specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(ix)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable:


(A) For each deviation, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.


(B) For each period when there is a CMS outage or the CMS is out of control, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.


(C) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check.


(x) For an enclosed combustion device for which you elected to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), you must also keep a copy of each performance test.


(e) If you are required to meet the degassing requirements in § 60.112c(a)(3), you must maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 60.112c(e) including, if appropriate, records of existing standard site procedures used to empty and degas (deinventory) equipment for safety purposes.






