# § 263.21   What priority is given to certain projects and applicants?

(a) The Secretary gives priority to an application that presents a plan for combining two or more of the activities described in section 6121(c) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended (ESEA), over a period of more than one year.


(b) The Secretary gives a competitive preference priority to—


(1) *Tribal lead applicants.* An application submitted by an Indian Tribe, Indian organization, BIE-funded school, or TCU that is eligible to participate in the Demonstration Grants for Indian Children and Youth program. A group application submitted by a consortium that meets the requirements of 34 CFR 75.127 through 75.129 or submitted by a partnership is eligible to receive the preference only if the lead applicant is an Indian Tribe, Indian organization, BIE-funded school, or TCU; or


(2) *Tribal partnership.* A group application submitted by a consortium of eligible entities that meets the requirements of 34 CFR 75.127 through 75.129 or submitted by a partnership if the consortium or partnership—


(i) Includes an Indian Tribe, Indian organization, BIE-funded school, or TCU; and


(ii) Is not eligible to receive the preference in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) The Secretary may give priority to an application that meets any of the priorities listed in this paragraph. When inviting applications for a competition under the Demonstration Grants program, the Secretary designates the type of each priority as absolute, competitive preference, or invitational through a notice inviting applications published in the _Federal Register._ The effect of each type of priority is described in 34 CFR 75.105.


(1) *Native youth community projects.* Native youth community projects, as defined in this subpart.


(2) *Experienced applicants.* Projects in which the applicant or one of its partners has received a grant in the last four years under a Federal program selected by the Secretary and announced in a notice inviting applications published in the _Federal Register_.


(3) *Consolidated funding.* Projects in which the applicant has Department approval to consolidate funding through a plan that complies with section 6116 of the ESEA or other authority designated by the Secretary.


(4) *Statutorily authorized activities.* Projects that focus on a specific activity authorized in section 6116(c) of the ESEA as designated by the Secretary in the notice inviting applications.


(5) *Rural applicants.* Projects that include either—


(i) An LEA that is eligible under the Small Rural School Achievement (SRSA) program or the Rural and Low-Income School (RLIS) program authorized under title VI, part B of the ESEA; or


(ii) A BIE-funded school that is located in an area designated with locale code of either 41, 42, or 43 as designated by the National Center for Education Statistics.


(6) *Non-rural applicants.* Non-rural projects that do not meet the priority in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. This priority can only be used in competitions where the priority in paragraph (c)(5) of this section is also used.


(7) *Accessing choices in education.* Projects to expand educational choice by enabling a Tribe, or the grantee and its Tribal partner, to select a project focus that meets the needs of their students and enabling parents of Indian students, or the students, to choose education services by selecting the specific service and provider desired.



---

[N] [85 FR 43450, July 17, 2020]




