# § 444.11   Definitions.

As used in this part the general definitions and abbreviations in 40 CFR part 401 shall apply. 


*Commercial hazardous waste combustor* means any thermal unit, except a cement kiln, that is subject either to 40 CFR part 264, subpart O; 40 CFR part 265, subpart O; or 40 CFR part 266, subpart H if the thermal unit burns RCRA hazardous wastes received from off-site for a fee or other remuneration in the following circumstances. The thermal unit is a commercial hazardous waste combustor if the off-site wastes are generated at a facility not under the same corporate structure or subject to the same ownership as the thermal unit and 


(1) The thermal unit is burning wastes that are not of a similar nature to wastes being burned from industrial processes on site or 


(2) There are no wastes being burned from industrial processes on site. Examples of wastes of a “similar nature” may include the following: Wastes generated in industrial operations whose wastewaters are subject to the same provisions in 40 CFR subchapter N or wastes burned as part of a product stewardship activity. The term commercial hazardous waste combustor includes the following facilities: a facility that burns exclusively waste received from off-site; and, a facility that burns both wastes generated on-site and wastes received from off-site. Facilities that may be commercial hazardous waste combustors include hazardous waste incinerators, rotary kiln incinerators, lime kilns, lightweight aggregate kilns, and boilers. A facility not otherwise a commercial hazardous waste combustor is not a commercial hazardous waste combustor if it burns RCRA hazardous waste for charitable organizations, as a community service or as an accommodation to local, state or government agencies so long as the waste is burned for no fee or other remuneration. 


*Commercial hazardous waste combustor wastewater* means wastewater attributable to commercial waste combustion operations, but includes only wastewater from air pollution control systems and water used to quench flue gas or slag generated as a result of commercial hazardous waste combustor operations. 


*Off-site* means outside the boundaries of a facility. 


*On-site* means within the boundaries of a facility. 


*Parameters* are defined as Parameters at 40 CFR 136.2 in Table 1B, which also cites the approved methods of analysis. 


(1) *Arsenic* means total arsenic, Parameter 6. 


(2) *Cadmium* means total cadmium, Parameter 12. 


(3) *Chromium* means total chromium, Parameter 19. 


(4) *Copper* means total copper, Parameter 22. 


(5) *Lead* means total lead, Parameter 32. 


(6) *Mercury* means total mercury, Parameter 35. 


(7) *pH* means hydrogen ion, Parameter 28. 


(8) *Silver* means total silver, Parameter 62. 


(9) *Titanium* means total titanium, Parameter 72. 


(10) *TSS* means total suspended solids, Parameter 55. 


(11) *Zinc* means total zinc, Parameter 75. 


*POTW* means a publicly owned treatment works. 




