# § 315.26   Application for relief—after receipt of bond.

(a) *Serial number known.* If the serial number of the lost, stolen, or destroyed bond is known, the claimant should execute an application for relief on the appropriate form and submit it to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26101.


(b) *Serial number not known.* If the bond serial number is not known, the claimant must provide sufficient information to enable the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to identify the bond by serial number. See § 315.29(c). The Bureau will furnish the proper application form and instructions.


(c) *Defaced or mutilated bond.* A defaced bond and all available fragments of a mutilated bond should be submitted to the Bureau.


(d) *Execution of claims application.* The application must be made by the person or persons (including both coowners, if living) authorized under these regulations to request payment of the bonds. In addition—


(1) If the bond is in beneficiary form and the owner and beneficiary are both living, both will ordinarily be required to join in the application.


(2) If a minor named on a bond as owner, coowner, or beneficiary is not of sufficient competency and understanding to request payment, both parents will ordinarily be required to join in the application.


(e) If the application is approved, relief will be granted by the issuance of a bond bearing the same issue date as the bond for which the claim was filed or by the issuance of a check in payment.




