# § 1242.3   Identification of core business lines.

(a) *Enterprise preliminary identification; notice to FHFA; timing.* (1) Each Enterprise shall conduct periodic reviews of its business lines to identify core business lines, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) Each Enterprise shall establish and implement a process to identify each of its core business lines. The process shall include a methodology for evaluating the Enterprise's participation in activities and markets that may be critical to the stability of the national housing finance markets or carrying out the statutory mission and purpose of the Enterprise. The methodology shall be designed, taking into account the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the Enterprise's operations, to identify and assess:


(i) The markets and activities in which the Enterprise participates or has operations;


(ii) The significance of those markets and activities with respect to the national housing finance markets or the Enterprise's obligation to carry out its statutory mission and purpose; and


(iii) The significance of the Enterprise as a provider or other participant in those markets and activities.


(3) Enterprise identification of any business line as a core business line is preliminary and is subject to review by FHFA. Each Enterprise must provide a notice of its preliminary identification of core business lines to FHFA, including a description of its methodology and the basis for identification of each core business line.


(4) The board of directors of the Enterprise shall approve each notice of preliminary identification of core business lines before submission to FHFA, with such approval noted in board minutes.


(5) Each Enterprise must conduct its initial identification process and submit its initial identification of core business lines to FHFA by the date that is three months after the effective date of the final rule. Thereafter, each Enterprise shall conduct periodic identification processes, determining the timing of each periodic process to ensure that the process for identification, including FHFA review and determination required by paragraph (b) of this section, can be complete in sufficient time for each succeeding required resolution plan to include the information required under § 1242.5 for each core business line. FHFA may also direct an Enterprise as to the timeframe for conducting any subsequent identification process.


(6) Each Enterprise must periodically review its identification process and update it as necessary to ensure its continued effectiveness.


(b) *FHFA identification of core business lines; notice to an Enterprise; timing of inclusion in resolution plan.* (1) Within three months of receiving an Enterprise notice of the preliminary identification of a business line as a core business line, FHFA will provide notice to the Enterprise of its determination of each core business line. FHFA may also identify operations, services, functions, or supports associated with any core business line.


(2) FHFA may identify any business line of the Enterprise as a core business line, considering factors set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or any other factor FHFA deems appropriate, following review of an Enterprise notice of preliminary identification or at any other time, on written notice to an Enterprise.


(3) If FHFA identifies a core business line under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an Enterprise is not required to include that core business line in a resolution plan if that plan is due within six months after the Enterprise receives notice of identification from FHFA.


(c) *Reconsideration of business line identification*—(1) *Reconsideration initiated by an Enterprise.* (i) An Enterprise may request that FHFA reconsider the identification under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, by submitting a written request to FHFA that includes a clear and complete statement of all arguments and all material information that the Enterprise believes is relevant to reconsideration as a core business line.


(ii) The board of directors of the Enterprise shall approve each request for reconsideration of identification before submission to FHFA, with such approval noted in board minutes.


(iii) FHFA will respond to an Enterprise request for reconsideration within three months after the date on which a complete request is received.


(2) *Reconsideration initiated by FHFA.* FHFA may reconsider the identification of any business line, including reconsideration of any operation, service, function, or support, at any time and in its discretion, on written notice to an Enterprise.


(3) *FHFA notice of reconsideration.* FHFA will provide a notice of reconsideration to the affected Enterprise, stating the results of the reconsideration. If FHFA determines to change an identification, such notice may also provide an effective date or other delaying or triggering condition for the change to become effective.


(4) *Effect of reconsideration.* For purposes of Enterprise resolution plans, identification as a core business line continues in effect until any notice of reconsideration removing such identification becomes effective.




