# ยง 800.26   Access to records and facilities.

(a) *Inspection of records and facilities.* Prior to the examination of records or inspection of facilities by an authorized representative of the Secretary or the Administrator, the authorized representative shall contact or otherwise notify the elevator manager or manager's representative of their presence and furnish proof of identity and authority. While in the elevator, the authorized representative shall abide by the safety regulations in effect at the elevator. Every elevator owner and operator and every merchandiser shall permit authorized representatives of the Secretary or Administrator to enter its place of business during normal business hours and have access to the facilities and to inspect any books, documents, papers, and records that are maintained by such persons. Such access and inspection will be to effectuate the purpose, provisions, and objectives of the Act and to assure the integrity of official services under the Act or of any official transaction with which the Act is concerned. All copies of such records will be made at the Service's expense. Reasonable accommodations shall be made available to the duly authorized representative by elevator owners and operators, and merchandisers for such examination of records.


(b) *Disclosure of business information.* FGIS employees or persons acting for FGIS under the Act shall not, without the consent of the elevator operator or merchandiser concerned, divulge or make known in any manner, any facts or information acquired pursuant to the Act and regulations except as authorized by the Administrator, by a court of competent jurisdiction, or otherwise by law.



---

[N] [51 FR 1768, Jan. 15, 1986]




