# § 54.10-10   Standard hydrostatic test (modifies UG-99).

(a) All pressure vessels must satisfactorily pass the hydrostatic test prescribed by this section, except those pressure vessels noted under § 54.10-15(a).


(b) The hydrostatic-test pressure must be at least one and three-tenths (1.30) times the maximum allowable working pressure stamped on the pressure vessel, multiplied by the ratio of the stress value “S” at the test temperature to the stress value “S” at the design temperature for the materials of which the pressure vessel is constructed. The values for “S” must be taken from tables UCS 23, UNF 23, UHA 23, or UHT 23 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC (incorporated by reference, see § 54.01-1). The value of “S” at test temperature must be that taken for the material of the tabulated value of temperature closest to the test temperature. The value of “S” at design temperature must be as interpolated from the appropriate table. No ratio less than one must be used. The stress resulting from the hydrostatic test must not exceed 90 percent of the yield stress of the material at the test temperature. External loadings, which will exist in supporting structure during the hydrostatic test, should be considered. The design must consider the combined stress during hydrostatic testing due to pressure and the support reactions. This stress must not exceed 90 percent of the yield stress of the material at the test temperature. In addition, the adequacy of the supporting structure during hydrostatic testing should be considered in the design.


(c) The hydrostatic test pressure must be applied for a sufficient period of time to permit a thorough examination of all joints and connections. The test must not be conducted until the vessel and liquid are at approximately the same temperature.


(d) Defects detected during the hydrostatic test or subsequent examination must be completely removed and then inspected. Provided the marine inspector gives their approval, they may then be repaired.


(e) Vessels requiring stress relieving must be stress relieved after any welding repairs have been made. (See UW-40 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC.)


(f) After repairs have been made the vessel must again be tested in the regular way, and if it passes the test, the marine inspector may accept it. If it does not pass the test, the marine inspector can order supplementary repairs, or, if in their judgment the vessel is not suitable for service, they may permanently reject it.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18828, Dec. 18, 1968, as amended by USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65170, Oct. 31, 2008]




