# § 485.914   Condition of participation: Admission, initial evaluation, comprehensive assessment, and discharge or transfer of the client.

The CMHC must ensure that all clients admitted into its program are appropriate for the services the CMHC furnishes in its facility.


(a) *Standard: Admission.* (1) The CMHC must determine that each client is appropriate for the services it provides as specified in § 410.2 of this chapter.


(2) For clients assessed and admitted to receive partial hospitalization services and intensive outpatient services, the CMHC must also meet separate requirements as specified in § 485.918(f) and (g), as applicable.


(b) *Standard: Initial evaluation.* (1) A licensed mental health professional employed by the CMHC and acting within his or her state scope of practice requirements must complete the initial evaluation within 24 hours of the client's admission to the CMHC.


(2) The initial evaluation, at a minimum, must include the following:


(i) The admitting diagnosis as well as other diagnoses.


(ii) The source of referral.


(iii) The reason for admission as stated by the client or other individuals who are significantly involved.


(iv) Identification of the client's immediate clinical care needs related to the psychiatric diagnosis.


(v) A list of current prescriptions and over-the-counter medications, as well as other substances that the client may be taking.


(vi) For partial hospitalization services only, include an explanation as to why the client would be at risk for hospitalization if the partial hospitalization services were not provided.


(3) Based on the findings of the initial evaluation, the CMHC must determine the appropriate members of each client's interdisciplinary treatment team.


(c) *Standard: Comprehensive assessment.* (1) The comprehensive assessment must be completed by licensed mental health professionals who are members of the interdisciplinary treatment team, performing within their State's scope of practice.


(2) The comprehensive assessment must be completed in a timely manner, consistent with the client's immediate needs, but no later than 4 working days after admission to the CMHC.


(3) The comprehensive assessment must identify the physical, psychological, psychosocial, emotional, therapeutic, and other needs related to the client's psychiatric illness. The CMHC's interdisciplinary treatment team must ensure that the active treatment plan is consistent with the findings of the comprehensive assessment.


(4) The comprehensive assessment, at a minimum, must include the following:


(i) The reasons for the admission.


(ii) A psychiatric evaluation, completed by a psychiatrist, non-physician practitioner or psychologist practicing within the scope of State licensure that includes the medical history and severity of symptoms. Information may be gathered from the client's primary health care provider (if any), contingent upon the client's consent.


(iii) Information concerning previous and current mental status, including but not limited to, previous therapeutic interventions and hospitalizations.


(iv) Information regarding the onset of symptoms of the illness and circumstances leading to the admission.


(v) A description of attitudes and behaviors, including cultural and environmental factors that may affect the client's treatment plan.


(vi) An assessment of intellectual functioning, memory functioning, and orientation.


(vii) Complications and risk factors that may affect the care planning.


(viii) Functional status, including the client's ability to understand and participate in his or her own care, and the client's strengths and goals.


(ix) Factors affecting client safety or the safety of others, including behavioral and physical factors, as well as suicide risk factors.


(x) A drug profile that includes a review of all of the client's prescription and over-the-counter medications; herbal remedies; and other alternative treatments or substances that could affect drug therapy.


(xi) The need for referrals and further evaluation by appropriate health care professionals, including the client's primary health care provider (if any), when warranted.


(xii) Factors to be considered in discharge planning.


(xiii) Identification of the client's current social and health care support systems.


(xiv) For pediatric clients, the CMHC must assess the social service needs of the client, and make referrals to social services and child welfare agencies as appropriate.


(d) *Standard: Update of the comprehensive assessment.* (1) The CMHC must update each client's comprehensive assessment via the CMHC interdisciplinary treatment team, in consultation with the client's primary health care provider (if any), when changes in the client's status, responses to treatment, or goal achievement have occurred and in accordance with current standards of practice.


(2) For clients that receive partial hospitalization program (PHP) or intensive outpatient (IOP) services, the assessment must be updated no less frequently than every 30 days.


(3) The update must include information on the client's progress toward desired outcomes, a reassessment of the client's response to care and therapies, and the client's goals.


(e) *Standard: Discharge or transfer of the client.* (1) If the client is transferred to another entity, the CMHC must, within 2 working days, forward to the entity, a copy of—


(i) The CMHC discharge summary.


(ii) The client's clinical record, if requested.


(2) If a client refuses the services of a CMHC, or is discharged from a CMHC due to noncompliance with the treatment plan, the CMHC must forward to the primary health care provider (if any) a copy of—


(i) The CMHC discharge summary.


(ii) The client's clinical record, if requested.


(3) The CMHC discharge summary must include—


(i) A summary of the services provided, including the client's symptoms, treatment and recovery goals and preferences, treatments, and therapies.


(ii) The client's current active treatment plan at time of discharge.


(iii) The client's most recent physician orders.


(iv) Any other documentation that will assist in post-discharge continuity of care.


(4) The CMHC must adhere to all Federal and State-related requirements pertaining to the medical privacy and the release of client information.



---

[N] [78 FR 64630, Oct. 29, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 51829, Sept. 30, 2019; 88 FR 82183, Nov. 22, 2023]




