# § 1273.6   Debt management duties of the OF.

(a) *Issuing and servicing of consolidated obligations.* The OF, as agent for the Banks, shall issue and service (including making timely payments on principal and interest due, subject to §§ 1270.9 and 1270.10 of this chapter) consolidated obligations pursuant to and in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the OF board of directors under this part.


(b) *Combined financial reports requirements.* The OF, under the oversight of the Audit Committee, shall prepare and distribute the combined annual and quarterly financial reports for the Bank System in accordance with the following requirements:


(1) The scope, form, and content of the disclosure generally shall be consistent with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulations S-K and S-X (17 CFR parts 229 and 210).


(2) Information about each Bank shall be presented as a segment of the Bank System as if generally accepted accounting principles regarding business segment disclosure applied to the combined annual and quarterly financial reports of the Bank System, and shall be presented using consistent accounting policies and procedures as provided in § 1273.9(b) of this part.


(3) The standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section are subject to the exceptions set forth in Appendix A to this part.


(4) The combined Bank System annual financial reports shall be filed with FHFA and distributed to each Bank and Bank member within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. The combined Bank System quarterly financial reports shall be filed with FHFA and distributed to each Bank and Bank member within 45 days after the end of the of the first three fiscal quarters of each year.


(5) The Audit Committee shall ensure that the combined Bank System annual or quarterly financial reports comply with the standards of this part.


(6) The OF and the OF board of directors, including the Audit Committee, shall comply promptly with any directive of FHFA regarding the preparation, filing, amendment, or distribution of the combined Bank System annual or quarterly financial reports.


(7) Nothing in this section shall create or be deemed to create any rights in any third party.


(c) *Capital markets data.* The OF shall provide capital markets information concerning debt to the Banks.


(d) *NRSROs.* The OF shall manage the relationships with NRSROs in connection with their rating of consolidated obligations.


(e) *Research.* The OF shall conduct research reasonably related to the issuance or servicing of consolidated obligations.


(f) *Monitor Banks' credit exposure.* The OF shall timely monitor, and compile relevant data on, each Bank's and the Bank System's unsecured credit exposure to individual counterparties.



---

[N] [75 FR 23161, May 3, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 76298, Nov. 2, 2016]




