# ยง 0.701   Intergovernmental Advisory Committee.

(a) *Purpose and term of operations.* The Intergovernmental Advisory Committee (IAC) is established to facilitate intergovernmental communication between municipal, county, state and tribal governments and the Federal Communications Commission. The IAC will commence operations with its first meeting convened under this section and is authorized to undertake its mission for a period of two years from that date. 

At his/her discretion, the Chairperson of the Federal Communications Commission may extend the IAC's term of operations for an additional two years, for which new members will be appointed as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Pursuant to Section 204(b) of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995, 2 U.S.C. 1534(b), the IAC is not subject to, and is not required to follow, the procedures set forth in the Federal Advisory Committee Act. 5 U.S.C., App. 2 (1988).


(b) *Membership.* The IAC will be composed of 30 members (or their designated employees), with a minimum of: Four elected municipal officials (city mayors and city council members); two elected county officials (county commissioners or council members); one elected or appointed local government attorney; one elected state executive (governor or lieutenant governor); three elected state legislators; one elected or appointed public utilities or public service commissioner; and three elected or appointed Native American tribal representatives. The Chairman of the Commission will appoint members through an application process initiated by a Public Notice, and will select a Chairman and a Vice Chairman to lead the IAC. 

The Chairperson of the Commission will appoint members through an application process initiated by a Public Notice, and will select a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson to lead the IAC. The Chairperson of the Commission will also appoint members to fill any vacancies and may replace an IAC member, at his or her discretion, using the appointment process. Members of the IAC are responsible for travel and other incidental expenses incurred while on IAC business and will not be reimbursed by the Commission for such expenses.


(c) *Location and frequency of meetings.* The IAC will meet in Washington, DC four times a year. Members must attend a minimum of fifty percent of the IAC's yearly meetings and may be removed by the Chairperson of the IAC for failure to comply with this requirement. 


(d) *Participation in IAC meetings.* Participation at IAC meetings will be limited to IAC members or employees designated by IAC members to act on their behalf.







 Members unable to attend an IAC meeting should notify the IAC Chairperson a reasonable time in advance of the meeting and provide the name of the employee designated on their behalf. 

With the exception of Commission staff and individuals or groups having business before the IAC, no other persons may attend or participate in an IAC meeting.


(e) *Commission support and oversight.* The Chairperson of the Commission, or Commissioner designated by the Chairperson for such purpose, will serve as a liaison between the IAC and the Commission and provide general oversight for its activities. The IAC will also communicate directly with the Chief, Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau, concerning logistical assistance and staff support, and such other matters as are warranted.



---

[N] [68 FR 52519, Sept. 4, 2003, as amended at 83 FR 733, Jan. 8, 2018; 88 FR 21433, Apr. 10, 2023]










