# § 60.5860b   What applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements do I need to include in my State plan for affected EGUs?

(a) Your State plan must include monitoring for affected EGUs that is no less stringent than what is described in (a)(1) through (9) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator of an affected EGU (or group of affected EGUs that share a monitored common stack) that is required to meet standards of performance must prepare a monitoring plan in accordance with the applicable provisions in 40 CFR 75.53(g) and (h), unless such a plan is already in place under another program that requires CO_2_ mass emissions to be monitored and reported according to 40 CFR part 75.


(2) For rate-based standards of performance, only “valid operating hours,”, *i.e.,* full or partial unit (or stack) operating hours for which:


(i) “Valid data” (as defined in § 60.5880b) are obtained for all of the parameters used to determine the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions (lbs). For the purposes of this subpart, substitute data recorded under part 75 of this chapter are not considered to be valid data; data obtained from flow monitoring bias adjustments are not considered to be valid data; and data provided or not provided from monitoring instruments that have not met the required frequency for relative accuracy audit testing are not considered to be valid data and


(ii) The corresponding hourly gross energy output value is also valid data (Note: For operating hours with no useful output, zero is considered to be a valid value).


(3) For rate-based standards of performance, the owner or operator of an affected EGU must measure and report the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions (lbs) from each affected unit using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator of an affected EGU must install, certify, operate, maintain, and calibrate a CO_2_ continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) to directly measure and record CO_2_ concentrations in the affected EGU exhaust gases emitted to the atmosphere and an exhaust gas flow rate monitoring system according to 40 CFR 75.10(a)(3)(i). As an alternative to direct measurement of CO_2_ concentration, provided that the affected EGU does not use carbon separation (*e.g.,* carbon capture and storage (CCS)), the owner or operator of an affected EGU may use data from a certified oxygen (O_2_) monitor to calculate hourly average CO_2_ concentrations, in accordance with 40 CFR 75.10(a)(3)(iii). However, when an O_2_ monitor is used this way, it only quantifies the combustion CO_2_; therefore, if the EGU is equipped with emission controls that produce non-combustion CO_2_ (*e.g.,* from sorbent injection), this additional CO_2_ must be accounted for, in accordance with section 3 of appendix G to part 75 of this chapter. If CO_2_ concentration is measured on a dry basis, the owner or operator of the affected EGU must also install, certify, operate, maintain, and calibrate a continuous moisture monitoring system, according to 40 CFR 75.11(b). Alternatively, the owner or operator of an affected EGU may either use an appropriate fuel-specific default moisture value from 40 CFR 75.11(b) or submit a petition to the Administrator under 40 CFR 75.66 for a site-specific default moisture value.


(ii) For each “valid operating hour” (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section), calculate the hourly CO_2_ mass emission rate (tons/hr), either from Equation F-11 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 75 (if CO_2_ concentration is measured on a wet basis), or by following the procedure in section 4.2 of appendix F to 40 CFR part 75 (if CO_2_ concentration is measured on a dry basis).


(iii) Next, multiply each hourly CO_2_ mass emission rate by the EGU or stack operating time in hours (as defined in 40 CFR 72.2), to convert it to tons of CO_2._ Multiply the result by 2,000 lbs/ton to convert it to lbs.


(iv) The hourly CO_2_ tons/hr values and EGU (or stack) operating times used to calculate CO_2_ mass emissions are required to be recorded under 40 CFR 75.57(e) and must be reported electronically under 40 CFR 75.64(a)(6), if required by a State plan. The owner or operator must use these data, or equivalent data, to calculate the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions.


(v) Sum all of the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions values from paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section.


(vi) For each continuous monitoring system used to determine the CO_2_ mass emissions from an affected EGU, the monitoring system must meet the applicable certification and quality assurance procedures in 40 CFR 75.20 and appendices A and B to 40 CFR part.


(4) The owner or operator of an affected EGU that exclusively combusts liquid fuel and/or gaseous fuel may, as an alternative to complying with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, determine the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions according to paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(vi) of this section.


(i) Implement the applicable procedures in appendix D to part 75 of this chapter to determine hourly EGU heat input rates (MMBtu/hr), based on hourly measurements of fuel flow rate and periodic determinations of the gross calorific value (GCV) of each fuel combusted. The fuel flow meter(s) used to measure the hourly fuel flow rates must meet the applicable certification and quality-assurance requirements in sections 2.1.5 and 2.1.6 of appendix D to 40 CFR part 75 (except for qualifying commercial billing meters). The fuel GCV must be determined in accordance with section 2.2 or 2.3 of appendix D to 40 CFR part 75, as applicable.


(ii) For each measured hourly heat input rate, use Equation G-4 in appendix G to 40 CFR part 75 to calculate the hourly CO_2_ mass emission rate (tons/hr).


(iii) For each “valid operating hour” (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section), multiply the hourly tons/hr CO_2_ mass emission rate from paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section by the EGU or stack operating time in hours (as defined in 40 CFR 72.2), to convert it to tons of CO_2_. Then, multiply the result by 2,000 lbs/ton to convert it to lbs.


(iv) The hourly CO_2_ tons/hr values and EGU (or stack) operating times used to calculate CO_2_ mass emissions are required to be recorded under 40 CFR 75.57(e) and must be reported electronically under 40 CFR 75.64(a)(6), if required by a State plan. You must use these data, or equivalent data, to calculate the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions.


(v) Sum all of the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions values (lb) from paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.


(vi) The owner or operator of an affected EGU may determine site-specific carbon-based F-factors (F_c_) using Equation F-7b in section 3.3.6 of appendix F to 40 CFR part 75 and may use these F_c_ values in the emissions calculations instead of using the default F_c_ values in the Equation G-4 nomenclature.


(5) For rate-based standards, the owner or operator of an affected EGU (or group of affected units that share a monitored common stack) must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a sufficient number of watt meters to continuously measure and record on an hourly basis gross electric output. Measurements must be performed using 0.2 accuracy class electricity metering instrumentation and calibration procedures as specified under ANSI No. C12.20-2010 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). Further, the owner or operator of an affected EGU that is a combined heat and power facility must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate equipment to continuously measure and record on an hourly basis useful thermal output and, if applicable, mechanical output, which are used with gross electric output to determine gross energy output. The owner or operator must use the following procedures to calculate gross energy output, as appropriate for the type of affected EGU(s).


(i) Determine P_gross/net_ the hourly gross or net energy output in MWh. For rate-based standards, perform this calculation only for valid operating hours (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section). For mass-based standards, perform this calculation for all unit (or stack) operating hours, *i.e.,* full or partial hours in which any fuel is combusted.


(ii) If there is no net electrical output, but there is mechanical or useful thermal output, either for a particular valid operating hour (for rate-based applications), or for a particular operating hour (for mass-based applications), the owner or operator of the affected EGU must still determine the net energy output for that hour.


(iii) For rate-based applications, if there is no (*i.e.,* zero) gross electrical, mechanical, or useful thermal output for a particular valid operating hour, that hour must be used in the compliance determination. For hours or partial hours where the gross electric output is equal to or less than the auxiliary loads, net electric output shall be counted as zero for this calculation.


(iv) Calculate P_gross/net_ for your affected EGU (or group of affected EGUs that share a monitored common stack) using the following equation. All terms in the equation must be expressed in units of MWh. To convert each hourly gross or net energy output value reported under 40 CFR part 75 to MWh, multiply by the corresponding EGU or stack operating time.


(v) If applicable to your affected EGU (for example, for combined heat and power), you must calculate (Pt)_PS_ using the following equation:


(vi) For rate-based standards, sum all of the values of P_gross/net_ for the valid operating hours (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section). Then, divide the total CO_2_ mass emissions for the valid operating hours from paragraph (a)(3)(v) or (a)(4)(v) of this section, as applicable, by the sum of the P_gross/net_ values for the valid operating hours to determine the CO_2_ emissions rate (lb/gross or net MWh).


(6) In accordance with § 60.13(g), if two or more affected EGUs implementing the continuous emissions monitoring provisions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section share a common exhaust gas stack and are subject to the same emissions standard, the owner or operator may monitor the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions at the common stack in lieu of monitoring each EGU separately. If an owner or operator of an affected EGU chooses this option, the hourly gross or net electric output for the common stack must be the sum of the hourly gross or net electric output of the individual affected EGUs and the operating time must be expressed as “stack operating hours” (as defined in 40 CFR 72.2).


(7) In accordance with § 60.13(g), if the exhaust gases from an affected EGU implementing the continuous emissions monitoring provisions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section are emitted to the atmosphere through multiple stacks (or if the exhaust gases are routed to a common stack through multiple ducts and you elect to monitor in the ducts), the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions and the “stack operating time” (as defined in 40 CFR 72.2) at each stack or duct must be monitored separately. In this case, the owner or operator of an affected EGU must determine compliance with an applicable emissions standard by summing the CO_2_ mass emissions measured at the individual stacks or ducts and dividing by the gross or net energy output for the affected EGU.


(8) Consistent with § 60.5775b, if two or more affected EGUs serve a common electric generator, you must apportion the combined hourly gross or net energy output to the individual affected EGUs according to the fraction of the total steam load contributed by each EGU. Alternatively, if the EGUs are identical, you may apportion the combined hourly gross or net electrical load to the individual EGUs according to the fraction of the total heat input contributed by each EGU.


(9) The owner or operator of an affected EGU must measure and report monthly fuel usage for each affected source subject to standards of performance with the information in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section:


(i) The calendar month during which the fuel was used;


(ii) Each type of fuel used during the calendar month of the compliance period; and


(iii) Quantity of each type of fuel combusted in each calendar month in the compliance period with units of measure.


(b) Your State plan must require the owner or operator of each affected EGU covered by your State plan to maintain the records, for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.


(1) The owner or operator of an affected EGU must maintain each record on site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, whichever is latest, according to § 60.7. The owner or operator of an affected EGU may maintain the records off site and electronically for the remaining year(s).


(2) The owner or operator of an affected EGU must keep all of the following records, in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review:


(i) All documents, data files, and calculations and methods used to demonstrate compliance with an affected EGU's standard of performance under § 60.5775b.


(ii) Copies of all reports submitted to the State under paragraph (b) of this section.


(iii) Data that are required to be recorded by 40 CFR part 75 subpart F.


(c) Your State plan must require the owner or operator of an affected EGU covered by your State plan to include in a report submitted to you the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Owners or operators of an affected EGU must include in the report all hourly CO_2_ emissions, for each affected EGU (or group of affected EGUs that share a monitored common stack).


(2) For rate-based standards, each report must include:


(i) The hourly CO_2_ mass emission rate values (tons/hr) and unit (or stack) operating times, (as monitored and reported according to part 75 of this chapter), for each valid operating hour;


(ii) The gross or net electric output and the gross or net energy output (P_gross/net_) values for each valid operating hour;


(iii) The calculated CO_2_ mass emissions (lb) for each valid operating hour;


(iv) The sum of the hourly gross or net energy output values and the sum of the hourly CO_2_ mass emissions values, for all of the valid operating hours; and


(v) The calculated CO_2_ mass emission rate (lbs/gross or net MWh).


(3) For each affected EGU the report must also include the applicable standard of performance and demonstration that it met the standard of performance. An owner or operator must also include in the report the affected EGU's calculated emission performance as a CO_2_ emission rate in units of the standard of performance.


(d) The owner or operator of an affected EGU must follow any additional requirements for monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting in a State plan that are required under § 60.5740b if applicable.


(e) If an affected EGU captures CO_2_ to meet the applicable standard of performance, the owner or operator must report in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 98 subpart PP and either:


(1) Report in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 98, subpart RR, or subpart VV, if injection occurs on-site;


(2) Transfer the captured CO_2_ to a facility that reports in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 98, subpart RR, or subpart VV, if injection occurs off-site; or


(3) Transfer the captured CO_2_ to a facility that has received an innovative technology waiver from the EPA pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section.


(f) Any person may request the Administrator to issue a waiver of the requirement that captured CO_2_ from an affected EGU be transferred to a facility reporting under 40 CFR part 98, subpart RR, or subpart VV. To receive a waiver, the applicant must demonstrate to the Administrator that its technology will store captured CO_2_ as effectively as geologic sequestration, and that the proposed technology will not cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety. In making this determination, the Administrator shall consider (among other factors) operating history of the technology, whether the technology will increase emissions or other releases of any pollutant other than CO_2_, and permanence of the CO_2_ storage. The Administrator may test the system or require the applicant to perform any tests considered by the Administrator to be necessary to show the technology's effectiveness, safety, and ability to store captured CO_2_ without release. The Administrator may grant conditional approval of a technology, with the approval conditioned on monitoring and reporting of operations. The Administrator may also withdraw approval of the waiver on evidence of releases of CO_2_ or other pollutants. The Administrator will provide notice to the public of any application under this provision and provide public notice of any proposed action on a petition before the Administrator takes final action.






