# § 263.3   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:


(a) *Administrative law judge* (ALJ) means one who presides at an administrative hearing under authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 556.


(b) *Adjudicatory proceeding* means a proceeding conducted pursuant to these rules and leading to the formulation of a final order other than a regulation.


(c) *Decisional employee* means any member of the Board's or ALJ's staff who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the Agency or the ALJ, respectively, in preparing orders, recommended decisions, decisions, and other documents under the Uniform Rules.


(d) *Electronic signature* means electronically affixing the equivalent of a signature to an electronic document filed or transmitted electronically.


(e) *Enforcement Counsel* means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the Board in an adjudicatory proceeding.


(f) *Final order* means an order issued by the Board with or without the consent of the affected institution or the institution-affiliated party, that has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.


(g) *Institution* includes:


(1) Any bank as that term is defined in section 3(a) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(a));


(2) Any bank holding company or any subsidiary (other than a bank) of a bank holding company as those terms are defined in the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841 *et seq.*);


(3) Any organization organized and operated under section 25A of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 611 *et seq.*) or operating under section 25 of the FRA (12 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*);


(4) Any foreign bank or company to which section 8 of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3106), applies or any subsidiary (other than a bank) thereof;


(5) Any branch or agency as those terms are defined in section 1(b) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3101(1), (3), (5), (6));


(6) Any savings and loan holding company or any subsidiary (other than a depository institution) of a savings and loan holding company as those terms are defined in the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1461 *et seq.*);


(7) Any U.S. or foreign nonbank financial company that the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) requires the Board to supervise under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323(a)(1), (b)(1)), or any subsidiary (other than a bank) thereof;


(8) Any financial market utility or financial institution conducting payment, clearing, or settlement activities that FSOC designates as systematically important under section 804 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5463); and


(9) Any other entity subject to the supervision of the Board.


(h) *Institution-affiliated party* means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in section 3(u) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(u)).


(i) *Local Rules* means those rules promulgated by the Board in this part other than this subpart.


(j) *OFIA* means the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication, the executive body charged with overseeing the administration of administrative enforcement proceedings for the Board, the Office of Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), and the National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”).


(k) *Party* means the Board and any person named as a party in any notice.


(l) *Person* means an individual, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, agency, or other entity or organization, including an institution as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.


(m) *Respondent* means any party other than the Board.


(n) *Uniform Rules* means those rules in this subpart A that are common to the Board, the OCC, the FDIC, and the NCUA.


(o) *Violation* means any violation as that term is defined in section 3(v) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(v)).






