# ยง 4280.410   Other laws and regulations that contain compliance requirements for this program.

(a) *Equal employment opportunity.* For all construction contracts and grants in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375, and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60-1). The applicant is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.


(b) *Architectural barriers.* All facilities financed with Zero-Interest Loans that are open to the public or in which persons may be employed or reside must be designed, constructed, or altered to be readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons. Standards for these facilities must comply with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157).


(c) *Uniform relocation assistance.* Relocations in connection with these programs are subject to 49 CFR part 24 as referenced by 7 CFR part 21 except that the provisions in title III of the Uniform Act do not apply to these programs.


(d) *Drug-free workplace.* Grants made under these programs are subject to the requirements contained in 2 CFR chapter IV which implements the Drug-Free Workplace Act. RBDG recipients will be required to certify that it will establish and make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace program.


(e) *Debarment and suspension.* The requirements of 2 CFR chapter IV are applicable to this program.


(f) *Intergovernmental review of Federal programs.* These programs are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and 2 CFR chapter IV. Proposed Projects are subject to the State and local government review process contained in 2 CFR chapter IV.


(g) *Restrictions on lobbying.* The restrictions and requirements imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352, and 2 CFR chapter IV, are applicable to these programs.


(h) *Earthquake hazards.* These programs are subject to the seismic requirements of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701-7706).


(i) *Affirmative fair housing.* If applicable, the grantee will be required to comply with the Affirmative Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3631 and 24 CFR part 100).


(j) *Flood hazard insurance.* The RBDG program is subject to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended by 42 U.S.C. 4001-4129 and 7 CFR part 1806, subpart B.


(k) *Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.* The requirements of 2 CFR chapter IV, or its successor regulations are applicable to this program.


(l) *Planning and performing construction and other development.* The requirements of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A, or its successor regulations, are applicable to this program.


(m) *Transparency Act.* The requirements of 2 CFR part 170 are applicable to this program.




