# § 49.201   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section contains the implementation plan for the Mohegan Tribe of Indians, Connecticut. This plan consists of an area wide NO_X_ emission limitation regulation submitted by the Mohegan Tribe on May 4, 2005, applicable to the reservation of The Mohegan Tribe of Indians of Connecticut.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in paragraph (c) of this section was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval, and notice of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register._ Entries in paragraph (c) of this section with EPA approval dates after August 13, 2009, will be incorporated by reference in the next update to the TIP compilation.


(2) EPA Region 1 certifies that the rules/regulations provided by EPA in the TIP compilation at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated tribal rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the Tribal Implementation Plan as of August 13, 2009.


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference may be inspected at the New England Regional Office of EPA at 5 Post Office Square—Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, MC 2822T, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20460 and the National Archives and Records Administration. If you wish to obtain material from the EPA Regional Office, please call 617-918-1653; for materials from the docket in EPA Headquarters Library, please call the Office of Air and Radiation docket at 202-566-1742. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) *EPA-approved regulations*.



---

[N] [72 FR 63989, Nov. 14, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 49329, Sept. 28, 2009; 76 FR 49671, Aug. 11, 2011; 88 FR 24917, Apr. 25, 2023]





