# ยง 50-201.601   Requests for exceptions and exemptions.

(a)(1) Request for the exception or exemption of a contract or class of contracts from the inclusion or application of one or more of those stipulations required by ยง 50-201.1 must be made by the head of a contracting agency or department and shall be accompanied with a finding by him setting forth reasons why such inclusion or application will seriously impair the conduct of Government business. 


(2) Request for the exception or exemption of a stipulation respecting minimum rates of pay and maximum hours of labor contained in an existing contract must be made jointly by the head of the contracting agency and the contractor and shall be accompanied with a joint finding by them setting forth reasons why such exception or exemption is desired. 


(b) All requests for exceptions or exemptions which relate solely to safety and health standards shall be transmitted directly to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, or, for those pertaining to coal mines, the Mine Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22203. All other requests for exceptions or exemptions shall be transmitted to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. 



---

[N] [7 FR 4767, June 26, 1942. Redesignated at 24 FR 10952, Dec. 30, 1959 and amended at 36 FR 288, Jan. 8, 1971; 52 FR 6147, Mar. 2, 1987]




