# § 1290.9   Forms and reports.

(a) *General information on preparation and issue of DD Form 1805.* (1) The U.S. Magistrate system is based on use of a four-ply ticket designed to provide legal notice to violators and records required by the court, law enforcement authorities, and, if appropriate, the state motor vehicle departments. The DD Form 1805 is printed on chemically carbonized paper and prenumbered in series for accounting control. Heads of DLA primary level field activities are responsible for maintaining accountability for each ticket issued and stocks on hand. 


(2) DLA field activity Counsels will coordinate with the U.S. Magistrate of the judicial district in which the activity is located and maintain the information listed below: 


(i) List of petty offenses for which mail-in procedure is authorized and the amount of the fine for each specific offense. The District Court address will be prestamped on the violator's copy of the DD Form 1805 by the applicable issuing authority. 


(ii) List of minor offenses requiring mandatory appearance of the violator before the magistrate. The name and location of the magistrate before whom violators will appear. Schedule will be coordinated with nearest Military Service activity and appearance will be conducted jointly whenever possible. 


(b) *Issue procedures for DD Form 1805.* (1) Information entered on the DD Form 1805 is dependent upon two considerations: 


(i) The type of violation, i.e., parking, (such as blocking a fire lane) moving traffic violation, or nontraffic offenses. 


(ii) Whether the offense cited requires the mandatory appearance of the violator before a U.S. Magistrate. 


(2) Preparation and disposition of DD Form 1805: 


(i) See illustration in appendix B for petty offenses where the mail-in fine procedures are authorized. 


(A) The amount of the fine for a specific offense must be recorded in the lower right corner of the DD Form 1805. This amount will always be predetermined by the U.S. Magistrate and provided to on duty enforcement personnel by the activity security officer or equivalent authority. When violation notices are issued for an offense (e.g., parking violation) and the offender is absent, all entries concerning the violator will be left blank. 


(B) Disposition of DD Form 1805 will be as follows: 


(*1*) The fourth copy (envelope) will be issued to the violator or placed on the vehicle of the violator. 


(*2*) Copies one (white copy), two (yellow copy), and three (pink copy) will be returned to the Security Officer's office. The Security Officer will forward copies one and two, by letter of transmittal, to the appropriate U.S. District Court. 


(*3*) Copy three will be filed at the Security Office or equivalent issuing authority. DLA Form 1454, Vehicle Registration/Driver Record, will be annotated with each traffic offense. 


(ii) When DD Form 1805 is used to cite personnel for mail-in type violations, the appropriate supervisor will be provided an information copy of DLA Form 635, Security/Criminal Incident Report, denoting the date, time, place, and type of violation, and the amount of fine assessed. 


(iii) Heads of DLA primary level field activities or their representative will not accept or otherwise collect any fines or keep records of fines paid or not paid. They also will take no action concerning nonpayment delinquencies except where warrants are subsequently issued for the violator concerned by the appropriate court authorities. 


(iv) See illustrations in appendices C and D for minor offenses requiring the mandatory appearance of violators before the U.S. Magistrate: 


(A) Mail-in fine procedures will not apply in mandatory appearance cases. The law enforcement authority issuing a violation notice for an offense requiring mandatory appearance of the violator, will place a check mark in “Box A”, DD Form 1805. The name and location of the U.S. Magistrate before whom the violator must appear will be inserted on the line below “United States District Court” as shown in appendix C. The date and time of the initial appearance will be entered in the space provided in “Box A”. It is the violator's responsibility to verify the date, time, and place of required court appearances. 


(B) Disposition of DD Form 1805 will be as follows: 


(*1*) The fourth copy (envelope) will be issued to the violator. 


(*2*) Copies one (white copy), two (yellow copy), and three (pink copy) will be returned to the Security Officer's office. The Security Officer will forward copies one and two, by transmittal as soon as possible, to the magistrate before whom the violator is scheduled to appear. 


(*3*) Copy three will be filed in the office of the Security Officer or equivalent issuing authority. 


(C) When DD Form 1805 is used to cite personnel for mandatory appearance type offenses, the individual's supervisor will be provided an information copy of DLA Form 635, denoting the date, time, place, and type of violation, and the date the violator is scheduled to appear before the U.S. Magistrate. 


(v) Additional information governing preparation of DD Form 1805 is provided as appendix A. 




