# § 98.364   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) Perform an annual animal inventory or review of facility records (for static populations) or population calculation (for growing populations) to determine the average annual animal population for each animal type (see description in § 98.363(a)(1) and (2)).


(b) Perform an analysis on your operation to determine the fraction of total manure by weight for each animal type that is managed in each on-site manure management system component. If your system changes from previous reporting periods, you must reevaluate the fraction of total manure managed in each system component.


(c) The CH_4_ concentration of gas from digesters must be determined using ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006) Standard Practice for Analysis of Reformed Gas by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference *see* § 98.7). All gas composition monitors shall be calibrated prior to the first reporting year for biogas methane and carbon dioxide content using ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006) Standard Practice for Analysis of Reformed Gas by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference *see* § 98.7)and recalibrated either annually or at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer, whichever is more frequent, or whenever the error in the midrange calibration check exceeds ±10 percent. All monitors shall be maintained as specified by the manufacturer.


(d) All temperature and pressure monitors must be calibrated using the procedures and frequencies specified by the manufacturer. All equipment (temperature and pressure monitors) shall be maintained as specified by the manufacturer.


(e) For digesters with gas collection systems, install, operate, maintain, and calibrate a gas flow meter capable of measuring the volumetric flow rate to provide data for the GHG emissions calculations, using the applicable methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section or as specified by the manufacturer.


(1) ASME MFC-3M-2004 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(2) ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 1997) Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(3) ASME MFC-6M-1998 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(4) ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992) Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(5) ASME MFC-14M-2003 Measurement of Fluid Flow Using Small Bore Precision Orifice Meters (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(6) ASME MFC-18M-2001 Measurement of Fluid Flow using Variable Area Meters (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(f) If applicable, the owner or operator shall document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of gas flow rate, gas composition, temperature, and pressure measurements. These procedures include, but are not limited to, calibration of fuel flow meters and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices shall also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates shall be provided.


(g) Each gas flow meter shall be calibrated prior to the first reporting year and recalibrated either annually or at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer, whichever is more frequent. Each gas flow meter must have a rated accuracy of ±5 percent or lower and be capable of correcting for the temperature and pressure and, if the gas composition monitor determines CH_4_ concentration on a dry basis, moisture content.




