# ยง 128.308   What is a program examination and what will SBA examine?

(a) *General.* A program examination is an investigation by SBA officials, which verifies the accuracy of any statement or information provided by a certified Participant. SBA may verify that the Participant currently meets the eligibility requirements of this part and that it met such requirements at the time of its application. An examination may be conducted on a random, unannounced basis, or upon receipt of specific and credible information alleging that a Participant did not meet the eligibility requirements in this part when it was certified or no longer meets all of those requirements.


(b) *Scope of examination.* SBA may review any information related to the concern's eligibility including, but not limited to, documentation related to the firm's legal structure, ownership, and control. Examiners may review any information previously provided to SBA and any additional information requested by SBA at the time of program examination. SBA may draw an adverse inference from a concern's failure to cooperate with a program examination or provide requested information and assume that the information that the concern failed to provide would demonstrate ineligibility, and decertify on this basis pursuant to ยง 128.310.


(c) *Outcome of examination.* Upon its completion of the examination, SBA will issue a written decision.


(1) If SBA finds that the Participant does not qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB, the procedures at ยง 128.310 will apply, except as provided in ยง 128.201.


(2) If SBA finds that the Participant continues to qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB, the original eligibility period remains in effect.






