# 22.1901   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*United States* means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Johnston Island, Wake Island, and the outer Continental Shelf as defined in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331, *et seq.*).


*Worker* (in accordance with 29 CFR 23.20)—


(1)(i) Means any person engaged in performing work on, or in connection with, a contract covered by Executive Order 14026, and


(A) Whose wages under such contract are governed by the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. chapter 8), the Service Contract Labor Standards statute (41 U.S.C. chapter 67), or the Wage Rate Requirements (Construction) statute (40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter IV),


(B) Other than individuals employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, as those terms are defined in 29 CFR part 541,


(C) Regardless of the contractual relationship alleged to exist between the individual and the employer.


(ii) Includes workers performing on, or in connection with, the contract whose wages are calculated pursuant to special certificates issued under 29 U.S.C. 214(c).


(iii) Also includes any person working on, or in connection with, the contract and individually registered in a bona fide apprenticeship or training program registered with the Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration, Office of Apprenticeship, or with a State Apprenticeship Agency recognized by the Office of Apprenticeship.


(2)(i) A worker performs *on* a contract if the worker directly performs the specific services called for by the contract; and


(ii) A worker performs *in connection with* a contract if the worker's work activities are necessary to the performance of a contract but are not the specific services called for by the contract.







---

[N] [79 FR 74550, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 67627, Oct. 23, 2020; 87 FR 4122, Jan. 26, 2022]




