# § 301.6011-5   Required use of electronic form for corporate income tax returns.

(a) *Corporate income tax returns required electronically.* (1) A corporation required to file a corporate income tax return on Form 1120, *U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return,* under § 1.6012-2 of this chapter must file its corporate income tax return electronically if the corporation is required by the Internal Revenue Code or regulations to file at least 10 returns (as defined in paragraph (d)(5) of this section) during the calendar year ending with or within the taxable year of the corporation.


(2) All members of a controlled group of corporations must file their corporate income tax returns electronically if the aggregate number of returns required to be filed by the controlled group of corporations is at least 10 (as defined in paragraph (d)(5) of this section) during the calendar year ending with or within the taxable year of the controlled group of corporations.


(3) The Commissioner may direct the type of electronic filing and may also exempt certain returns from the electronic requirements of this section through revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings on the *IRS.gov* website. Returns filed electronically must be made in accordance with the applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(b) *Exclusions from electronic-filing requirements*—(1) *Waivers.* The Commissioner may grant waivers of the requirements of this section in cases of undue hardship. One principal factor in determining hardship will be the amount, if any, by which the cost of filing the return electronically in accordance with this section exceeds the cost of filing the return on paper. A request for a waiver must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website. The waiver request will specify the type of filing (that is, a return required under § 1.6012-2 of this chapter) and the period to which it applies.


(2) *Exemptions.* The Commissioner may provide exemptions from the requirements of this section to promote effective and efficient tax administration. An exemption will be allowed for filers for whom using the technology required to file in electronic form conflicts with their religious beliefs. A submission claiming an exemption must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(3) *Additional Exclusion.* If the IRS's systems do not support electronic filing, taxpayers will not be required to file electronically.














(c) *Failure to file.* If a corporation fails to file a corporate income tax return on magnetic media when required to do so by this section, the corporation is deemed to have failed to file the return. (See section 6651 for the addition to tax for failure to file a return). In determining whether there is reasonable cause for failure to file the return, § 301.6651-1(c) and rules similar to the rules in § 301.6724-1(c)(3) (undue economic hardship related to filing information returns on magnetic media) will apply.




(d) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:




(1) *Magnetic media or electronic form.* The terms *magnetic media or electronic form* mean any media or form permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures, or publications. These generally include electronic filing, as well as magnetic tape, tape cartridge, diskette, and other media specifically permitted under the applicable regulations, procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.




(2) *Corporation.* The term *corporation* means a corporation as defined in section 7701(a)(3).


(3) *Controlled group of corporations.* The term *controlled group of corporations* means a group of corporations as defined in section 1563(a).


(4) *Corporate income tax return.* The term *corporate income tax return* means a Form 1120, “U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return,” along with all other related forms, schedules, and statements that are required to be attached to the Form 1120, and all members of the Form 1120 series of returns, including amended and superseding returns.








(5) *Calculating the number of returns.* For purposes of this section, a corporation or controlled group of corporations is required to file at least 10 returns if, during the calendar year ending with or within the taxable year of the corporation or the controlled group, the corporation or the controlled group is required to file at least 10 returns of any type, including information returns (for example, Forms W-2 and Forms 1099), income tax returns, employment tax returns, and excise tax returns. In the case of a short-period return, a corporation is required to file at least 10 returns if, during the calendar year in which the corporation's short taxable year ends, the corporation is required to file at least 10 returns of any type, including information returns (for example, Forms W-2 and Forms 1099), income tax returns, employment tax returns, and excise tax returns. If the corporation is a member of a controlled group, calculating the number of returns the corporation is required to file includes all returns required to be filed by all members of the controlled group during the calendar year ending with or within the taxable year of the controlled group.


(e) *Example.* The following example illustrates the provisions of this section:


(1) The taxable year of Corporation X, a fiscal-year taxpayer, ends on September 30. During the calendar year ending December 31, 2023, X was required to file one Form 1120, *U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return,* six Forms W-2, *Wage and Tax Statement,* three Forms 1099-DIV, *Dividends and Distributions,* one Form 940, *Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return,* and four Forms 941, *Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return.* Because X is required to file 10 returns of any type during calendar year 2023, the calendar year that ended within its taxable year ending September 30, 2024, X is required to file its Form 1120 electronically for its taxable year ending September 30, 2024.


(2) [Reserved]


(f) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to corporate income tax returns required to be filed during calendar years beginning after December 31, 2023.













---

[N] [T.D. 9363, 72 FR 63811, Nov. 13, 2007, as amended by T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11769, Feb. 23, 2023]








