# ยง 502.13   Privacy protection for filings made with the Commission.

(a) *Redacted filings.* Unless the Commission or presiding officer orders otherwise, in an electronic or paper filing that contains an individual's social-security number, taxpayer-identification number, or birth date, the name of an individual known to be a minor, or a financial-account number, a party or nonparty making the filing may include only:


(1) The last four digits of the social-security number and taxpayer-identification number;


(2) The year of the individual's birth;


(3) The minor's initials; and


(4) The last four digits of the financial-account number.


(b) *Exemptions from the redaction requirement.* The redaction requirement does not apply to the following:


(1) The record of an administrative or agency proceeding;


(2) The record of a state-court proceeding;


(3) The record of a court or tribunal, if that record was not subject to the redaction requirement when originally filed; and


(4) A filing covered by paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Filings made under seal.* The Commission or presiding officer may order that a filing be made under seal without redaction. The Commission or presiding officer may later unseal the filing or order the person who made the filing to file a redacted version for the public record.


(d) *Protective orders.* For good cause, the Commission or presiding officer may by order in a case:


(1) Require redaction of additional information; or


(2) Limit or prohibit a nonparty's remote electronic access to a document filed with the Commission.


(e) *Option for additional unredacted filing under seal.* A person making a redacted filing may also file an unredacted copy under seal. The Commission must retain the unredacted copy as part of the record.


(f) *Option for filing a reference list.* A filing that contains redacted information may be filed together with a reference list that identifies each item of redacted information and specifies an appropriate identifier that uniquely corresponds to each item listed. The list must be filed under seal and may be amended as of right. Any reference in the case to a listed identifier will be construed to refer to the corresponding item of information.


(g) *Waiver of protection of identifiers.* A person waives the protection of this rule as to the person's own information by filing it without redaction and not under seal. [Rule 13.]



---

[N] [76 FR 10261, Feb. 24, 2011]




