# ยง 130.310   Area of service.

(a) The AA/SBDC will designate, in the cooperative agreement, the geographic area of service of each recipient organization. Generally, no more than one recipient organization may be located in a state.


(1) The AA/SBDC may determine that making awards to multiple recipient organizations in a state is necessary to more effectively implement the Program and provide services to all interested small businesses.


(2) Once the Administration has entered into a cooperative agreement, a subsequent decision to change the recipient organization's area of service will be considered a non-renewal or termination. This decision will be subject to the procedures outlined in ยง 130.700.


(b) The recipient organization must locate its Lead Center and SBDC service centers in the designated area of service to ensure that services are readily accessible to all small businesses within the designated area of service.


(c) Any applicant commencing after January 1, 1992, must ensure that any new SBDC service centers established within its area of service, to the extent practicable, are primarily housed within institutions of higher education or a WBC operating pursuant to section 29 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656) as stated in section 21(a)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(1)).


(d) The allocation of resources, including site locations of the Lead Center and the SBDC service centers, will be reviewed for adequacy of coverage by SBA as part of the application review process for each budget period.



---

[N] [88 FR 76642, Nov. 7, 2023]








