# § 721.10953   Erbium gadolinium sulfur ytterbium oxide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as erbium gadolinium sulfur ytterbium oxide (PMN P-15-618; CAS No. 934388-91-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(4)(respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor of at least 10), (a)(6)(particulate), (b)(concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.07mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), and (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(p)(6,000 kilograms, aggregate of PMNs P-15-612, P-15-613, P-15-614, P-15-615, P-15-616, P-15-617, P-15-618, combined).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d), (f), through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 81272, Nov. 17, 2016]




