# ยง 50.74   Payment of Federal share of compensation.

(a) *Timing.* Treasury will promptly pay to an insurer the Federal share of compensation due the insurer for its insured losses. Payment shall be made in such installments and on such conditions as determined by the Treasury to be appropriate. Any overpayments by Treasury of the Federal share of compensation will be offset from future payments to the insurer or returned to Treasury within 45 days.


(b) *Payment process.* Payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses will be made to the insurer designated on the Notice of Deductible Erosion required by ยง 50.72. An insurer that requests payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses must receive payment through electronic funds transfer. The insurer must establish either an account for reimbursement as described in paragraph (c) of this section (if the insurer only seeks reimbursement) or a segregated account as described in paragraph (d) of this section (if the insurer seeks advance payments or a combination of advance payments and reimbursement). Applicable procedures will be posted at *https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program* or otherwise will be made publicly available.


(c) *Account for reimbursement.* An insurer shall designate an account for the receipt of reimbursement of the Federal share of compensation at an institution eligible to receive payments through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network.


(d) *Segregated account for advance payments.* An insurer that seeks advance payments of the Federal share of compensation as certified according to ยง 50.73(b)(2)(i) shall establish a segregated account into which Treasury will make advance payments as well as reimbursements to the insurer.


(1) *Definition of segregated account.* For purposes of this section, a segregated account is an interest-bearing separate account established by an insurer at a financial institution eligible to receive payments through the ACH network. Such an account is limited to the purposes of:


(i) Receiving payments of the Federal share of compensation;


(ii) Disbursing payments to insureds and claimants; and


(iii) Transferring payments to the insurer or affiliated insurers for insured losses reported as already paid.


(2) *Remittance of interest.* All interest earned on advance payments in the segregated account must be remitted at least quarterly to Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service or as otherwise prescribed in applicable procedures.


(e) *Denial or withholding of advance payment.* Treasury may deny or withhold advance payments of the Federal share of compensation to an insurer if Treasury determines that the insurer has not properly disbursed previous advances of the Federal share of compensation or otherwise has not complied with the requirements for advance payment as provided in this Subpart.


(f) *Affiliated group.* In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, Treasury will make payment of the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of the affiliated group to the insurer designated in the Notice of Deductible Erosion to receive payment on behalf of the affiliated group. The designated insurer receiving payment from Treasury must distribute payment to affiliated insurers in a manner that ensures that each insurer in the affiliated group is compensated for its share of insured losses, taking into account a reasonable and fair allocation of the group deductible among affiliated insurers. Upon payment of the Federal share of compensation to the designated insurer, Treasury's payment obligation to the insurers in the affiliated group with respect to any insured losses covered is discharged to the extent of the payment.



---

[N] [81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]






