# ยง 95.37   Railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft and other means of conveyance, equipment or containers, yards, and premises; cleaning and disinfection.

Railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft and other means of conveyance, equipment or containers, yards, and premises which have been used in the transportation, handling, or storing of restricted import products or materials, other than those contained in leak proof cases or casks, shall be cleaned and disinfected with a disinfectant approved for use in this part under the supervision of the division at the time and in the manner provided in this section. Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, such railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft and other means of conveyance, equipment or containers, shall not be moved in interstate or foreign commerce until they have been so treated. 


(a) *Cars to be cleaned and disinfected by final carrier at destination.* Cars required by this part to be cleaned and disinfected shall be so treated by the final carrier at destination as soon as possible after unloading and before the same are moved from such final destination for any purpose: *Provided, however,* That when the products or materials are destined to points at which an inspector or other duly authorized representative of Veterinary Services is not maintained or where proper facilities cannot be provided, the transportation company shall seal, bill, and forward the cars in which the products or materials were transported to a point to be agreed upon between the transportation company and Veterinary Services, and the transportation company shall there clean and disinfect the said cars under the supervision of Veterinary Services. 


(b) *Methods of cleaning and disinfecting.* (1) Railroad cars, trucks, aircraft and means of conveyance other than boats, equipment or containers, required by this part to be cleaned and disinfected shall be treated in the following manner: Collect all litter and other refuse therefrom and destroy by burning or other approved method, clean the exterior and interior of the cars or trucks, and the areas of the aircraft or other means of conveyance, equipment or containers that may have been contaminated, and saturate the entire surface with a permitted disinfectant approved for use in this part. 


(2) Boats required by this part to be cleaned and disinfected shall be treated in the following manner: Collect all litter and other refuse from the decks, compartments, and all other parts of the boat used for the transportation of the products or materials covered by this part, and from the portable chutes or other appliances, fixtures or areas used in loading and unloading same, and destroy the litter and other refuse by burning or by other approved methods, and saturate the entire surface of the said decks, compartments, and other parts of the boat with a permitted disinfectant approved for use in this part. 


(3) Buildings, sheds, and premises required by this part to be disinfected shall be treated in the following manner: Collect all litter and other refuse therefrom and destroy the same by burning or other approved methods, and saturate the entire surface of the fencing, chutes, floors, walls, and other parts with a permitted disinfectant approved for use in this part. 


(c) *Permitted disinfectants.* The disinfectants permitted for use in disinfecting railroad cars, trucks, boats, aircraft and other means of conveyance, equipment or containers, yards, and premises against infection of foot-and-mouth disease are freshly prepared solutions of: 


(1) Sodium carbonate (4 percent) in the proportion of 1 pound to 3 gallons of water. 


(2) Sodium carbonate (4 percent) plus sodium silicate (0.1 percent) in the proportion of 1 pound of sodium carbonate plus sodium silicate to 3 gallons of water. 


(3) Sodium hydroxide (Lye) prepared in a fresh solution in the proportion of not less than 1 pound avoirdupois of sodium hydroxide of not less than 95 percent purity to 6 gallons of water, or one 13
1/2-ounce can to 5 gallons of water. 
5

(d) *Permitted disinfectants against ticks.* The disinfectants permitted for use against tick infestation are liquefied phenol (U. S. P. strength 87 percent phenol) in the proportion of at least 6 fluid ounces to one gallon of water; or chlorinated lime (U. S. P. strength 30 percent available chlorine) in the proportion of one pound to three gallons of water; or any one of the cresylic disinfectants permitted by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in the proportion of at least four fluid ounces to one gallon of water; or through application of boiling water if the treatment is against foot-and-mouth disease and tick infestation; or other disinfectants or treatments approved by the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5981, June 13, 1963, as amended at 32 FR 19157, Dec. 20, 1967; 74 FR 66226, Dec. 15, 2009. Redesignated at 78 FR 73003, Dec. 4, 2013; 83 FR 15494, Apr. 11, 2018] 




