# § 155.20   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Advance payments of the premium tax credit* means payment of the tax credit authorized by 26 U.S.C. 36B and its implementing regulations, which are provided on an advance basis to an eligible individual enrolled in a QHP through an Exchange in accordance with section 1412 of the Affordable Care Act.


*Affordable Care Act* means the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-148), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-152).


*Agent or broker* means a person or entity licensed by the State as an agent, broker or insurance producer.


*Agent or broker direct enrollment technology provider* means a type of web-broker business entity that is not a licensed agent or broker under State law and has been engaged or created by, or is owned by an agent or broker, to provide technology services to facilitate participation in direct enrollment under §§ 155.220(c)(3) and 155.221.


*Annual open enrollment period* means the period each year during which a qualified individual may enroll or change coverage in a QHP through the Exchange.


*Applicant* means:


(1) An individual who is seeking eligibility for him or herself through an application submitted to the Exchange, excluding those individuals seeking eligibility for an exemption from the individual shared responsibility payment pursuant to subpart G of this part, or transmitted to the Exchange by an agency administering an insurance affordability program for at least one of the following:


(i) Enrollment in a QHP through the Exchange; or


(ii) Medicaid, CHIP, and the BHP, if applicable.


(2) For SHOP:


(i) An employer seeking eligibility to purchase coverage through the SHOP; or


(ii) An employer, employee, or a former employee seeking eligibility for enrollment in a QHP through the SHOP for himself or herself and, if the qualified employer offers dependent coverage through the SHOP, seeking eligibility to enroll his or her dependents in a QHP through the SHOP.


*Application filer* means an applicant, an adult who is in the applicant's household, as defined in 42 CFR 435.603(f), or family, as defined in 26 CFR 1.36B-1(d), an authorized representative of an applicant, or if the applicant is a minor or incapacitated, someone acting responsibly for an applicant, excluding those individuals seeking eligibility for an exemption from the individual shared responsibility payment pursuant to subpart G of this part.


*Benefit year* means a calendar year for which a health plan provides coverage for health benefits.


*Catastrophic plan* means a health plan described in section 1302(e) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Code* means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.


*Cost sharing* means any expenditure required by or on behalf of an enrollee with respect to essential health benefits; such term includes deductibles, coinsurance, copayments, or similar charges, but excludes premiums, balance billing amounts for non-network providers, and spending for non-covered services.


*Cost-sharing reductions* means reductions in cost sharing for an eligible individual enrolled in a silver level plan in the Exchange or for an individual who is an Indian enrolled in a QHP in the Exchange.


*Direct enrollment entity* means an entity that an Exchange permits to assist consumers with direct enrollment in qualified health plans offered through the Exchange in a manner considered to be through the Exchange as authorized by § 155.220(c)(3), § 155.221, or § 156.1230 of this subchapter.


*Direct enrollment entity application assister* means an employee, contractor, or agent of a direct enrollment entity who is not licensed as an agent, broker, or producer under State law and who assists individuals in the individual market with applying for a determination or redetermination of eligibility for coverage through the Exchange or for insurance affordability programs.


*Educated health care consumer* has the meaning given the term in section 1304(e) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Eligible employer-sponsored plan* has the meaning given the term in section 5000A(f)(2) of the Code.


*Employee* has the meaning given to the term in section 2791 of the PHS Act.


*Employer* has the meaning given to the term in section 2791 of the PHS Act, except that such term includes employers with one or more employees. All persons treated as a single employer under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 of the Code are treated as one employer.


*Employer contributions* means any financial contributions towards an employer sponsored health plan, or other eligible employer-sponsored benefit made by the employer including those made by salary reduction agreement that is excluded from gross income.


*Enrollee* means a qualified individual or qualified employee enrolled in a QHP. Enrollee also means the dependent of a qualified employee enrolled in a QHP through the SHOP, and any other person who is enrolled in a QHP through the SHOP, consistent with applicable law and the terms of the group health plan. Provided that at least one employee enrolls in a QHP through the SHOP, enrollee also means a business owner enrolled in a QHP through the SHOP, or the dependent of a business owner enrolled in a QHP through the SHOP.


*Exchange* means a governmental agency or non-profit entity that meets the applicable standards of this part and makes QHPs available to qualified individuals and/or qualified employers. Unless otherwise identified, this term includes an Exchange serving the individual market for qualified individuals and a SHOP serving the small group market for qualified employers, regardless of whether the Exchange is established and operated by a State (including a regional Exchange or subsidiary Exchange) or by HHS.


*Exchange Blueprint* means information submitted by a State, an Exchange, or a regional Exchange that sets forth how an Exchange established by a State or a regional Exchange meets the Exchange approval standards established in § 155.105(b) and demonstrates operational readiness of an Exchange as described in § 155.105(c)(2).


*Exchange service area* means the area in which the Exchange is certified to operate, in accordance with the standards specified in subpart B of this part.


*Federal platform agreement* means an agreement between a State Exchange and HHS under which a State Exchange agrees to rely on the Federal platform to carry out select Exchange functions.


*Federally-facilitated Exchange* means an Exchange established and operated within a State by the Secretary under section 1321(c)(1) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Federally-facilitated SHOP* means a Small Business Health Options Program established and operated within a State by the Secretary under section 1321(c)(1) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Full-time employee* has the meaning given in section 4980H (c)(4) of the Code effective for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, except for operations of a Federally-facilitated SHOP for which it is effective for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2014 and in connection with open enrollment activities beginning October 1, 2013.


*Grandfathered health plan* has the meaning given the term in § 147.140.


*Group health plan* has the meaning given to the term in § 144.103.


*Health insurance issuer* or *issuer* has the meaning given to the term in § 144.103.


*Health insurance coverage* has the meaning given to the term in § 144.103.


*Health plan* has the meaning given to the term in section 1301(b)(1) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Individual market* has the meaning given the term in section 1304(a)(2) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Initial open enrollment period* means the period during which a qualified individual may enroll in coverage through the Exchange for coverage during the 2014 benefit year.


*Issuer application assister* means an employee, contractor, or agent of a QHP issuer who is not licensed as an agent, broker, or producer under State law and who assists individuals in the individual market with applying for a determination or redetermination of eligibility for coverage through the Exchange or for insurance affordability programs.


*Large employer* means, in connection with a group health plan with respect to a calendar year and a plan year, an employer who employed an average of at least 51 employees on business days during the preceding calendar year and who employs at least 1 employee on the first day of the plan year. In the case of an employer that was not in existence throughout the preceding calendar year, the determination of whether the employer is a large employer is based on the average number of employees that it is reasonably expected the employer will employ on business days in the current calendar year. A State may elect to define large employer by substituting “101 employees” for “51 employees.” The number of employees must be determined using the method set forth in section 4980H(c)(2) of the Code.




*Lawfully present* means a noncitizen who—


(1) Is a qualified noncitizen as defined at 42 CFR 435.4;


(2) Is in a valid nonimmigrant status, as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15) or otherwise under the immigration laws (as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17));


(3) Is paroled into the United States in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5) for less than 1 year, except for a noncitizen paroled for prosecution, for deferred inspection or pending removal proceedings;


(4) Is granted temporary resident status in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1160 or 1255a;


(5) Is granted Temporary Protected Status (TPS) in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1254a;


(6) Is granted employment authorization under 8 CFR 274a.12(c);


(7) Is a Family Unity beneficiary in accordance with section 301 of Pub. L. 101-649 as amended; or section 1504 of the LIFE Act Amendments of 2000, title XV of H.R. 5666, enacted by reference in Pub. L. 106-554 (see section 1504 of App. D to Pub. L. 106-554);


(8) Is covered by Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) in accordance with a decision made by the President;


(9) Is granted deferred action, including but not limited to individuals granted deferred action under 8 CFR 236.22;


(10) Has a pending application for adjustment of status;


(11)(i) Has a pending application for asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158, for withholding of removal under 8 U.S.C. 1231(b)(3)(A), or for protection under the regulations implementing the Convention Against Torture; and


(ii) Is under the age of 14;


(12) Has been granted withholding of removal under the regulations implementing the Convention Against Torture; or


(13) Has a pending or approved petition for Special Immigrant Juvenile classification as described in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(27)(J).






*Minimum essential coverage* has the meaning given in section 5000A(f) of the Code.


*Navigator* means a private or public entity or individual that is qualified, and licensed, if appropriate, to engage in the activities and meet the standards described in § 155.210.


*Plan year* means a consecutive 12 month period during which a health plan provides coverage for health benefits. A plan year may be a calendar year or otherwise.


*Plain language* has the meaning given to the term in section 1311(e)(3)(B) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Qualified employee* means any employee or former employee of a qualified employer who has been offered health insurance coverage by such qualified employer through the SHOP for himself or herself and, if the qualified employer offers dependent coverage through the SHOP, for his or her dependents.


*Qualified employer* means a small employer that elects to make, at a minimum, all full-time employees of such employer eligible for one or more QHPs in the small group market offered through a SHOP. Beginning in 2017, if a State allows large employers to purchase coverage through the SHOP, the term “qualified employer” shall include a large employer that elects to make all full-time employees of such employer eligible for one or more QHPs in the large group market offered through the SHOP.


*Qualified health plan* or *QHP* means a health plan that has in effect a certification that it meets the standards described in subpart C of part 156 issued or recognized by each Exchange through which such plan is offered in accordance with the process described in subpart K of part 155.


*Qualified health plan issuer* or *QHP issuer* means a health insurance issuer that offers a QHP in accordance with a certification from an Exchange.


*Qualified health plan issuer direct enrollment technology provider* means a business entity that provides technology services or provides access to an information technology platform to QHP issuers to facilitate participation in direct enrollment under § 155.221 or § 156.1230, including a web-broker that provides services as a direct enrollment technology provider to QHP issuers. A QHP issuer direct enrollment technology provider that provides technology services or provides access to an information technology platform to a QHP issuer will be a downstream or delegated entity of the QHP issuer that participates or applies to participate as a direct enrollment entity.


*Qualified individual* means, with respect to an Exchange, an individual who has been determined eligible to enroll through the Exchange in a QHP in the individual market.


*SHOP* means a Small Business Health Options Program operated by an Exchange through which a qualified employer can provide its employees and their dependents with access to one or more QHPs.


*Small employer* means, in connection with a group health plan with respect to a calendar year and a plan year, an employer who employed an average of at least one but not more than 50 employees on business days during the preceding calendar year and who employs at least one employee on the first day of the plan year. In the case of an employer that was not in existence throughout the preceding calendar year, the determination of whether the employer is a small employer is based on the average number of employees that it is reasonably expected the employer will employ on business days in the current calendar year. A State may elect to define small employer by substituting “100 employees” for “50 employees.” The number of employees must be determined using the method set forth in section 4980H(c)(2) of the Code.


*Small group market* has the meaning given to the term in section 1304(a)(3) of the Affordable Care Act.


*Special enrollment period* means a period during which a qualified individual or enrollee who experiences certain qualifying events may enroll in, or change enrollment in, a QHP through the Exchange outside of the initial and annual open enrollment periods.


*Standardized option* means a QHP offered for sale through an individual market Exchange that either—


(1) Has a standardized cost-sharing structure specified by HHS in rulemaking; or


(2) Has a standardized cost-sharing structure specified by HHS in rulemaking that is modified only to the extent necessary to align with high deductible health plan requirements under section 223 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the applicable annual limitation on cost sharing and HHS actuarial value requirements.


*State* means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.


*Web-broker* means an individual agent or broker, group of agents or brokers, or business entity registered with an Exchange under § 155.220(d)(1) that develops and hosts a non-Exchange website that interfaces with an Exchange to assist consumers with direct enrollment in QHPs offered through the Exchange as described in § 155.220(c)(3) or § 155.221. The term also includes an agent or broker direct enrollment technology provider.



---

[N] [77 FR 18444, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 15532, Mar. 11, 2013; 78 FR 39523, July 1, 2013; 78 FR 42313, July 15, 2013; 78 FR 54134, Aug. 30, 2013; 80 FR 10864, Feb. 27, 2015; 81 FR 12336, Mar. 8, 2016; 81 FR 94175, Dec. 22, 2016; 84 FR 17562, Apr. 25, 2019; 86 FR 24288, May 5, 2021; 89 FR 39436, May 8, 2024]








