# ยง 323.4   Requests for identifiable records.

(a) *Procedure.* (1) A written request for an identifiable record relating to a U.S. savings bond or note shall be addressed to the Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Chicago, IL 60605.


(2) A request for an identifiable record relating to any Treasury Department security, other than a savings bond or note, or a security of a Government agency or a wholly or partially Government-owned corporation, the record of which is maintained by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, shall be addressed to the Chief, Division of Loans and Currency, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20226.


(3) A request for an identifiable record relating to any security of a Government agency or wholly or partially Government-owned corporation, the record for which is maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, shall be addressed to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York, NY 10045.


(4) A written request for any identifiable record that the Bureau of the Fiscal Service has other than those set out in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section shall be addressed to the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service, Washington, DC 20220.


(5) A request may be presented in person at the office to which a written request would be addressed.


(b) *Determination of availability.* Determination as to whether or not a requested record shall be disclosed will be made by the Officer to whom the request should be directed under paragraph (a) of this section, and by the Bureau of Fiscal Service Information Officer for requests directed to the Office of the Commissioner, subject to an appeal to the Commissioner of the Fiscal Service. The decision of the Commissioner shall constitute final agency action unless he refers the appeal to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary, in which case the decision of the Fiscal Assistant Secretary shall constitute final agency action.




