# § 122.135   When airline has in-bond liquor storeroom.

(a) *Restocking.* Liquor kits on board an aircraft landing at an airport where the airline involved has an authorized in-bond liquor storeroom may be removed and restocked in the storeroom.


(b) *Inventory record.* Each authorized airline in-bond liquor storeroom shall keep an inventory record in a form that satisfies the port director. The inventory record shall account for the receipt and use of all aircraft liquor and tobacco stores on which duty and/or tax has not been paid.


(c) *Airline employees.* Any airline which has an authorized in-bond liquor store room at an airport shall give the port director:


(1) A list of names of all airline employees authorized to break Customs seals on liquor kits in the in-bond liquor storeroom; and


(2) Signature samples of the authorized employees.


(d) *Opening of aircraft liquor kits.* Aircraft liquor kits received in an authorized storeroom shall be opened only by authorized airline employees, or by Customs officers.


(e) *Contents of liquor kits.* The employees who break the seals on aircraft liquor kits shall check the contents at once. The employees shall immediately report to the port director any:


(1) Evidence of seal tampering;


(2) Difference between the seal numbers on the liquor kits and those recorded on the stores list; and


(3) Differences in quantity as shown on the stores list.


(f) *Handling the liquor kits*—(1) *Partial bottles.* Partial bottles of liquor may be removed from incoming liquor kits and kept in the in-bond liquor storeroom to be destroyed or combined with other partial bottles. This may be done only under Customs supervision. The costs of Customs supervision shall be paid by the airline.


(2) *Exportation.* The contents of incoming liquor kits may be commingled to restock outbound liquor kits. The commingling must take place in the airline in-bond liquor storeroom, using liquor bottles on which the seal has not been broken.


(3) *Sealing.* All liquor kits shall be sealed as provided in § 122.132(a) before removal from the in-bond liquor storeroom. All seal numbers shall be listed on an outgoing stores list.




