# § 514.106   Approval of supplemental applications.

(a) Within 180 days after a supplement to an approved application is filed pursuant to § 514.8, the Commissioner shall approve the supplemental application in accordance with procedures set forth in § 514.105(a)(1) and (2) if he/she determines that the application satisfies the requirements of applicable statutory provisions and regulations. 


(b) The Commissioner will assign a supplemental application to its proper category to ensure processing of the application. 


(1) *Category I.* Supplements that ordinarily do not require a reevaluation of any of the safety or effectiveness data in the parent application. Category I supplements include the following: 


(i) A corporate change that alters the identity or address of the sponsor of the new animal drug application (NADA). 


(ii) The sale, purchase, or construction of manufacturing facilities. 


(iii) The sale or purchase of an NADA. 


(iv) A change in container, container style, shape, size, or components. 


(v) A change in approved labeling (color, style, format, addition, deletion, or revision of certain statements, e.g., trade name, storage, expiration dates, etc). 


(vi) A change in promotional material for a prescription new animal drug not exempted by § 514.8(c)(2)(i)(C)(*1*) through (c)(2)(i)(C)(*3*).


(vii) Changes in manufacturing processes that do not alter the method of manufacture or change the final dosage form. 


(viii) A change in bulk drug shipments. 


(ix) A change in an analytical method or control procedures that do not alter the approved standards. 


(x) A change in an expiration date. 


(xi) Addition of an alternate manufacturer, repackager, or relabeler of the drug product. 


(xii) Addition of an alternate supplier of the new drug substance. 


(xiii) A change permitted in advance of approval as described under § 514.8(b)(3).


(2) *Category II.* Supplements that may require a reevaluation of certain safety or effectiveness data in the parent application. Category II supplements include the following: 


(i) A change in the active ingredient concentration or composition of the final product. 


(ii) A change in quality, purity, strength, and identity specifications of the active or inactive ingredients. 


(iii) A change in dose (amount of drug administered per dose). 


(iv) A change in the treatment regimen (schedule of dosing). 


(v) Addition of a new therapeutic claim to the approved uses of the product. 


(vi) Addition of a new or revised animal production claim. 


(vii) Addition of a new species. 


(viii) A change in the prescription or over-the-counter status of a drug product. 


(ix) A change in statements regarding side effects, warnings, precautions, and contraindications, except the addition of approved statements to container, package, and promotional labeling, and prescription drug advertising. 


(x) A change in the drug withdrawal period prior to slaughter or in the milk discard time. 


(xi) A change in the tolerance for drug residues. 


(xii) A change in analytical methods for drug residues. 


(xiii) A revised method of synthesis or fermentation of the new drug substance. 


(xiv) Updating or changes in the manufacturing process of the new drug substance and/or final dosage form (other than a change in equipment that does not alter the method of manufacture of a new animal drug, or a change from one commercial batch size to another without any change in manufacturing procedure), or changes in the methods, facilities, or controls used for the manufacture, processing, packaging, or holding of the new animal drug (other than use of an establishment not covered by the approval that is in effect) that give increased assurance that the drug will have the characteristics of identity, strength, quality, and purity which it purports or is represented to possess.



---

[N] [55 FR 46052, Nov. 1, 1990; 55 FR 49973, Dec. 3, 1990; 56 FR 12422, Mar. 25, 1991, as amended at 71 FR 74785, Dec. 13, 2006]




