# ยง 2506.12   Will the Corporation provide information to credit reporting agencies?

(a) The Corporation will report certain delinquent debts to appropriate consumer credit reporting agencies by providing the following information:


(1) A statement that the debt is valid and overdue;


(2) The name, address, taxpayer identification number, and any other information necessary to establish the identity of the debtor;


(3) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and


(4) The program or pertinent activity under which the debt arose.


(b) Before disclosing debt information to a credit reporting agency, the Corporation:


(1) Takes reasonable action to locate the debtor if a current address is not available;


(2) Provides the notice required under ยง 2506.14(a) if a current address is available; and


(3) Obtains satisfactory assurances from the credit reporting agency that it complies with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 *et seq.*) and other Federal laws governing the provision of credit information.


(c) At the time debt information is submitted to a credit reporting agency, the Corporation provides a written statement to the reporting agency that all required actions have been taken. In addition, the Corporation thereafter ensures that the credit reporting agency is promptly informed of any substantive change in the conditions or amount of the debt, and promptly verifies or corrects information relevant to the debt.


(d) If a debtor disputes the validity of the debt, the credit reporting agency refers the matter to the appropriate Corporation official. The credit reporting agency excludes the debt from its reports until the Corporation certifies in writing that the debt is valid.


(e) The Corporation may disclose to a commercial credit bureau information concerning a commercial debt, including the following:


(1) Information necessary to establish the name, address, and employer identification number of the commercial debtor;


(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and


(3) The program or pertinent activity under which the debt arose.




