# ยง 170.12   What are the selection criteria for participation in the USDA Farmers Market?

The selection criteria are designed to ensure a consistently high level of quality and diverse products are available at the market, while operating in the constraints of space available at the market site. The criteria are:


(a) *Member of one of the three participant groups specified in ยง 170.4 of this part.* The participant must be a producer-only farmer or producer, seller of value-added products, or specialized non-produce vendor.


(b) *Participant offers a product that adds to a product mix.* Market management will ensure that a balanced mix of fresh fruits and vegetables will be maintained throughout the season. Final selection of fruit and vegetable producers will be made based on their ability to ensure a wide range of fresh farm products throughout the season.


(c) *Willingness to Glean.* Participants should commit to supporting the USDA food gleaning/food recovery initiative. This commitment requires farmers and vendors to donate surplus food and food products at the end of each market day to a local nonprofit organization identified by USDA. Questions about tax deductions for gleaning should be referred to the Internal Revenue Service or a tax advisor. Receipts for donated foods may be obtained from the receiving nonprofit organization.


(d) *Commitment to market.* Participants must commit to the entire market season and be willing to participate on a regular basis.


(e) *Grandfather provision.* Market management reserves the right to select several farmers or vendors based on previous participation in the program, consistency in providing quality products, and compliance with operating guidelines.




