# ยง 400.44   Zone schedule.

(a) The zone grantee shall submit to the Executive Secretary (electronic copy or as specified by the Executive Secretary) a zone schedule which sets forth the elements required in this section. No element of a zone schedule (including any amendment to the zone schedule) may be considered to be in effect until such submission has occurred. If warranted, the Board may subsequently amend the requirements of this section by Board Order.


(b) Each zone schedule shall include:


(1) A title page, which shall include the name of the zone grantee and the date of the current schedule;


(2) A table of contents;


(3) Internal rules/regulations and policies for the zone;


(4) All rates or charges assessed by or on behalf of the grantee;


(5) Information identifying any operator which offers services to the public and which has requested that its information be included in the zone schedule; and


(6) An appendix with definitions of any FTZ-related terms used in the zone schedule (as needed).


(c) The Executive Secretary may review the zone schedule (or any amendment to the zone schedule) to determine whether it contains sufficient information for zone participants concerning the operation of the zone and the grantee's rates and charges as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section. If the Executive Secretary determines that the zone schedule (or amendment) does not satisfy these requirements, the Executive Secretary shall notify the zone grantee. The Executive Secretary may also conduct a review under 400.45(b).


(d) Amendments to the zone schedule shall be prepared and submitted in the manner described in paragraph (a) of this section, and listed in the concluding section of the zone schedule, with dates. No rates/charges or other provisions required for the zone schedule may be applied by, or on behalf of, the grantee unless those specific rates/charges or provisions are included in the most recent zone schedule submitted to the Board and made available to the public in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) A complete copy of the zone schedule shall be freely available for public inspection at the offices of the zone grantee. The Board shall make copies of zone schedules available on its website.



---

[N] [77 FR 12139, Feb. 28, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 8530, Feb. 8, 2024]




