# § 60.394a   Add-on control device operating limits and monitoring requirements.

During the performance tests required by § 60.393a, if you use an add-on control device(s) to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.392a(a) through (c), you must establish add-on control device operating limits required by § 60.392a(h) according to this section, unless approval has been received for alternative monitoring under § 60.13(i) as specified in § 60.392a(h).


(a) *Thermal oxidizers.* If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limit according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. This average combustion temperature is the minimum 3-hour average operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.


(b) *Catalytic oxidizers.* If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. The minimum 3-hour average operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer are the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer and 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer, except during periods of low production, the latter minimum operating limit is to maintain a positive temperature gradient across the catalyst bed. A low production period is when production is less than 80 percent of production rate during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer.


(3) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.


(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (*i.e.,* conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures. If problems are found during the catalyst activity test, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.


(ii) Monthly external inspection of the catalytic oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.


(iii) Annual internal inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found during the annual internal inspection of the catalyst, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations. If the catalyst bed is replaced and is not of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, and is not consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations, then you must conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 60.396a. If a catalyst bed is replaced and the replacement catalyst is of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, and is consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations, then a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency is not required and you may continue to use the previously established operating limits for that catalytic oxidizer.


(c) *Regenerative carbon adsorbers.* If your add-on control device is a regenerative carbon adsorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) You must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (*e.g.,* steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test.


(2) The operating limits for your carbon adsorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle.


(d) *Condensers.* If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum 3-hour average operating limit for your condenser.


(e) *Concentrators.* If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the desorption gas inlet temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average desorption gas inlet temperature. The minimum operating limit for the concentrator is 8 degrees Celsius (15 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average desorption gas inlet temperature maintained during the performance test for that concentrator. You must keep the set point for the desorption gas inlet temperature no lower than 6 degrees Celsius (10 degrees Fahrenheit) below the lower of that set point during the performance test for that concentrator and the average desorption gas inlet temperature maintained during the performance test for that concentrator.


(f) *Emission capture systems.* For each capture device that is not part of a permanent total enclosure (PTE) that meets the criteria of § 60.397a and that is not capturing emissions from a downdraft spray booth or from a flash-off area or bake oven associated with a downdraft spray booth, establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in table 1 to this subpart.


(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by § 60.393a and described in § 60.397a, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate capture device in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the test runs at a point in the duct between the capture device and the add-on control device inlet.


(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device, using all valid data. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device.


(g) *Monitoring requirements.* If you use an add-on control device(s) to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.392a(a) through (c), you must install, operate, and maintain each CMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section according to paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CMS specified in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section according to paragraphs (g)(3) through (5) of this section.


(1) The CMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CMS operation in 1 hour.


(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each successive 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation.


(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CMS.


(4) You must maintain the CMS at all times in accordance with § 60.11(d) and have readily available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.


(5) You must operate the CMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled coating operation is operating in accordance with § 60.11(d).


(6) Startups and shutdowns are normal operation for this source category. Emissions from these activities are to be included when determining if the standards specified in § 60.392a(a) through (c) are being attained. You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.


(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Except for periods of required quality assurance or control activities, any period during which the CMS fails to operate and record data continuously as required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section or generates data that cannot be included in calculating averages as specified in this paragraph (g)(7) constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.


(h) *Capture system bypass line.* You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.


(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) *Flow control position indicator.* Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.


(ii) *Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.* Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position, and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.


(iii) *Valve closure monitoring.* Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (nondiverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.


(iv) *Automatic shutdown system.* Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coating operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shut down the coating operation.


(2) If any bypass line is opened, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 60.395a.


(i) *Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.* If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used to treat desorbed concentrate streams from concentrators or carbon adsorbers), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section:


(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor upstream of the catalyst bed. If you establish the operating parameters for a catalytic oxidizer under paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, you must also install a gas temperature monitor downstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitors must be in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed to measure the temperature difference across the bed. If you establish the operating parameters for a catalytic oxidizer under paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section, you need not install a gas temperature monitor downstream of the catalyst bed.


(3) For all thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (i)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device, unless approval has been received for alternative monitoring under § 60.13(i) as specified in § 60.392a(h). For the purposes of this paragraph (i)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.


(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.


(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a measurement sensitivity of 4 degrees Fahrenheit or 0.75 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.


(iii) Shield the temperature sensor system from electromagnetic interference and chemical contaminants.


(iv) The gas temperature sensor must be capable of recording the temperature continuously. If a gas temperature chart recorder is used, it must have a measurement sensitivity in the minor division of at least 20 degrees Fahrenheit.


(v) Perform an electronic calibration at least semiannually according to the procedures in the manufacturer's owner's manual. Following the electronic calibration, you must conduct a temperature sensor validation check in which a second or redundant temperature sensor placed nearby the process temperature sensor must yield a reading within 30 degrees Fahrenheit of the process temperature sensor reading.


(vi) Conduct calibration and validation checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.


(vii) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity and electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.


(j) *Regenerative carbon adsorbers.* If you are using a regenerative carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (*e.g.,* steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle and comply with paragraphs (g)(3) through (5) and (j)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having a measurement sensitivity of plus or minus 10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle.


(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature (as expressed in degrees Fahrenheit) recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater, and must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle.


(k) *Condensers.* If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (k)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The gas temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature (expressed in degrees Fahrenheit) recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater.


(2) The temperature monitor must provide a gas temperature record at least once every 15 minutes.


(l) *Concentrators.* If you are using a concentrator, such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must install a temperature monitor in the desorption gas stream. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (i)(3) of this section.


(m) *Emission capture systems.* The capture system monitoring system must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (m)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.


(ii) Reduce swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.


(iii) Conduct a flow sensor calibration check at least semiannually.


(iv) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.


(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (m)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Locate the pressure tap(s) in a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.


(ii) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.


(iii) Using an inclined manometer with a measurement sensitivity of 0.0002 inches of water, check gauge calibration quarterly and transducer calibration monthly.


(iv) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.


(v) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, pressure taps for plugging and mechanical connections for leakage.






