# ยง 214.311   Housing counseling grant funds.

(a) *HUD housing counseling grant funds.* HUD approval or program participation does not guarantee housing counseling grant funding. Funding for the Housing Counseling Program depends on appropriations from Congress, and are awarded competitively under Federal and HUD regulations and policies governing assistance programs, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545 *et seq.*). If housing counseling grant funds become available that are to be competitively awarded, HUD will notify the public through a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) in the _Federal Register_ and by the Internet or other electronic media.




(b) *Local funding sources.* HUD recommends that approved agencies seek and secure funding from funding sources that may include local and state governments, private foundations, and lending or real estate organizations. Agencies must assure that such arrangements do not violate the provisions regarding conflicts of interest described in ยง 214.303(e).


(c) *Limitation on distribution of funds.* No housing counseling funds made available under the Housing Counseling Program shall be distributed to:


(1)(i) Any organization that has been convicted for a violation under Federal law relating to an election for Federal office or any organization that employs applicable individuals. For the purposes of this section, applicable individual means an individual who is:


(A) Employed by the organization in a permanent or temporary capacity;


(B) Contracted or retained by the organization; or


(C) Acting on behalf of, or with the express or apparent authority of, the organization; and


(D) Has been convicted for a violation under Federal law relating to an election for Federal office.


(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), a violation under Federal law relating to an election for Federal office includes, but is not limited to, a violation of one or more of the following statutory provisions related to Federal election fraud, voter intimidation, and voter suppression: 18 U.S.C. 241-242, 245(b)(1)(A), 592-611, and 42 U.S.C. 1973.


(2) A participating agency that provides housing counseling through housing counselors who are not HUD certified housing counselors in accordance with ยง 214.103(n).


(d) *Misuse of housing counseling grant funds.* If any participating agency that receives housing counseling grant funds under the Housing Counseling Program is determined by HUD to have used those housing counseling grant funds in a manner that constitutes a material violation of applicable statutes and regulations, or any requirements or conditions under which such funds were provided:


(1) HUD shall require that, within 12 months after the date of the determination of such misuse, the agency shall reimburse HUD for such misused amounts and return to HUD any such amounts that remain unused or unobligated for use; and


(2) Such agency shall be ineligible, at any time after the date of such determination of material misuse, to apply for or receive further funds under the Housing Counseling Program.


(3) The remedies under paragraph (d) of this section are in addition to any other remedies that may be available under law.



---

[N] [72 FR 55648, Sept. 28, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 90658, Dec. 14, 2016]






