# § 146.92   Definitions.

(a) *Attribution.* “Attribution” means the association of a final product with its source material.


(b) *Feedstocks.* “Feedstocks” means crude petroleum or intermediate product that is used in a petroleum refinery to make a final product.


(c) *Feedstock factor.* “Feedstock factor” means the relative value of final products utilizing T.D. 66-16 (see § 146.92(h)), and which takes into account any volumetric loss or gain.


(d) *Final product.* “Final product” means any petroleum product that is produced in a refinery subzone and thereafter removed therefrom or consumed within the zone.


(e) *Manufacturing period.* “Manufacturing period” means a period selected by the refiner which must be no more than a calendar month basis, for which attribution to a source feedstock must be made for every final product made, consumed in, or removed from the refinery subzone.


(f) *Petroleum refinery.* “Petroleum refinery” means a facility that refines a feedstock listed on the top line of the tables set forth in T.D. 66-16 into a product listed in the left column of the tables set forth in T.D. 66-16.


(g) *Price of product.* “Price of product” means the average per unit market value of each final product for a given manufacturing period or the published standard product value if updated each month.


(h) *Producibility.* “Producibility” is a method of attributing products to feedstocks for petroleum manufacturing in accordance with the Industry Standards of Potential Production set forth in T.D. 66-16.


(i) *Relative value.* “Relative value” means a value assigned to each final product attributed to the separation from a privileged foreign feedstock based on the ratio of the final product's value compared to the privileged foreign feedstock's duty.


(j) *Time of separation.* “Time of separation” means the manufacturing period in which a privileged foreign status feedstock is deemed to have been separated into two or more final products.


(k) *Weighted average.* “Weighted average” means the relative value of merchandise, which is determined by dividing the total value of shipments in a given period by the total quantity shipped in the same given period. See example in section VI of the appendix to this part.




