# § 607.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply: 


(a) *Assessment* means the annual amount to be paid by each System institution to the Farm Credit Administration in accordance with section 5.15 of the Act. 


(b) *Average risk-adjusted asset base* means the average of the risk-adjusted asset base (as defined in § 615.5201 of this chapter) of banks, associations, and designated other System entities, calculated as follows:


(1) For a bank, association, or designated other System entity with four quarters of risk-adjusted assets as of June 30 of each year, the sum of the average daily risk-adjusted assets as of the last day of the quarter for the most recent four quarters immediately preceding each September 15, divided by four;


(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, for a bank, association, or designated other System entity with less than four quarters of risk-adjusted assets as of June 30 of each year, the sum of the average daily risk-adjusted assets as of the last day of the quarter for the quarters in which it was in existence immediately preceding September 15, divided by the number of quarters in which it was in existence immediately preceding September 15;


(3) For a bank, association, or designated other System entity that is the continuing institution after a merger of existing institutions or a newly formed institution formed through a consolidation of existing institutions and that has less than four quarters of risk-adjusted assets as of June 30 of each year, the sum of the average daily risk-adjusted assets as of the last day of the quarter for the most recent four quarters immediately preceding September 15 for all the institutions that were merged or consolidated, divided by four;


(4) For a bank, association, or designated other System entity chartered during the period July 1 through September 30 of each year that is not the continuing institution after a merger of existing institutions or a newly formed institution formed through a consolidation of existing institutions, the total of the average daily risk-adjusted assets as of the last day of the quarter ending September 30.


(c) *Composite Financial Institution Rating System (FIRS) rating* means the composite numerical assessment of the financial condition of an institution assigned to the institution by the FCA based on its most recent examination of the institution. The FIRS factors are generally considered to be important indicators of an institution's financial health. Institutions are rated on each of the factors during an examination. The composite FIRS rating ranges from 1 to 5, with a lower number indicating a better financial condition than a higher number.


(d) *Delinquent amount* means an amount owed to the FCA that has not been paid by the date specified in the FCA's Notice of Assessment or billing. 


(e) *Designated other System entities* means other System entities designated by the FCA in § 607.3(c) to be assessed on the same basis as banks and associations under § 607.3. 


(f) *Direct expenses* means the expenses of the FCA attributable to the performance of examinations. 


(g) *Indirect expenses* means all FCA expenses that are not attributable to the performance of examinations. 


(h) *Non-System entities* means the National Consumer Cooperative Bank, the National Cooperative Bank Development Corporation, and any other entity that is required to be examined, supervised, or otherwise regulated by the FCA that is not a System institution. 


(i) *Notice of Assessment* means a written notice to each System institution showing the total amount assessed and owing, the fiscal year covered by the assessment, the amounts of installment payments, and the due dates for such payments. For banks, associations, and designated other System entities, the Notice of Assessment shall also include an individualized assessment table showing the assessment under § 607.3(b)(2), where applicable. 


(j) *Other System entities* means any service corporation chartered under section 4.25 of the Act, the FAMC, the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, the Farm Credit Finance Corporation of Puerto Rico, and any other entity statutorily designated as a System institution that is not a bank or association. 


(k) *System institutions* means banks, associations, and other System entities. 



---

[N] [58 FR 10942, Feb. 23, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 37403, July 22, 1994; 63 FR 34268, June 24, 1998; 70 FR 35348, June 17, 2005; 75 FR 35968, June 24, 2010; 81 FR 49772, July 28, 2016; 82 FR 48759, Oct. 20, 2017]




