# § 61.327   Are there specific endorsement requirements to operate a light-sport aircraft based on V

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, if you hold a sport pilot certificate and you seek to operate a light-sport aircraft that is an airplane with a V_H_ less than or equal to 87 knots CAS you must—


(1) Receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor in an airplane that has a V_H_ less than or equal to 87 knots CAS; and


(2) Receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who provided the training specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section certifying that you are proficient in the operation of light-sport aircraft that is an airplane with a V_H_ less than or equal to 87 knots CAS.


(b) If you hold a sport pilot certificate and you seek to operate a light-sport aircraft that has a V_H_ greater than 87 knots CAS you must—


(1) Receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft that has a V_H_ greater than 87 knots CAS; and


(2) Receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who provided the training specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section certifying that you are proficient in the operation of light-sport aircraft with a V_H_ greater than 87 knots CAS.


(c) The training and endorsements required by paragraph (a) of this section are not required if you have logged flight time as pilot in command of an airplane with a V_H_ less than or equal to 87 knots CAS prior to April 2, 2010.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2007-29015, 75 FR 5222, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 61-125A, 75 FR 15610, Mar. 30, 2010]




