# § 417.157   Contributions for the HMO alternative.

(a) *General principles*—(1) *Nondiscrimination.* The employer contribution to an HMO must be in an amount that does not discriminate financially against an employee who enrolls in an HMO. A contribution does not discriminate financially if the method of determining the contribution is reasonable and is designed to ensure that employees have a fair choice among health benefits plan alternatives. 


(2) *Effect of agreements or contracts.* The employing entity or designee is not required to pay more for health benefits as a result of offering the HMO alternative than it would otherwise be required to pay under a collective bargaining agreement or contract that provides for health benefits and is in effect at the time the HMO alternative is included. 


(3) *Examples of acceptable employer contributions.* The following are methods that are considered nondiscriminatory: 


(i) The employer contribution to the HMO is the same, per employee, as the contribution to non-HMO alternatives. 


(ii) The employer contribution reflects the composition of the HMO's enrollment in terms of enrollee attributes that can reasonably be used to predict utilization, experience, costs, or risk. For each enrollee in a given class established on the basis of those attributes, the employer contributes an equal amount, regardless of the health benefits plan chosen by the employee. 


(iii) The employer contribution is a fixed percentage of the premium for each of the alternatives offered. 


(iv) The employer contribution is determined under a mutually acceptable arrangement negotiated by the HMO and the employer. In negotiating the arrangement, the employer may not insist on terms that would cause the HMO to violate any of the requirements of this part. 


(4) *Adjustment of employer contribution.* An employer contribution determined by an acceptable method may in some cases be adjusted if it would result in a nominal payment or no payment at all by HMO enrollees (because the HMO premium is lower than the premiums for the other alternatives offered). If, for example the employer has a policy of requiring all employees to contribute to their health benefits plan, the employer may require HMO enrollees who would otherwise pay little or nothing at all, to make a payment that does not exceed 50 percent of the employee contribution to the principal non-HMO alternative. The principal non-HMO alternative is the one that covers the largest number of enrollees from the particular employer. 


(b) *Administrative expenses.* (1) In determining the amount of its contribution to the HMO, the employing entity or designee may not consider administrative expenses incurred in connection with offering any alternative in the health benefits plan. 


(2) However, if the employing entity or designee has special requirements for other than standard solicitation brochures and enrollment literature, it must, in the case of the HMO alternative, determine and distribute any administrative costs attributable to those requirements in a manner consistent with its method of determining and distributing those costs for the non-HMO alternatives. 


(c) *Exclusion for contribution for certain benefits.* In determining the amount of the employing entity's contribution or the designee's cost for the HMO alternative, the employing entity or designee may exclude those portions of the contribution allocable to benefits (such as life insurance or insurance for supplemental health benefits)—


(1) For which eligible employees and their eligible dependents are covered notwithstanding selection of the HMO alternative; and 


(2) That are not offered on a prepayment basis by the HMO to the employing entity's employees. 


(d) *Contributions determined by agreements or contracts or by law.* If the specific amount of the employing entity's contribution for health benefits is fixed by an agreement or contract, or by law, that amount constitutes the employing entity's obligation for contribution toward the HMO premiums. 


(e) *Allocation of portion of a contribution determined by an agreement.* In some cases, the employing entity's contribution for health benefits is determined by an agreement that also provides for benefits other than health benefits. In that case, the employing entity must determine, or instruct its designee to determine, what portion of its contribution is applicable to health benefits. 


(f) *Retention and availability of data.* Each employing entity or designee must retain the following data for three years and make it available to CMS upon request: 


(1) The data used to compute the level of contribution for each of the plans offered to employees. 


(2) Related data about the employees who are eligible to enroll in a plan. 


(3) A description of the methodology for computation. 


(g) *CMS review of data.* (1) CMS may request and review the data specified in paragraph (f) of this section on its own initiative or in response to requests from HMOs or employees. 


(2) The purpose of CMS's review is to determine whether the methodology and the level of contribution comply with the requirements of this subpart. 


(3) HMOs and employees that request CMS to review must set forth reasonable grounds for making the request. 



---

[N] [61 FR 27287, May 31, 1996]




