# § 98.486   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), the annual report shall contain the following information, as applicable:


(a) The annual quantity of associated storage in metric tons of CO_2_ (*m*_stored_).


(b) The density of CO_2_ if volumetric units are converted to mass in order to be reported for annual quantity of CO_2_ stored.


(c) The annual quantity of CO_2_ input (*m*_input_) and the information in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The annual total mass of CO_2_ received at the custody transfer meter by the CO_2_-EOR project, including CO_2_ transferred from another CO_2_-EOR project (*m*_received_).


(2) The annual mass of native CO_2_ produced and captured in the CO_2_-EOR project (*m*_native_).


(d) The annual mass of CO_2_ that is recycled and reinjected into the EOR complex.


(e) The annual total mass of CO_2_ loss from project operations (*m*_loss operations_), and the information in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Loss of CO_2_ due to leakage from production, handling, and recycling CO_2_-EOR facilities (infrastructure including wellheads) (*m*_loss leakage facilities_).


(2) Loss of CO_2_ from venting/flaring from production operations (*m*_loss vent/flare_).


(3) Loss of CO_2_ due to entrainment within produced gas/oil/water when this CO2 is not separated and reinjected (*m*_loss entrained_).


(4) Loss of CO_2_ due to any transfer of CO_2_ outside the CO_2_-EOR project (*m*_loss transfer_).


(f) The total mass of CO_2_ loss from the EOR complex (*m*_loss EOR complex_).


(g) Annual documentation that contains the following components as described in Clause 4.4 of CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:19 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7):


(1) The formulas used to quantify the annual mass of associated storage, including the mass of CO_2_ delivered to the CO_2_-EOR project and losses during the period covered by the documentation (see Clause 8 and Annex B of CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:19 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7)).


(2) The methods used to estimate missing data and the amounts estimated as described in Clause 9.2 of CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:19 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).


(3) The approach and method for quantification utilized by the operator, including accuracy, precision, and uncertainties (see Clause 8 and Annex B of CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:19 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7)).


(4) A statement describing the nature of validation or verification including the date of review, process, findings, and responsible person or entity.


(5) Source of each CO_2_ stream quantified as associated storage (see Clause 8.3 of CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:19 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7)).


(6) A description of the procedures used to detect and characterize the total CO_2_ leakage from the EOR complex.


(7) If only the mass of anthropogenic CO_2_ is considered for mstored, a description of the derivation and application of anthropogenic CO_2_ allocation ratios for all the terms described in Clauses 8.1 to 8.4.6 of CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:19 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).


(8) Any documentation provided by a qualified independent engineer or geologist, who certifies that the documentation provided, including the mass balance calculations as well as information regarding monitoring and containment assurance, is accurate and complete.


(h) Any changes made within the reporting year to containment assurance and monitoring approaches and procedures in the EOR operations management plan.






