# ยง 960.5-2-9   Rock characteristics.

(a) *Qualifying condition.* The site shall be located such that (1) the thickness and lateral extent and the characteristics and composition of the host rock will be suitable for accommodation of the underground facility; (2) repository construction, operation, and closure will not cause undue hazard to personnel; and (3) the requirements specified in ยง 960.5-1(a)(3) can be met.


(b) *Favorable conditions.* (1) A host rock that is sufficiently thick and laterally extensive to allow significant flexibility in selecting the depth, configuration, and location of the underground facility.


(2) A host rock with characteristics that would require minimal or no artificial support for underground openings to ensure safe repository construction, operation, and closure.


(c) *Potentially adverse conditions.* (1) A host rock that is suitable for repository construction, operation, and closure, but is so thin or laterally restricted that little flexibility is available for selecting the depth, configuration, or location of an underground facility.


(2) In situ characteristics and conditions that could require engineering measures beyond reasonably available technology in the construction of the shafts and underground facility.


(3) Geomechanical properties that could necessitate extensive maintenance of the underground openings during repository operation and closure. 


(4) Potential for such phenomena as thermally induced fracturing, the hydration and dehydration of mineral components, or other physical, chemical, or radiation-related phenomena that could lead to safety hazards or difficulty in retrieval during repository operation. 


(5) Existing faults, shear zones, pressurized brine pockets, dissolution effects, or other stratigraphic or structural features that could compromise the safety of repository personnel because of water inflow or construction problems. 


(d) *Disqualifying condition.* The site shall be *disqualified* if the rock characteristics are such that the activities associated with repository construction, operation, or closure are predicted to cause significant risk to the health and safety of personnel, taking into account mitigating measures that use reasonably available technology. 




