# § 62.16724   Reporting guidelines.

Follow the reporting provisions listed in this section, as applicable, except as provided under 40 CFR 60.24 and §§ 62.16711(g), (h), and 62.16724(d)(2).


(a) *Design capacity report.* Submit the initial design capacity report no later than September 20, 2021. The initial design capacity report must contain the following information:


(1) A map or plot of the landfill, providing the size and location of the landfill, and identifying all areas where solid waste may be landfilled according to the permit issued by the state, local, or tribal agency responsible for regulating the landfill.


(2) The maximum design capacity of the landfill. Where the maximum design capacity is specified in the permit issued by the state, local, or tribal agency responsible for regulating the landfill, a copy of the permit specifying the maximum design capacity may be submitted as part of the report. If the maximum design capacity of the landfill is not specified in the permit, the maximum design capacity must be calculated using good engineering practices. The calculations must be provided, along with the relevant parameters as part of the report. The landfill may calculate design capacity in either megagrams or cubic meters for comparison with the exemption values. If the owner or operator chooses to convert the design capacity from volume to mass or from mass to volume to demonstrate its design capacity is less than 2.5 million megagrams or 2.5 million cubic meters, the calculation must include a site-specific density, which must be recalculated annually. Any density conversions must be documented and submitted with the design capacity report. The state, local, or tribal agency or the Administrator may request other reasonable information as may be necessary to verify the maximum design capacity of the landfill.


(b) *Amended design capacity report.* An amended design capacity report must be submitted providing notification of an increase in the design capacity of the landfill, within 90 days of an increase in the maximum design capacity of the landfill to meet or exceed 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters. This increase in design capacity may result from an increase in the permitted volume of the landfill or an increase in the density as documented in the annual recalculation required in § 62.16726(f).


(c) *NMOC emission rate report.* For existing MSW landfills covered by this subpart with a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters, the NMOC emission rate report must be submitted following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section no later than 90 days after the effective date of this subpart. The NMOC emission rate report must be submitted to the Administrator annually following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The Administrator may request such additional information as may be necessary to verify the reported NMOC emission rate.


(1) The NMOC emission rate report must contain an annual or 5-year estimate of the NMOC emission rate calculated using the formula and procedures provided in § 62.16718(a) or (b), as applicable.


(2) The NMOC emission rate report must include all the data, calculations, sample reports and measurements used to estimate the annual or 5-year emissions.


(3) If the estimated NMOC emission rate as reported in the annual report to the Administrator is less than 34 megagrams per year in each of the next 5 consecutive years, the owner or operator may elect to submit, following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, an estimate of the NMOC emission rate for the next 5-year period in lieu of the annual report. This estimate must include the current amount of solid waste-in-place and the estimated waste acceptance rate for each year of the 5 years for which an NMOC emission rate is estimated. All data and calculations upon which this estimate is based must be provided to the Administrator. This estimate must be revised at least once every 5 years. If the actual waste acceptance rate exceeds the estimated waste acceptance rate in any year reported in the 5-year estimate, a revised 5-year estimate must be submitted to the Administrator. The revised estimate must cover the 5-year period beginning with the year in which the actual waste acceptance rate exceeded the estimated waste acceptance rate.


(4) Each owner or operator subject to the requirements of this subpart is exempted from the requirements to submit an NMOC emission rate report, after installing a collection and control system that complies with § 62.16714(b) and (c), during such time as the collection and control system is in operation and in compliance with §§ 62.16716 and 62.16720.


(d) *Collection and control system design plan.* The collection and control system design plan must be prepared and approved by a professional engineer and must meet the following requirements:


(1) The collection and control system as described in the design plan must meet the design requirements in § 62.16714(b) and (c).


(2) The collection and control system design plan must include any alternatives to the operational standards, test methods, procedures, compliance measures, monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting provisions of §§ 62.16716 through 62.16726 proposed by the owner or operator.


(3) The collection and control system design plan must either conform to specifications for active collection systems in § 62.16728 or include a demonstration to the Administrator's satisfaction of the sufficiency of the alternative provisions to § 62.16728.


(4) Each owner or operator of an MSW landfill having a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters must submit a copy of the collection and control system design plan cover page that contains the engineer's seal to the Administrator within 1 year of the first NMOC emission rate report in which the NMOC emission rate equals or exceeds 34 megagrams per year, except as follows:


(i) If the owner or operator elects to recalculate the NMOC emission rate after Tier 2 NMOC sampling and analysis as provided in § 62.16718(a)(3) and the resulting rate is less than 34 megagrams per year, annual periodic reporting must be resumed, using the Tier 2 determined site-specific NMOC concentration, until the calculated NMOC emission rate is equal to or greater than 34 megagrams per year or the landfill is closed. The revised NMOC emission rate report, with the recalculated NMOC emission rate based on NMOC sampling and analysis, must be submitted, following the procedures in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, within 180 days of the first calculated exceedance of 34 megagrams per year.


(ii) If the owner or operator elects to recalculate the NMOC emission rate after determining a site-specific methane generation rate constant k, as provided in Tier 3 in § 62.16718(a)(4), and the resulting NMOC emission rate is less than 34 megagrams per year, annual periodic reporting must be resumed. The resulting site-specific methane generation rate constant k must be used in the NMOC emission rate calculation until such time as the emissions rate calculation results in an exceedance. The revised NMOC emission rate report based on the provisions of § 62.16718(a)(4) and the resulting site-specific methane generation rate constant k must be submitted, following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, to the Administrator within 1 year of the first calculated NMOC emission rate equaling or exceeding 34 megagrams per year.


(iii) If the owner or operator elects to demonstrate that site-specific surface methane emissions are below 500 parts-per-million methane, based on the provisions of § 62.16718(a)(6), then the owner or operator must submit annually a Tier 4 surface emissions report as specified in this paragraph following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section until a surface emissions reading of 500 parts-per-million methane or greater is found. If the Tier 4 surface emissions report shows no surface emissions readings of 500 parts-per-million methane or greater for four consecutive quarters at a closed landfill, then the landfill owner or operator may reduce Tier 4 monitoring from a quarterly to an annual frequency. The Administrator may request such additional information as may be necessary to verify the reported instantaneous surface emission readings. The Tier 4 surface emissions report must clearly identify the location, date and time (to the nearest second), average wind speeds including wind gusts, and reading (in parts-per-million) of any value 500 parts-per-million methane or greater, other than non-repeatable, momentary readings. For location, you must determine the latitude and longitude coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 4 meters. The coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places. The Tier 4 surface emission report should also include the results of the most recent Tier 1 and Tier 2 results in order to verify that the landfill does not exceed 50 megagrams per year of NMOC.


(A) The initial Tier 4 surface emissions report must be submitted annually, starting within 30 days of completing the fourth quarter of Tier 4 SEM that demonstrates that site-specific surface methane emissions are below 500 parts-per-million methane, and following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section


(B) The Tier 4 surface emissions rate report must be submitted within 1 year of the first measured surface exceedance of 500 parts-per-million methane, following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.


(iv) If the landfill is in the closed landfill subcategory, the owner or operator is exempt from submitting a collection and control system design plan to the Administrator provided that conditions in § 62.16711(g)(3) are met. If not, the owner or operator shall follow the submission procedures and timing in § 62.16724(d)(ii) and (iii) using a level of 50 Mg/yr instead of 34 Mg/yr.


(5) The landfill owner or operator must notify the Administrator that the design plan is completed and submit a copy of the plan's signature page. The Administrator has 90 days to decide whether the design plan should be submitted for review. If the Administrator chooses to review the plan, the approval process continues as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. However, if the Administrator indicates that submission is not required or does not respond within 90 days, the landfill owner or operator can continue to implement the plan with the recognition that the owner or operator is proceeding at their own risk. In the event that the design plan is required to be modified to obtain approval, the owner or operator must take any steps necessary to conform any prior actions to the approved design plan and any failure to do so could result in an enforcement action.


(6) Upon receipt of an initial or revised design plan, the Administrator must review the information submitted under paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section and either approve it, disapprove it, or request that additional information be submitted. Because of the many site-specific factors involved with landfill gas system design, alternative systems may be necessary. A wide variety of system designs are possible, such as vertical wells, combination horizontal and vertical collection systems, or horizontal trenches only, leachate collection components, and passive systems. If the Administrator does not approve or disapprove the design plan, or does not request that additional information be submitted within 90 days of receipt, then the owner or operator may continue with implementation of the design plan, recognizing they would be proceeding at their own risk.


(7) If the owner or operator chooses to demonstrate compliance with the emission control requirements of this subpart using a treatment system as defined in this subpart, then the owner or operator must prepare a site-specific treatment system monitoring plan as specified in § 62.16726(b)(5). Legacy controlled landfills must prepare the monitoring plan no later than May 23, 2022.


(e) *Revised design plan.* The owner or operator who has already been required to submit a design plan under paragraph (d) of this section, or under subpart GGG of this part; 40 CFR part 60, subpart WWW; or a state plan implementing subpart Cc of 40 CFR part 60, must submit a revised design plan to the Administrator for approval as follows:


(1) At least 90 days before expanding operations to an area not covered by the previously approved design plan.


(2) Prior to installing or expanding the gas collection system in a way that is not consistent with the design plan that was submitted to the Administrator according to paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) *Closure report.* Each owner or operator of a controlled landfill must submit a closure report to the Administrator within 30 days of ceasing waste acceptance. The Administrator may request additional information as may be necessary to verify that permanent closure has taken place in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 258.60. If a closure report has been submitted to the Administrator, no additional wastes may be placed into the landfill without filing a notification of modification as described under 40 CFR 60.7(a)(4).


(g) *Equipment removal report.* Each owner or operator of a controlled landfill must submit an equipment removal report to the Administrator 30 days prior to removal or cessation of operation of the control equipment.


(1) The equipment removal report must contain the following items:


(i) A copy of the closure report submitted in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section; and


(ii) A copy of the initial performance test report demonstrating that the 15-year minimum control period has expired, unless the report of the results of the performance test has been submitted to the EPA via the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX), or information that demonstrates that the gas collection and control system will be unable to operate for 15 years due to declining gas flows. In the equipment removal report, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in lieu of the performance test report if the report has been previously submitted to the EPA's CDX; and


(iii) Dated copies of three successive NMOC emission rate reports demonstrating that the landfill is no longer producing 34 megagrams or greater of NMOC per year, unless the NMOC emission rate reports have been submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX. If the NMOC emission rate reports have been previously submitted to the EPA's CDX, a statement that the NMOC emission rate reports have been submitted electronically and the dates that the reports were submitted to the EPA's CDX may be submitted in the equipment removal report in lieu of the NMOC emission rate reports; or


(iv) For the closed landfill subcategory, dated copies of three successive NMOC emission rate reports demonstrating that the landfill is no longer producing 50 megagrams or greater of NMOC per year, unless the NMOC emission rate reports have been submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX. If the NMOC emission rate reports have been previously submitted to the EPA's CDX, a statement that the NMOC emission rate reports have been submitted electronically and the dates that the reports were submitted to the EPA's CDX may be submitted in the equipment removal report in lieu of the NMOC emission rate reports.


(2) The Administrator may request such additional information as may be necessary to verify that all of the conditions for removal in § 62.16714(f) have been met.


(h) *Annual report.* The owner or operator of a landfill seeking to comply with § 62.16714(e)(2) using an active collection system designed in accordance with § 62.16714(b) must submit to the Administrator, following the procedures specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, an annual report of the recorded information in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section. The initial annual report must be submitted within 180 days of installation and startup of the collection and control system except for legacy controlled landfills that have already submitted an initial report under 40 CFR part 60, subpart WWW; subpart GGG of this part; or a state plan implementing 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc. Except for legacy controlled landfills, the initial annual report must include the initial performance test report required under 40 CFR 60.8, as applicable, unless the report of the results of the performance test has been submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX. Legacy controlled landfills are exempted from submitting performance test reports in EPA's CDX provided that those reports were submitted under 40 CFR part 60, subpart WWW; subpart GGG of this part; or a state plan implementing 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc. In the initial annual report, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in lieu of the performance test report if the report has been previously submitted to the EPA's CDX. The initial performance test report must be submitted, following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, no later than the date that the initial annual report is submitted. For enclosed combustion devices and flares, reportable exceedances are defined under § 62.16726(c)(1). Legacy controlled landfills are required to submit the annual report no later than one year after the most recent annual report submitted. If complying with the operational provisions of §§ 63.1958, 63.1960, and 63.1961 of this chapter, as allowed at §§ 62.16716, 62.16720, and 62.16722, the owner or operator must follow the semi-annual reporting requirements in § 63.1981(h) of this chapter in lieu of this paragraph.


(1) Value and length of time for exceedance of applicable parameters monitored under § 62.16722(a)(1), (b), (c), (d), and (g).


(2) Description and duration of all periods when the gas stream was diverted from the control device or treatment system through a bypass line or the indication of bypass flow as specified under § 62.16722.


(3) Description and duration of all periods when the control device or treatment system was not operating and length of time the control device or treatment system was not operating.


(4) All periods when the collection system was not operating.


(5) The location of each exceedance of the 500 parts-per-million methane concentration as provided in § 62.16716(d) and the concentration recorded at each location for which an exceedance was recorded in the previous month. For location, you must determine the latitude and longitude coordinates using an instrument with an accuracy of at least 4 meters. The coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(6) The date of installation and the location of each well or collection system expansion added pursuant to § 62.16720(a)(3), (4), (b), and (c)(4).


(7) For any corrective action analysis for which corrective actions are required in § 62.16720(a)(3) or (4) and that take more than 60 days to correct the exceedance, the root cause analysis conducted, including a description of the recommended corrective action(s), the date for corrective action(s) already completed following the positive pressure or elevated temperature reading, and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.


(i) *Initial performance test report.* Each owner or operator seeking to comply with § 62.16714(c) must include the following information with the initial performance test report required under 40 CFR 60.8 of this chapter:


(1) A diagram of the collection system showing collection system positioning including all wells, horizontal collectors, surface collectors, or other gas extraction devices, including the locations of any areas excluded from collection and the proposed sites for the future collection system expansion;


(2) The data upon which the sufficient density of wells, horizontal collectors, surface collectors, or other gas extraction devices and the gas mover equipment sizing are based;


(3) The documentation of the presence of asbestos or nondegradable material for each area from which collection wells have been excluded based on the presence of asbestos or nondegradable material;


(4) The sum of the gas generation flow rates for all areas from which collection wells have been excluded based on nonproductivity and the calculations of gas generation flow rate for each excluded area;


(5) The provisions for increasing gas mover equipment capacity with increased gas generation flow rate, if the present gas mover equipment is inadequate to move the maximum flow rate expected over the life of the landfill; and


(6) The provisions for the control of off-site migration.


(j) *Electronic reporting.* The owner or operator must submit reports electronically according to paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in 40 CFR 60.8 of this chapter), the owner or operator must submit the results of each performance test according to the following procedures:


(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert_info.html*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). The CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternative file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, once the XML schema is available. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(ii) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in 40 CFR 60.4 of this chapter.


(2) Each owner or operator required to submit reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph must submit reports to the EPA via the CEDRI (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX). The owner or operator must use the appropriate electronic report in CEDRI for this subpart or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (*https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/chief/cedri/index.html*). If the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, the owner or operator must submit the report to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in 40 CFR 60.4 of this chapter. Once the form has been available in CEDRI for 90 calendar days, the owner or operator must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted.


(k) *Corrective action and the corresponding timeline.* The owner or operator must submit according to paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section. If complying with the operational provisions of 40 CFR 63.1958, 63.1960, and 63.1961 of this chapter, as allowed at §§ 62.16716, 62.16720, and 62.16722, the owner or operator must follow the corrective action and the corresponding timeline reporting requirements in § 63.1981(j) of this chapter in lieu of paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For corrective action that is required according to § 62.16720(a)(3)(iii) or 62.16720(a)(4)(iii) and is expected to take longer than 120 days after the initial exceedance to complete, you must submit the root cause analysis, corrective action analysis, and corresponding implementation timeline to the Administrator as soon as practicable but no later than 75 days after the first measurement of positive pressure or temperature monitoring value of 55 degrees Celsius (131 degrees Fahrenheit) or above. The Administrator must approve the plan for corrective action and the corresponding timeline.


(2) For corrective action that is required according to § 62.16720(a)(3)(iii) or § 62.16720(a)(4)(iii) and is not completed within 60 days after the initial exceedance, you must submit a notification to the Administrator as soon as practicable but no later than 75 days after the first measurement of positive pressure or temperature exceedance.


(l) *Liquids addition.* The owner or operator of a designated facility with a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters that has employed leachate recirculation or added liquids based on a Research, Development, and Demonstration permit (issued through Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), subtitle D, part 258) within the last 10 years must submit to the Administrator, annually, following the procedure specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the following information:


(1) Volume of leachate recirculated (gallons per year) and the reported basis of those estimates (records or engineering estimates).


(2) Total volume of all other liquids added (gallons per year) and the reported basis of those estimates (records or engineering estimates).


(3) Surface area (acres) over which the leachate is recirculated (or otherwise applied).


(4) Surface area (acres) over which any other liquids are applied.


(5) The total waste disposed (megagrams) in the areas with recirculated leachate and/or added liquids based on on-site records to the extent data are available, or engineering estimates and the reported basis of those estimates.


(6) The annual waste acceptance rates (megagrams per year) in the areas with recirculated leachate and/or added liquids, based on on-site records to the extent data are available, or engineering estimates.


(7) The initial report must contain items in paragraph (l)(1) through (6) of this section per year for the most recent 365 days as well as for each of the previous 10 years, to the extent historical data are available in on-site records, and the report must be submitted no later than June 21, 2022.


(8) Subsequent annual reports must contain items in paragraph (l)(1) through (6) of this section for the 365-day period following the 365-day period included in the previous annual report, and the report must be submitted no later than 365 days after the date the previous report was submitted.


(9) Landfills in the closed landfill subcategory are exempt from reporting requirements contained in paragraphs (l)(1) through (7) of this section.


(10) Landfills may cease annual reporting of items in paragraphs (l)(1) through (6) of this section once they have submitted the closure report in § 62.16724(f).


(m) *Tier 4 notification.* (1) The owner or operator of a designated facility with a design capacity equal to or greater than 2.5 million megagrams and 2.5 million cubic meters must provide a notification of the date(s) upon which it intends to demonstrate site-specific surface methane emissions are below 500 parts-per-million methane, based on the Tier 4 provisions of § 62.16718(a)(6). The landfill must also include a description of the wind barrier to be used during the SEM in the notification. Notification must be postmarked not less than 30 days prior to such date.


(2) If there is a delay to the scheduled Tier 4 SEM date due to weather conditions, including not meeting the wind requirements in § 62.16718(a)(6)(A), the owner or operator of a landfill shall notify the Administrator by email or telephone no later than 48 hours before any known delay in the original test date, and arrange an updated date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.


(n) *Notification of meeting Tier 4.* The owner or operator of a designated facility must submit a notification to the EPA Regional office within 10 business days of completing each increment of progress. Each notification must indicate which increment of progress specified in § 62.16712 has been achieved. The notification must be signed by the owner or operator of the landfill.


(1) For the first increment of progress (submit control plan), you must follow paragraph (p) of this section in addition to submitting the notification described in paragraph (n) of this section. A copy of the design plan must also be kept on site at the landfill.


(2) For the second increment of progress, a signed copy of the contract(s) awarded must be submitted in addition to the notification described in paragraph (n) of this section.


(o) *Notification of failing to meet an increment of progress.* The owner or operator of a designated facility who fails to meet any increment of progress specified in § 62.16712(a)(1) through (5) according to the applicable schedule in § 62.16712 must submit notification that the owner or operator failed to meet the increment to the EPA Regional office within 10 business days of the applicable date in § 62.16712.


(p) *Alternate dates for increments 2 and 3.* The owner or operator (or the state or tribal air pollution control authority) that is submitting alternative dates for increments 2 and 3 according to § 62.16712(d) must do so by the date specified for submitting the final control plan. The date for submitting the final control plan is specified in § 62.16712(c), as applicable. The owner or operator (or the state or tribal air pollution control authority) must submit a justification if any of the alternative dates are later than the increment dates in table 1 of this subpart. In addition to submitting the alternative dates to the appropriate EPA Regional office, the owner or operator must also submit the alternative dates to the state or tribe.


(q) *24-hour high temperature report.* Each owner or operator that chooses to comply with the provisions in §§ 63.1958, 63.1960, and 63.1961 of this chapter, as allowed in §§ 62.16716, 62.16720, and 62.16722, must submit the 24-hour high temperature report according to § 63.1981(k) of this chapter.






