# § 309.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part: 


(a) The term *depository institution,* as used in § 309.6, includes depository institutions that have applied to the Corporation for federal deposit insurance, closed depository institutions, presently operating federally insured depository institutions, foreign banks, branches of foreign banks, and all affiliates of any of the foregoing. 


(b) The terms *Corporation* or *FDIC* mean the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 


(c) The words *disclose* or *disclosure,* as used in § 309.6, mean to give access to a record, whether by producing the written record or by oral discussion of its contents. Where the Corporation employee authorized to release Corporation documents makes a determination that furnishing copies of the documents is necessary, the words *disclose* or *disclosure* include the furnishing of copies of documents or records. In addition, *disclose* or *disclosure* as used in § 309.6 is synonymous with the term *transfer* as used in the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3401 *et seq.*). 


(d) The term *examination* includes, but is not limited to, formal and informal investigations of irregularities involving suspected violations of federal or state civil or criminal laws, or unsafe and unsound practices as well as such other investigations as may be conducted pursuant to law. 


(e) The term *record* means:


(1) Any information that would be an agency record subject to the requirements of this section when maintained by the FDIC in any format, including an electronic format; and


(2) Any information described under paragraph (e)(1) of this section that is maintained for the FDIC by an entity under Government contract, for purposes of records management.


(f) The term *report of examination* includes, but is not limited to, examination reports resulting from examinations of depository institutions conducted jointly by Corporation examiners and state banking authority examiners or other federal financial institution examiners, as well as reports resulting from examinations conducted solely by Corporation examiners. The term also includes compliance examination reports. 


(g) The term *customer financial records,* as used in § 309.6, means an original of, a copy of, or information known to have been derived from, any record held by a depository institution pertaining to a customer's relationship with the depository institution but does not include any record that contains information not identified with or identifiable as being derived from the financial records of a particular customer. The term *customer* as used in § 309.6 refers to individuals or partnerships of five or fewer persons. 


(h) The term *Director of the Division having primary authority* includes Deputies to the Chairman and directors of FDIC Divisions and Offices that create, maintain custody, or otherwise have primary responsibility for the handling of FDIC records or information. 



---

[N] [60 FR 61465, Nov. 30, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 16404, Apr. 3, 1998; 81 FR 83646, Nov. 22, 2016]




