# ยง 28.315   Fire pumps, fire mains, fire hydrants, and fire hoses.

(a) Each vessel 36 feet (11.8 meters) or more in length must be equipped with a self-priming, power driven fire pump connected to a fixed piping system.


(1) A fire pump on a vessel 79 feet (24 meters) or more in length must be capable of delivering water simultaneously from the two highest hydrants, or from both branches of the fitting if the highest hydrant has a siamese fitting, at a pitot tube pressure of at least 50 psi (0.345 Newtons per square millimeter) and a flow rate of at least 80 gpm (303 liters per minute).


(2) Each vessel with a power driven fire pump must be equipped to permit energizing the fire main from the operating station and from the pump.


(b) *Fire main, hydrants, hoses and nozzles.* (1) A vessel required to have a fixed fire main system must have a sufficient number of fire hydrants to reach any part of the vessel using a single length of fire hose.


(2) A fire hose must be connected to each fire hydrant at all times the vessel is operating.


(3) A fire hose on a vessel less than 79 feet (24 meters) in length must be at least 
5/8 inch (16 millimeters) nominal diameter, be of good commercial grade and be fitted with a nozzle of corrosion resistant material capable of providing a solid stream and a spray pattern.


(4) A fire hose on a vessel 79 feet (24 meters) or more in length must be lined commercial fire hose and be fitted with a nozzle made of corrosion resistant material capable of providing a solid stream and a spray pattern.




