# § 71.45   Revocation and discharge of Family Caregivers.

(a) *Revocation of the Family Caregiver*—(1) *Bases for revocation of the Family Caregiver*—(i) *For cause.* VA will revoke the designation of a Family Caregiver for cause when VA determines any of the following:


(A) The Family Caregiver or eligible veteran committed fraud under this part;


(B) The Family Caregiver neglected, abused, or exploited the eligible veteran;


(C) Personal safety issues exist for the eligible veteran that the Family Caregiver is unwilling to mitigate;


(D) The Family Caregiver is unwilling to provide personal care services to the eligible veteran or, in the case of the Family Caregiver's temporary absence or incapacitation, fails to ensure (if able to) the provision of personal care services to the eligible veteran.


(ii) *Noncompliance.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, VA will revoke the designation of a Family Caregiver when the Family Caregiver or eligible veteran is noncompliant with the requirements of this part. Noncompliance means:


(A) The eligible veteran does not meet the requirements of § 71.20(a)(5), (6), or (7);


(B) The Family Caregiver does not meet the requirements of § 71.25(b)(2);


(C) Failure of the eligible veteran or Family Caregiver to participate in any reassessment pursuant to § 71.30;


(D) Failure of the eligible veteran or Family Caregiver to participate in any wellness contact pursuant to § 71.40(b)(2); or


(E) Failure to meet any other requirement of this part except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.


(iii) *VA error.* Except as provided in § 71.45(f), VA will revoke the designation of a Family Caregiver if the Family Caregiver's approval and designation under this part was authorized as a result of an erroneous eligibility determination by VA.


(2) *Revocation date.* All caregiver benefits will continue to be provided to the Family Caregiver until the date of revocation.


(i) In the case of revocation based on fraud committed by the Family Caregiver or eligible veteran under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the date of revocation will be the date the fraud began. If VA cannot identify when the fraud began, the date of revocation will be the earliest date that the fraud is known by VA to have been committed, and no later than the date on which VA identifies that fraud was committed.


(ii) In the case of revocation based on paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(B) through (D) of this section, the date of revocation will be the date VA determines the criteria in any such paragraph has been met.


(iii) In the case of revocation based on noncompliance under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, revocation takes effect as of the effective date provided in VA's final notice of such revocation to the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver. The effective date of revocation will be no earlier than 60 days after VA provides advanced notice of its findings to the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver.


(iv) In the case of revocation based on VA error under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the date of revocation will be the date the error was made. If VA cannot identify when the error was made, the date of revocation will be the earliest date that the error is known by VA to have occurred, and no later than the date on which VA identifies that the error occurred.


(3) *Continuation of benefits.* In the case of revocation based on VA error under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, caregiver benefits will continue for 60 days after the date of revocation unless the Family Caregiver opts out of receiving such benefits. Continuation of benefits under this paragraph will be considered an overpayment and VA will seek to recover overpayment of such benefits as provided in § 71.47.


(b) *Discharge of the Family Caregiver*—(1) *Discharge due to the eligible veteran*—(i) *Bases for discharge.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the Family Caregiver will be discharged from the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers when VA determines any of the following:


(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the eligible veteran does not meet the requirements of § 71.20 because of improvement in the eligible veteran's condition or otherwise; or


(B) Death or institutionalization of the eligible veteran. Note: VA must receive notification of death or institutionalization of the eligible veteran as soon as possible but not later than 30 days from the date of death or institutionalization. Notification of institutionalization must indicate whether the eligible veteran is expected to be institutionalized for 90 or more days from the onset of institutionalization.


(ii) *Discharge date.* (A) In the case of discharge based on paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the discharge takes effect as of the effective date provided in VA's final notice of such discharge to the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver. The effective date of discharge will be no earlier than 60 days after VA provides advanced notice of its findings to the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver that the eligible veteran does not meet the requirements of § 71.20.


(B) For discharge based on paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the date of discharge will be the earliest of the following dates, as applicable:


(*1*) Date of death of the eligible veteran.


(*2*) Date that institutionalization begins, if it is determined that the eligible veteran is expected to be institutionalized for a period of 90 days or more.


(*3*) Date of the 90th day of institutionalization.


(iii) *Continuation of benefits.* Caregiver benefits will continue for 90 days after the date of discharge.


(2) *Discharge due to the Family Caregiver*—(i) *Bases for discharge.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the Family Caregiver will be discharged from the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers due to the death or institutionalization of the Family Caregiver. Note: VA must receive notification of death or institutionalization of the Family Caregiver as soon as possible but not later than 30 days from the date of death or institutionalization. Notification of institutionalization must indicate whether Family Caregiver is expected to be institutionalized for 90 or more days from the onset of institutionalization.


(ii) *Discharge date.* The date of discharge will be the earliest of the following dates, as applicable:


(A) Date of death of the Family Caregiver.


(B) Date that the institutionalization begins, if it is determined that the Family Caregiver is expected to be institutionalized for a period of 90 days or more.


(C) Date of the 90th day of institutionalization.


(iii) *Continuation of benefits.* Caregiver benefits will continue for 90 days after date of discharge in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) or (C) of this section.


(3) *Discharge of the Family Caregiver by request of the Family Caregiver*—(i) *Request for discharge.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the Family Caregiver will be discharged from the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers if a Family Caregiver requests discharge of his or her caregiver designation. The request may be made verbally or in writing and must provide the present or future date of discharge. If the discharge request is received verbally, VA will provide the Family Caregiver written confirmation of receipt of the verbal discharge request and the effective date of discharge. VA will notify the eligible veteran verbally and in writing of the request for discharge and the effective date of discharge.


(ii) *Discharge date.* The date of discharge will be the present or future date provided by the Family Caregiver or the date of the Family Caregiver's request for discharge if the Family Caregiver does not provide a date. If the request does not include an identified date of discharge, VA will contact the Family Caregiver to request a date. If unable to successfully obtain this date, discharge will be effective as of the date of the request.


(iii) *Continuation of benefits.* (A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, caregiver benefits will continue for 30 days after the date of discharge.


(B) If the Family Caregiver requests discharge due to domestic violence (DV) or intimate partner violence (IPV) perpetrated by the eligible veteran against the Family Caregiver, caregiver benefits will continue for 90 days after the date of discharge when any of the following can be established:


(*1*) The issuance of a protective order, to include interim, temporary and/or final protective orders, to protect the Family Caregiver from DV or IPV perpetrated by the eligible veteran.


(*2*) A police report indicating DV or IPV perpetrated by the eligible veteran against the Family Caregiver or a record of an arrest related to DV or IPV perpetrated by the eligible veteran against the Family Caregiver; or


(*3*) Documentation of disclosure of DV or IPV perpetrated by the eligible veteran against the Family Caregiver to a treating provider (*e.g.,* physician, dentist, psychologist, rehabilitation therapist) of the eligible veteran or Family Caregiver, Intimate Partner Violence Assistance Program (IPVAP) Coordinator, therapist or counselor.


(4) *Discharge of the Family Caregiver by request of the eligible veteran or eligible veteran's surrogate*—(i) *Request for discharge.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the Family Caregiver will be discharged from the Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Caregivers if an eligible veteran or the eligible veteran's surrogate requests discharge of the Family Caregiver. The discharge request may be made verbally or in writing and must express an intent to remove the Family Caregiver's approval and designation. If the discharge request is received verbally, VA will provide the eligible veteran written confirmation of receipt of the verbal discharge request and effective date of discharge. VA will notify the Family Caregiver verbally and in writing of the request for discharge and effective date of discharge.


(ii) *Discharge date.* The date of discharge will be the present or future date of discharge provided by the eligible veteran or eligible veteran's surrogate. If the request does not provide a present or future date of discharge, VA will ask the eligible veteran or eligible veteran's surrogate to provide one. If unable to successfully obtain this date, discharge will be effective as of the date of the request.


(iii) *Rescission.* VA will allow the eligible veteran or eligible veteran's surrogate to rescind the discharge request and have the Family Caregiver reinstated if the rescission is made within 30 days of the date of discharge. If the eligible veteran or eligible veteran's surrogate expresses a desire to reinstate the Family Caregiver more than 30 days from the date of discharge, a new joint application is required.


(iv) *Continuation of benefits.* Caregiver benefits will continue for 30 days after the date of discharge.


(c) *Safety and welfare.* If VA suspects that the safety of the eligible veteran is at risk, then VA may suspend the caregiver's responsibilities, and facilitate appropriate referrals to protective agencies or emergency services if needed, to ensure the welfare of the eligible veteran, prior to discharge or revocation.


(d) *Overpayments.* VA will seek to recover overpayments of benefits provided under this section as provided in § 71.47.


(e) *Transition and bereavement counseling.* VA will, if requested and applicable, assist the Family Caregiver in transitioning to alternative health care coverage and mental health services. In addition, in cases of death of the eligible veteran, bereavement counseling may be available under 38 U.S.C. 1783.


(f) *Multiple bases for revocation or discharge.* In the instance that a Family Caregiver may be both discharged pursuant to any of the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section and have his or her designation revoked pursuant to any of the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section, the Family Caregiver's designation will be revoked pursuant to paragraph (a). In the instance that the designation of a Family Caregiver may be revoked under paragraph (a)(1)(i) and paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section, the designation of the Family Caregiver will be revoked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i). In the instance that the designation of a Family Caregiver may be revoked under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the designation of the Family Caregiver will be revoked pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(iii). In the instance that a Family Caregiver may be discharged under paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, the Family Caregiver will be discharged pursuant to the paragraph most favorable to the Family Caregiver.



---

[N] [85 FR 46298, July 31, 2020]






