# § 148.23   Examination and clearance of baggage.

(a) *Articles free of duty.* The inspector, including inspectors on trains or ferries, who examines the baggage of any person arriving in the United States may examine and pass, without limitation as to value, the following articles in such baggage or otherwise accompanying such person: 


(1) All articles which are for the personal or household use of the arriving person and are free of duty under Chapter 98, Subchapter IV, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202), including automobiles and other articles under § 148.32. 


(2) Works of art classifiable under subheadings 9701.10.00 or 9701.90.00, HTSUS. 


(3) Works of art classifiable under subheadings 9702.00.00 or 9703.00.00, HTSUS, upon compliance with § 10.48 of this chapter. 


(b) *Articles subject to duty.* The inspector who examines the baggage of any person arriving in the United States may examine, determine the dutiable value of, collect duty on, and pass articles accompanying the arriving person which are for his personal or household use but are subject to duty, including articles imported to be disposed of by him as bona fide gifts. 


(c) *Articles not for personal use*—(1) *Valued at not more than $2,500 (with exceptions).* The inspector may also examine, determine the dutiable value of, collect duty on, and pass articles accompanying any person arriving in the United States properly listed on the baggage declaration which are not for the personal or household use of the declarant or which are intended for sale or are brought in on commission for another, provided the aggregate value of such articles is not more than $2,500 (except for articles valued in excess of $250 classified in Chapter 99, Subchapter III and IV, HTSUS).


(2) *Valued over $2,500 (with exceptions).* Articles in the baggage of or otherwise accompanying any person arriving in the United States which have an aggregate value over $2,500 (except for articles valued in excess of $250 classified in Chapter 99, Subchapters III and IV, HTSUS) and are not intended for his personal or household use, or are intended for sale or are brought in on commission for another, may be examined and entered and cleared on a baggage declaration at the place of their arrival with a passenger if: 


(i) The articles are accompanied by a proper invoice if one is required (see § 141.83 of this chapter); and 


(ii) It is practicable to appraise the articles at the place of arrival. 


(d) *Examination of tea for personal use imported in baggage.* Tea for personal use in one or more packages weighing not more than 5 pounds each, when imported in a passenger's baggage, may be delivered without examination for purity under 21 U.S.C. 41-50 and without payment of the examination fee prescribed in 21 U.S.C. 46a.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. 84-149, 49 FR 28699, July 16, 1984; T.D. 86-118, 51 FR 22516, June 20, 1986; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51264, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 89-82, 54 FR 36026, Aug. 31, 1989; T.D. 98-28, 63 FR 16417, Apr. 3, 1998; CBP Dec. 12-19, 77 FR 72721, Dec. 6, 2012]




