# ยง 201.40   Post-disbursement loan requirements.

(a) *Discovery of misstatements of fact.* If, after a loan has been made, the lender discovers any material misstatement of fact or that the loan proceeds have been misused by the borrower, dealer or any other party, it shall promptly report this to the Secretary. In such case, the insurance of the loan shall not be affected unless such material misstatement of fact or misuse of loan proceeds was caused by or was knowingly sanctioned by the lender or its employees (see ยง 201.31(e)(3)), provided that the validity of any lien on the property has not been impaired. 


(b) *Requirements on property improvement loans.* (1) After receiving the proceeds of a direct property improvement loan, and after the work is completed to the borrower's satisfaction, the borrower shall submit a completion certificate to the lender, on a HUD-approved form and signed by the borrower under applicable criminal and civil penalties for fraud and misrepresentation, certifying that: 


(i) The improvements have been completed, 


(ii) the amount borrowed has been spent on improvements eligible under ยง 201.20(b) and in accordance with the contract or cost estimate furnished to the lender prior to disbursement of the loan proceeds, and 


(iii) The borrower has not obtained the benefit of and will not receive any cash payment, rebate, cash bonus, sales commission, or anything of more than nominal value from any contractor or supplier as an inducement for the consummation of the loan transaction. 


(2) The borrower shall submit the completion certificate promptly upon the work's completion, but not later than six months after the disbursement of the loan proceeds, with one six-month extension if necessary. If the borrower fails to submit the completion certificate within these time limits, an on-site inspection shall be conducted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. 


(3) The borrower is not required to submit a completion certificate when the property improvement loan is made by or on behalf of a State or local government agency or a nonprofit organization, the loan proceeds are held in an escrow account pending completion of the improvements, and the loan proceeds are disbursed from the escrow account in stages, with the written approval of the borrower and based upon the percentage of work completed. 


(c) *Inspection requirement on property improvement loans.* The lender or its agent shall conduct an on-site inspection on any property improvement loan where the principal obligation is $7,500 or more, and on any direct property improvement loan where the borrower fails to submit a completion certificate as required under paragraph (b) of this section. On a dealer loan, the inspection shall be completed within 60 days after the date of disbursement. On a direct loan, the inspection shall be completed within 60 days after receipt of the completion certificate, or as soon as the lender determines that the borrower is unwilling to cooperate in submitting the completion certificate. The purpose of the inspection is to verify the eligibility of the improvements and whether the work has been completed. If the borrower will not cooperate in permitting an on-site inspection, the lender shall report this fact to the Secretary. 


(d) *Inspection requirement on dealer manufactured home loans.* For any manufactured home purchase loan or combination loan involving the sale of a manufactured home by a dealer, the lender (or an agent of the lender that is not a manufactured home dealer) shall conduct a site-of-placement inspection within 60 days after the date of disbursement to verify that: 


(1) The terms and conditions of the purchase contract have been met; 


(2) The manufactured home and any itemized options and appurtenances included in the purchase price of the home or financed with the loan proceeds have been delivered and installed; and 


(3) The placement certificate executed by the borrower and the dealer is in order. 



---

[N] [50 FR 43523, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 52434, Oct. 18, 1991; 61 FR 19799, May 2, 1996]




