# § 63.6175   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA; in 40 CFR 63.2, the General Provisions of this part; and in this section: 


*Area source* means any stationary source of HAP that is not a major source as defined in this part.


*Associated equipment* as used in this subpart and as referred to in section 112(n)(4) of the CAA, means equipment associated with an oil or natural gas exploration or production well, and includes all equipment from the well bore to the point of custody transfer, except glycol dehydration units, storage vessels with potential for flash emissions, combustion turbines, and stationary reciprocating internal combustion engines.


*CAA* means the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.,* as amended by Public Law 101-549, 104 Stat. 2399).


*Cogeneration cycle stationary combustion turbine* means any stationary combustion turbine that recovers heat from the stationary combustion turbine exhaust gases using an exhaust heat exchanger, such as a heat recovery steam generator.


*Combined cycle stationary combustion turbine* means any stationary combustion turbine that recovers heat from the stationary combustion turbine exhaust gases using an exhaust heat exchanger to generate steam for use in a steam turbine.


*Combustion turbine engine test cells/stands* means engine test cells/stands, as defined in subpart PPPPP of this part, that test stationary combustion turbines.


*Compressor station* means any permanent combination of compressors that move natural gas at increased pressure from fields, in transmission pipelines, or into storage.


*Custody transfer* means the transfer of hydrocarbon liquids or natural gas: after processing and/or treatment in the producing operations, or from storage vessels or automatic transfer facilities or other such equipment, including product loading racks, to pipelines or any other forms of transportation. For the purposes of this subpart, the point at which such liquids or natural gas enters a natural gas processing plant is a point of custody transfer.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limitation or operating limitation;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit;


(3) Fails to meet any emission limitation or operating limitation in this subpart during malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart;


(4) Before September 8, 2020, fails to satisfy the general duty to minimize emissions established by § 63.6(e)(1)(i), or


(5) After September 8, 2020, fails to satisfy the general duty to minimize emissions established by § 63.6105.


*Diffusion flame gas-fired stationary combustion turbine* means:


(1)(i) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped only to fire gas using diffusion flame technology, 


(ii) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped both to fire gas using diffusion flame technology and to fire oil, during any period when it is firing gas, and 


(iii) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped both to fire gas using diffusion flame technology and to fire oil, and is located at a major source where all new, reconstructed, and existing stationary combustion turbines fire oil no more than an aggregate total of 1000 hours during the calendar year.


(2) Diffusion flame gas-fired stationary combustion turbines do not include:


(i) Any emergency stationary combustion turbine, 


(ii) Any stationary combustion turbine located on the North Slope of Alaska, or 


(iii) Any stationary combustion turbine burning landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, or any stationary combustion turbine where gasified MSW is used to generate 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis.


*Diffusion flame oil-fired stationary combustion turbine* means: 


(1)(i) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped only to fire oil using diffusion flame technology, and 


(ii) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped both to fire oil using diffusion flame technology and to fire gas, and is located at a major source where all new, reconstructed, and existing stationary combustion turbines fire oil more than an aggregate total of 1000 hours during the calendar year, during any period when it is firing oil. 


(2) Diffusion flame oil-fired stationary combustion turbines do not include: 


(i) Any emergency stationary combustion turbine, or 


(ii) Any stationary combustion turbine located on the North Slope of Alaska. 


*Diffusion flame technology* means a configuration of a stationary combustion turbine where fuel and air are injected at the combustor and are mixed only by diffusion prior to ignition. 


*Digester gas* means any gaseous by-product of wastewater treatment typically formed through the anaerobic decomposition of organic waste materials and composed principally of methane and CO_2_. 


*Distillate oil* means any liquid obtained from the distillation of petroleum with a boiling point of approximately 150 to 360 degrees Celsius. One commonly used form is fuel oil number 2. 


*Emergency stationary combustion turbine* means any stationary combustion turbine that operates in an emergency situation. Examples include stationary combustion turbines used to produce power for critical networks or equipment (including power supplied to portions of a facility) when electric power from the local utility is interrupted, or stationary combustion turbines used to pump water in the case of fire or flood, etc. Emergency stationary combustion turbines do not include stationary combustion turbines used as peaking units at electric utilities or stationary combustion turbines at industrial facilities that typically operate at low capacity factors. Emergency stationary combustion turbines may be operated for the purpose of maintenance checks and readiness testing, provided that the tests are required by the manufacturer, the vendor, or the insurance company associated with the turbine. Required testing of such units should be minimized, but there is no time limit on the use of emergency stationary combustion turbines. 


*Glycol dehydration unit* means a device in which a liquid glycol (including, but not limited to, ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, or triethylene glycol) absorbent directly contacts a natural gas stream and absorbs water in a contact tower or absorption column (absorber). The glycol contacts and absorbs water vapor and other gas stream constituents from the natural gas and becomes “rich” glycol. This glycol is then regenerated in the glycol dehydration unit reboiler. The “lean” glycol is then recycled. 


*Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)* means any air pollutant listed in or pursuant to section 112(b) of the CAA. 


*ISO standard day conditions* means 288 degrees Kelvin (15 °C), 60 percent relative humidity and 101.3 kilopascals pressure. 


*Landfill gas* means a gaseous by-product of the land application of municipal refuse typically formed through the anaerobic decomposition of waste materials and composed principally of methane and CO_2_. 


*Lean premix gas-fired stationary combustion turbine* means: 


(1)(i) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped only to fire gas using lean premix technology, 


(ii) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped both to fire gas using lean premix technology and to fire oil, during any period when it is firing gas, and 


(iii) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped both to fire gas using lean premix technology and to fire oil, and is located at a major source where all new, reconstructed, and existing stationary combustion turbines fire oil no more than an aggregate total of 1000 hours during the calendar year. 


(2) Lean premix gas-fired stationary combustion turbines do not include: 


(i) Any emergency stationary combustion turbine, 


(ii) Any stationary combustion turbine located on the North Slope of Alaska, or 


(iii) Any stationary combustion turbine burning landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, or any stationary combustion turbine where gasified MSW is used to generate 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis. 


*Lean premix oil-fired stationary combustion turbine* means: 


(1)(i) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped only to fire oil using lean premix technology, and 


(ii) Each stationary combustion turbine which is equipped both to fire oil using lean premix technology and to fire gas, and is located at a major source where all new, reconstructed, and existing stationary combustion turbines fire oil more than an aggregate total of 1000 hours during the calendar year, during any period when it is firing oil. 


(2) Lean premix oil-fired stationary combustion turbines do not include: 


(i) Any emergency stationary combustion turbine, or 


(ii) Any stationary combustion turbine located on the North Slope of Alaska. 


*Lean premix technology* means a configuration of a stationary combustion turbine where the air and fuel are thoroughly mixed to form a lean mixture for combustion in the combustor. Mixing may occur before or in the combustion chamber. 


*Major source,* as used in this subpart, shall have the same meaning as in § 63.2, except that: 


(1) Emissions from any oil or gas exploration or production well (with its associated equipment (as defined in this section)) and emissions from any pipeline compressor station or pump station shall not be aggregated with emissions from other similar units, to determine whether such emission points or stations are major sources, even when emission points are in a contiguous area or under common control; 


(2) For oil and gas production facilities, emissions from processes, operations, or equipment that are not part of the same oil and gas production facility, as defined in this section, shall not be aggregated; 


(3) For production field facilities, only HAP emissions from glycol dehydration units, storage vessel with the potential for flash emissions, combustion turbines and reciprocating internal combustion engines shall be aggregated for a major source determination; and 


(4) Emissions from processes, operations, and equipment that are not part of the same natural gas transmission and storage facility, as defined in this section, shall not be aggregated. 


*Malfunction* means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner which causes or has the potential to cause the emission limitations in this standard to be exceeded. Failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. 


*Municipal solid waste* as used in this subpart is as defined in § 60.1465 of Subpart AAAA of 40 CFR Part 60, New Source Performance Standards for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units. 


*Natural gas* means a naturally occurring mixture of hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon gases found in geologic formations beneath the Earth's surface, of which the principal constituent is methane. May be field or pipeline quality. For the purposes of this subpart, the definition of natural gas includes similarly constituted fuels such as field gas, refinery gas, and syngas. 


*Natural gas transmission* means the pipelines used for the long distance transport of natural gas (excluding processing). Specific equipment used in natural gas transmission includes the land, mains, valves, meters, boosters, regulators, storage vessels, dehydrators, compressors, and their driving units and appurtenances, and equipment used transporting gas from a production plant, delivery point of purchased gas, gathering system, storage area, or other wholesale source of gas to one or more distribution area(s). 


*Natural gas transmission and storage facility* means any grouping of equipment where natural gas is processed, compressed, or stored prior to entering a pipeline to a local distribution company or (if there is no local distribution company) to a final end user. Examples of a facility for this source category are: an underground natural gas storage operation; or a natural gas compressor station that receives natural gas via pipeline, from an underground natural gas storage operation, or from a natural gas processing plant. The emission points associated with these phases include, but are not limited to, process vents. Processes that may have vents include, but are not limited to, dehydration and compressor station engines. Facility, for the purpose of a major source determination, means natural gas transmission and storage equipment that is located inside the boundaries of an individual surface site (as defined in this section) and is connected by ancillary equipment, such as gas flow lines or power lines. Equipment that is part of a facility will typically be located within close proximity to other equipment located at the same facility. Natural gas transmission and storage equipment or groupings of equipment located on different gas leases, mineral fee tracts, lease tracts, subsurface unit areas, surface fee tracts, or surface lease tracts shall not be considered part of the same facility. 


*North Slope of Alaska* means the area north of the Arctic Circle (latitude 66.5 degrees North). 


*Oil and gas production facility* as used in this subpart means any grouping of equipment where hydrocarbon liquids are processed, upgraded (*i.e.,* remove impurities or other constituents to meet contract specifications), or stored prior to the point of custody transfer; or where natural gas is processed, upgraded, or stored prior to entering the natural gas transmission and storage source category. For purposes of a major source determination, facility (including a building, structure, or installation) means oil and natural gas production and processing equipment that is located within the boundaries of an individual surface site as defined in this section. Equipment that is part of a facility will typically be located within close proximity to other equipment located at the same facility. Pieces of production equipment or groupings of equipment located on different oil and gas leases, mineral fee tracts, lease tracts, subsurface or surface unit areas, surface fee tracts, surface lease tracts, or separate surface sites, whether or not connected by a road, waterway, power line or pipeline, shall not be considered part of the same facility. Examples of facilities in the oil and natural gas production source category include, but are not limited to, well sites, satellite tank batteries, central tank batteries, a compressor station that transports natural gas to a natural gas processing plant, and natural gas processing plants. 


*Oxidation catalyst emission control device* means an emission control device that incorporates catalytic oxidation to reduce CO emissions. 


*Potential to emit* means the maximum capacity of a stationary source to emit a pollutant under its physical and operational design. Any physical or operational limitation on the capacity of the stationary source to emit a pollutant, including air pollution control equipment and restrictions on hours of operation or on the type or amount of material combusted, stored, or processed, shall be treated as part of its design if the limitation or the effect it would have on emissions is federally enforceable. For oil and natural gas production facilities subject to subpart HH of this part, the potential to emit provisions in § 63.760(a) may be used. For natural gas transmission and storage facilities subject to subpart HHH of this part, the maximum annual facility gas throughput for storage facilities may be determined according to § 63.1270(a)(1) and the maximum annual throughput for transmission facilities may be determined according to § 63.1270(a)(2). 


*Production field facility* means those oil and gas production facilities located prior to the point of custody transfer. 


*Production well* means any hole drilled in the earth from which crude oil, condensate, or field natural gas is extracted. 


*Regenerative/recuperative cycle stationary combustion turbine* means any stationary combustion turbine that recovers heat from the stationary combustion turbine exhaust gases using an exhaust heat exchanger to preheat the combustion air entering the combustion chamber of the stationary combustion turbine. 


*Research or laboratory facility* means any stationary source whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development into new processes and products, where such source is operated under the close supervision of technically trained personnel and is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale in commerce, except in a *de minimis* matter. 


*Simple cycle stationary combustion turbine* means any stationary combustion turbine that does not recover heat from the stationary combustion turbine exhaust gases. 


*Startup* begins at the first firing of fuel in the stationary combustion turbine. For simple cycle turbines, startup ends when the stationary combustion turbine has reached stable operation or after 1 hour, whichever is less. For combined cycle turbines, startup ends when the stationary combustion turbine has reached stable operation or after 3 hours, whichever is less. Turbines in combined cycle configurations that are operating as simple cycle turbines must meet the startup requirements for simple cycle turbines while operating as simple cycle turbines.


*Stationary combustion turbine means* all equipment, including but not limited to the turbine, the fuel, air, lubrication and exhaust gas systems, control systems (except emissions control equipment), and any ancillary components and sub-components comprising any simple cycle stationary combustion turbine, any regenerative/recuperative cycle stationary combustion turbine, the combustion turbine portion of any stationary cogeneration cycle combustion system, or the combustion turbine portion of any stationary combined cycle steam/electric generating system. Stationary means that the combustion turbine is not self propelled or intended to be propelled while performing its function. Stationary combustion turbines do not include turbines located at a research or laboratory facility, if research is conducted on the turbine itself and the turbine is not being used to power other applications at the research or laboratory facility. 


*Storage vessel with the potential for flash emissions* means any storage vessel that contains a hydrocarbon liquid with a stock tank gas-to-oil ratio equal to or greater than 0.31 cubic meters per liter and an American Petroleum Institute gravity equal to or greater than 40 degrees and an actual annual average hydrocarbon liquid throughput equal to or greater than 79,500 liters per day. Flash emissions occur when dissolved hydrocarbons in the fluid evolve from solution when the fluid pressure is reduced. 


*Surface site* means any combination of one or more graded pad sites, gravel pad sites, foundations, platforms, or the immediate physical location upon which equipment is physically affixed.



---

[N] [69 FR 10537, Mar. 5, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 20467, Apr. 20, 2006; 85 FR 13541, Mar. 9, 2020]





