# § 684.130   What definitions apply to terms used in this part?

In addition to the definitions found in secs. 3 and 166 of WIOA, and § 675.300 of this chapter, the following definitions apply:


*Alaska Native-Controlled Organization* means an organization whose governing board is comprised of 51 percent or more of individuals who are Alaska Native as defined in secs. 3(b) and 3(r) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b), (r)).


*Carry-in* means the total amount of funds unobligated by a grantee at the end of a program year. If the amount of funds unobligated by a grantee at the end of a program year is more than 20 percent of the grantee's “total funds available” for that program year, such excess amount is considered “excess carry-in.”


*DINAP* means the Division of Indian and Native American Programs within the Employment and Training Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.


*Governing body* means a body of representatives who are duly elected, appointed by duly elected officials, or selected according to traditional tribal means. A governing body must have the authority to provide services to and to enter into grants on behalf of the organization that selected or designated it.


*Grant Officer* means a U.S. Department of Labor official authorized to obligate Federal funds.


*High-poverty area* means a Census tract, a set of contiguous Census tracts, an American Indian Reservation, Oklahoma Tribal Statistical Area, Alaska Native Village Statistical Area, or Alaska Native Regional Corporation Area, Native Hawaiian Homeland Area or county where the poverty rate for the INA population is at least 25 percent of the total INA population of such area using the most recent ACS 5-Year data. Alternatively, high-poverty also can mean, a Census tract, a set of contiguous Census tracts, an American Indian Reservation, Oklahoma Tribal Statistical Area, Alaska Native Village Statistical Area, or Alaska Native Regional Corporation Area, Native Hawaiian Homeland Area or county where the poverty rate for the total population is at least 25 percent of such area using the most recent ACS 5-Year data. INA program grantees may use either definition when determining if a Census tract is a high-poverty area.


*INA program grantee* means an entity which is formally selected under subpart B of this part to operate an INA program and which has a grant agreement.


*Incumbent grantee* means an entity that is currently receiving a grant under sec. 166 of WIOA.


*Indian and Native American or INA* means, for the purpose of this part, an individual that is an American Indian, Native American, Native Hawaiian, or Alaska Native.


*Indian-Controlled Organization* means an organization whose governing board is comprised of 51 percent or more individuals who are members of one or more Federally recognized tribes. Incumbent grantees who were receiving INA funding as of October 18, 2016 and met the 51 percent threshold with the inclusion of members of “State recognized tribes” continue to be eligible for WIOA sec. 166 funds as an Indian-Controlled Organization, as long as they have been continuously funded under WIOA as recipients of INA program grantees since October 18, 2016. Tribal Colleges and Universities meet the definition of Indian-Controlled Organization for the purposes of this regulation.


*Native Hawaiian-Controlled Organization* means an organization whose governing board is comprised of 51 percent or more individuals who are Native Hawaiian as defined in sec. 7207 of the Native Hawaiian Education Act (20 U.S.C. 7517).


*Total funds available* means all funds that a grantee had “available” at the beginning of a program year.


*Underemployed* means an individual who is working part-time but desires full-time employment, or who is working in employment not commensurate with the individual's demonstrated level of educational and/or skill achievement.




