# § 165.1324   Safety and Security Zone; Cruise Ship Protection, Elliott Bay and Pier-91, Seattle, Washington.

(a) *Safety and security zones.* (1) The following area is a safety and security zone: All waters within the following points: a rectangle, starting at 47°37′53″ N/122°23′07″ W, thence south to position 47°37′06″ N/122°23′07″ W, thence east to position 47°37′06″ N/122°22′43″ W, thence north to position 47°37′58″ N/122°22′43″ W. This zone will be enforced only during the arrival or departure of Large Passenger Cruise Vessels at Pier 91, Seattle, Washington.


(2) The following area is a safety and security zone: All waters within 100 yards of Pier 91, Seattle, Washington, at approximate position 47°37′35″ N/122°23′00″ W. This zone will be enforced only when a Large Passenger Cruise Vessel is moored at Pier 91.


(b) *Regulations.* In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR Part 165, Subpart D, no person or vessel may enter or remain in either Safety and Security Zone except for vessels authorized by the Captain of the Port or Designated Representatives.


(c) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


*Facility Security Officer* means the person designated as responsible for the development, implementation, revision and maintenance of the facility security plan and for liaison with the COTP and Company and Vessel Security Officers.


*Large Passenger Cruise Vessel* means any cruise ship over 100 feet in length carrying passengers for hire. Large Passenger Cruise Vessel does not include vessels inspected and certificated under 46 CFR, Chapter I, Subchapter T such as excursion vessels, sight seeing vessels, dinner cruise vessels, and whale watching vessels.


*Official Patrol* means those persons designated by the Captain of the Port to monitor a Large Passenger Cruise Vessel security and safety zone, permit entry into the zone, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within the zone and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port. Persons authorized in paragraph (e) to enforce this section are designated as the Official Patrol.


(d) *Authorization.* To request authorization to operate within 100 yards of a Large Passenger Cruise Vessel that is moored at Pier 91, contact the on-scene Official Patrol on VHF-FM channel 16 or 13 or the Facility Security Officer at (206) 728-3688.


(e) *Enforcement.* Any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer may enforce the rules in this section. In the navigable waters of the United States to which this section applies, when immediate action is required and representatives of the Coast Guard are not present or not present in sufficient force to provide effective enforcement of this section in the vicinity of a Large Passenger Cruise Vessel, any Federal or Washington Law Enforcement Officer may enforce the rules contained in this section pursuant to 33 CFR 6.04-11. In addition, the Captain of the Port may be assisted by other Federal, state or local agencies in enforcing this section.


(f) *Waiver.* The Captain of the Port Puget Sound may waive any of the requirements of this section for any vessel or class of vessels upon finding that a vessel or class of vessels, operational conditions or other circumstances are such that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purpose of port security, safety or environmental safety.



---

[N] [USCG-2009-0331, 74 FR 42028, Aug. 20, 2009]




