# ยง 609.6   Term sheets and conditional commitments.

(a) DOE, after negotiation of a Term Sheet with an Applicant, may offer such Term Sheet to an Applicant or such other Person that is an affiliate of the Applicant and that is acceptable to DOE. DOE's offer of a Term Sheet shall be in writing and signed by the Contracting Officer. DOE's negotiation of a Term Sheet imposes no obligation on the Secretary to offer a Term Sheet to the Applicant.


(b) DOE shall terminate its negotiations of a Term Sheet if it has not offered a Term Sheet in respect of an Eligible Project within two years after the date of the written notification set forth in ยง 609.5(d), unless extended in writing by DOE.


(c) If and when the offeree specified in a Term Sheet satisfies all terms and conditions for acceptance of the Term Sheet, including written acceptance thereof, the Term Sheet shall become a Conditional Commitment. Each Conditional Commitment shall include an expiration date no more than two years from the date it is issued, unless extended in writing in the discretion of the Contracting Officer. When and if all of the terms and conditions specified in the Conditional Commitment have been met, DOE and the Applicant may enter into a Loan Guarantee Agreement. If applicable, the Conditional Commitment shall include the terms and conditions pursuant to which any Credit Subsidy Cost payment made by the Borrower to the Secretary is subject to refund to the Borrower in the event that the closing date of the Loan Guarantee Agreement does not occur.


(d) Prior to or on the date of the Conditional Commitment, DOE will ensure that:


(1) OMB has reviewed and approved DOE's calculation of the Credit Subsidy Cost of the Guarantee;


(2) One of the following has occurred:


(i) Appropriated funds for the Credit Subsidy Cost are available;


(ii) The Secretary has received from the Borrower payment in full for the Credit Subsidy Cost and deposited the payment into the Treasury; or


(iii) A combination of one or more appropriations under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and one or more payments from the Borrower under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section has been made that is equal to the Credit Subsidy Cost; and


(3) The Department of the Treasury has been consulted as to the proposed terms and conditions of the Loan Guarantee Agreement.


(e) If, subsequent to execution of a Conditional Commitment, the financing arrangements of the Borrower, or in respect of an Eligible Project, change from those described in the Conditional Commitment, the Applicant shall promptly provide updated financing information in writing to DOE. All such updated information shall be deemed to be information submitted in connection with an Application. Based on such updated information, DOE may take one or more of the following actions:


(1) Determine that such changes are not material to the Borrower, the Eligible Project or DOE;


(2) Amend the Conditional Commitment accordingly, including by re-calculating the Credit Subsidy Cost in accordance with ยง 609.6(d);


(3) Postpone the expected closing date of the associated Loan Guarantee Agreement; or


(4) Terminate the Conditional Commitment.






