# § 63.1090   What reports must I submit?

If you delay repair for your heat exchange system, you must report the delay of repair in the semiannual report required by § 63.1110(e). If the leak remains unrepaired, you must continue to report the delay of repair in semiannual reports until you repair the leak. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, you must include the information in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section in the semiannual report.


(a) The fact that a leak was detected, and the date that the leak was detected. 


(b) Whether or not the leak has been repaired. 


(c) The reasons for delay of repair. If you delayed the repair as provided in § 63.1088(b), documentation of emissions estimates. 


(d) If a leak remains unrepaired, the expected date of repair. 


(e) If a leak is repaired, the date the leak was successfully repaired. 


(f) For heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1085(e) and (f), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section, in lieu of the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.


(1) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.1085(e) and (f) during the reporting period.


(2) The number of heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.1085(e) and (f) at the plant site found to be leaking during the reporting period.


(3) For each monitoring location where the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate was determined to be equal to or greater than the applicable leak definitions specified in § 63.1086(e)(5) during the reporting period, identification of the monitoring location (*e.g.,* unique monitoring location or heat exchange system ID number), the measured total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate, the date the leak was first identified, and, if applicable, the date the source of the leak was identified;


(4) For leaks that were repaired during the reporting period (including delayed repairs), identification of the monitoring location associated with the repaired leak, the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate measured during re-monitoring to verify repair, and the re-monitoring date (*i.e.,* the effective date of repair); and


(5) For each delayed repair, identification of the monitoring location associated with the leak for which repair is delayed, the date when the delay of repair began, the date the repair is expected to be completed (if the leak is not repaired during the reporting period), the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration or total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate and date of each monitoring event conducted on the delayed repair during the reporting period, and an estimate of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions over the reporting period associated with the delayed repair.



---

[N] [67 FR 46271, July 12, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 40422, July 6, 2020]






