# ยง 226.12   What selection criteria does the Secretary use in evaluating an application for a State Charter School Facilities Incentive program grant?

The selection criteria for this program are as follows:


(a) *Need for facility funding.* (1) The need for per-pupil charter school facility funding in the State.


(2) The extent to which the proposal meets the need to fund charter school facilities on a per-pupil basis.


(b) *Quality of plan.* (1) The likelihood that the proposed grant project will result in the State either retaining a new per-pupil facilities aid program or continuing to enhance such a program without the total amount of assistance (State and Federal) declining over a five-year period.


(2) The flexibility charter schools have in their use of facility funds for the various authorized purposes.


(3) The quality of the plan for identifying charter schools and determining their eligibility to receive funds.


(4) The per-pupil facilities aid formula's ability to target resources to charter schools with the greatest need and the highest proportions of students in poverty.


(5) For projects that plan to reserve funds for evaluation, the quality of the applicant's plan to use grant funds for this purpose.


(6) For projects that plan to reserve funds for technical assistance, dissemination, or personnel, the quality of the applicant's plan to use grant funds for these purposes.


(c) *The grant project team.* (1) The qualifications, including relevant training and experience, of the project manager and other members of the grant project team, including employees not paid with grant funds, consultants, and subcontractors.


(2) The adequacy and appropriateness of the applicant's staffing plan for the grant project.


(d) *The budget.* (1) The extent to which the requested grant amount and the project costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives, design, and potential significance of the proposed grant project.


(2) The extent to which the costs are reasonable in relation to the number of students served and to the anticipated results and benefits.


(3) The extent to which the non-Federal share exceeds the minimum percentages (which are based on the percentages under section 4304(k)(2)(C) of the ESEA), particularly in the initial years of the program.


(e) *State experience.* The experience of the State in addressing the facility needs of charter schools through various means, including providing per-pupil aid and access to State loan or bonding pools.



---

[N] [70 FR 15003, Mar. 24, 2005, as amended at 87 FR 3661, Jan. 25, 2022]






