# ยง 760.1710   Time and method of application.

(a) A completed FSA-376, Milk Loss Program Application, must be submitted at the time of application along with the information listed in ยง 760.1707 to the affected farmer's recording county office by the close of business on the Milk Loss Program application deadline. Applications may be submitted in person or by mail, email, facsimile, or other methods announced by FSA. The Deputy Administrator has the discretion and authority to waive or modify deadlines and other requirements or program provisions in cases where the Deputy Administrator determines it is equitable to do so and where the Deputy Administrator finds that the lateness or failure to meet such other requirements or program provisions do not adversely affect Milk Loss Program operation.


(b) Failure of an individual, entity, or a member of an entity to submit the following payment limitation and payment eligibility forms within 60 days from the date of the Milk Loss Program application deadline, may result in no payment or a reduced payment:


(1) Form AD-2047, Customer Data Worksheet, for new customers or existing customers who need to update their customer profile;


(2) Form CCC-860, Socially Disadvantaged, Limited Resource, Beginning and Veteran Farmer or Rancher Certification, if applicable for the program year or years for which the affected farmer is applying for the Milk Loss Program and if the affected farmer chooses to provide that certification;


(3) Form CCC-901, Member Information for Legal Entities, if applicable;


(4) Form CCC-902, Farm Operating Plan for an individual or legal entity as provided in 7 CFR part 1400;


(5) Form FSA-510, Request for an Exception to the $125,000 Payment Limitation for Certain Programs, accompanied by a certification from a certified public accountant or attorney as to that person or legal entity's certification, for a legal entity and all members of that entity, for each applicable program year, including the legal entity's members, partners, or shareholders, as provided in 7 CFR part 1400; and


(6) Form AD-1026, Highly Erodible Land Conservation (HELC) and Wetland Conservation (WC) Certification, for the Milk Loss Program and applicable affiliates as provided in 7 CFR part 12.


(c) If supporting documentation is requested under ยง 760.1707(b), the documentation must be submitted to FSA within 60 calendar days from the request or the application will be disapproved by FSA.


(d) Milk Loss Program payments are limited to 30 days per year for each of 2020, 2021, and 2022.


(e) Each Milk Loss Program application is limited to the milk loss for one calendar month due to a qualifying disaster event or multiple qualifying disaster events. Milk loss that occurs in a subsequent month for the same qualifying disaster event will require a separate application.



---

[N] [88 FR 62291, Sept. 11, 2023]








