# ยง 66.3   Definitions.

In this part and part 67:


(a) *Act* means the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.* as amended on August 7, 1977, except where the context specifically indicates otherwise. 


(b) *Affiliated entity* means a person who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the owner or operator of a source. 


(c) *Applicable legal requirements* means any of the following: 


(1) In the case of any major source, any emission limitation, emission standard, or compliance schedule under any EPA-approved State implementation plan (regardless of whether the source is subject to a Federal or State consent decree); 


(2) In the case of any source, an emission limitation, emission standard, standard of performance, or other requirement (including, but not limited to, work practice standards) established under section 111 or 112 of the Act; 


(3) In the case of a source that is subject to a federal or federally approved state judicial consent decree or EPA approved extension, order, or suspension, any interim emission control requirement or schedule of compliance under that consent decree, extension, order or suspension; 


(4) In the case of a nonferrous smelter which has received a primary nonferrous smelter order issued or approved by EPA under Section 119 of the Act, any interim emission control requirement (including a requirement relating to the use of supplemental or intermittent controls) or schedule of compliance under that order. 


(d) *Approved Section 120 program* means a State program to assess and collect Section 120 penalties that has been approved by the Administrator. 


(e) *Computer program* means the computer program used to calculate noncompliance penalties under section 120 of the Clean Air Act. This computer program appears as appendix C to these regulations. 


(f) *Control* (including the terms *controlling, controlled by,* and *under common control with*) means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person or organization, whether by the ownership of stock, voting rights, by contract, or otherwise. 


(g) *Environmental Appeals Board* shall mean the Board within the Agency described in ยง 1.25 of this title. The Administrator delegates authority to the Environmental Appeals Board to issue final decisions in appeals filed under this part. Appeals directed to the Administrator, rather than to the Environmental Appeals Board, will not be considered. This delegation of authority to the Environmental Appeals Board does not preclude the Environmental Appeals Board from referring an appeal or a motion filed under this part to the Administrator for decision when the Environmental Appeals Board, in its discretion, deems it appropriate to do so. When an appeal or motion is referred to the Administrator, all parties shall be so notified and the rules in this part referring to the Environmental Appeals Board shall be interpreted as referring to the Administrator.


(h) *Major stationary source* means any stationary facility or source of air pollutants which directly emits, or has the potential to emit, one hundred tons per year or more of any air pollutant regulated by EPA under the Clean Air Act. 


(i) *Manual* means the *Noncompliance Penalties Instruction Manual* which accompanies these regulations. This Manual appears as appendix B to these regulations. 


(j) *Owner or operator* means any person who owns, leases, operates or supervises a facility, building, structure or installation which emits or has the potential to emit any air pollutant regulated by EPA under the Act. 


(k) *Potential to emit* means the capability at maximum design capacity to emit a pollutant after the application of air pollution control equipment. Annual potential shall be based on the larger of the maximum annual rated capacity of the stationary source assuming continuous operation, or on a projection of actual annual emissions. Enforceable permit conditions on the type of materials combusted or processed may be used in determining the annual potential. Fugitive emissions, to the extent quantifiable, will be considered in determining annual potential for those stationary sources whose fugitive emissions are regulated by the applicable state implementation plan. 


(l) *Source* means any source of air pollution subject to applicable legal requirements as defined in paragraph (c). 


(m) *Technical Support Document* means the *Noncompliance Penalties Technical Support Document* which accompanies these regulations. The Technical Support Document appears as appendix A to these regulations. 



---

[N] [45 FR 50110, July 28, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 5328, Feb. 13, 1992]




