# § 807.22   Times for establishment registration and device listing.

(a) *Initial registration and listing.* An owner or operator of an establishment who has not previously entered into an operation described in § 807.20(a) shall register within 30 days after entering into such an operation and submit device listing information at that time.


(b) *Registration and listing updates.* Owners or operators shall review and update all of their establishment registration and device listing information that is on file at FDA, documenting any changes that were not previously reported as follows:


(1) Annual registration for each fiscal year is required for all establishments. Annual registration shall take place during the period beginning on October 1 and ending on December 31 of each fiscal year;


(2) Updates to the registration information as described in § 807.25(b) shall be made within 30 days of any change to such information;


(3) Every fiscal year, during the period beginning on October 1 and ending on December 31, owners or operators shall review and update all of their device listing information that is on file at FDA, reporting any changes or deletions to listings and any new listings that were not previously reported. The accuracy of all information on file must be confirmed each year regardless of whether any changes were made to the owner or operator's list of devices; and


(4) Changes to listing information may also be made at other times, such as when a device is introduced into commercial distribution, when a change is made to a previously-listed device, or when a previously-listed device is removed from commercial distribution.


(c) *Failure to submit required information.* Failure to submit any of the required information on time, as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, will put the establishment in a “failed to register” or “failed to list” status as applicable. The establishment will not be considered active and the establishment registration and device listing information may not appear on the FDA Web site until such time as the owner or operator submits and FDA processes the required information.



---

[N] [77 FR 45942, Aug. 2, 2012]




