# § 62.15400   When must I submit a title V permit application for my existing small municipal waste combustion unit?

(a) You must submit a complete title V permit application within 12 months of when your source first becomes subject to a title V permitting program. *See* 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b), 70.5(a)(1), 71.3(a) and (b), and 71.5(a)(1). As provided in section 503(c) of the Clean Air Act, permitting authorities may establish permit application deadlines earlier than the 12-month deadline. 


(b) If your existing small MWC unit is not subject to an earlier permit application deadline, a complete title V permit application must be submitted not later than the date 36 months after promulgation of 40 CFR part 60, subpart BBBB (December 6, 2003), or by the effective date of the applicable State, tribal, or Federal operating permits program, whichever is later. For any existing small MWC unit not subject to an earlier application deadline, this final application deadline applies regardless of when this Federal plan is effective, or when the relevant State or Tribal section 111(d)/129 plan is approved by EPA and becomes effective. *See* sections 129(e), 503(c), 503(d), and 502(a) of the Clean Air Act. 


(c) A “complete” title V permit application is one that has been determined or deemed complete by the relevant permitting authority under section 503(d) of the Clear Air Act and 40 CFR 70.5(a)(2) or 71.5(a)(2). You must submit a complete permit application by the relevant application deadline in order to operate after this date in compliance with Federal law. *See* sections 503(d) and 502(a); 40 CFR 70.7(b) and 71.7(b). 




