# § 176.3   Definitions.

The terms have the same meaning as in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act section 2, and in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act section 201 and § 166.3 of this chapter. In addition, the following terms are defined for the purposes of this part. 


*Agency* means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 


*Applicant* means any entity authorized under section 18 of FIFRA to request an emergency exemption that requests such an exemption under § 166.20 of this chapter, or issues a crisis exemption under § 166.40 of this chapter. 


*Crisis exemption* means an exemption authorized under FIFRA section 18, in accordance with §§ 166.40 through 166.53 of this chapter. 


*Emergency exemption* means a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption authorized under FIFRA section 18 and the regulations at §§ 166.20 through 166.35 of this chapter. 


*EPA* means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 


*FFDCA* means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321 *et seq.*). 


*FIFRA* means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C 136 *et seq.*). 


*Tolerance* means the maximum amount of a pesticide chemical residue that may lawfully be present in or on a raw agricultural commodity, or processed food, or animal feed, expressed as parts per million by weight of the pesticide chemical residue in the food or feed. 


*Tolerance exemption* means a formal determination by the Agency pursuant to FFDCA section 408(c), 21 U.S.C 346a(c), that no tolerance is needed for a given pesticide chemical residue in or on a particular food commodity. For purposes of this part, the term “tolerance” shall include an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance. 




