# ยง 1402.206   What are the FAIR requirements for domestic for-profit entities?

(a) *Requirements for domestic for-profit entities.* (1) Section 1402.207(a) contains standard award terms and conditions that always apply to for-profit entities and ยง 1402.207(b) contains terms that apply to sub-awards or contracts with for-profit entities over the simplified acquisition threshold. Bureaus and offices must incorporate into awards to domestic for-profit organizations the award terms and conditions that always apply, either directly or by reference.


(2) Bureaus and offices may apply the administrative guidelines in subparts A through D of 2 CFR part 200, the cost principles at 48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.2, and the procedures for negotiating indirect costs (detailed in ยง 1402.414) to domestic for-profit entities.


(3) Depending on the nature of a particular program, offices and bureaus may additionally develop program-specific administrative guidelines for domestic for-profits based on the requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through D, but may not apply more restrictive requirements than the requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through D, unless approved by OMB through a request to the Director, Office of Grants Management.


(b) *Requirements for award terms and conditions.* Bureau and office award terms and conditions must be managed in accordance with the requirements in 2 CFR 200.211, Information contained in a Federal award.



---

[N] [84 FR 45635, Aug. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57531, Oct. 18, 2021]




