# ยง 128.204   What size standards apply to VOSBs and SDVOSBs?

(a) *Time of certification.* At the time of certification or recertification, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be a small business under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its System for Award Management (SAM), or successor system, profile. In determining whether a concern qualifies as small for VOSB/SDVOSB certification or recertification under the size standard corresponding to a specific NAICS code, SBA will accept the concern's size representation in SAM, unless there is evidence indicating that the concern is other than small. SBA will request a formal size determination pursuant to ยง 121.1001(b)(12) of this chapter where any information it possesses calls into question the concern's SAM size representation.


(b) *Time of contract offer.* In connection with a VOSB or SDVOSB contract, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract at the time it submits its initial offer or response which includes price. To be eligible for a VOSB or SDVOSB multiple award contract, a VOSB or SDVOSB must be small pursuant to the requirements of ยง 121.404(a)(1) of this chapter. If the contracting officer is unable to verify that the VOSB or SDVOSB is small, the contracting officer should submit a size protest to SBA in accordance with part 121 of this chapter.



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 102509, Dec. 17, 2024]






