# § 600.511   Fishery closure procedures.

(a) Activity Codes 1 and 2 for a fishery are automatically canceled in the following cases, unless otherwise specified by regulations specific to a fishery, when—


(1) The OY for any allocated species or species group has been reached in that fishery; 


(2) The TALFF or catch allowance for any allocated species or species group has been reached in that fishery; 


(3) The foreign nation's allocation for any allocated species or species group has been reached; or 


(4) The letter of credit required in § 600.518(b)(2) is not established and maintained. 


(b) Activity Code 4 is automatically canceled when—


(1) The OY for a species with a JVP amount is reached; 


(2) The JVP amount for a species or species group is reached; or 


(3) The letter of credit required in § 600.518(b)(2) is not established and maintained. 


(c) *Notification.* (1) The Regional Administrator is authorized to close a fishery on behalf of NMFS. The Regional Administrator will notify each FFV's designated representative of closures. 


(2) If possible, notice will be given 48 hours before the closure. However, each Nation and the owners and operators of all FFV's of that Nation are responsible for ending fishing operations when an allocation is reached. 


(d) *Catch reconciliation.* Vessel activity reports, U.S. surveillance observations, observer reports, and foreign catch and effort reports will be used to make the determination listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. If NMFS estimates of catch or other values made during the season differ from those reported by the foreign fleets, efforts may be initiated by the designated representative of each Nation to resolve such differences with NMFS. If, however, differences still persist after such efforts have been made, NMFS estimates will be the basis for decisions and will prevail. 


(e) *Duration.* Any closure under this section will remain in effect until an applicable new or increased allocation or JVP becomes available or the letter of credit required by § 600.518(b)(2) is reestablished. 



---

[N] [61 FR 32540, June 24, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 7075, Feb. 12, 1998] 




