# § 141.706   Reporting source water monitoring results.

(a) Systems must report results from the source water monitoring required under § 141.701 no later than 10 days after the end of the first month following the month when the sample is collected.


(b)(1) All systems serving at least 10,000 people must report the results from the initial source water monitoring required under § 141.701(a) to EPA electronically at *https://intranet.epa.gov/lt2/.*

(2) If a system is unable to report monitoring results electronically, the system may use an alternative approach for reporting monitoring results that EPA approves.


(c) Systems serving fewer than 10,000 people must report results from the initial source water monitoring required under § 141.701(a) to the State.


(d) All systems must report results from the second round of source water monitoring required under § 141.701(b) to the State.


(e) Systems must report the applicable information in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for the source water monitoring required under § 141.701.


(1) Systems must report the following data elements for each *Cryptosporidium* analysis:


(i) For matrix spike samples, systems must also report the sample volume spiked and estimated number of oocysts spiked. These data are not required for field samples.


(ii) For samples in which less than 10 L is filtered or less than 100% of the sample volume is examined, systems must also report the number of filters used and the packed pellet volume.


(iii) For samples in which less than 100% of sample volume is examined, systems must also report the volume of resuspended concentrate and volume of this resuspension processed through immunomagnetic separation.


(2) Systems must report the following data elements for each *E. coli* analysis:


