# ยง 128.200   What are the requirements a concern must meet to qualify as a VOSB or SDVOSB?

(a) *Qualification as a VOSB.* To qualify as a VOSB, a business entity must be:


(1) A small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile;


(2) Not less than 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more veterans who reside in the United States.


(b) *Qualification as an SDVOSB.* To qualify as an SDVOSB, a business entity must be:


(1) A small business concern as defined in part 121 of this chapter under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile;


(2) Not less than 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans who reside in the United States or, in the case of a veteran with a disability that is rated by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs as a permanent and total disability who are unable to manage the daily business operations of such concern, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran who resides in the United States.


(c) *VOSB and SDVOSB certification requirement.* (1) A concern must be certified as a VOSB or SDVOSB pursuant to ยง 128.300 in order to be awarded a VOSB or SDVOSB set-aside or sole source contract. Any small business concern that submits a complete certification application to SBA on or before December 31, 2023, shall be eligible to self-certify for SDVOSB sole source or set-aside contracts (other than VA contracts) until SBA declines or approves the concern's application. Any small business concern that does not submit a complete SDVOSB certification application to SBA on or before December 31, 2023, will no longer be eligible to self-certify for SDVOSB sole source or set-aside contracts effective January 1, 2024.


(2) A concern must be certified pursuant to ยง 128.300 to receive a prime contract that is to be counted by a Federal agency for the purposes of meeting participation goals for SDVOSBs or to receive a subcontract from a Federal prime contractor for the purpose of meeting subcontracting goals for SBVOSBs in Federal procurement contracts. Any small business concern that submits a complete certification application to SBA on or before December 22, 2024, shall be eligible to self-certify for a Federal prime or subcontract that counts towards SDVOSB goaling purposes or SDVOSB subcontracting goals, respectively, until SBA declines or approves the concern's application. Any small business concern that does not submit a complete SDVOSB certification application to SBA on or before December 22, 2024, will no longer be eligible to self-certify for a Federal prime or subcontract that counts towards SDVOSB goaling purposes or SDVOSB subcontracting goals, respectively.



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 48269, June 6, 2024; 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024]






