# ยง 48.105   Registration: Small unmanned aircraft intended exclusively for limited recreational operations.

(a) *Certificate of Aircraft Registration.* A Certificate of Aircraft Registration issued in accordance with ยง  48.110 for small unmanned aircraft to be operated exclusively in compliance with 49 U.S.C. 44809 constitutes registration for all the small unmanned aircraft used exclusively for operations in compliance with 49 U.S.C. 44809 owned by the individual identified on the application.


(b) *Effective date of registration.* An aircraft is registered when the applicant receives a Certificate of Aircraft Registration. The effective date of registration is shown by the date of issue on the Certificate of Aircraft Registration issued under this part.


(c) *Registration renewal.* A Certificate of Aircraft registration issued under this part expires 3 years after the date of issue unless it is renewed.


(1) The holder of a Certificate of Aircraft Registration must renew the Certificate by verifying, in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator, that the information provided in accordance with ยง 48.110 is accurate and if it is not, provide updated information. The verification may take place at any time within the six months preceding the month in which the Certificate of Aircraft registration expires.


(2) A certificate issued under this paragraph expires three years from the expiration date of the previous certificate.


(d) *Other events affecting effectiveness of Certificate.* Each Certificate of Aircraft Registration issued by the FAA under this part is effective, unless registration has ended by reason of having been revoked, canceled or expired, or until the date upon which one of the following events occurs:


(1) The holder of the Certificate of Aircraft Registration loses U.S. citizenship.


(2) Thirty days have elapsed since the death of the holder of the Certificate of Aircraft Registration.


(3) The owner, if an individual who is not a citizen of the United States, loses status as a resident alien, unless that person becomes a citizen of the United States at the same time.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2015-7396; Amdt. No. 48-1; 80 FR 78645, Dec. 16, 2015. Redesignated and amended by Doc. No. FAA-2019-1100; Amdt. No. 48-3, 86 FR 4504, Jan. 15, 2021]




