# § 520.2045   Pyrantel tartrate powder.

(a) *Specifications.* Each gram of powder contains 106 milligrams (10.6 percent) or 113 milligrams (11.3 percent) pyrantel tartrate.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter for use of 11.3 percent powder as in paragraph (d)(1) and 10.6 percent powder as in paragraph (d)(2) and of this section.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.560 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Horses*—(i) *Amount.* Administer as a single dose at 0.57 gram of pyrantel tartrate per 100 pounds of body weight mixed with the usual grain ration. Do not administer by stomach tube or dose syringe.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the removal and control of infections from the following mature parasites: Large strongyles (*Strongylus vulgaris, S. edentatus,**S. equinus*), small strongyles (*Trichonema* spp., *Triodontophorus*), pinworms (*Oxyuris*), and large roundworms (*Parascaris*).


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not treat severely debilitated animals with this drug. Do not use in horses intended for human consumption.


(2) *Swine*—(i) *Amount.* Add to feed at 0.4 gram pyrantel tartrate per pound of non-pelleted ration. The ration is administered as a single treatment as the sole ration at the rate of 1 pound per 40 pounds of animal weight for animals up to 200 pounds. Animals 200 pounds and over are administered 5 pounds of ration per animal.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the removal and control of large roundworms (*Ascaris suum*) and nodular worm (*Oesophagostomum*) infections.


(iii) *Limitations.* Consult veterinarian before using in severely debilitated animals. Do not treat within 24 hours of slaughter.



---

[N] [79 FR 28827, May 20, 2014]




