# ยง 250.1409   What are my appeal rights?

(a) When you receive the Reviewing Officer's final decision, you have 60 days to either pay the penalty or file an appeal in accordance with 30 CFR part 290, subpart A.


(b) In order to file an appeal, you must perform one of the following actions within the 60-day appeal period to have your appeal heard:


(c) If you choose the alternative in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the BOEM Regional Director may require additional security (*i.e.,* security in excess of your existing bond) to ensure sufficient coverage during an appeal. In that event, the Regional Director will require you to post the supplemental bond with the regional office in the same manner as under 30 CFR 556.53(d) through (f). If the Regional Director determines the appeal should be covered by a lease-specific abandonment account then you must establish an account that meets the requirements of 30 CFR part 556.56.


(d) Satisfying the bonding requirement in paragraph (b) of this section is a jurisdictional precondition for a civil penalty appeal. If you have timely filed a request with BOEM pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section to use your lease-specific/area-wide bond on file as the bond for the penalty amount, the IBLA's jurisdiction over the appeal is preserved while BOEM's decision on your request is pending. Should BOEM deny your request or require additional security pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, you have 30 days to satisfy paragraph (b)(1) of this section or post the required additional security, as applicable, and jurisdiction is preserved during that 30-day period. If you fail to satisfy these bonding requirements, the IBLA will lose jurisdiction and must dismiss your appeal.


(e) If you do not either pay the penalty or fully satisfy the appeal requirements, the Department may take one or more of the following actions:


(1) Collect the amount you were assessed, plus interest, late payment charges, and other fees as provided by law, from the date you received the Reviewing Officer's final decision until the date we receive payment;


(2) Initiate additional enforcement, including, if appropriate, cancellation of the lease, right-of-way, license, permit, or approval, or the forfeiture of a bond under this part; or


(3) Bar you from doing further business with the Federal Government according to Executive Orders 12549 and 12689, and section 2455 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994, 31 U.S.C. 6101. The Department of the Interior's regulations implementing these authorities are found at 43 CFR part 12, subpart D.



---

[N] [76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 89925, Nov. 14, 2024]


