# ยง 812.25   Investigational plan.

The investigational plan shall include, in the following order: 


(a) *Purpose.* The name and intended use of the device and the objectives and duration of the investigation. 


(b) *Protocol.* A written protocol describing the methodology to be used and an analysis of the protocol demonstrating that the investigation is scientifically sound. 


(c) *Risk analysis.* A description and analysis of all increased risks to which subjects will be exposed by the investigation; the manner in which these risks will be minimized; a justification for the investigation; and a description of the patient population, including the number, age, sex, and condition. 


(d) *Description of device.* A description of each important component, ingredient, property, and principle of operation of the device and of each anticipated change in the device during the course of the investigation. 


(e) *Monitoring procedures.* The sponsor's written procedures for monitoring the investigation and the name and address of any monitor. 


(f) *Labeling.* Copies of all labeling for the device. 


(g) *Consent materials.* Copies of all forms and informational materials to be provided to subjects to obtain informed consent. 


(h) *IRB information.* A list of the names, locations, and chairpersons of all IRB's that have been or will be asked to review the investigation, and a certification of any action taken by any of those IRB's with respect to the investigation. 


(i) *Other institutions.* The name and address of each institution at which a part of the investigation may be conducted that has not been identified in paragraph (h) of this section. 


(j) *Additional records and reports.* A description of records and reports that will be maintained on the investigation in addition to those prescribed in subpart G. 




