# ยง 2553.12   Definitions.

*Act.* The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Public Law 93-113, Oct. 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 396, 42 U.S.C. 4950 *et seq.*

*Adequate staffing level.* The number of project staff or full-time equivalent needed by a sponsor to manage the AmeriCorps Seniors project operations considering such factors as: Number of budgeted volunteers, number of volunteer stations, and the size of the service area.


*AmeriCorps.* The Corporation for National and Community Service, established pursuant to section 191 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 12651, which operates as AmeriCorps.


*AmeriCorps Seniors.* The collective name for the Senior Companion Program (SCP), the Foster Grandparent Program (FGP), the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP), and Demonstration Programs, all of which are established under Parts A, B, C, and E, Title II of the Act.


*Assignment.* The activities, functions, or responsibilities to be performed by volunteers identified in a written outline or description.


*Assignment description.* The written description of the activities, functions, or responsibilities to be performed by RSVP volunteers.


*Chief Executive Officer.* The Chief Executive Officer of AmeriCorps appointed under the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, (NCSA), 42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*

*Cost reimbursements.* Reimbursements budgeted as Volunteer Expenses and provided to volunteers, including stipends to cover incidental costs, transportation, meals, recognition, supplemental accident, personal liability and excess automobile liability insurance, and other expenses as negotiated in the Memorandum of Understanding.


*Letter of Agreement.* A written agreement between a volunteer station or sponsor and the person(s) served or the person legally responsible for that person. It authorizes the assignment of an RSVP volunteer in the home of a client, defines RSVP volunteer activities, and specifies supervision arrangements.


*Memorandum of Understanding.* A written statement prepared and signed by the RSVP project sponsor and the volunteer station that identifies project requirements, working relationships, and mutual responsibilities.


*Non-AmeriCorps support (excess).* The amount of non-AmeriCorps cash and in-kind contributions generated by a sponsor in excess of the required percentage.


*Non-AmeriCorps support (match).* The percentage share of non-AmeriCorps cash and in-kind contributions required to be raised by the sponsor in support of the grant.


*Performance measures.* Indicators that help determine the impact of an RSVP project on the community, including the volunteers.


*Project.* The locally planned RSVP activity or set of activities in a service area as approved by AmeriCorps and implemented by the sponsor.


*Proprietary Health Care Agency.* Private, for-profit health care organization that serves one or more vulnerable populations.


*Service area.* The geographically defined area(s) approved in the grant application, in which RSVP volunteers are enrolled and placed on assignments.


*Sponsor.* A public agency, including Indian Tribes as defined in section 421(5) of the Act, and private, non-profit organizations, both secular and faith-based, in the United States that have authority to accept and the capability to administer an RSVP project.


*United States and Territories.* Each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam and American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands.


*Volunteer station.* A public agency; a private, non-profit organization, secular or faith-based; or a proprietary health care organization. A volunteer station must accept responsibility for the assignment and supervision of RSVP volunteers in health, education, social service, or related settings such as multi-purpose centers, home health care agencies, or similar establishments. Each volunteer station must be licensed or otherwise certified, when required, by the appropriate state or local government. Private homes are not volunteer stations.





---

[N] [64 FR 14135, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 60095, Oct. 7, 2004; 76 FR 20246, Apr. 12, 2011; 83 FR 64654, Dec. 17, 2018; 89 FR 70544, Aug. 30, 2024]




