# ยง 19.3   Equal ability for faith-based organizations to seek and receive financial assistance through DHS social service programs.

(a) Faith-based organizations are eligible on the same basis as any other organization to seek and receive direct financial assistance from DHS for social service programs or to participate in social service programs administered or financed by DHS.


(b) Neither DHS, nor a State or local government, nor any other entity that administers any social service program supported by direct financial assistance from DHS, shall discriminate for or against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization.


(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to preclude DHS from making an accommodation, including for religious exercise, with respect to one or more program requirements on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States.


(d) DHS shall not disqualify an organization from participating in any DHS program for which it is otherwise eligible on the basis of the organization's indication that it may request an accommodation with respect to one or more program requirements, unless the organization has made clear that the accommodation is necessary to its participation and DHS has determined that it would deny the accommodation.


(e) Decisions about awards of Federal financial assistance must be free from political interference, or even the appearance of such interference, and must be made on the basis of merit, not on the basis of religion or religious belief or lack thereof, or on the basis of religious or political affiliation.


(f) All organizations that participate in DHS social service programs, including faith-based organizations, must carry out eligible activities in accordance with all program requirements, including those prohibiting the use of direct financial assistance from DHS to engage in explicitly religious activities, subject to any accommodations that are granted to organizations on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States.


(g) No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by DHS or an intermediary in administering financial assistance from DHS shall disqualify a faith-based organization from participating in DHS's social service programs:


(1) On the basis of such organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof; or


(2) On the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to disqualify a similarly situated secular organization.


(h) No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation used by DHS or an intermediary in administering financial assistance from DHS shall require faith-based organizations to provide assurances or notices where they are not required of non-faith-based organizations. Any restrictions on the use of grant funds shall apply equally to faith-based and non-faith-based organizations.



---

[N] [89 FR 15705, Mar. 4, 2024]




