# § 3282.603   Request for approval; DAPIA review, notification, and approval.

(a) *Manufacturer's request for approval.* The manufacturer must request, in writing, and obtain approval of its DAPIA for any aspect of construction that is to be completed on-site under this subpart. The manufacturer, its IPIA, and its DAPIA must work together to reach agreements necessary to enable the request to be reviewed and approved.


(b) *DAPIA notification.* The DAPIA, acting on behalf of HUD, must notify the manufacturer of the results of the DAPIA's review of the manufacturer's request, and must retain a copy of the notification in the DAPIA's records. The DAPIA shall also forward a copy of the approval to HUD or the Secretary's agent as provided under § 3282.361(a)(4). The notification must either:


(1) Approve the request if it is consistent with this section and the objectives of the Act; or


(2) Deny the proposed on-site completion and set out the reasons for the denial.


(c) *Manner of DAPIA approval.* Notification of DAPIA approval must include, by incorporation or by listing, the information required by paragraph (d) of this section, and must be indicated by the DAPIA placing its stamp of approval or authorized signature on each page of the manufacturer's designs submitted with its request for approval. The DAPIA must include an “SC” designation on each page that includes an element of construction that is to be completed on-site and must include those pages as part of the approved design package.


(d) *Contents of DAPIA approval.* Any approval by the DAPIA under this section must:


(1) Include a unique site completion numeric identification for each approval for each manufacturer (*i.e.,* manufacturer name or abbreviation, SC-XX);


(2) Identify the work to be completed on-site;


(3) List all models to which the approval applies, or indicate that the approval is not model-specific;


(4) Include acceptance by the DAPIA of a quality assurance manual for on-site completion meeting the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section;


(5) Include the IPIA's written agreement to accept responsibility for completion of the necessary on-site inspections and accompanying records;


(6) Identify instructions authorized for completing the work on-site that meet the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section;


(7) Include the manufacturer's system for tracking the status of homes built under the approval until the on-site work and necessary inspections have been completed, to assure that the work is being performed properly;


(8) Include a quality control checklist to be used by the manufacturer and IPIA and approved by the DAPIA to verify that all required components, materials, labels, and instructions needed for site completion are provided in each home prior to shipment;


(9) Include an inspection checklist developed by the IPIA and manufacturer and approved by the DAPIA, that is to be used by the final site inspectors;


(10) Include a Consumer Information Notice developed by the manufacturer and approved by the DAPIA that explains the on-site completion process and identifies the work to be completed on-site; and


(11) Include any other requirements and limitations that the DAPIA deems necessary or appropriate to accomplish the purposes of the Act.


(e) *Quality assurance manual for on-site completion requirements.* The portion of the quality assurance manual for on-site completion required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section must receive the written concurrence of the manufacturer's IPIA with regard to its acceptability and applicability to the on-site completion of the affected manufactured homes. It must include a commitment by the manufacturer to prepare a final site inspection report that will be submitted to the IPIA for its review. When appropriate, this portion of the quality assurance manual for on-site completion will be deemed a change in the manufacturer's quality assurance manual for the applicable models, in accordance with §§ 3282.203 and 3282.361.


(f) *Instructions for completion on-site.* The DAPIA must include instructions authorized for completing the work on-site as a separate part of the manufacturer's approved design package. The manufacturer must provide a copy of these instructions and the inspection checklist required by paragraph (d)(9) of this section to the IPIA for monitoring and inspection purposes.




