# ยง 200.735-12   Special Government employees.

(a) Special Government employee means a person defined in section 18 U.S.C. 202 as a *special Government employee.* All of the provisions of this Conduct Regulation are applicable to special Government employees, except that in specific appropriate cases the Commission may exempt such employees from, or modify the applicability of, any portion of any provision of the Conduct Regulation. 


(b) In no event will the Commission waive a provision of the Conduct Regulation which would permit a special Government employee to: 


(1) Use his or her Government employment for a purpose that is, or gives the appearance of being, motivated by the desire for private gain for himself or another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business, or financial ties. 


(2) Use inside information obtained as a result of his or her Government employment for private gain for himself or herself or another person either by direct action on his or her part or by counsel, recommendation, or suggestion to another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business, or financial ties. For purposes of this paragraph, *inside information* means information obtained under Government authority which has not become part of the body of public information. 


(3) Use his or her Government employment to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a person to provide financial benefit to himself or herself or another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business, or financial ties. 


(4) Receive or solicit from a person having business with the Commission anything of value as a gift, gratuity, loan, entertainment, or favor for himself or herself or another person, particularly one with whom he or she has family, business or financial ties. 


(c) Prior to entrance on duty, each special Government employee shall submit to the Director of Personnel a statement of employment and financial interests which contains such information as the Director of Personnel determines is relevant in the light of the duties the special Government employee is to perform and, if appropriate, the financial disclosure report as provided by title II of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-521. It shall be kept current throughout the period of employment by the filing of supplementary statements in accordance with the requirements of ยง 200.735-11(d). Statements shall be on the official form made available for this purpose through the Office of Personnel. 


(d) The Commission may waive the requirement of paragraph (c) of this section in the case of a special Government employee who is not a *consultant* or an *expert,* as those terms are defined in chapter 304 of the Federal Personnel Manual (5 CFR 735.304), if the duties of the position are determined to be at a level of responsibility which does not require the submission of such statement to protect the integrity of the Commission. 




