# ยง 1008.2   Definitions.

(a) *Department* or *Department of Energy (DOE)* means all organizational entities which are a part of the executive department created by title II of the Department of Energy Organization Act, Public Law 95-91, except the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).


(b) *Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals* means the Director or his delegate.


(c) *DOE locations* means each of the following DOE components:


(1) Bonneville Power Administration, P.O. Box 3621-KDP-7, Portland, OR 97232.


(2) Carlsbad Field Office, P.O. Box 3090, Carlsbad, NM 88221.


(3) Chicago Office, 9800 S. Cass Avenue, Argonne, IL 60439.


(4) Environmental Management Consolidated Business Center, 250 East 5th Street, Suite 500, Cincinnati, OH 45202.


(5) Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Boulevard, Golden, CO 80401.


(6) Headquarters, Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585.


(7) Idaho Operations Office, 1955 Fremont Avenue, MS 1203, Idaho Falls, ID 83401.


(8) National Nuclear Security Administration Service Center, P.O. Box 5400, Albuquerque, NM 87185-5400.


(9) National Nuclear Security Administration Nevada Site Office, P.O. Box 98518, Las Vegas, NV 89193-3521.


(10) National Energy Technology Laboratory, 3610 Collins Ferry Road, Morgantown, WV 26507-0800.


(11) Oak Ridge Office, P.O. Box 2001, Oak Ridge, TN 37831.


(12) Office of Scientific and Technical Information, 175 S. Oak Ridge Turnpike, P.O. Box 62, Oak Ridge, TN 37830.


(13) Pacific Northwest Site Office, P.O. Box 350, Mail Stop K8-50, Richland, WA 99352.


(14) Pittsburgh Naval Reactors, P.O. Box 109, West Mifflin, PA 15122-0109.


(15) Richland Operations Office, P.O. Box 550, Mail Stop A7-75, Richland, WA 99352.


(16) Savannah River Operations Office, P.O. Box A, Aiken, SC 29801.


(17) Schenectady Naval Reactors, P.O. Box 1069, Schenectady, NY 12301.


(18) Southeastern Power Administration, 1166 Athens Tech Road, Elberton, GA 30635-6711.


(19) Southwestern Power Administration, One West Third, S1200, Tulsa, OK 74103.


(20) Strategic Petroleum Reserve Project Management Office, 900 Commerce Road East-MS FE-455, New Orleans, LA 70123.


(21) Western Area Power Administration, 12155 W. Alameda Parkway, P.O. Box 281213, Lakewood, CO 80228-8213.


(d) *General Counsel* means the General Counsel provided for in section 202(b) of the Department of Energy Organization Act, or any DOE attorney designated by the General Counsel.


(e) *Headquarters* means all DOE facilities functioning within the Washington, DC metropolitan area.


(f) *Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, but does not include proprietorships, businesses, or corporations. Where appropriate, the term *individual* also includes a duly authorized representative of an individual.


(g) *Maintain* means maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.


(h) *Privacy Act Officer* means the person designated by the Director, Office of Administration, as responsible for administering the DOE's program for implementing the requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974 at the DOE locations listed at ยง 1008.2(c). 


(i) *Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by or for the DOE including, but not limited, to education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains that individual's name, or other identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particulars assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or photograph. See subsection (a)(4) of the Act. 


(j) *Routine use* means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected. See subsection (a)(7) of the Act. 


(k) *Statistical record* means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8. See subsection (a)(6) of the Act. 


(l) *System Manager* means the DOE official who is responsible for a system of records as designated in the system notice of that system of records published by DOE. 


(m) *System of records* means a group of any records under DOE control from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particulars assigned to the individual. See subsection (a)(5) of the Act. 


(n) *Act* means the Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579; references to subsections of the Act mean subsections of section 3 of the Act. 



---

[N] [45 FR 61577, Sept. 16, 1980, as amended at 71 FR 68735, Nov. 28, 2006]




