# § 194.101   Operators required to submit plans.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, unless OPS grants a request from an Federal On-Scene Coordinator (FOSC) to require an operator of a pipeline in paragraph (b) to submit a response plan, each operator of an onshore pipeline facility shall prepare and submit a response plan to PHMSA as provided in § 194.119. A pipeline which does not meet the criteria for significant and substantial harm as defined in § 194.103(c) and is not eligible for an exception under § 194.101(b), can be expected to cause substantial harm. Operators of substantial harm pipeline facilities must prepare and submit plans to PHMSA for review.


(b) *Exception.* An operator need not submit a response plan for:


(1) A pipeline that is 6
5/8 inches (168 millimeters) or less in outside nominal diameter, is 10 miles (16 kilometers) or less in length, and all of the following conditions apply to the pipeline:


(i) The pipeline has not experienced a release greater than 1,000 barrels (159 cubic meters) within the previous five years,


(ii) The pipeline has not experienced at least two reportable releases, as defined in § 195.50, within the previous five years,


(iii) A pipeline containing any electric resistance welded pipe, manufactured prior to 1970, does not operate at a maximum operating pressure established under § 195.406 that corresponds to a stress level greater than 50 percent of the specified minimum yield strength of the pipe, and


(iv) The pipeline is not in proximity to navigable waters, public drinking water intakes, or environmentally sensitive areas.


(2)(i) A line section that is greater than 6
5/8 inches in outside nominal diameter and is greater than 10 miles in length, where the operator determines that it is unlikely that the worst case discharge from any point on the line section would adversely affect, within 12 hours after the initiation of the discharge, any navigable waters, public drinking water intake, or environmentally sensitive areas.


(ii) A line section that is 6
5/8 inches (168 millimeters) or less in outside nominal diameter and is 10 miles (16 kilometers) or less in length, where the operator determines that it is unlikely that the worst case discharge from any point on the line section would adversely affect, within 4 hours after the initiation of the discharge, any navigable waters, public drinking water intake, or environmentally sensitive areas.



---

[N] [58 FR 253, Jan. 5, 1993, as amended by Amdt. 194-3, 63 FR 37505, July 13, 1998; Amdt. 194-4, 70 FR 8747, Feb. 23, 2005; 70 FR 11140, Mar. 8, 2005]




