# 227.7104-3   STTR program requirements.

(a) Before award of a contract under the STTR program requirements only, the provision at 252.227-7040, Additional Preaward Requirements for Small Business Technology Transfer Program, requires offerors to submit, as part of their proposal, a written agreement between the offeror and a research institution that allocates any rights in intellectual property and the offeror's written representation that the offeror is satisfied with the agreement. The contracting officer shall review the agreement to ensure it does not conflict with the requirements of the solicitation or any right to carry out follow-on research. If such conflicts exist and cannot be resolved, the submitted proposal is not eligible for award.


(b) At contract award for STTR program requirements, in accordance with the clause at 252.227-7041, Additional Postaward Requirements for Small Business Technology Transfer Program, the contracting officer shall attach to the contract the accepted written agreement and representation provided by the contractor pursuant to the provision at 252.227-7040.


(c) After contract award, for any modification to the written agreement between the contractor and research institution, the contracting officer shall review the agreement and representation to ensure the modified agreement adheres to the requirements of 252.227-7041. If acceptable, the contracting officer shall attach the modified agreement to the contract.



---

[N] [89 FR 103344, Dec. 18, 2024] 
















