# ยง 422.6   Notification of USDA of allegations of research misconduct.

(a) Research institutions that conduct USDA-funded extramural research must promptly notify OIG and the USDA RIO of all allegations of research misconduct or violations of Federal criminal statutes involving USDA funds when the institution inquiry into the allegation warrants the institution moving on to an investigation.


(b) Individuals at research institutions who suspect research misconduct at the institution should report allegations in accordance with the institution's research misconduct policies and procedures. Anyone else who suspects that researchers or research institutions performing Federally funded research may have engaged in research misconduct is encouraged to make a formal allegation of research misconduct to OIG.


(1) OIG has established a hotline for USDA employees and the general public to report fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement in USDA programs including allegations of research misconduct. Complaints, which may be submitted anonymously, must be filed with the OIG by submitting a complaint via the hotline on OIG's public website, sending a fax, or writing a letter.


(i) The OIG hotline may be accessed at *https://usdaoig.oversight.gov/hotline.*

(ii) Complainants who submit to the hotline on OIG's public website and who wish to provide additional documentation may fax them to (202) 690-2474.


(iii) Letters may be mailed to: United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, P.O. Box 23399, Washington, DC 20026-3399.


(2) The USDA RIO may be reached at: USDA Research Integrity Officer, 214W Whitten Building, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 690-0745. Email: *researchintegrity@usda.gov.*

(c) To the extent known, the following details should be included in any formal allegation:


(1) The name of the research projects involved, the nature of the alleged misconduct, and the names of the individual or individuals alleged to be involved in the misconduct;


(2) The source or sources of funding for the research project or research projects involved in the alleged misconduct;


(3) Important dates;


(4) Any documentation that bears upon the allegation; and


(5) Any other potentially relevant information.


(d) Safeguards for complainants give individuals the confidence that they can bring allegations of research misconduct made in good faith to the attention of appropriate authorities or serve as complainants to an inquiry or an investigation without suffering retribution. Safeguards include protection against retaliation for complainants who make good faith allegations, fair and objective procedures for the examination and resolution of allegations of research misconduct, and diligence in protecting the positions and reputations of those persons who make allegations of research misconduct in good faith. The identity of complainants who wish to remain anonymous will be kept confidential to the extent permitted by law or regulation.






