# § 501.191   Use of natural gas or petroleum for certain unanticipated equipment outages and emergencies defined in section 103(a)(15)(B) of the act.

(a) In the event of the occurrence or imminent occurrence of an emergency, or of the occurrence or imminent occurrence of an unanticipated equipment outage in the unit, an owner or operator of a powerplant is automatically permitted to use minimum amounts of natural gas or petroleum in the unit or in a substitute unit to prevent or alleviate the outage or to prevent or alleviate the emergency if he complies with procedures contained in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) If the use of minimum amounts of petroleum or natural gas is required for purposes specified in this section, the owner or operator must notify OFE of such use by telegram or telephone within 24 hours after the commencement of such use. Immediately thereafter a written confirmation must be submitted to OFE, describing, to the best estimate of the owner or operator, (1) the nature of the emergency and (2) how long petroleum or natural gas use is likely to be required.


(c) For purposes of this section only:


(1) An *emergency* is the occurrence or threat of imminent occurrence of a condition which results or would result from an electric power outage and directly effects or would directly effect the public health, safety or welfare;


(2) *Unanticipated equipment outage* shall mean an unexpected outage due to equipment failure.


(3) *Minimum amounts required to alleviate or prevent* shall mean:


(i) For powerplants, the amounts of natural gas or petroleum required to prevent curtailment of electric supply where the operating utility has, to the maximum extent possible, utilized alternate fuel-fired capacity to prevent such curtailment. Note—A utility operating hydroelectric facilities may take into account seasonal fluctuations in storage capacity and shall be permitted to prevent depletion of stored power-producing capacity as deemed necessary by the utility; and


(ii) For installations, the amounts of natural gas or petroleum required to meet plant protection or human health and safety needs, including services to hospitals, public transportation facilities, sanitation, or water supply and pumping.



---

[N] [46 FR 59889, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 54 FR 52893, Dec. 22, 1989]




