# ยง 767.152   Exceptions.

The Agency's disposition procedure under ยง 767.151 is subject to the following:


(a) If the Agency leases real estate inventory property to a beginning farmer or socially disadvantaged farmer in accordance with ยง 767.101(a)(2), and the lease expires, the Agency will not advertise the property if the Agency has direct or guaranteed loan funds available to finance the transaction.


(b) The Agency will not advertise a property for sale until the homestead protection rights have terminated in accordance with part 766, subpart D of this chapter.


(c) The Agency may allow an additional 60 days if needed for conservation easements or environmental reviews.


(d) If the property was owned by an American Indian borrower and is located on an Indian reservation, the Agency will:


(1) No later than 90 days after acquiring the property, offer the opportunity to purchase or lease the property in accordance with:


(i) The priorities established by the Indian Tribe having jurisdiction over the Indian reservation;


(ii) In cases where priorities have not been established, the following order:


(A) A member of the Indian Tribe that has jurisdiction over the Indian reservation;


(B) An Indian entity;


(C) The Indian Tribe.


(2) Transfer the property to the Secretary of the Interior if the property is not purchased or leased under paragraph (1) of this section.


(e) If Agency analysis of farm real estate market conditions indicates the sale of the Agency's inventory property will have a negative effect on the value of farms in the area, the Agency may withhold inventory farm properties in the affected area from the market until further analysis indicates otherwise.



---

[N] [72 FR 63358, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 74345, Dec. 8, 2008]




