# § 600.140   State termination of a BHP.

A State that no longer wishes to operate a BHP may terminate or suspend its BHP.


(a) If a State decides to terminate its BHP, the State must complete all of the following prior to the effective date of the termination or the indicated dates:


(1) Submit written notice to the Secretary no later than 120 days prior to the proposed termination date accompanied by a proposed transition plan that describes procedures to assist consumers with transitioning to other insurance affordability programs.


(2) Resolve concerns expressed by the Secretary and obtain approval by the Secretary of the transition plan.


(3) Submit written notice to all participating standard health plan offerors, and enrollees that it intends to terminate the program at least 90 days prior to the termination date. The notices to enrollees must include information regarding the State's assessment of their eligibility for all other insurance affordability programs in the State. Notices must meet the accessibility and readability standards at 45 CFR 155.230(b).


(4) Transmit all information provided as part of an application, and any information obtained or verified by the State or other agencies administering insurance affordability programs via secure electronic interface, promptly and without undue delay to the agency administering the Exchange and the Medicaid agency as appropriate.


(5) Fulfill its contractual obligations to participating standard health plan offerors including the payment of all negotiated rates for participants, as well as plan oversight ensuring that participating standard health plan offerors fulfill their obligation to cover benefits for each enrollee.


(6) Fulfill data reporting requirements to HHS.


(7) Complete the annual financial reconciliation process with HHS to ensure full compliance with Federal financial obligations.


(8) Refund any remaining balance in the BHP trust fund.


(b) If a State decides to suspend its BHP, or to request an extension of a previously-approved suspension, the State must:


(1) Submit to the Secretary a suspension application or a suspension extension application, as applicable. The suspension or suspension extension application must:


(i) Demonstrate that the benefits BHP-eligible individuals will receive during the suspension are at least equal to the benefits provided under the certified BHP Blueprint in effect on the effective date of suspension;


(ii) Demonstrate that the median actuarial value of the coverage provided to the BHP-eligible individuals during the suspension is no less than the median actuarial value of the coverage under the certified BHP Blueprint in effect on the effective date of suspension;


(iii) Demonstrate that the premiums imposed on BHP-eligible individuals during the suspension are no higher than the premiums charged under the certified BHP Blueprint in effect on the effective date of suspension, except that premiums imposed during the suspension may be adjusted for inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index;


(iv) Demonstrate that the eligibility criteria for coverage during the suspension is not more restrictive than the criteria described in § 600.305;


(v) Describe the period, not to exceed 5 years, that the State intends to suspend its BHP or to extend a previously-approved suspension;


(vi) Be submitted at least 9 months in advance of the proposed effective date of the suspension or extension, except States seeking to suspend a BHP in 2024 must submit an application within 30 days of the effective date of this provision; and


(vii) Include an evaluation of the coverage provided to BHP eligible individuals during the suspension period, if the State is seeking an extension.


(2) Resolve concerns expressed by HHS and obtain approval by the Secretary of the suspension or suspension extension application. Suspensions may not be in effect prior to approval by HHS, except for States seeking to suspend a BHP in 2024.


(3) At least 90 days prior to the effective date of the suspension, provide written notice to all enrollees and participating standard health plan offerors that it intends to suspend the program, if the enrollees will experience a change in coverage, or standard health plan offerors will experience a change in the terms of coverage. The notices to enrollees must include information regarding the State's assessment of their eligibility for all other insurance affordability programs in the State. Notices must meet the accessibility and readability standards at 45 CFR 155.230(b).


(4) Within 12 months of the suspension effective date, submit to HHS the data required by § 600.610 to complete the financial reconciliation process with HHS.


(5) Submit the annual report required by § 600.170(a)(2), describing the balance of the trust fund, and any interest accrued on such amount.


(6) Annually, remit to HHS any interest that has accrued on the balance of the BHP trust fund during the suspension period in the form and manner specified by HHS.


(7) At least 9 months before the end of the suspension period described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, or earlier date elected by the State, the State must submit to HHS a transition plan that describes how the State will reinstate its BHP consistent with the requirements of this part, or terminate the program in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The State must meet the noticing requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section prior to terminating or reinstating the BHP.


(c) The Secretary may withdraw approval of the suspension plan, if the terms of paragraph (b) of this section are not met, if the State ends implementation of the alternative coverage program for any reason, or if HHS finds significant evidence of beneficiary harm, financial malfeasance, fraud, waste, or abuse by the BHP agency or the State consistent with § 600.142 of this part. If HHS withdraws the approved suspension plan, the State must reinstate its BHP under the terms of this part, or terminate the program under paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) The Secretary may withdraw approval of a suspension under this section only after the Secretary provides the State with notice of the findings upon which the Secretary is basing the withdrawal; a reasonable period for the State to address the finding; and an opportunity for a hearing before issuing a final finding.


(2) The Secretary must make every reasonable effort to work with the State to resolve proposed findings without withdrawing approval of a suspension and in the event of a decision to withdraw approval, will accept a request from the State for reconsideration.


(3) The effective date of an HHS determination withdrawing approval of the suspension plan shall not be earlier than 120 days following issuance of a final finding under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(4) Within 30 days following a final finding under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the State must submit a transition plan to HHS.



---

[N] [79 FR 14140, Mar. 12, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 79554, Nov. 16, 2023]




