# ยง 10.84   Initial decision.

(a) *When initial decision is required.* The Administrative Law Judge shall make an initial decision in any proceeding in which a hearing is required to be conducted in conformity with the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, as codified, 5 U.S.C. 557. He shall make an initial decision in other proceedings in which the Commission directs him to make such a decision.


(b) *Filing of initial decision.* After the parties have been afforded an opportunity to file their proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law and supporting briefs pursuant to ยง 10.82, the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare upon the basis of the record in the proceeding and shall file with the Proceedings Clerk his or her decision, a copy of which shall be served by the Proceedings Clerk upon each of the parties.


(c) *Effect of initial decision.* The initial decision shall become the decision of the Commission 30 days after service thereof, except:


(1) The decision shall not become final as to any party who shall have filed a notice of appeal pursuant to ยง 10.102 of these rules; and


(2) The decision shall not become final as to any party to the proceeding if, within 30 days after the initial decision and order, the Commission itself shall have placed the case on its own docket for review or stayed the effective date of the decision.



---

[N] [41 FR 2511, Jan. 16, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 54802, Oct. 26, 1995; 61 FR 21954, May 13, 1996; 63 FR 55794, Oct. 19, 1998]




