# § 321.1   Definitions.

*ACH payment* or *ACH* means an Automated Clearing House method of transferring funds under the provisions of 31 CFR part 210.


*Beneficiary* means an individual whose name is inscribed on a security as the person to whom it is payable in his or her right upon the prior death of the other individual designated thereon as owner, shown commonly in the form: “A P.O.D. [payable on death to] B.”


*Cash payment* means payment in currency, by check or by credit to a checking, savings or share account.


*Definitive security* means a Treasury security held in paper form.


*Federal Reserve Operating Circular* means the operating circular referred to in § 321.27, issued by the Federal Reserve Banks, that provides instructions on the requirements for submitting definitive redeemed securities to a Federal Reserve Processing Site and sets forth the rights and obligations of paying agents with respect to such securities.


*Federal Reserve Processing Site* means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in § 321.26 to which the paying agent, or institution acting on its behalf, is instructed to transmit redeemed securities for payment pursuant to the Federal Reserve Operating Circular.


*Federal Reserve Treasury Retail Securities Site* or *TRS Site* means a Federal Reserve Bank (including any Branch or office thereof, as appropriate) referred to in § 321.26 that is authorized to qualify paying agents and provide other fiscal agency services consistent with this part.


*Legal Representative* or *representative* means the court-appointed (or otherwise qualified) person, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for the estate of a minor, incompetent, aged person, absentee, et al., the court-appointed executor or administrator, regardless of title, who is legally authorized to act for a decedent's estate; and the trustee of a personal trust estate.


*Paying agent* or *agent* means:


(1) A financial institution that is qualified under the provisions of this part as originally issued, or any subsequent revision, to make payment of securities, and includes branches located within the United States, its territories and possessions, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; and


(2) Any banking facilities of such institutions establishing at military installations overseas, provided the offering of such redemption services has been authorized by the Department of the Treasury.


*Presenter* means the individual requesting the redemption or redemption-exchange of securities.


*Redemption* and *payment* are used interchangeably for payment of a security in accordance with the terms of its offering and governing regulations, including redemption-exchange.


*Redemption-exchange* means the authorized redemption of eligible securities for the purpose of applying the proceeds in payment for other securities offered in exchange by the Treasury.


*Registrant* means a person whose name is inscribed on a security as owner, coowner, or beneficiary.


*Security* means a United States Savings Bond of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, or I and/or a United States Savings Note (Freedom Share).


*Taxpayer identifying number* means a social security account number or an employer identification number.



---

[N] [53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988; 53 FR 39581, Oct. 7, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35395, Aug. 29, 1990; 59 FR 10536, Mar. 4, 1994; 63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998; 76 FR 16166, Mar. 20, 2012]




