# ยง 1944.506   Definitions.

References in this subpart to County, District, State, National and Finance Offices and to County Supervisor, District Director, State Director, and Administrator refer to Rural Development offices and officials and should be read as prefaced by Rural Development. Terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:


(a) *Adequate housing.* A housing unit of adequate size and design to meet the specific needs of low-income families and the requirements governing the particular housing program providing the services or financial assistance.


(b) *Applicant or grantee.* Any eligible organization which applies for or receives TSA funds under a grant agreement.


(c) *Grant agreement.* The contract between Rural Development and the applicant which sets forth the terms and conditions under which TSA funds will be made available.


(d) *Low-income family.* Any household, including those with one member, whose adjusted annual income, computed in accordance with 7 CFR part 3550, subpart B, does not exceed the maximum low-income limits specified in Appendix 9 of HB-1-3550 (available in any Rural Development office).


(e) *Organization.* (1) Public or private nonprofit corporations, agencies, institutions, Indian tribes, and other associations.


(2) A private nonprofit corporation with local representation from the area being served that is owned and controlled by private persons or interests and is organized and operated by private persons or interests for purposes other than making gains or profits for the corporation and is legally precluded from distributing any gains or profits to its members.


(f) *Rural area.* The definition in 7 CFR part 3550 applies.


(g) *Sponsored applicant.* An eligible applicant which has a commitment of financial and/or technical assistance to apply for the TSA program and to implement such a program from a state, county, municipality, or other governmental entity or public body.


(h) *Supervisory assistance.* Any type of assistance to low-income families which will assist those families in meeting the eligibility requirements for, or the financial and managerial responsibilities of, homeownership or tenancy in an adequate housing unit. Such assistance must include, but is not limited to, the following activities:


(1) Assisting individual Rural Development borrowers with financial problems to overcome delinquency and/or prevent foreclosure and assisting new low-income applicants to avoid financial problems through:


(i) Financial and budget counseling including advice on debt levels, credit purchases, consumer and cost awareness, debt adjustment procedures, and availablity of other financial counseling services;


(ii) Monitoring payment of taxes and insurance;


(iii) Home maintenance and management; and


(iv) Other counseling based on the needs of the low-income families.


(2) Contracting and assisting low-income families in need of adequate housing by:


(i) Implementing an organized outreach program using available media and personal contacts;


(ii) Explaining available housing programs and alternatives to increase the awareness of low-income families and to educate the community as to the benefits which can accrue from improved housing;


(iii) Assisting low-income families locate adequate housing;


(iv) Providing construction supervision, training, and guidance to low-income families not involved in mutual self-help projects who are otherwise being assisted by the TSA project;


(v) Organizing local public or private nonprofit groups willing to provide adequate housing for low-income families; and


(vi) Providing assistance to families and organizations in processing housing loan and/or grant applications generated by the TSA program, including developing and packaging such applications for new construction, rehabilitation, or repair to serve low-income families.


(i) *Technical assistance.* Any specific expertise necessary to carry out housing efforts by or for low-income families to improve the quantity and/or quality of housing available to meet their needs. Such assistance should be specifically related to the supervisory assistance provided by the project, and may include, as appropriate, the following activities:


(1) Develop, or assist eligible applicants to develop, multi-housing loan and/or grant applications for new construction, rehabilitation, or repair to serve low-income families.


(2) Market surveys, engineering studies, cost estimates, and feasibility studies related to applications for housing assistance to meet the specific needs of the low-income families assisted under the TSA program.



---

[N] [44 FR 36891, June 22, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 61990, Dec. 21, 1981; 50 FR 39967, Oct. 1, 1985; 51 FR 6393, Feb. 26, 1986; 59 FR 7193, Feb. 15, 1994; 67 FR 78328, Dec. 24, 2002]




