# § 65.4   Recordkeeping.

(a) *Maintaining notifications, records, and reports.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of each regulated source subject to this part shall keep copies of notifications, reports, and records required by this part for the length of time specified in the following, as applicable: 


(1) If an owner or operator is required to obtain or operate a regulated source under a title V permit, then all applicable notifications, reports, and records for that regulated source shall be maintained for at least 5 years, except for the records required in § 65.47(b) for storage vessel capacity, § 65.104(e)(2) for valve and connector monitoring, and § 65.163(d)(1) for closed vent system design specifications. 


(2) If an owner or operator is not required to obtain or operate a regulated source under a title V permit, then all notifications, reports, and records for that regulated source required by this part shall be maintained for at least 2 years, except for the records required in § 65.47(b) for storage vessel capacity, § 65.104(e)(2) for valve and connector monitoring, and § 65.163(d)(1) for closed vent system design specifications. 


(b) *Copies of reports.* If an owner or operator submits reports to the applicable EPA Regional Office, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of those reports. If the EPA Regional Office has waived the requirement of § 65.5(g)(1) for submittal of copies of reports, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of the waived reports. Paragraph (b) of this section applies only to reports and not the underlying records which must be maintained as specified throughout this part. 


(c) *Availability of records.* All applicable records shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed and are suitable for inspection as specified in the following: 


(1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, records of the most recent 2 years shall be retained onsite or shall be accessible to an inspector while onsite. The records of the remaining 3 years, where required, may be retained offsite. 


(2) For sources referenced to this part from 40 CFR part 63, subpart G or H, the most recent 6 months of records shall be retained on site or shall be accessible to an inspector while onsite from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The remaining 4 and one-half years of records, where required, may be retained offsite. 


(3) Records specified in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, computer disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche. 




