# § 983.52   Prohibition of assistance for ineligible units.

(a) *Ineligible unit.* A HAP contract must not be effective and no PBV assistance may be provided for any of the following:


(1) Shared housing;


(2) Units on the grounds of a penal, reformatory, medical, mental, or similar public or private institution;


(3) Nursing homes or facilities providing continuous psychiatric, medical, nursing services, board and care, or intermediate care. However, the PHA may execute a HAP contract and provide PBV assistance for a dwelling unit in an assisted living facility that provides home health care services such as nursing and therapy for residents of the housing;


(4) Units that are owned or controlled by an educational institution or its affiliate and are designated for occupancy by students of the institution;


(5) Manufactured homes are ineligible only if the manufactured home is not permanently affixed to a permanent foundation or the owner does not own fee title to the real property (land) on which the manufactured home is located; and


(6) Transitional Housing.


(b) *Prohibition against assistance for owner-occupied unit.* A HAP contract must not be effective and no PBV assistance may be provided for a unit occupied by an owner of the housing. A member of a cooperative who owns shares in the project assisted under the PBV program shall not be considered an owner for purposes of participation in the PBV program.


(c) *Prohibition against selecting unit occupied by an ineligible family.* Before a PHA places a specific unit under a HAP contract, the PHA must determine whether the unit is occupied and, if occupied, whether the unit's occupants are eligible for assistance in accordance with § 982.201 of this title. Additionally, for a family to be eligible for assistance in the specific unit, the unit must be appropriate for the size of the family under the PHA's subsidy standards and the total tenant payment for the family must be less than the gross rent for the unit, such that the unit will be eligible for a monthly HAP. The PHA must not enter into a HAP contract for a unit occupied by a family ineligible for participation in the PBV program.


(d) *Prohibition against assistance for units for which commencement of construction or rehabilitation occurred in violation of program requirements.* Unless a PHA has exercised the discretion at § 983.154(f), to undertake development activity without an Agreement or to execute an Agreement after construction or rehabilitation that complied with applicable requirements of § 983.153 has commenced, or at § 983.157, to undertake development activity after execution of the HAP contract, the PHA may not execute a HAP contract for units on which construction or rehabilitation commenced after the date of proposal submission (for housing subject to competitive selection) or the date of the PHA's board resolution approving the project-basing of assistance at the project (for housing excepted from competitive selection) and prior to the effective date of an Agreement. At HUD's sole discretion, HUD may approve a PHA's request for an exception to this prohibition. In determining whether to approve the PHA request, HUD will consider appropriate factors, including the nature and extent of the construction or rehabilitation that has commenced.


(1) Units for which rehabilitation or new construction began after proposal submission or the date of board resolution but prior to the effective date of an Agreement (if applicable), as described in this paragraph (d), do not subsequently qualify as existing housing.


(2) Units that were newly constructed or rehabilitated in violation of program requirements do not qualify as existing housing.






