# § 21.4155   Evaluations of State approving agency performance.

(a) *Annual evaluations required.* (1) VA shall conduct in conjunction with State approving agencies an annual evaluation of each State approving agency. The evaluation shall be based on standards developed by VA with State approving agencies. VA shall provide each State approving agency an opportunity to comment upon the evaluation.


(2) VA shall take into account the result of the annual evaluation of a State approving agency when negotiating the terms and conditions of a contract or agreement as provided in § 21.4153(a) of this part.


(b) *Development of a training curriculum.* (1) VA shall cooperate with State approving agencies in developing and implementing a uniform national curriculum, to the extent practicable, for—


(i) Training new employees of State approving agencies, and


(ii) Continuing the training of the employees of the State approving agencies.


(2) VA with the State approving agencies shall sponsor the training and continuation of training provided by this paragraph.


(c) *Development, adoption and application of qualification and performance standards for employees of State approving agencies.* (1) VA shall:


(i) Develop with the State approving agencies prototype qualification and performance standards;


(ii) Prescribe those standards for State approving agency use in the development of qualification and performance standards for State approving agency personnel carrying out approval responsibilities under a contract or agreement as provided in § 21.4153(a) of this part; and


(iii) Review the prototype qualification and performance standards with the State approving agencies no less frequently than once every five years.


(2) In developing and applying standards described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a State approving agency may take into consideration the State's merit system requirements and other local requirements and conditions. However, no State approving agency may develop, adopt or apply qualification or performance standards that do not meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(3) The qualification and performance standards adopted by the State approving agency shall describe a level of qualification and performance which shall equal or exceed the level of qualification and performance described in the prototype qualification and performance standards developed by VA with the State approving agencies. The State approving agency may amend or modify its adopted qualification and performance standards annually as circumstances may require.


(4) VA shall provide assistance in developing these standards to a State approving agency that requests it.


(5) After November 19, 1989, each State approving agency carrying out a contract or agreement with VA under § 21.4153(a) shall:


(i) Apply qualification and performance standards based on the standards developed under this paragraph, and


(ii) Make available to any person, upon request, the criteria used to carry out its functions under a contract or agreement entered into under § 21.4153(a) of this part.


(6) A State approving agency may not apply these standards to any person employed by the State approving agency on May 20, 1988, as long as that person remains in the position in which the person was employed on that date.



---

[N] [54 FR 49757, Dec. 1, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 29296, June 10, 1996]




