# ยง 1152.2   Definitions.

Unless otherwise provided in the text of the regulations, the following definitions apply in this part: 


(a) *Account* means an account in the Board's Uniform System of Accounts for Railroad Companies (49 CFR part 1201). 


(b) *Act* means the ICC Termination Act of 1995 (Pub. L. 104-88, 109 Stat. 803), as amended. 


(c) *Base year* means the latest 12-month period, ending no earlier than 6 months prior to the filing of the abandonment or discontinuance application, for which data have been collected at the branch level as prescribed in ยง 1152.30(b). 


(d) *Board* means the Surface Transportation Board. 


(e) *Branch* means a segment of line for which an application for abandonment or discontinuance, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 10903, has been filed. 


(f) *Carrier* means a railroad company or the trustee or trustees of a railroad company subject to regulation under 49 U.S.C., Subtitle IV, chapter 105. 


(g) *Designated state agency* means the instrumentality created by a state or designated by appropriate authority to administer or coordinate its state rail plan. 


(h) *Forecast Year* means the 12-month period, beginning with the first day of the month in which the application is filed with the Board, for which future revenues and costs are estimated. 


(i) *Form R-1* means the railroad's annual report filed with the Board in accordance with the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 11145. 


(j) *Offeror* means a shipper, a state, the United States, a local or regional transportation authority, or any financially responsible person offering rail service continuation assistance under 49 U.S.C. 10904. 


(k) *URCS* means the Uniform Railroad Costing System. 


(l) *Significant user* means: 


(1) Each of the 10 rail patrons which originated and/or received the largest number of carloads (or each patron if there are less than 10); and 


(2) Any other rail patron which originated and/or received 50 or more carloads, on the line proposed for abandonment or discontinuance, during the 12-month period preceding the month in which notice is given of the abandonment or discontinuance application. 


(m) *Subsidy year* means any 12-month period for which a subsidy agreement has been negotiated and is in operation. 




