# ยง 633.5   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration or the Administrator's designee.


*Days* means calendar days.


*Fixed guideway* means any public transportation facility: Using and occupying a separate right-of-way for the exclusive use of public transportation; using rail; using a fixed catenary system; for a passenger ferry system; or for a bus rapid transit system.


*FTA* means the Federal Transit Administration.


Except as provided in ยง 633.19, *Major capital project* means a project that:


(1) Involves the construction, expansion, rehabilitation, or modernization of a fixed guideway that:


(i) Has a total project cost of $300 million or more and receives Federal funds of $100 million or more; and


(ii) Is not exclusively for the acquisition, maintenance, or rehabilitation of vehicles or other rolling stock; or


(2) The Administrator determines to be a major capital project because project management oversight under this part will benefit the Federal government or the recipient, and the project is not exclusively for the acquisition, maintenance, or rehabilitation of rolling stock or other vehicles. Typically, this means a project that:


(i) Involves new technology;


(ii) Is of a unique nature for the recipient; or


(iii) Involves a recipient whose past record indicates the appropriateness of extending project management oversight under this part.


*Project development* means the phase in which planning, design and engineering work is undertaken to advance the project from concept to a sufficiently mature scope to allow for the development of a reasonably reliable project cost, schedule, and project management plan.


*Project management oversight* means the risk-informed monitoring of the recipient's management of a major capital project's progress to determine whether the project is on time, within budget, in conformance with design and quality criteria, in compliance with all applicable Federal requirements, constructed to approved plans and specifications, delivering the identified benefits, and safely, efficiently, and effectively implemented.


*Project management plan* means a written document prepared by a recipient that explicitly defines all tasks necessary to implement a major capital project. A project management plan may be a single document or a series of documents or sub plans integrated with one another into the project management plan either directly or by reference for the purpose of defining how the recipient will effectively manage, monitor, and control all phases of the project.


*Recipient* means a direct recipient of Federal financial assistance or the sponsor of a major capital project.


*Sponsor* means the entity designated to deliver the project per the terms set forth in the grant agreement.




