# § 147.8   Public availability of transcripts, recordings and minutes of closed meetings.

(a) The Commission shall make promptly available to the public, in the Office of the Secretariat at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, the transcript, electronic recording or set of minutes of the discussion of any item on the agenda of any closed meeting or closed portion thereof (as required by § 147.7), or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at such meeting or portion thereof, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony that are determined, in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, to contain information which may be withheld under § 147.3(b).




(b)(1) All determinations made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section that items of discussion or testimony reflected in transcripts, recordings or sets of minutes of closed meetings or closed portions thereof are exempt from disclosure pursuant to § 147.3(b), shall be made by the Office of the General Counsel in consultation with the Director of any affected staff division.


(2) Any person who objects to any determination made pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section may seek Commission review of that determination by filing with the Commission's Office of the Secretariat a brief written statement that review is sought which contains a concise statement of the reasons why the determination should be set aside.


(c) The Commission shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete electronic recording or a complete copy of the minutes of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to the public, which are made in accordance with § 147.7(a) or § 147.7(b), for a period of at least two years after such meeting or portion of meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion thereof was held, whichever occurs later.



---

[N] [42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]




