# § 63.8620   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit, operating limit, and work practice standard in Tables 1, 2, and 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Table 7 to this subpart.


(b) For each affected source that is subject to the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is equipped with an APCD that is not addressed in Table 2 to this subpart, or that is using process changes as a means of meeting the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and each operating limit established as required in § 63.8595(h)(2) according to the methods specified in your approved alternative monitoring procedures request, as described in §§ 63.8595(h)(1) and 63.8(f).


(c) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and operating limit in this subpart that applies to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.8635(c)(8).


(d) [Reserved]


(e)(1) *Visible emissions testing.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart for visible emissions (VE) from tunnel or roller kilns that are uncontrolled or equipped with DIFF, DLS/FF, or other dry control device by monitoring VE at each kiln stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Perform daily VE observations of each kiln stack according to the procedures of Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must conduct the Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes.


(ii) If VE are observed during any daily test conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan. If no VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily Method 22 tests for any kiln stack, you may decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing from daily to weekly for that kiln stack. If VE are observed during any weekly test, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan, resume Method 22 testing of that kiln stack on a daily basis, and maintain that schedule until no VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily tests, at which time you may again decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing to a weekly basis.


(iii) If VE are observed during any test conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must report these deviations by following the requirements in § 63.8635.


(2) *Alternative to VE testing.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart for kiln temperature profile for tunnel or roller kilns that are uncontrolled or equipped with DIFF, DLS/FF, or other dry control device by maintaining the kiln operating temperature within the range of acceptable temperatures (*i.e.,* temperature profile) established for each kiln and product. For any incidence where the kiln is operating outside of its acceptable temperature range (*i.e.,* exceeds its temperature profile) for the product being fired, you must record the incident as a deviation, and perform the necessary corrective action in accordance with your OM&M plan to return the kiln to the acceptable operating temperature for the product being fired. To confirm the kiln has returned to the acceptable temperature range, you will monitor VE at the kiln stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Perform VE observations at the stack of each kiln operating outside of its temperature profile according to the procedures of Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. The duration of each Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes.


(ii) If VE are observed during any test conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must continue to perform corrective action until VE are no longer observed.


(iii) If VE are observed during any test conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must report these deviations by following the requirements in § 63.8635.


(f) Following the compliance date, you must demonstrate compliance with the emissions averaging provision under this subpart on a continuous basis by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1)(i) After the initial compliance demonstration described in § 63.8595(h)(4), you must demonstrate compliance on a monthly basis determined at the end of every month (12 times per year) according to paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section. The first monthly period begins on the compliance date specified in § 63.8545.


(ii) For each calendar month, you must use Equation 10 of this section to calculate the average weighted emission rate for that month.


(2) Until 12 monthly weighted average emission rates have been accumulated, calculate and report only the average weighted emission rate determined under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section for each calendar month. After 12 monthly weighted average emission rates have been accumulated, for each subsequent calendar month, use Equation 11 of this section to calculate the 12-month rolling average of the monthly weighted average emission rates for the current calendar month and the previous 11 calendar months.


(3) For each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option, you must comply with the continuous compliance requirements in Table 7 to this subpart.


(g) Any instance where you fail to comply with the continuous monitoring requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section is a deviation.



---

[N] [80 FR 65543, Oct. 26, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 58607, Nov. 1, 2019]




