# § 2.804   Notice of proposed rulemaking.

(a) Except as provided by paragraph (d) of this section, when the Commission proposes to adopt, amend, or repeal a regulation, it will cause to be published in the _Federal Register_ a notice of proposed rulemaking, unless all persons subject to the notice are named and either are personally served or otherwise have actual notice in accordance with law.


(b) The notice will include:


(1) Either the terms or substance of the proposed rule, or a specification of the subjects and issues involved;


(2) The manner and time within which interested members of the public may comment, and a statement that copies of comments may be examined will be made available at the NRC Web site, *http://www.nrc.gov;*

(3) The authority under which the regulation is proposed;


(4) The time, place, and nature of the public hearing, if any;


(5) If a hearing is to be held, designation of the presiding officer and any special directions for the conduct of the hearing; and


(6) Such explanatory statement as the Commission may consider appropriate.


(c) The publication or service of notice will be made not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the time fixed for hearing, if any, unless the Commission for good cause stated in the notice provides otherwise.


(d) The notice and comment provisions contained in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section will not be required to be applied—


(1) To interpretative rules, general statements of policy, or rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice; or


(2) When the Commission for good cause finds that notice and public comment are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest, and are not required by statute. This finding, and the reasons therefor, will be incorporated into any rule issued without notice and comment for good cause.


(e) The Commission shall provide for a 30-day post-promulgation comment period for—


(1) Any rule adopted without notice and comment under the good cause exception on paragraph (d)(2) of this section where the basis is that notice and comment is “impracticable” or “contrary to the public interest.”


(2) Any interpretative rule, or general statement of policy adopted without notice and comment under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except for those cases for which the Commission finds that such procedures would serve no public interest, or would be so burdensome as to outweigh any foreseeable gain.


(f) For any post-promulgation comments received under paragraph (e) of this section, the Commission shall publish a statement in the _Federal Register_ containing an evaluation of the significant comments and any revisions of the rule or policy statement made as a result of the comments and their evaluation.



---

[N] [27 FR 377, Jan. 13, 1962, as amended at 50 FR 13010, Apr. 2, 1985; 64 FR 48949, Sept. 9, 1999]




