# ยง 295.21   MSP assistance conditions.

(a) *Term of MSP Operating Agreement.* MSP Operating Agreements shall be effective for a period of not more than one fiscal year, and unless otherwise specified in the Agreement, shall be renewable, subject to the availability of appropriations or amounts otherwise made available, for each subsequent fiscal year through the end of FY 2005. In the event appropriations are enacted after October 1 with respect to any subsequent fiscal year, October 1 shall be considered the effective date of the renewed agreement, provided sufficient funds are made available and subject to the Contractor's rights for early termination pursuant to section 652(m) of the act.


(b) *Terms under a Continuing Resolution (CR).* In the event funds are available under a CR, the terms and conditions of the MSP Operating Agreements shall be in force provided sufficient funds are available to fully meet obligations under MSP Operating Agreements, and only for the period stipulated in the applicable CR. If funds are not appropriated at sufficient levels for any portion of a fiscal year, the terms and conditions of any applicable MSP Operating Agreement may be voided and the Contractor may request termination of the MSP Operating Agreement in accordance with ยง 295.20(f).


(c) *National security requirements.* Each MSP Operating Agreement shall require the owner or operator of an Eligible Vessel included in that agreement to enter into an Emergency Preparedness Program Agreement pursuant to section 653 of the act.


(d) *Vessel operating requirements.* The MSP Operating Agreement shall require that during the period an Eligible Vessel is included in that Agreement, the Eligible Vessel shall:


(1) *Documentation.* Be documented as a U.S.-flag vessel under 46 U.S.C. chapter 121; and


(2) *Operation.* Be operated exclusively in the U.S.-foreign trade or in mixed foreign and domestic trade allowed under a registry endorsement issued under 46 U.S.C. 12105, and shall not otherwise be operated in the coastwise trade of the United States.


(e) *Limitations.* Limitations on Contractors with respect to the operation of foreign-flag vessels shall be in accordance with section 804 of the act, as amended. The operation of vessels, other than Agreement Vessels, in the noncontiguous trades shall be limited in accordance with service levels and conditions permitted in section 656 of the act.


(f) *Non-Contiguous Domestic Trade.* [Reserved]


(g) *Obligation of the U.S. Government.* The amounts payable as MSP Payments under a MSP Operating Agreement shall constitute a contractual obligation of the United States Government to the extent of available appropriations.




