# § 627.10   FCSIC as Conservator.

(a) *Appointment.* (1) The Farm Credit Administration Board may exercise its authority under section 4.12(b) of the Act and § 627.3 to appoint FCSIC as the conservator of a Farm Credit institution upon finding that one or more of the grounds identified in § 627.3(b) exists. The Farm Credit Administration Board may appoint, *ex parte* and without notice, FCSIC as conservator for any Farm Credit institution.


(2) Upon appointing FCSIC as the conservator of an institution, the Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration shall immediately notify such institution and, in the case of an association, its funding bank. The Farm Credit Administration will immediately publish notice of the appointment of the conservator in the _Federal Register_.


(b) *Conservatorship.* (1) Once the Farm Credit Administration Board issues the order placing a Farm Credit institution in conservatorship, all rights, privileges, and powers of its members, board of directors, officers, and employees, are transferred to and vested exclusively in FCSIC as conservator, except that the board of directors of the institution retains authority to initiate an action in a Federal district court to remove the conservator pursuant to § 627.4.


(2) The Farm Credit Administration will continue to examine Farm Credit institutions in conservatorship in accordance with section 5.19 of the Act.


(3) A qualified public accountant must audit a Farm Credit institution in conservatorship in accordance with part 621 of this chapter.


(4) Pursuant to the requirements of part 621 of this chapter, each institution in conservatorship must prepare and file with the Farm Credit Administration financial reports, certified by FCSIC, as required by § 621.14.


(5) Each institution in conservatorship must prepare and issue published financial reports in accordance with the requirements of part 620 of this chapter. FCSIC, as the conservator of the institution, will provide the signatures and certifications required by § 620.3.


(c) *Termination of the conservatorship.* (1) Whenever the Farm Credit Administration Board determines the problem(s) or condition(s) that led to the conservatorship have been corrected and resolved, and the institution is in a position to resume normal operations, it may terminate the conservatorship and direct FCSIC to turn over the institution's operations to such management that FCA designates. Once new management is in place, the conservatorship terminates and FCA discharges FCSIC as conservator; or


(2) Whenever the Farm Credit Administration Board determines the institution should be placed in receivership, the Farm Credit Administration Board will appoint FCSIC as the receiver of such institution.








