# § 63.1446   What alternative emission limitation may I meet for my combined gas streams?

(a) For situations where you combine gas streams from two or more affected sources for discharge to the atmosphere through a single vent, you may choose to meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section as an alternative to complying with the individual filterable particulate matter emission limits specified in § 63.1444 that apply to you. This alternative emission limit for a combined gas stream may be used for any combination of the affected source gas steams specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Gas stream discharged from a copper concentrate dryer vent that would otherwise be subject to § 63.1444(a)(1) or (2);


(2) Gas stream discharged from a smelting vessel capture system that would otherwise be subject to § 63.1444(b)(2)(ii);


(3) Process off-gas stream discharged from a slag cleaning vessel that would otherwise be subject to § 63.1444(c)(2);


(4) Gas stream discharged from a slag cleaning vessel capture system that would otherwise be subject to § 63.1444(c)(3)(ii);


(5) Gas stream discharged from an existing batch copper converter secondary capture system that would otherwise be subject to § 63.1444(d)(6); and


(6) Gas stream discharged from anode refining departments that would otherwise be subject to § 63.1444(f)(2).


(b) You must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for the combined gas stream discharged through a single vent.


(1) For each combined gas stream discharged through a single vent, you must not cause to be discharged to the atmosphere any gases that contain filterable particulate matter in excess of the emission limit calculated using the procedure in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and measured using the test methods specified in § 63.1450(a).


(2) You must calculate the alternative filterable particulate matter emission limit for your combined gas stream using equation 1 to this paragraph (b)(2). The volumetric flow rate value for each of the individual affected source gas streams that you use for equation 1 (i.e., the flow rate of the gas stream discharged from the affected source but before this gas stream is combined with the other gas streams) is to be the average of the volumetric flow rates measured using the test method specified in § 63.1450(a)(1)(ii):


(c) For each baghouse applied to meet any filterable particulate matter emission limit in paragraph (b) of this section, you must operate the baghouse such that the bag leak detection system does not alarm for more than 5 percent of the total operating time in any semiannual reporting period.


(d) For each venturi wet scrubber applied to meet any filterable particulate matter emission limit in paragraph (b) of this section, you must maintain the hourly average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test in accordance with § 63.1450(a)(4).


(e) For each control device other than a baghouse or venturi wet scrubber applied to meet any filterable particulate matter emission limit in paragraph (b) of this section, you must operate the control device as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) You must select one or more operating parameters, as appropriate for the control device design, that can be used as representative and reliable indicators of the control device operation.


(2) You must maintain the hourly average value for each of the selected parameters at or above the minimum level or at or below the maximum level, as appropriate for the selected parameter, established during the initial or subsequent performance test in accordance with § 63.1450(a)(5).






