# ยง 1467.13   Modifications.

(a) *Easements.* (1) After an easement has been recorded, no modification will be made in the easement except by mutual agreement with the Chief and the participant. The Chief will consult with FWS and the Conservation District prior to making any modifications to easements.


(2) Approved modifications will be made only in an amended easement, which is duly prepared and recorded in conformity with standard real estate practices, including requirements for title approval, subordination of liens, and recordation.


(3) The Chief may approve modifications to facilitate the practical administration and management of the easement area or the program so long as the modification will not adversely affect the wetland functions and values for which the easement was acquired or when adverse impacts will be mitigated by enrollment and restoration of other lands that provide greater wetland functions and values at no additional cost to the government.


(4) Modifications must result in equal or greater environmental and economic values to the United States and address a compelling public need, as determined by the Chief.


(b) *WRPO.* Insofar as is consistent with the easement and applicable law, the State Conservationist may approve modifications to the WRPO that do not affect provisions of the easement in consultation with the participant and with consideration of site specific technical input from the FWS and the Conservation District. Any WRPO modification must meet WRP regulations and program objectives, comply with the definition of wetland restoration as defined in ยง 1467.3, must result in equal or greater wildlife benefits, wetland functions and values, and ecological and economic values to the United States.




