# § 1314.2   Definition of terms.

Unless the context requires otherwise, terms used in this part 1314 that are not defined in this section have the meanings as set forth in 31 CFR 357.2. Definitions and terms used in 31 CFR part 357 should be read as though modified to effectuate their application to Book-entry TVA Power Securities where applicable. 


(a) *Book-entry System* means the automated book-entry system operated by the Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for TVA on which Book-entry TVA Power Securities are issued, recorded, transferred, and maintained in book-entry form.


(b) *Book-entry TVA Power Security* means any TVA Power Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System of the Reserve Banks. 


(c) *CUSIP Number* is a unique identification for each security issue established by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures. 


(d) *Depository Institution* means any Participant.


(e) *Entitlement Holder* means a Person to whose account an interest in a Book- entry TVA Power Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary. 


(f) *Funds Account* means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, book-entry securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments. 


(g) *Other TVA Power Evidences of Indebtedness* means any TVA Power Security issued consistent with section 2.5 of the TVA Basic Bond Resolution (see paragraph (r) of this section).


(h) *Participant* (also called “holder” in the TVA Basic Bond Resolution and in other resolutions adopted by the TVA Board of Directors relating to Book-entry TVA Power Securities) means a Person that maintains a Participant's Security Account with a Reserve Bank.


(i) *Participant's Security Account* means an account in the name of a Participant at a Reserve Bank to which Book-entry TVA Power Securities held for a Participant are or may be credited. 


(j) *Person* means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States or a Reserve Bank. 


(k) *Reserve Banks* means the Federal Reserve Banks of the Federal Reserve System and their branches.


(l) *Reserve Bank Operating Circular* means the publication issued by each Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains book-entry securities accounts and transfers book-entry securities. 


(m) *Securities Documentation* means the applicable documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry TVA Power Security. 


(n) *Securities Intermediary* means:


(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the Federal securities law; a Reserve Bank; any other Person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry TVA Power Security that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the Federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a Federal or State governmental authority; or 


(2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the Federal securities laws), including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.


(o) *Security Entitlement* means the rights and property interests of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry TVA Power Security.


(p) *State* means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


(q) *TVA* means the Tennessee Valley Authority, a wholly owned corporate agency and instrumentality of the United States of America created and existing under the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933, as amended (16 U.S.C. 831-831dd).


(r) *TVA Basic Bond Resolution* means the Basic Tennessee Valley Authority Power Bond Resolution 
1 adopted by the TVA Board of Directors on October 6, 1960, as heretofore and hereafter amended.


(s) *TVA Power Bond* means any TVA Power Security issued by TVA under section 2.2 of the TVA Basic Bond Resolution and the supplemental resolution adopted by the TVA Board of Directors authorizing the issuance thereof.


(t) *TVA Power Bond Anticipation Obligation* means any TVA Power Security issued consistent with section 2.4 of the TVA Basic Bond Resolution.


(u) *TVA Power Note* means any Other TVA Power Evidences of Indebtedness in the form of a note having a maturity at the date of issue of less than one year.


(v) *TVA Power Security* means a TVA Power Bond, TVA Power Bond Anticipation Obligation, TVA Power Note, or Other TVA Power Evidence of Indebtedness issued by TVA under Section 15d of the TVA Act, as amended.



---

[N] [62 FR 920, Jan. 7, 1997; 62 FR 4833, Jan. 31, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 29288, May 30, 1997]




