# § 400.203   Definitions specific to Medicaid.

As used in connection with the Medicaid program, unless the context indicates otherwise—


*Applicant* means an individual whose written application for Medicaid has been submitted to the agency determining Medicaid eligibility, but has not received final action. This includes an individual (who need not be alive at the time of application) whose application is submitted through a representative or a person acting responsibly for the individual.


*Federal financial participation* (FFP) means the Federal Government's share of a State's expenditures under the Medicaid program.


*FMAP* stands for the Federal medical assistance percentage, which is used to calculate the amount of Federal share of State expenditures for services.


*Intellectual disability* means the condition that was previously referred to as mental retardation.


*Medicaid agency* or *agency* means the single State agency administering or supervising the administration of a State Medicaid plan.


*Nursing facility (NF),* effective October 1, 1990, means an SNF or an ICF participating in the Medicaid program.


*PCCM* stands for primary care case manager. 


*PCP* stands for primary care physician. 


*Provider* means either of the following: 


(1) For the fee-for-service program, any individual or entity furnishing Medicaid services under an agreement with the Medicaid agency. 


(2) For the managed care program, any individual or entity that is engaged in the delivery of health care services and is legally authorized to do so by the State in which it delivers the services. 


*Services* means the types of medical assistance specified in section 1905(a) of the Act and defined in subpart A of part 440 of this chapter.


*State* means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State plan* or *the plan* means a comprehensive written commitment by a Medicaid agency, submitted under section 1902(a) of the Act, to administer or supervise the administration of a Medicaid program in accordance with Federal requirements.



---

[N] [48 FR 12534, Mar. 25, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 33029, Aug. 16, 1985; 56 FR 8852, Mar. 1, 1991; 57 FR 29155, June 30, 1992; 67 FR 41094, June 14, 2002; 77 FR 29028, May 16, 2012]




