# ยง 417.494   Modification or termination of contract.

(a) *Modification or termination by mutual consent.* (1) CMS and an HMO or CMP may modify or terminate a contract at any time by written mutual consent.


(2) If the contract is modified, the HMO or CMP must notify its Medicare enrollees of any changes that CMS determines are appropriate for notification.


(3) If the contract is terminated, the HMO or CMP must notify its Medicare enrollees, and CMS notifies the general public, at least 30 days before the termination date.


(b) *Termination by CMS.* (1) CMS may terminate a contract for any of the following reasons:


(i) The HMO or CMP has failed substantially to carry out the terms of the contract.


(ii) The HMO or CMP is carrying out the contract in a manner that is inconsistent with the effective and efficient implementation of section 1876 of the Act.


(iii) The HMO or CMP has failed substantially to comply with the composition of enrollment requirements specified in ยง 417.413(d).


(iv) CMS determines that the HMO or CMP no longer meets the requirements of section 1876 of the Act and this subpart for being an HMO or CMP. 


(2) If CMS decides to terminate a contract, it sends a written notice informing the HMO or CMP of its right to appeal the termination in accordance with part 422 subpart N of this chapter.


(3) An HMO or CMP with a risk contract must notify its Medicare enrollees of the termination as described in ยง 417.488.


(4) CMS notifies the HMO's or CMP's Medicare enrollees and the general public of the termination at least 30 days before the effective date of termination.


(c) *Termination by the HMO or CMP.* The HMO or CMP may terminate the contract if CMS has failed substantially to carry out the terms of the contract. 


(1) The HMO or CMP must notify CMS at least 90 days before the effective date of the termination and must include in its notice the reasons for the termination. 


(2) The HMO or CMP must notify its Medicare enrollees of the termination at least 60 days before the termination date. Risk HMOs or CMPs must also provide a written description of alternatives available for obtaining Medicare services after termination of the contract. The HMO or CMP is responsible for the cost of these notices. 


(3) The HMO or CMP must notify the general public of the termination at least 30 days before the termination date. 


(4) The contract is terminated effective 60 days after the HMO or CMP mails the notice to Medicare enrollees as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(5) CMS's liability for payment ends as of the first day of the month after the last month for which the contract is in effect. 



---

[N] [50 FR 1346, Jan. 10, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 22322, June 11, 1987; 56 FR 46571, Sept. 13, 1991; 58 FR 38079, 38082, July 15, 1993; 60 FR 45681, Sept. 1, 1995; 75 FR 19803, Apr. 15, 2010]




