# § 82.110   Form of label bearing warning statement.

(a) *Conspicuousness and contrast.* The warning statement shall appear in conspicuous and legible type by typography, layout, and color with other printed matter on the label. The warning statement shall appear in sharp contrast to any background upon which it appears. Examples of combinations of colors which may not satisfy the proposed requirement for sharp contrast are: black letters on a dark blue or dark green background, dark red letters on a light red background, light red letters on a reflective silver background, and white letters on a light gray or tan background. 


(b) *Name of substance.* The name of the class I or class II substance to be inserted into the warning statement shall be the standard chemical name of the substance as listed in 40 CFR part 82, appendix A to subpart A, except that: 


(1) The acronym “CFC” may be substituted for “chlorofluorocarbon.” 


(2) The acronym “HCFC” may be substituted for “hydrochlorofluorocarbon.” 


(3) The term “1,1,1-trichloroethane” may be substituted for “methyl chloroform.” 


(c) *Combined statement for multiple controlled substances.* If a container containing or a product contains or is manufactured with, more than one class I or class II substance, the warning statement may include the names of all of the substances in a single warning statement, provided that the combined statement clearly distinguishes which substances the container or product contains and which were used in the manufacturing process. 


(d) *Format.* (1) The warning statement shall be blocked within a square or rectangular area, with or without a border. (2) The warning statement shall appear in lines that are parallel to the surrounding text on the product's PDP, display panel, supplemental printed material or promotional printed material. 


(e) *Type style.* The ratio of the height of a capital letter to its width shall be such that the height of the letter is no more than 3 times its width; the signal word “WARNING” shall appear in all capital letters. 


(f) *Type size.* The warning statement shall appear at least as large as the type sizes prescribed by this paragraph. The type size refers to the height of the capital letters. A larger type size materially enhances the legibility of the statement and is desirable. 


(1) *Display panel or outer packaging.* Minimum type size requirements for the warning statement are given in Table 1 to this paragraph and are based upon the area of the display panel of the product or container. Where the statement is on outer packaging, as well as the display panel area, the statement shall appear in the same minimum type size as on the display panel. 


(2) *Alternative placement.* The minimum type size for the warning statement on any alternative placement which meets the requirements of § 82.108(c) is 
3/32 inches for the signal word and 
1/16 of an inch for the statement. 


(3) *Promotional printed material.* The minimum type size for the warning statement on promotional printed material is 
3/32 inches for the signal word and 
1/16 of an inch for the statement, or the type size of any surrounding text, whichever is larger. 



---

[N] [60 FR 4020, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 64289, Oct. 28, 2014]




