# § 330.14   Retirement and other employee benefit plan accounts.

(a) “Pass-through” insurance. Any deposits of an employee benefit plan in an insured depository institution shall be insured on a “pass-through” basis, in the amount of up to the SMDIA for the non-contingent interest of each plan participant, provided the rules in § 330.5 are satisfied. Deposits eligible for coverage under paragraph (b)(2) of this section that also are deposits of a employee benefit plan or deposits of an deferred compensation plan described in section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 457) in an insured depository institution shall be insured on a “pass-through” basis in the amount of $250,000 for the non-contingent interest of each plan participant, provided the rules in § 330.5 are satisfied.


(b) *Aggregation*—(1) *Multiple plans.* Funds representing the non-contingent interests of a beneficiary in an employee benefit plan, or eligible deferred compensation plan described in section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 457), which are deposited in one or more deposit accounts shall be aggregated with any other deposited funds representing such interests of the same beneficiary in other employee benefit plans, or eligible deferred compensation plans described in section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, established by the same employer or employee organization.


(2) Certain retirement accounts. Deposits in an insured depository institution made in connection with the following types of retirement plans shall be aggregated and insured in the amount of up to $250,000 per participant:


(i) Any individual retirement account described in section 408(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 408(a)):


(ii) Any eligible deferred compensation plan described in section 457 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 457); and


(iii) Any individual account plan defined in section 3(34) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) (29 U.S.C. 1002) and any plan described in section 401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 401(d)), to the extent that participants and beneficiaries under such plans have the right to direct the investment of assets held in individual accounts maintained on their behalf by the plans.


(c) *Determination of interests*—(1) *Defined contribution plans.* The value of an employee's non-contingent interest in a defined contribution plan shall be deemed to be the employee's account balance as of the date of default of the insured depository institution, regardless of whether said amount was derived, in whole or in part, from contributions of the employee and/or the employer to the account.


(2) *Defined benefit plans.* The value of an employee's non-contingent interest in a defined benefit plan shall be deemed to be the present value of the employee's interest in the plan, evaluated in accordance with the method of calculation ordinarily used under such plan, as of the date of default of the insured depository institution.


(3) *Amounts taken into account.* For the purposes of applying the rule under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, only the present vested and ascertainable interests of each participant in an employee benefit plan or “457 Plan,” excluding any remainder interest created by, or as a result of, the plan, shall be taken into account in determining the amount of deposit insurance accorded to the deposits of the plan.


(d) *Treatment of contingent interests.* In the event that employees' interests in an employee benefit plan are not capable of evaluation in accordance with the provisions of this section, or an account established for any such plan includes amounts for future participants in the plan, payment by the FDIC with respect to all such interests shall not exceed the SMDIA in the aggregate.


(e) *Overfunded pension plan deposits.* Any portion of an employee benefit plan's deposits which is not attributable to the interests of the beneficiaries under the plan shall be deemed attributable to the overfunded portion of the plan's assets and shall be aggregated and insured up to the SMDIA, separately from any other deposits.


(f) *Definitions of “depositor”, “employee benefit plan”, “employee organization” and “non-contingent interest”.* Except as otherwise indicated in this section, for purposes of this section:


(1) The term *depositor* means the person(s) administering or managing an employee benefit plan.


(2) The term *employee benefit plan* has the same meaning given to such term in section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) (29 U.S.C. 1002) and includes any plan described in section 401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.


(3) The term *employee organization* means any labor union, organization, employee representation committee, association, group, or plan, in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning an employee benefit plan, or other matters incidental to employment relationships; or any employees' beneficiary association organized for the purpose, in whole or in part, of establishing such a plan.


(4) The term *non-contingent interest* means an interest capable of determination without evaluation of contingencies except for those covered by the present worth tables and rules of calculation for their use set forth in § 20.2031-7 of the Federal Estate Tax Regulations (26 CFR 20.2031-7) or any similar present worth or life expectancy tables as may be published by the Internal Revenue Service.



---

[N] [63 FR 25756, May 11, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 15657, Apr. 1, 1999; 71 FR 14631, Mar. 23, 2006; 71 FR 53550, Sept. 12, 2006]




