# ยง 488.18   Documentation of findings.

(a) The findings of the State agency with respect to each of the conditions of participation, requirements (for SNFs and NFs), or conditions for coverage must be adequately documented. When the State agency certifies to the Secretary that a provider or supplier is not in compliance with the conditions or requirements (for SNFs and NFs), and therefore not eligible to participate in the program, such documentation includes, in addition to the description of the specific deficiencies which resulted in the agency's recommendation, any provider or supplier response. 


(b) If a provider or supplier is certified by the State agency as in compliance with the conditions or participation requirements (for SNFs and NFs) or as meeting the requirements for special certification (see ยง 488.54), with deficiencies not adversely affecting the health and safety of patients, the following information will be incorporated into the finding: 


(1) A statement of the deficiencies that were found. 


(2) A description of further action that is required to remove the deficiencies. 


(3) A time-phased plan of correction developed by the provider and supplier and concurred with by the State agency. 


(4) A scheduled time for a resurvey of the institution or agency to be conducted by the State agency within 90 days following the completion of the survey. 


(c) If, on the basis of the State certification, the Secretary determines that the provider or supplier is eligible to participate, the information described in paragraph (b) of this section will be incorporated into a notice of eligibility to the provider or supplier. 


(d) If the State agency receives information to the effect that a hospital or a critical access hospital (as defined in section 1861(mm)(1) of the Act) or a rural emergency hospital (as defined in section 1861(kkk)(2) of the Act) has violated ยง 489.24 of this chapter, the State agency is to report the information to CMS promptly.



---

[N] [39 FR 2251, Jan. 17, 1974. Redesignated at 39 FR 11419, Mar. 28, 1974, and further redesignated at 42 FR 52826, Sept. 30, 1977. Redesignated at 53 FR 23100, June 17, 1988; 59 FR 32120, June 22, 1994; 59 FR 56237, Nov. 10, 1994; 62 FR 46037, Aug. 29, 1997; 88 FR 59335, Aug. 28, 2023]






