# ยง 340.6   Submission of bids.

(a) *General.* Bids will be received only at the place specified and not later than the time designated in the public notice. Each bid must be submitted on the official form referred to in the public notice and should be enclosed and sealed in the special envelope provided by the Treasury Department. Forms and envelopes may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220. Bids shall be irrevocable.


(b) *Bidding.* Bids, except noncompetitive bids when authorized, must be expressed as a percentage of the principal amount in not to exceed five decimals, e.g., 100.01038 percent. Provisions relating to the coupon rate of interest on the bonds, if not set forth in the public notice, will be made in a supplemental announcement. The public notice will indicate the timing of any such announcement. If the bidders are required to specify the coupon rate, each bidder shall specify a single coupon rate of interest, which shall be a multiple of 
1/8 of 1 percent but not in excess of 4
1/4 percent. The Secretary of the Treasury may limit the premium above or the discount below par.


(c) *Group bids.* A syndicate or other group submitting a bid must act through a representative who must be a member of the group. The representative must warrant to the Secretary of the Treasury that he has all necessary power and authority to act for each member and to bind the members jointly and severally. In addition to whatever other data may be required by the Secretary of the Treasury, in the case of a syndicate, the representative must file, within one hour after the time for opening of bids, at the place specified in the public notice for receipt of bids a final statement of the composition of the syndicate membership and the amount of each member's underwriting participation.




