# ยง 60.721a   Definitions.

(a) As used in this subpart, all terms not defined in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in the Act or in subpart A of this part.


*Business machine* means a device that uses electronic or mechanical methods to process information, perform calculations, print or copy information, or convert sound into electrical impulses for transmission, such as products classified as: electronic computing devices; calculating and accounting machines; telephone equipment; office machines; and photocopy machines.


*Coating operation* means the use of a spray booth for the application of a single type of coating (*e.g.,* prime coat); the use of the same spray booth for the application of another type of coating (*e.g.,* texture coat) constitutes a separate coating operation for which compliance determinations are performed separately.


*Coating solids applied* means the coating solids that adhere to the surface of the plastic business machine part being coated.


*Color coat* means the coat applied to a part that affects the color and gloss of the part, not including the prime coat or texture coat. This definition includes fog coating, but does not include conductive sensitizers or electromagnetic interference/radio frequency interference shielding coatings.


*Conductive sensitizer* means a coating applied to a plastic substrate to render it conductive for purposes of electrostatic application of subsequent prime, color, texture, or touch-up coats.


*Electromagnetic interference/radio frequency interference (EMI/RFI) shielding coating* means a conductive coating that is applied to a plastic substrate to attenuate EMI/RFI signals.


*Fog coating* (also known as mist coating and uniforming) means a thin coating applied to plastic parts that have molded-in color or texture or both to improve color uniformity.


*Nominal 1-month period* means either a calendar month, 30-day month, accounting month, or similar monthly time period that is established prior to the performance test (*i.e.,* in a statement submitted with notification of anticipated actual startup pursuant to ยง 60.7(2)).


*Plastic parts* means panels, housings, bases, covers, and other business machine components formed of synthetic polymers.


*Prime coat* means the initial coat applied to a part when more than one coating is applied, not including conductive sensitizers or electromagnetic interference/radio frequency interference shielding coatings.


*Spray booth* means the structure housing automatic or manual spray application equipment where a coating is applied to plastic parts for business machines.


*Texture coat* means the rough coat that is characterized by discrete, raised spots on the exterior surface of the part. This definition does not include conductive sensitizers or EMI/RFI shielding coatings.


*Touch-up coat* means the coat applied to correct any imperfections in the finish after color or texture coats have been applied. This definition does not include conductive sensitizers or EMI/RFI shielding coatings.


*Transfer efficiency* means the ratio of the amount of coating solids deposited onto the surface of a plastic business machine part to the total amount of coating solids used.


*VOC emissions* means the mass of VOC's emitted from the surface coating of plastic parts for business machines expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of coating solids applied (*i.e.,* deposited on the surface).


(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined in this paragraph (b) are given meaning in the Act or subpart A of this part.


D_c_ = density of each coating as received (kilograms per liter).


D_d_ = density of each diluent VOC (kilograms per liter).


L_c_ = the volume of each coating consumed, as received (liters).


L_d_ = the volume of each diluent VOC added to coatings (liters).


L_s_ = the volume of coating solids consumed (liters).


M_d_ = the mass of diluent VOC's consumed (kilograms).


M_o_ = the mass of VOC's in coatings consumed, as received (kilograms).


N = the volume-weighted average mass of VOC emissions to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter).


T = the transfer efficiency for each type of application equipment used at a coating operation (fraction).


T_avg_ = the volume-weighted average transfer efficiency for a coating operation (fraction).


V_s_ = the proportion of solids in each coating, as received (fraction by volume).


W_o_ = the proportion of VOC's in each coating, as received (fraction by weight).






