# § 62.35   Limitations on and continuations of the provision of supportive services to certain participants.

(a) *Extremely low-income veteran families.* A participant classified as an extremely low-income veteran family will retain that designation as long as the participant continues to meet all other eligibility requirements.


(b) *Limitations on the provision of supportive services to participants classified under § 62.11(c).* (1) A grantee may provide supportive services to a participant classified under § 62.11(c) until the earlier of the following dates:


(i) The participant commences receipt of other housing services adequate to meet the participant's needs; or


(ii) Ninety days from the date the participant exits permanent housing.


(2) Supportive services provided to participants classified under § 62.11(c) must be designed to support the participants in their choice to transition into housing that is responsive to their individual needs and preferences.


(c) *Continuation of supportive services to veteran family member(s).* If a veteran becomes absent from a household or dies while other members of the veteran family are receiving supportive services, then such supportive services must continue for a grace period following the absence or death of the veteran. The grantee must establish a reasonable grace period for continued participation by the veteran's family member(s), but that period may not exceed 1 year from the date of absence or death of the veteran, subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The grantee must notify the veteran's family member(s) of the duration of the grace period.


(d) *Referral for other assistance.* If a participant becomes ineligible to receive supportive services under this section, the grantee must provide the participant with information on other available programs or resources.


(e) *Families fleeing domestic violence.* Notwithstanding the limitations in § 62.34 concerning the maximum amount of assistance a family can receive during defined periods of time, a household may receive additional assistance if it otherwise qualifies for assistance under this Part and is fleeing from a domestic violence situation. A family may qualify for assistance even if the veteran is the aggressor or perpetrator of the domestic violence. Receipt of assistance under this provision resets the tolling period for the limitations on the maximum amount of support that can be provided in a given amount of time under § 62.34.





---

[N] [75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9612, Feb. 24, 2015]




