# § 401.11   General definitions.

For the purposes of parts 402 through 699 of this subchapter:


(a) The term *Act* means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.,* 86 Stat. 816, Pub. L. 92-500.


(b) The term *Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency.


(c) The term *Environmental Protection Agency* means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.


(d) The term *point source* means any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation, or vessel or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be discharged.


(e) The term *new source* means any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is or may be the discharge of pollutants, the construction of which is commenced after the publication of proposed regulations prescribing a standard of performance under section 306 of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 306 of the Act.


(f) The term *pollutant* means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into water. It does not mean (1) sewage from vessels or (2) water, gas or other material which is injected into a well to facilitate production of oil or gas, or water derived in association with oil or gas production and disposed of in a well, if the well, used either to facilitate production or for disposal purposes, is approved by authority of the State in which the well is located, and if such State determines that such injection or disposal will not result in degradation of ground or surface water resources.


(g) The term *pollution* means the man-made or man induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.


(h) The term *discharge of pollutant(s)* means: (1) The addition of any pollutant to navigable waters from any point source and (2) any addition of any pollutant to the waters of the contiguous zone or the ocean from any point source, other than from a vessel or other floating craft. The term “discharge” includes either the discharge of a single pollutant or the discharge of multiple pollutants.


(i) The term *effluent limitation* means any restriction established by the Administrator on quantities, rates, and concentrations of chemical, physical, biological and other constituents which are discharged from point sources, other than new sources, into navigable waters, the waters of the contiguous zone or the ocean.


(j) The term *effluent limitations guidelines* means any effluent limitations guidelines issued by the Administrator pursuant to section 304(b) of the Act.


(k) The term *standard of performance* means any restriction established by the Administrator pursuant to section 306 of the Act on quantities, rates, and concentrations of chemical, physical, biological, and other constituents which are or may be discharged from new sources into navigable waters, the waters of the contiguous zone or the ocean.


(l) *Navigable waters* means “waters of the United States, including the territorial seas,” as defined in § 120.2 of this chapter.


(m) The terms *state water pollution control agency, interstate agency, State, municipality, person, territorial seas, contiguous zone, biological monitoring, schedule of compliance,* and *industrial user* shall be defined in accordance with section 502 of the Act unless the context otherwise requires.


(n) The term *noncontract cooling water* means water used for cooling which does not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or finished product.


(o) The term *noncontact cooling water pollutants* means pollutants present in noncontact cooling waters.


(p) The term *blowdown* means the minimum discharge of recirculating water for the purpose of discharging materials contained in the water, the further buildup of which would cause concentration in amounts exceeding limits established by best engineering practice.


(q) The term *process waste water* means any water which, during manufacturing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product.


(r) The term *process waste water pollutants* means pollutants present in process waste water.


(s) The following abbreviations shall have the following meanings:


(1) *BOD5* means five-day biochemical oxygen demand;


(2) *COD* means chemical oxygen demand;


(3) *TOC* means total organic carbon;


(4) *TDS* means total dissolved solids;


(5) *TSS* means total suspended non-filterable solids;


(6) *kw* means kilowatt(s);


(7) *kwh* means kilowatt hour(s);


(8) *Mw* means megawatt(s);


(9) *Mwh* means megawatt hour(s);


(10) *hp* means horsepower;


(11) *mm* means millimeter(s);


(12) *cm* means centimeter;


(13) *m* means meter(s);


(14) *in.* means inch;


(15) *ft* means foot (feet);


(16) *l* means liter(s);


(17) *cu m* means cubic meter(s);


(18) *k cu m* means 1000 cubic meter(s);


(19) *gal* means gallon(s);


(20) *cu ft* means cubic foot (feet);


(21) *mg* means milligram(s);


(22) *g* means gram(s);


(23) *kg* means kilogram(s);


(24) *kkg* means 1000 kilogram(s);


(25) *lb* means pound(s);


(26) *sq m* means square meter(s);


(27) *ha* means hectare(s);


(28) *sq ft* means square foot (feet); and


(29) *ac* means acre(s).



---

[N] [39 FR 4532, Feb. 1, 1974, as amended at 58 FR 45038, Aug. 25, 1994; 80 FR 37125, June 29, 2015; 83 FR 5209, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 56671, Oct. 22, 2019; 85 FR 22342, Apr. 21, 2020]






