# § 98.157   Records that must be retained.

(a) In addition to the data required by § 98.3(g), HCFC-22 production facilities shall retain the following records:


(1) The data used to estimate HFC-23 emissions.


(2) Records documenting the initial and periodic calibration of the gas chromatographs, weigh scales, volumetric and density measurements, and flowmeters used to measure the quantities reported under this rule, including the industry standards or manufacturer directions used for calibration pursuant to § 98.154(p) and (q).


(b) In addition to the data required by § 98.3(g), the HFC-23 destruction facilities shall retain the following records:


(1) Records documenting their one-time and annual reports in § 98.156(b) through (e).


(2) Records documenting the initial and periodic calibration of the gas chromatographs, weigh scales, volumetric and density measurements, and flowmeters used to measure the quantities reported under this subpart, including the industry standard practice or manufacturer directions used for calibration pursuant to § 98.154(p) and (q).


(c) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (16) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (c)(1) through (16) of this section.


(1) Factor to account for the loss of HCFC-22 upstream of the measurement over the period, determined pursuant to § 98.154(e) (Equation O-3 of § 98.153).


(2) Mass of HCFC-22 that is measured coming out of the production process over the period. A period can be one year (kg) (Equation O-3).


(3) Mass of used HCFC-22 that is added to the production process upstream of the output measurement over the period. A period can be one year (kg) (Equation O-3).


(4) Mass of HFC-23 generated annually per HCFC-22 production process (metric tons) (Equation O-4 of § 98.153).


(5) Mass of HFC-23 sent off site for sale annually per HCFC-22 production process (metric tons) (Equation O-4).


(6) Mass of HFC-23 sent off site for destruction annually per HCFC-22 production process (metric tons) (Equation O-4).


(7) Mass of HFC-23 destroyed on site per HCFC-22 production process (metric tons) (Equation O-4).


(8) HFC-23 in storage at end of year per HCFC-22 production process (metric tons) (Equation O-4).


(9) HFC-23 in storage at beginning of year per HCFC-22 production process (metric tons) (Equation O-4).


(10) Mass of HFC-23 fed into each destruction device annually per HCFC-22 production process (metric tons) (Equation O-9 of § 98.153 and the calculation method in either § 98.154(l)(1) or (2)).


(11) Identify if each destruction efficiency for each HCFC-22 production process is entered directly, or is calculated using § 98.154(l)(1), or is calculated using § 98.154(l)(2) (Equation O-9 and the calculation method in either § 98.154(l)(1) or (2)).


(12) Destruction efficiency of each destruction device for each HCFC-22 production process (decimal fraction) (Equation O-9 and the calculation method in either § 98.154(l)(1) or (2)).


(13) Volumetric flow rate at the inlet of each destruction device for each HCFC-22 production process from previous test (kg/hr) (Equation O-9 and the calculation method in either § 98.154(l)(1) or (2)).


(14) Volumetric flow rate at the inlet of destruction device during test for each HCFC-22 production process (kg/hr) (Equation O-9 and the calculation method in either § 98.154(l)(1) or (2)).


(15) Concentration of HFC-23 at the inlet of destruction device for each HCFC-22 production process from previous test (weight fraction) (Equation O-9 and the calculation method in either § 98.154(l)(1) or (2)).


(16) Concentration of HFC-23 at the inlet of destruction device for each HCFC-22 production process during test (weight fraction) (Equation O-9 and the calculation method in either § 98.154(l)(1) or (2)).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66463, Oct. 28, 2010; 79 FR 63786, Oct. 24, 2014]




