# ยง 19.434   Spirits withdrawn from bonded premises.

(a) *Laboratory samples.* A proprietor may withdraw spirits without payment of tax, or may withdraw wine spirits or brandy free of tax, to the proprietor's laboratory, to the laboratory of an affiliated or subsidiary corporation, or, if approved by the appropriate TTB officer, to a recognized commercial laboratory. The samples must be used only for testing or analysis to determine the quality or character of the finished product and must be withdrawn in the minimum amounts necessary for the purpose.


(b) *Customer samples.* If a bona fide purchase agreement exists that is contingent upon quality approval, a proprietor may furnish to a prospective customer a sample of spirits not exceeding 1 liter for quality testing. A proprietor may furnish a sample not to exceed 1 liter to a prospective customer for quality testing in anticipation of a purchase agreement if the customer is authorized to receive bulk spirits for industrial use.


(c) *Research or development.* A proprietor may withdraw spirits without payment of tax for research or development testing, for testing of processes, systems, or materials, or for the testing of equipment relating to distilled spirits or distilled spirits plant operations. The amount withdrawn must be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to conduct the test. If the test is to be conducted by someone other than the proprietor, the proprietor must obtain a written statement, executed by the consignee, agreeing to maintain records of the receipt, use, and disposition of all spirits received for purposes of the test. The statement must specify that records of operations will be available during regular business hours for inspection by TTB officers.


(d) *Conditions.* The following conditions apply to the withdrawal and testing of samples under this section:


(1) The spirits may not be used for consumer testing or other market analysis;


(2) The proprietor must maintain the records specified in ยง 19.616; and


(3) Remnants or residues of spirits not used during testing must be destroyed or returned to the bonded premises of the proprietor.


(e) *Liability for tax.* The proprietor must pay the tax on any samples of spirits withdrawn, used, or disposed of in a manner not authorized by this section.


(f) *Losses.* When spirits are lost before use for a purpose authorized under this section, the proprietor must pay the tax or must file a claim for remission of tax liability in accordance with ยง 19.263.


