# ยง 165.843   Moving Security Zone; Escorted Vessels; Lower Mississippi River; New Orleans, LA.

(a) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


*COTP* means Captain of the Port New Orleans, LA.


*Designated representatives* means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, and Federal, State, and local officers designated by or assisting the COTP, in the enforcement of the security zone.


*Escorted vessel* means a vessel, other than a large U.S. naval vessel as defined in 33 CFR 165.2015, that is accompanied by one or more Coast Guard assets or other Federal, State or local law enforcement agency assets clearly identifiable by flashing lights, vessel markings, or with agency insignia as follows: Coast Guard surface or air asset displaying the Coast Guard insignia. State and/or local law enforcement asset displaying the applicable agency markings and/or equipment associated with the agency.


*Minimum safe speed for navigation* means the speed at which a vessel proceeds when it is fully off plane, completely settled in the water and not creating excessive wake or surge. Due to the different speeds at which vessels of different sizes and configurations may travel while in compliance with this definition, no specific speed is assigned to a minimum safe speed for navigation. In no instance should minimum safe speed be interpreted as a speed less than that required for a particular vessel to maintain steerageway. A vessel is not proceeding at minimum safe speed if it is:


(i) On a plane;


(ii) In the process of coming up, onto or coming off a plane; or


(iii) Creating an excessive wake or surge.


(b) *Regulated area.* All navigable waters, as defined in 33 CFR 2.36, on the Lower Mississippi River between river miles 90.0 to 106.0 Above Head of Passes (AHP), New Orleans, Louisiana.


(c) *Security zone.* A temporary moving security zone, extending 300 yards in all directions of an escorted vessel, will be established around each escorted vessel within the regulated area described in paragraph (b) of this section. The security zone will not extend beyond the boundary of the regulated area in this section.


(d) *Notice of security zone.* The COTP will inform the public of the existence or status of any temporary moving security zones around escorted vessels in the regulated area by broadcast notices to mariners. The broadcast notice to mariners will inform the public of the enforcement period, size of the zone, and the navigable waters that will be affected, and will normally be issued at approximately 30-minute intervals while the moving security zone remains in effect. Escorted vessels will be identified by the presence of Coast Guard assets or other Federal, State or local law enforcement agency assets clearly identified by flashing lights, vessel markings, or agency insignia.


(e) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in ยง 165.33 of subpart D of this part, no person or vessel may enter or remain in a security zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port. Section 165.33 also contains other general requirements.


(2) Vessels may request permission from the Captain of the Port New Orleans through the on-scene Coast Guard or other agency asset to enter the security zone described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(i) If permission to enter and transit through the security zone is granted, the vessel shall operate at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course, unless required to maintain speed by the Navigation Rules, and must proceed as directed by the COTP or a designated representative. When within the security zone, no vessel or person is allowed within 50 yards of the escorted vessel unless authorized by the Coast Guard.


(ii) [Reserved]


(f) *Contact information.* The COTP New Orleans may be reached via phone at (504) 365-2200. Any on-scene Coast Guard or designated representative assets may be reached via VHF-FM channel 16 or 67.



---

[N] [USCG-2014-0995, 81 FR 8649, Feb. 22, 2016]




