# § 122.74   Incomplete (pro forma) manifest.

(a) *Application*—(1) *Shipments to foreign countries.* Except for aircraft bound for foreign locations referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, clearance, or permission to depart may be given to an aircraft bound for a foreign location by the CBP at the departure airport before a complete manifest or all required Electronic Export Information (EEI) have been filed, if a proper bond is filed on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter.


(2) *Shipments to Puerto Rico.* As provided in § 122.79(b), any required air cargo manifest or EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends for direct flights between the United States and Puerto Rico must be filed with the appropriate CBP officer upon arrival in Puerto Rico. If any required manifest or EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends are not filed with the appropriate CBP officer within one business day after arrival in Puerto Rico, a proper bond must be filed at that time on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter.


(b) *Exceptions.* In the following circumstances, an incomplete manifest will not be accepted and a complete air cargo manifest and all required EEI must be filed with the port director before the aircraft will be cleared:


(1) During any time covered by a proclamation of the President that a state of war exists between foreign nations; or


(2) If the aircraft is departing on a flight from the U.S. directly or indirectly to a foreign country listed in § 4.75 of this chapter.


(c) *Filing under bond.* An incomplete set of documents may be filed only when accompanied by the proper bond. Under the bond, a complete set of documents shall be filed within whichever of the following time periods is appropriate:


(1) *Shipments to foreign countries.* All required EEI and a complete air cargo manifest must be filed by the airline not later than the fourth business day after clearance (when clearance is required) or departure (when clearance is not required) of the aircraft.


(2) *Shipments to and from Puerto Rico.* For shipments from the U.S. to Puerto Rico, the complete manifest (when required) and all required EEI must be filed not later than the seventh business day after arrival into Puerto Rico. For shipments from Puerto Rico to the U.S., the complete manifest (when required) and all required EEI must be filed not later than the seventh business day after departure from Puerto Rico.


(3) *Shipments to U.S. possessions.* For shipments between the U.S. or Puerto Rico and possessions of the U.S., a complete manifest and all required EEI must be filed by the airline not later than the seventh business day after departure. See § 122.79.


(d) *Declaration required.* A declaration shall be made on the incomplete manifest that:


(1) All required documents will be filed within the 4-day bond period; or


(2) All required documents will be filed within the 7-day bond period.



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 93-61, 58 FR 41425, Aug. 4, 1993; CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32238, July 13, 2017]




