# § 721.10921   2-Furancarboxyaldehyde, 5-(chloromethyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-furancarboxyaldehyde, 5-(chloromethyl)- (PMN P-15-573; CAS No. 1623-88-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a tight-fitting half mask and HEPA filters.


(B) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a tight-fitting half mask.


(C) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator equipped with a full facepiece.


(ii) *Industrial commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g) (chemical intermediate use in a continuous reaction process such that no greater than 50 kilograms is present in the workplace at a given time) and (s)(15,000 kilograms).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 30480, May 16, 2016]




