# § 801.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


(a) *Act* or *EPPA* means the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-347, 102 Stat. 646, 29 U.S.C. 2001-2009).


(b) (1) The term *commerce* has the meaning provided in section 3(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 203(b)). As so defined, *commerce* means trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof.


(2) The term *State* means any of the fifty States and the District of Columbia and any Territory or possession of the United States.


(c) The term *employer* means any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee or prospective employee. A polygraph examiner either employed for or whose services are retained for the sole purpose of administering polygraph tests ordinarily would not be deemed an *employer* with respect to the examinees.


(d) (1) The term *lie detector* means a polygraph, deceptograph, voice stress analyzer, psychological stress evaluator, or any other similar device (whether mechanical or electrical) that is used, or the results of which are used, for the purpose of rendering a diagnostic opinion regarding the honesty or dishonesty of an individual. Voice stress analyzers, or psychological stress evaluators, include any systems that utilize voice stress analysis, whether or not an opinion on honesty or dishonesty is specifically rendered.


(2) The term *lie detector* does not include medical tests used to determine the presence or absence of controlled substances or alcohol in bodily fluids. Also not included in the definition of *lie detector* are written or oral tests commonly referred to as “honesty” or “paper and pencil” tests, machine-scored or otherwise; and graphology tests commonly referred to as handwriting tests.


(e) The term *polygraph* means an instrument that—


(1) Records continuously, visually, permanently, and simultaneously changes in cardiovascular, respiratory, and electrodermal patterns as minimum instrumentation standards; and


(2) Is used, or the results of which are used, for the purpose of rendering a diagnostic opinion regarding the honesty or dishonesty of an individual.


(f) The terms *manufacture, dispense, distribute,* and *deliver* have the meanings set forth in the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 812.


(g) The term *Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor or authorized representative.


(h) *Wage and Hour Division* means the organizational unit of the Department of Labor to which is assigned primary responsibility for enforcement and administration of the Act.


(i) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, or authorized representative.



---

[N] [56 FR 9064, Mar. 4, 1991, as amended at 82 FR 2230, Jan. 9, 2017]




