# ยง 21.420   Under what types of statutory authorities do DoD Components award assistance instruments?

DoD Components may use assistance instruments under a number of statutory authorities that fall into three categories:


(a) *Authorities that statutes provide to the Secretary of Defense.* These authorities generally are delegated by the Secretary of Defense to Heads of DoD Components, usually through DoD directives, instructions, or policy memoranda that are not part of the Defense Grant and Agreement Regulatory System. Examples of statutory authorities in this category are:


(1) Authority under 10 U.S.C. 2391 to award grants or cooperative agreements to help State and local governments alleviate serious economic impacts of defense program changes (*e.g.,* base openings and closings, contract changes, and personnel reductions and increases).


(2) Authority under 10 U.S.C. 2413 to enter into cooperative agreements with entities that furnish procurement technical assistance to businesses.


(b) *Authorities that statutes may provide directly to Heads of DoD Components.* When a statute authorizes the Head of a DoD Component to use a funding instrument to carry out a program with a principal purpose of assistance, use of that authority requires no delegation by the Secretary of Defense. For example, 10 U.S.C. 2358 authorizes the Secretaries of the Military Departments, in addition to the Secretary of Defense, to perform research and development projects through grants and cooperative agreements. Similarly, 10 U.S.C. 2371 provides authority for the Secretaries of the Military Departments and Secretary of Defense to carry out basic, applied, or advanced research projects using assistance instruments other than grants and cooperative agreements. A Military Department's use of the authority of 10 U.S.C. 2358 or 10 U.S.C. 2371 therefore requires no delegation by the Secretary of Defense.


(c) *Authorities that arise indirectly as the result of statute.* For example, authority to use an assistance instrument may result from:


(1) A federal statute authorizing a program that is consistent with an assistance relationship (*i.e.,* the support or stimulation of a public purpose, rather than the acquisition of a good or service for the direct benefit of the Department of Defense). In accordance with 31 U.S.C. chapter 63, such a program would appropriately be carried out through the use of grants or cooperative agreements. Depending upon the nature of the program (*e.g.,* research) and whether the program statute includes authority for any specific types of instruments, there also may be authority to use other assistance instruments.


(2) Exemptions requested by the Department of Defense and granted by the Office of Management and Budget under 31 U.S.C. 6307, as described in 32 CFR 22.220.




