# ยง 301.6852-1   Termination assessments of tax in the case of flagrant political expenditures of section 501(c)(3) organizations.

(a) *Authority for making.* Any assessment under section 6852 as a result of a flagrant violation by a section 501(c)(3) organization of the prohibition against making political expenditures must be authorized by the District Director.


(b) *Determination of income tax.* An organization shall be subject to an assessment of income tax under section 6852 only if the flagrant violation of the prohibition against making political expenditures results in revocation of the organization's tax exemption under section 501(a) because it is not described in section 501(c)(3). An organization subject to such an assessment is not liable for income taxes for any period prior to the effective date of the revocation of the organization's tax exemption.


(c) *Payment.* Where a District Director has made a determination of income tax under paragraph (b) of this section or of section 4955 excise tax, notwithstanding any other provision of law, any tax will become immediately due and payable. The taxpayer is required to pay the amount of the assessment within 10 days after the District Director sends the notice and demand for immediate payment regardless of the filing of an administrative appeal or of a court petition. Regardless of filing an administrative appeal or of petitioning a court, enforced collection action may proceed after the 10-day payment period unless the taxpayer posts the bond described in section 6863. For purposes of collection procedures such as section 6331 (regarding levy), assessments under the authority of paragraph (a) of this section do not constitute situations in which the collection of such tax is in jeopardy and, therefore, do not suspend normal collection procedures.


(d) *Effective date.* This section is effective December 5, 1995.



---

[N] [T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62212, Dec. 5, 1995]


