# § 1500.4   Concise and informative environmental documents.

Agencies shall prepare analytical, concise, and informative environmental documents by:


(a) Meeting appropriate page limits (§§ 1501.5(g) and 1502.7 of this subchapter).


(b) Discussing only briefly issues other than important ones (*e.g.,* § 1502.2(b) of this subchapter).


(c) Writing environmental documents in plain language (*e.g.,* § 1502.8 of this subchapter).


(d) Following a clear format for environmental impact statements (§ 1502.10 of this subchapter).


(e) Emphasizing the portions of the environmental document that are most useful to decision makers and the public (*e.g.,* §§ 1502.14, 1502.15, and 1502.16 of this subchapter) and reducing emphasis on background material (*e.g.,* § 1502.1 of this subchapter).


(f) Using the scoping process to identify important environmental issues deserving of study and to deemphasize unimportant issues, narrowing the scope of the environmental impact statement process (or, where an agency elects to do so, the environmental assessment process) accordingly (§§ 1501.9 and 1502.4 of this subchapter).


(g) Summarizing the environmental impact statement (§ 1502.12 of this subchapter).


(h) Using programmatic environmental documents and tiering from documents of broad scope to those of narrower scope, to eliminate repetitive discussions of the same issues (§ 1501.11 of this subchapter).


(i) Incorporating by reference (§ 1501.12 of this subchapter).


(j) Integrating NEPA requirements with other environmental review and consultation requirements (§ 1502.24 of this subchapter).


(k) Requiring that comments be as specific as possible (§ 1503.3 of this subchapter).


(l) When changes are minor, attaching and publishing only changes to the draft environmental impact statement rather than rewriting and publishing the entire statement (§ 1503.4(c) of this subchapter).


(m) Eliminating duplication with State, Tribal, and local procedures, by providing for joint preparation of environmental documents where practicable (§ 1506.2 of this subchapter), and with other Federal procedures, by providing that an agency may adopt appropriate environmental documents prepared by another Federal agency (§ 1506.3 of this subchapter).


(n) Combining environmental documents with other documents (§ 1506.4 of this subchapter).








