# § 470.2   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Act* means the Energy Research and Development Administration Appropriation Authorization of 1977, Pub. L. 95-39, 91 Stat. 180, 42 U.S.C. 5907a. 


*Affiliate* means a concern which, either directly or indirectly, controls or has the power to control another concern, is controlled by or is within the power to control of another concern or, together with another concern, is controlled by or is within the power to control of a third party, taking into consideration all appropriate factors, including common ownership, common management and contractual relationships. 


*Concern* means any business entity organized for profit (even if its ownership is in the hands of a nonprofit entity) with its principal place of business located in the United States. “Concern” includes, but is not limited to, an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association or cooperative. For the purpose of making affiliation findings, any business entity, whether organized for profit or not, and any foreign business entity (i.e., any entity located outside the United States), shall be included. 


*DOE* means the Department of Energy. 


*DOE-AR* means the Department of Energy Assistance Regulations (10 CFR part 600). 


*DOE-PR* means the Department of Energy Procurement Regulations (41 CFR part 9). 


*Indian tribe* means any tribe band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians (including any Alaska native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, Pub. L. 92-203, 85 Stat. 688, which (1) is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; or (2) is located on, or in proximity to, a Federal or State reservation or rancheria, acting through its tribal organization. 


*Local agency* means an agency or instrumentality of a local government. 


*Local government* means a local unit of government including specifically a county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority, special district, intrastate district, council of governments, sponsor group representative organization, and other regional or intrastate government entity. 


*Local nonprofit organization or institution* means any corporation trust, foundation, trade association, or other institution (1) which is entitled to exemption under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or (2) which is not organized for profit and no part of the net earnings of which insure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. 


*Program* means the appropriate technology small grants program. 


*Small business* means a concern, including its affiliates, which is organized for profit, is independently owned and operated, is not dominant in the field of operation in which it is submitting a proposal to DOE, and has 100 employees or less. 


*Standard Federal regions* means the 10 standard Federal regions established by Office of Management and Budget Circular A-105, entitled “Standard Federal Regions.” 


*State* means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States. 


*State agency* means an agency or instrumentality of a State government. 


*State government* means the government of a State, or an interstate organization. 


*Support* means financial support or award under the program by grants, cooperative agreements or contracts. 


*Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of an Indian tribe, or any legally established organization of Native Americans which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body. 




