# § 1.18   Rulemaking record.

(a) *Definition.* For purposes of these rules the term rulemaking record includes the final rule, its statement of basis and purpose, the verbatim transcripts of the informal hearing, if any, written submissions, the recommended decision of the presiding officer, any communications placed on the rulemaking record pursuant to § 1.18(c), and any other information the Commission considers relevant to the rule.


(b) *Public availability.* The rulemaking record will be publicly available except when the Commission, for good cause shown, determines that it is in the public interest to allow any submission to be received in camera subject to the provisions of § 4.9 of this chapter.


(c) *Communications to Commissioners and Commissioners' personal staffs*—(1) *Communications by outside parties.* Except as otherwise provided in this subpart or by the Commission, after the Commission votes to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking, comment on the proposed rule should be directed as provided in the notice. Communications with respect to the merits of that proceeding from any outside party to any Commissioner or Commissioner's advisor will be subject to the following treatment:


(i) *Written communications.* Written communications, including written communications from members of Congress, received within the period for acceptance of initial or rebuttal written comments or other written submissions will be placed on the rulemaking record. Written communications received outside of the time periods designated for acceptance of written comments or other written submissions will be placed on public record unless the Commission votes to place them on the rulemaking record.


(ii) *Oral communications.* Oral communications to a Commissioner or Commissioner's advisor are permitted only when advance notice of such oral communications is published by the Commission's Office of Public Affairs in its Weekly Calendar and Notice of “Sunshine” Meetings. A Commissioner's advisor will ensure such oral communications are transcribed verbatim or summarized at the discretion of the Commissioner or Commissioner's advisor to whom such oral communications are made and promptly placed on the rulemaking record. Memoranda summarizing such oral communications must list all persons attending or otherwise participating in the meeting at which the oral communication was made, and summarize all data presented and arguments made during the meeting.


(iii) *Congressional communications.* The provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section do not apply to communications from Members of Congress. Memoranda prepared by the Commissioner or Commissioner's advisor setting forth the contents of any oral congressional communications will be placed on the public record. If the communication occurs within the comment period and is transcribed verbatim or summarized, the transcript or summary will be promptly placed on the rulemaking record. A transcript or summary of any oral communication which occurs after the time period for acceptance of written comments will be placed promptly on the public record.


(2) *Communications by certain officers, employees, and agents of the Commission.* After the Commission votes to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking, any officer, employee, or agent of the Commission with investigative or other responsibility relating to any rulemaking proceeding within any operating bureau of the Commission is prohibited from communicating or causing to be communicated to any Commissioner or to the personal staff of any Commissioner any fact which is relevant to the merits of such proceeding and which is not on the rulemaking record of such proceeding, unless such communication is made available to the public and is included in the rulemaking record. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to any communication to the extent such communication is required for the disposition of ex parte matters as authorized by law.



---

[N] [86 FR 38550, July 22, 2021]








