# § 902.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 *et seq.*)


*Alternative management entity (AME)* is a receiver, private contractor, private manager, or any other entity that is under contract with a PHA, under a management agreement with a PHA, or that is otherwise duly appointed or contracted (for example, by court order or agency action), to manage all or part of a PHA's operations.


*Assessed fiscal year* is the PHA fiscal year that has been/is being assessed under PHAS.


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing.


*Capital Fund-troubled* refers to a PHA that does not meet the minimum passing score of 5 points or 50 percent under the Capital Fund indicator.


*Corrective Action Plan* means a plan, as provided in § 902.73(a), that is developed by a PHA that specifies the actions to be taken, including timetables, that shall be required to correct deficiencies identified under any of the PHAS indicators and subindicators, and identified as a result of a PHAS assessment, when a memorandum of agreement (MOA) is not required.








*Days* mean calendar days, unless otherwise specified.


*Decent, safe, sanitary housing and in good repair (DSS/GR)* is HUD's standard for acceptable basic housing conditions and the level to which a PHA is required to maintain its public housing.


*Deficiency* means any finding or determination that requires corrective action, or any score below 60 percent of the available points for the physical condition, financial condition, or management operations indicators, and any score below 50 percent for the Capital Fund indicator. In the context of physical condition and physical inspection in subpart B of this part, “deficiency” means a specific problem, as described in the Dictionary of Deficiency Definitions, such as a hole in a wall or a damaged refrigerator in the kitchen that can be recorded for inspectable items.


*Dictionary of Deficiency Definitions* means the documents published in the _Federal Register_ that contain the inspection standards and scoring values pursuant to 24 CFR part 5, subpart G.














*Direct Funded RMC* (DF-RMC) means a Resident Management Corporation to which HUD directly provides operating and capital assistance under the provisions of 24 CFR 964.225(h).






*Inspectable areas (*or *area)* mean any of the three major components of public housing that are inspected, which are: inside, outside, and unit.


*Inspectable item* means the individual parts, such as walls, kitchens, bathrooms, and other things, to be inspected in an inspectable area.














*Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)* is defined in § 902.75(b).




*Resident Management Corporation* (RMC) is defined in 24 CFR 964.7.
































*Unit-weighted average* means the average of the PHA's individual indicator scores, weighted by the number of units in each project, divided by the total number of units in all of the projects of the PHA. In order to compute a unit-weighted average, an individual project score for a particular indicator is multiplied by the number of units in each project to determine a “weighted value.” For example, for a PHA with two projects, one with 200 units and a score of 90, and the other with 100 units and a score of 60, the unit-weighted average score for the indicator would be (200 × 90 + 100 × 60)/300 = 80.





---

[N] [76 FR 10149, Feb. 23, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 30500, May 11, 2023]






