# § 281.211   Filing and documentation.

(a) *Priority 1*—(1) *Direct sales customers and local distribution companies.* (i) Each request of a direct sale customer and local distribution company customer for reclassification of high-priority entitlements (as defined in § 281.206) to priority 1 entitlements shall be made in writing no later than July 31, 1979, and shall be accompanied by the data described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. 


(ii)(A) A table indicating high-priority entitlements (as defined in § 281.206) and the end-use of the natural gas in each priority of service category in the currently effective curtailment plan for which priority 1 reclassification is requested. 


(B) A copy of the end-use data used to establish the high-priority requirements and designated end-use of the natural gas. 


(2) *Interstate pipelines.* (i) Each interstate pipeline purchaser which reclassifies high-priority requirements of its customers as priority 1 entitlements may request that its high-priority requirements in the currently effective curtailment plan of its interstate pipeline suppliers (equal to the attributable priority 1 entitlements) be reclassified as priority 1 entitlements. Such requests shall be made in writing no later than August 31, 1979 and shall be accompanied by the data described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(ii)(A) A table indicating high-priority entitlements (as defined in § 281.206) and end-use of the natural gas in each priority of service category in the currently effective curtailment plan of the interstate pipeline supplier for which priority 1 reclassification is requested. 


(B) A copy of the end-use data used to establish the high-priority requirements and designated end-use of the natural gas. 


(C) A table indicating the volumes and priority of service categories for which each of direct sale customers and local distribution company customers sought reclassification to priority 1. 


(b) *Priority 2*—(1) *Essential agricultural users.* (i) Each request for classification of essential agricultural requirements as priority 2 entitlements shall be made in writing to the local distribution company supplier or the direct interstate pipeline supplier, as appropriate, no later than June 15 of each year, and shall set forth all calculations made in accordance with this subpart. 


(ii) The request shall be accompanied by a statement that; 


(A) Indicates the intended end-use(s) and volume(s) of the natural gas for which priority 2 entitlements are requested. 


(B) Indicates the SIC Code activities of the essential agricultural user which qualifies it as an essential agricultural user in accordance with 7 CFR 2900.3. 


(C) Includes the data and calculations used to determine essential agricultural requirements under 7 CFR 2900.4. 


(D) Includes with respect to any essential agricultural user to which Subpart C applies the data and calculations necessary to determine alternative fuel volumes under § 281.304.


(iii) The statement under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) shall be signed by a responsible official of the essential agricultural user. Such official shall swear or affirm that the statements are true to the best of his information, knowledge and belief. 


(2) *Local distribution companies.* Each request for classification of essential agricultural requirements as priority 2 requirements shall be made in writing to the direct interstate pipeline supplier no later than June 30 of each year, and shall set forth all calculations made in accordance with this subpart and all copies of all requests received from its essential agricultural uses under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(3) *Interstate pipelines.* Each request of an interstate pipeline purchaser for classification of attributable priority 2 entitlements as priority 2 entitlements shall be made in writing to the direct interstate pipeline supplier no later than July 15 of each year, and shall set forth all calculations made in accordance with this subpart and shall include copies of all requests of essential agricultural users and local distribution companies under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(4) *Subsequent request.* (i) For 1979, changes in priority 2 entitlements for essential agricultural use establishments that have the ability to use an alternative fuel shall be filed under Subpart C of this part. 


(ii) For years subsequent to 1979, the data required by this paragraph must be filed only to the extent that there has been a change in essential agricultural requirements.



---

[N] [44 FR 26862, May 8, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 45923, Aug. 6, 1979; 44 FR 62490, Oct. 31, 1979; Order 55-B, 45 FR 54740, July 18, 1980; Order 145, 46 FR 27913, May 22, 1981] 




