# § 301.7426-1   Civil actions by persons other than taxpayers.

(a) *Actions permitted*—(1) *Wrongful levy*—(i) *In general.* If a levy has been made on property or property has been sold pursuant to a levy, any person (other than the person against whom is assessed the tax out of which such levy arose) may bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States based upon such person's claim—


(A) That such person has an interest in, or lien on, such property which is senior to the interest of the United States; and


(B) That such property was wrongfully levied upon.


(ii) *Debt owed by another Federal agency.* Section 7426 and this paragraph (a) apply when a levy is made by the Internal Revenue Service on a debt owed to a taxpayer by another Federal agency. By contrast, section 7426 and this paragraph (a) do not apply if the Internal Revenue Service requests payment from another Federal agency pursuant to a request for setoff.


(2) *Surplus proceeds.* If property has been sold pursuant to levy, any person (other than the person against whom is assessed the tax out of which such levy arose) may bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States based upon such person's claim that he—


(i) Has an interest in or lien on such property junior to that of the United States; and


(ii) Is entitled to the surplus proceeds of such sale.


(3) *Substituted sale proceeds.* Any person who claims to be legally entitled to all or any part of the amount which is held as a fund from the sale of property pursuant to an agreement described in section 6325(b)(3) may bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States to obtain the relief provided by section 7426 (b)(4). It is not necessary that the claimant be a party to the agreement which provides for the substitution of the sale proceeds for the property subject to the lien.


(4) *Substitution of value.* A person who obtains a certificate of discharge under section 6325(b)(4) with respect to any property may, within 120 days after the day on which the certificate is issued, bring a civil action against the United States in a district court of the United States for a determination of whether the value of the interest of the United States (if any) in such property is less than the value determined by the appropriate official. A civil action under this provision shall be the exclusive judicial remedy for a person other than the taxpayer who obtains a certificate of discharge for a filed notice of Federal tax lien.


(b) *Adjudication*—(1) *Wrongful levy.* If the court determines that property has been wrongfully levied upon, the court may—


(i) Grant an injunction to prohibit the enforcement of such levy or to prohibit a sale of such property if such sale would irreparably injure rights in the property which are superior to the rights of the United States in such property; or


(ii) Order the return of specific property if the United States is in possession of such property; or


(iii) Grant a judgment for the amount of money levied upon; or


(iv) Grant a judgment for an amount not exceeding the amount received by the United States from the sale of such property (which, in the case of property declared purchased by the United States at a sale, shall be the greater of the minimum amount determined pursuant to section 6335(e) or the amount received by the United States from the resale of such property).


(2) *Example.* The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following example:


(3) *Surplus proceeds.* If the court determines that the interest or lien of any party to an action under section 7426 was transferred to the proceeds of a sale of the property, the court may grant a judgment in an amount equal to all or any part of the amount of the surplus proceeds of such sale. The term “surplus proceeds” means those proceeds realized on a sale of property remaining after application of the provisions of section 6342(a).


(4) *Substituted sale proceeds.* If the court determines that a party has an interest in or lien on the amount held as a fund pursuant to an agreement described in section 6325(b)(3), the court may grant a judgment in an amount equal to all or any part of the amount of such fund.


(5) *Substitution of value.* If the court determines that the determination by the appropriate official of the value of the interest of the United States in the property exceeds the actual value of such interest, the court may grant a judgment ordering a refund of the amount deposited, or a release of the bond, to the extent that the aggregate of those amounts exceeds the value as determined by the court.


(c) *Effective date.* Paragraph (a)(1) of this section is effective as of December 23, 1993.


(d) Paragraphs (a)(4) and (b)(5) of this section apply to any request for a certificate of discharge made after January 31, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 7305, 39 FR 9951, Mar. 15, 1974, as amended by T.D. 8541, 59 FR 26601, May 23, 1994; 73 FR 5744, Jan. 31, 2008]




