# § 488.1   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Act* means the Social Security Act.


*Certification* means a determination made by the state survey agency that providers and suppliers are in compliance with the applicable conditions of participation, conditions for coverage, conditions for certification, or requirements.


*Conditions for certification* means the health and safety standards RHCs must meet to participate in the Medicare program.


*Conditions for coverage* means the requirements suppliers must meet to participate in the Medicare program. 


*Conditions of participation* means the requirements providers other than skilled nursing facilities must meet to participate in the Medicare program and includes conditions of certification for rural health clinics. 


*Deemed status* means that CMS has certified a provider or supplier for Medicare participation, based on all of the following criteria having been met: The provider or supplier has voluntarily applied for, and received, accreditation from a CMS-approved national accrediting organization under the applicable Medicare accreditation program; the accrediting organization has recommended the provider or supplier to CMS for Medicare participation; CMS has accepted the accrediting organization's recommendation; and CMS finds that all other participation requirements have been met.


*Full review* means a survey of a provider or supplier for compliance with all of the Medicare conditions or requirements applicable to that provider or supplier type.


*Immediate jeopardy* means a situation in which the provider's or supplier's non-compliance with one or more Medicare requirements, conditions of participation, conditions for coverage or certification has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to a resident or patient.


*Medicare condition* means any condition of participation or for coverage, including any long term care requirements. 


*National accrediting organization* means an organization that accredits provider entities, as that term is defined in section 1865(a)(4) of the Act, under a specific program and whose accredited provider entities under each program are widely located geographically across the United States.


*Provider of services or provider* refers to a hospital, critical access hospital, rural emergency hospital, skilled nursing facility, nursing facility, home health agency, hospice, comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility, or a clinic, rehabilitation agency or public health agency that furnishes outpatient physical therapy or speech pathology services.


*Rate of disparity* means the percentage of all sample validation surveys for which a State survey agency finds noncompliance with one or more Medicare conditions and no comparable condition level deficiency was cited by the accreditation organization, where it is reasonable to conclude that the deficiencies were present at the time of the accreditation organization's most recent surveys of providers or suppliers of the same type. 


*Reasonable assurance* means that an accrediting organization has demonstrated to CMS's satisfaction that its accreditation program requirements meet or exceed the Medicare program requirements.


*State* includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.


*State survey agency* refers to the state health agency or other appropriate state or local agency CMS uses to perform survey and review functions provided for in sections 1864, 1819(g), and 1919(g) of the Act.


*Substantial allegation of non-compliance* means a complaint from any of a variety of sources (such as patient, relative, or third party), including complaints submitted in person, by telephone, through written correspondence, or in newspaper or magazine articles, that would, if found to be present, adversely affect the health and safety of patients or residents and raises doubts as to a provider's or supplier's compliance with any Medicare condition of participation, condition for coverage, condition for certification, or requirements.


*Supplier* means any of the following: Independent laboratory; portable X-ray services; physical therapist in independent practice; ESRD facility; rural health clinic; Federally qualified health center; chiropractor; or ambulatory surgical center.



---

[N] [53 FR 22859, June 17, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 5373, Feb. 2, 1989; 56 FR 48879, Sept. 26, 1991; 57 FR 24982, June 12, 1992; 58 FR 30676, May 26, 1993; 58 FR 61838, Nov. 23, 1993; 62 FR 46037, Aug. 29, 1997; 71 FR 68230, Nov. 24, 2006; 80 FR 29834, May 22, 2015; 88 FR 59335, Aug. 28, 2023]




