# § 77.32   General restrictions.

(a) Except for movement from accredited-free States and zones in accordance with § 77.23, movement from accredited herds in accordance with § 77.35, and movement to slaughter in accordance with 9 CFR part 86, no captive cervid may be moved interstate unless it has been tested using an official tuberculosis test, and it is moved in compliance with this part. 


(b) No captive cervid with a response to any official tuberculosis test is eligible for interstate movement unless the captive cervid subsequently tests negative to a supplemental official tuberculosis test or is moved interstate directly to slaughter or necropsy in accordance with § 7.40. 


(c) Except for captive cervids moving interstate under permit directly to slaughter or necropsy under § 77.40, each captive cervid or shipment of captive cervids to be moved interstate must be officially identified and accompanied by an ICVI issued within 30 days of the movement by a State or Federal animal health official or an accredited veterinarian. 


(d) Captive cervids in zoological parks that have been accredited by the American Zoo and Aquarium Association (AZA) are exempt from the regulations in this part when the captive cervids are moved directly interstate between AZA member facilities. Any captive cervids moved interstate that are not moved directly from an AZA member facility to another AZA member facility must be moved in accordance with the regulations in this subpart. 



---

[N] [65 FR 63517, Oct. 23, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 2067, Jan. 9, 2013]




