# § 440.180   Home and community-based waiver services.

(a) *Description and requirements for services.* “Home or community-based services” means services, not otherwise furnished under the State's Medicaid plan, that are furnished under a waiver granted under the provisions of part 441, subpart G of this chapter. 


(1) These services may consist of any or all of the services listed in paragraph (b) of this section, as those services are defined by the agency and approved by CMS. 


(2) The services must meet the standards specified in § 441.302(a) of this chapter concerning health and welfare assurances. 


(3) The services are subject to the limits on FFP described in § 441.310 of this chapter. 


(b) *Included services.* Home or community-based services may include the following services, as they are defined by the agency and approved by CMS: 


(1) Case management services. 


(2) Homemaker services. 


(3) Home health aide services. 


(4) Personal care services. 


(5) Adult day health services. 


(6) Habilitation services. 


(7) Respite care services. 


(8) Day treatment or other partial hospitalization services, psychosocial rehabilitation services and clinic services (whether or not furnished in a facility) for individuals with chronic mental illness, subject to the conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(9) Other services requested by the agency and approved by CMS as cost effective and necessary to avoid institutionalization.


(c) *Expanded habilitation services, effective October 1, 1997*—(1) *General rule.* Expanded habilitation services are those services specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(2) *Services included.* The agency may include as expanded habilitation services the following services:


(i) Prevocational services, which means services that prepare an individual for paid or unpaid employment and that are not job-task oriented but are, instead, aimed at a generalized result. These services may include, for example, teaching an individual such concepts as compliance, attendance, task completion, problem solving and safety. Prevocational services are distinguishable from noncovered vocational services by the following criteria:


(A) The services are provided to persons who are not expected to be able to join the general work force or participate in a transitional sheltered workshop within one year (excluding supported employment programs).


(B) If the beneficiaries are compensated, they are compensated at less than 50 percent of the minimum wage;


(C) The services include activities which are not primarily directed at teaching specific job skills but at underlying habilitative goals (for example, attention span, motor skills); and


(D) The services are reflected in a plan of care directed to habilitative rather than explicit employment objectives.


(ii) Educational services, which means special education and related services (as defined in sections 602(16) and (17) of the Education of the Handicapped Act) (20 U.S.C. 1401 (16 and 17)) to the extent they are not prohibited under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(iii) Supported employment services, which facilitate paid employment, that are—


(A) Provided to persons for whom competitive employment at or above the minimum wage is unlikely and who, because of their disabilities, need intensive ongoing support to perform in a work setting;


(B) Conducted in a variety of settings, particularly worksites in which persons without disabilities are employed; and


(C) Defined as any combination of special supervisory services, training, transportation, and adaptive equipment that the State demonstrates are essential for persons to engage in paid employment and that are not normally required for nondisabled persons engaged in competitive employment.


(3) *Services not included.* The following services may not be included as habilitation services:


(i) Special education and related services (as defined in sections 602(16) and (17) of the Education of the Handicapped Act) (20 U.S.C. 1401 (16) and (17)) that are otherwise available to the individual through a local educational agency.


(ii) Vocational rehabilitation services that are otherwise available to the individual through a program funded under section 110 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 730).


(d) *Services for the chronically mentally ill*—(1) *Services included.* Services listed in paragraph (b)(8) of this section include those provided to individuals who have been diagnosed as being chronically mentally ill, for which the agency has requested approval as part of either a new waiver request or a renewal and which have been approved by CMS on or after October 21, 1986.


(2) *Services not included.* Any home and community-based service, including those indicated in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, may not be included in home and community-based service waivers for the following individuals:


(i) For individuals aged 22 through 64 who, absent the waiver, would be institutionalized in an institution for mental diseases (IMD); and, therefore, subject to the limitation on IMDs specified in § 435.1009(a)(2) of this chapter.


(ii) For individuals, not meeting the age requirements described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, who, absent the waiver, would be placed in an IMD in those States that have not opted to include the benefits defined in § 440.140 or § 440.160.



---

[N] [59 FR 37716, July 25, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 60107, Oct. 10, 2000; 71 FR 39229, July 12, 2006]




