# ยง 4.401   Documents; filing and service.

(a) *Grace period for filing.* Whenever a document is required under this subpart to be filed within a certain time and it is not received in the proper office during that time, the delay in filing will be waived if the document is filed not later than 10 days after it was required to be filed and it is determined that the document was transmitted or probably transmitted to the office in which the filing is required before the end of the period in which it was required to be filed. Determinations under this paragraph shall be made by the officer before whom is pending the appeal in connection with which the document is required to be filed.


(b) *Transferees and encumbrancers.* Transferees and encumbrancers of land the title to which is claimed or is in the process of acquisition under any public land law shall, upon filing notice of the transfer or encumbrance in the proper land office, become entitled to receive and be given the same notice of any appeal, or other proceeding thereafter initiated affecting such interest which is required to be given to a party to the proceeding. Every such notice of a transfer or encumbrance will be noted upon the records of the land office. Thereafter such transferee or encumbrancer must be made a party to any proceedings thereafter initiated adverse to the entry.


(c) *Service of documents.* (1) A party that files any document under this subpart must serve a copy of it concurrently as follows:


(i) On the appropriate official of the Office of the Solicitor under ยง 4.413(c) and (d);


(ii) For a notice of appeal and statement of reasons, on each person named in the decision under appeal; and


(iii) For all other documents, on each party to the appeal (including intervenors).


(2) Service on a person or party known to be represented by counsel or other designated representative must be made on the representative.


(3) Service must be made at the last address of record of the person or party (if unrepresented) or the representative, unless the person, party, or representative has notified the serving party of a subsequent change of address.


(4) Service may be made as shown in the following table:


(5) At the conclusion of any document that a party must serve under the regulations in this subpart, the party must sign a written statement that:


(i) Certifies that service has been or will be made in accordance with the applicable rules; and


(ii) Specifies the date and manner of service.


(6) Service that complies with paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section is complete as shown in the following table:


(7) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, delivery under paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section is deemed to take place 5 business days after the document was sent. A document is considered sent when it is given to the U.S. Postal Service (or deposited in one of its mailboxes), properly addressed and with proper postage affixed, or when it is given to a delivery service (or deposited in one of its receptacles), properly addressed and with the delivery cost prepaid.


(d) *Document format.* (1) The format requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section apply to any pleading, motion, brief, or other document filed in a case under this subpart, other than an exhibit or attachment or the administrative record. A document filed with the Board by electronic transmission in a case must also comply with the requirements established in the OHA Standing Orders on Electronic Transmission, and the following requirements apply to any pleading, motion, brief, or other document filed in a case under this subpart, other than an exhibit of the administrative record.


(i) An exhibit or attachment must be 8
1/2 by 11 inches in size or, if larger, folded to 8
1/2 by 11 inches and attached to the document.


(ii) Any document that does not comply with the requirements in this paragraph (d) may be rejected.


(2) A document filed in a case must:


(i) Be 8
1/2 by 11 inches in size;


(ii) Be printed on just one side of the page;


(iii) Be clearly typewritten, printed, or otherwise reproduced by a process that yields legible and permanent copies;


(iv) Use 11 point font size or larger;


(v) Be double-spaced except for the case caption, argument headings, long quotations, and footnotes, which may be single-spaced;


(vi) Have margins of at least 1 inch;


(vii) Be numbered sequentially, starting on the second page; and


(vii) Be stapled in the upper left-hand corner, if stapled, or bound on the left side, if bound.


(e) *Electronic transmission of documents.* A document may be electronically transmitted under the terms specified in of OHA Standing Orders on Electronic Transmission issued by the Director. When done in accordance with the Standing Orders, a document may be:


(1) Filed by electronic transmission; and


(2) Served on or transmitted to a person or party by electronic transmission, if that person or party has consented to such means.



---

[N] [36 FR 7186, Apr. 15, 1971, as amended at 36 FR 15117, Aug. 13, 1971; 68 FR 33803, June 5, 2003; 75 FR 64664, Oct. 20, 2010; 88 FR 5793, Jan. 30, 2023]




