# § 894.602   May I cancel my enrollment at any time?

Generally, an *enrollee* may only cancel an enrollment during an open season. *Exceptions:* You may cancel your dental and/or vision enrollment if:


(a) You are an *enrollee* and transfer to an eligible position with a Federal agency that provides dental or vision coverage with 50 percent or more employer-paid premiums and you enroll in that program.


(b) You are an *enrollee* and you or your spouse deploy to active military duty.


(c) You are an *enrollee* or *sponsor* who does not pay premiums on a pre-tax basis, identified at § 894.403(b), and during the course of your enrollment, you become eligible for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) dental or vision benefits. If you cancel a self plus one or self and family enrollment, as *sponsor,* you must notify your *family members* of changes in your enrollment pursuant to § 894.815. You will still be the *sponsor* but no longer the *enrollee,* and pursuant to § 894.811, your family members will only be eligible for FEDVIP dental coverage since you are a *TEI-D* who is not enrolled in FEDVIP and receives VA dental services and meets one of the conditions in § 894.309(a)(3)(iii). Upon cancellation of the enrollment, pursuant to § 894.811, a *TEI family member* can accept the responsibility to self-certify and enroll in a FEDVIP dental plan as a *TEI certifying family member* and cover other *TEI family members.*

(d) Cancellations under this section will become effective at the end of the pay period that you submit your request.



---

[N] [88 FR 47748, July 25, 2023]






