# § 32.47   Nevada.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Ash Meadows National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow motorless boats or boats with electric motors on the refuge hunting area during the migratory waterfowl hunting season.


(ii) We open the refuge to the public from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 1 hour after legal sunset.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail and rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(3)-(4) [Reserved]


(b) *Desert National Wildlife Refuge.*

(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting on designated days.


(ii) You may not possess more than 25 shot shells while in the field once you have left your vehicle.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of chukar and quail on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of bighorn sheep on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We require bighorn sheep guides to obtain a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-C) prior to taking clients onto the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(c) *Fallon National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, swan, coot, merganser, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow motorized and nonmotorized boats for hunting.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting game birds.


(iii) We allow overnight stays while hunting subject to the following conditions:


(A) You may stay overnight only at designated sites within the refuge boundary.


(B) We limit overnight stays to 4 consecutive nights at one location, and to 12 consecutive nights on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, rabbit, turkey, badger, beaver, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow artificial lighting for hunting coyotes.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule deer and pronghorn on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section applies.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Pahranagat National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, moorhen, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting on designated days. We prohibit any migratory game bird hunting after January 31.




(ii) We only allow motorless boats or boats with electric motors on the refuge hunting area during the migratory waterfowl hunting season.


(iii) From October 1 to February 1, you may only be in possession of or use 25 or fewer shot shells per hunt day.


(iv) We only allow hunters to use watercraft to travel to and from their hunting location for each day's hunt. Watercraft must be completely immobilized while hunting, except to retrieve downed or crippled birds.


(v) We prohibit shooting 150 feet (45 meters) from the center line of roads (including access roads and two tracks), parking areas, levees, or into or from safety zones.










(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail and rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting on designated days.


(ii) We allow hunting of jackrabbits only during the State cottontail season.


(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section apply.




(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow fishing year-round, except that we close the North Marsh to all fishing from October 1 through February 1.


(e) *Ruby Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of dark goose, duck, coot, moorhen, and common snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters may access the refuge from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(ii) Hunters must remove all blind materials and decoys following each day's hunt.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Anglers may access the refuge from 1 hour before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(ii) We allow fishing by wading and from personal flotation devices (float tubes) and bank fishing in designated areas.


(iii) You may use only artificial lures in the Collection Ditch and adjoining spring ponds.


(iv) We prohibit the possession of live or dead bait fish, any amphibians (including frogs), and crayfish on the refuge.


(f) *Sheldon National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow only portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of synthetic material.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, grouse, and chukar on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, antelope, and bighorn sheep on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow ground blinds, and you must not construct them earlier than 1 week prior to the opening day of the legal season for which you have a valid State-issued hunting permit.


(ii) You must remove blinds within 24 hours of harvesting an animal or at the end of the permittee's legal season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) You must label blinds with your State hunting license and permit numbers.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge. 

(g) *Stillwater National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, swan, coot, merganser, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs when hunting game birds.


(ii) We allow overnight stays while hunting subject to the following conditions:


(A) You may stay overnight only at designated sites within the refuge boundary.


(B) We limit overnight stays to 4 consecutive nights at one location, and to 12 consecutive nights on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, rabbit, turkey, badger, beaver, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Approved methods of take include shotgun and federally approved non-lead shot, bow and arrow, and falconry.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(iii) The condition set forth at paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule deer and pronghorn on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Approved methods of take include shotgun, muzzle-loading rifle, and bow and arrow.


(ii) The condition set forth at paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(4) [Reserved]



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54126, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48871, Aug. 31, 2021; 88 FR 74064, Oct. 30, 2023]










