# ยง 1254.5   Solicitation of applications.

(a) *Required solicitations.* FHFA periodically will require the Enterprises to solicit applications from credit score model developers. FHFA will determine whether a solicitation should be initiated. FHFA will establish the solicitation requirement by notice to the Enterprises, which will include:


(1) The requirement to submit a Credit Score Solicitation to FHFA for review;


(2) A deadline for submission of the Credit Score Solicitation; and


(3) A timeframe for the solicitation period.


(b) *Credit Score Solicitation.* In connection with each required solicitation, an Enterprise must submit to FHFA a Credit Score Solicitation including:


(1) The opening and closing dates of the solicitation time period during which the Enterprise will accept applications from credit score model developers;


(2) A description of the information that must be submitted with an application;


(3) A description of the process by which the Enterprise will obtain data for the assessment of the credit score model;


(4) A description of the process for the Credit Score Assessment and the Enterprise Business Assessment; and


(5) Any other requirements as determined by the Enterprise.


(c) *Review by FHFA.* Within 45 days of an Enterprise submission of its Credit Score Solicitation to FHFA, FHFA will either approve or disapprove the Enterprise's Credit Score Solicitation. FHFA may extend the time period for its review as needed. FHFA may impose such terms, conditions, or limitations on the approval of a Credit Score Solicitation as FHFA determines to be appropriate.


(d) *Publication.* Upon approval by FHFA, the Enterprise must publish the Credit Score Solicitation on its website for at least 90 days prior to the start of the solicitation time period.


(e) *Initial solicitation.* Each Enterprise must submit its initial Credit Score Solicitation to FHFA within 60 days of the effective date of this regulation. The initial solicitation time period will begin on a date determined by FHFA and will extend for 120 days.




