# § 1.871-9   Nonresident alien students or trainees deemed to be engaged in U.S. business.

(a) *Participants in certain exchange or training programs.* For purposes of §§ 1.871-7 and 1.871-8 a nonresident alien individual who is temporarily present in the United States during the taxable year as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (F) (relating to the admission of students into the United States) or subparagraph (J) (relating to the admission of teachers, trainees, specialists, etc., into the United States) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15) (F) or (J)), and who without regard to this paragraph is not engaged in trade or business in the United States during such year, shall be deemed to be engaged in trade or business in the United States during the taxable year. For purposes of determining whether an alien who is present in the United States on an F visa or a J visa is a resident of the United States, see §§ 301.7701(b)-1 through 301.7701(b)-9 of this chapter.


(b) *Income treated as effectively connected with U.S. business.* Any income described in paragraph (1) (relating to the nonexcluded portion of certain scholarship or fellowship grants) or paragraph (2) (relating to certain nonexcluded expenses incident to such grants) of section 1441(b) which is received during the taxable year from sources within the United States by a nonresident alien individual described in paragraph (a) of this section is to be treated for purposes of §§ 1.871-7, 1.871-8, 1.872-1, and 1.873-1 as income which is effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by that individual. However, such income is not to be treated as effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States for purposes of section 1441(c)(1) and paragraph (a) of § 1.1441-4. For exclusion relating to compensation paid to such individual by a foreign employer, see paragraph (b) of § 1.872-2.


(c) *Exchange visitors.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section a nonresident alien individual who is temporarily present in the United States during the taxable year as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (J) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act includes a nonresident alien individual admitted to the United States as an “exchange visitor” under section 201 of the U.S. Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1446), which section was repealed by section 111 of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (75 Stat. 538).


(d) *Mandatory application of rule.* The application of this section is mandatory and not subject to an election by the taxpayer.


(e) *Effective date.* This section shall apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966. For corresponding rules applicable to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, see 26 CFR 1.871-7(a)(3) (Revised as of January 1, 1971).



---

[N] [T.D. 7332, 39 FR 44222, Dec. 23, 1974, as amended by T.D. 8411, 57 FR 15241, Apr. 27, 1992]




