# § 484.65   Condition of participation: Quality assessment and performance improvement (QAPI).

The HHA must develop, implement, evaluate, and maintain an effective, ongoing, HHA-wide, data-driven QAPI program. The HHA's governing body must ensure that the program reflects the complexity of its organization and services; involves all HHA services (including those services provided under contract or arrangement); focuses on indicators related to improved outcomes, including the use of emergent care services, hospital admissions and re-admissions; and takes actions that address the HHA's performance across the spectrum of care, including the prevention and reduction of medical errors. The HHA must maintain documentary evidence of its QAPI program and be able to demonstrate its operation to CMS.


(a) *Standard: Program scope.* (1) The program must at least be capable of showing measurable improvement in indicators for which there is evidence that improvement in those indicators will improve health outcomes, patient safety, and quality of care.


(2) The HHA must measure, analyze, and track quality indicators, including adverse patient events, and other aspects of performance that enable the HHA to assess processes of care, HHA services, and operations.


(b) *Standard: Program data.* (1) The program must utilize quality indicator data, including measures derived from OASIS, where applicable, and other relevant data, in the design of its program.


(2) The HHA must use the data collected to—


(i) Monitor the effectiveness and safety of services and quality of care; and


(ii) Identify opportunities for improvement.


(3) The frequency and detail of the data collection must be approved by the HHA's governing body.


(c) *Standard: Program activities.* (1) The HHA's performance improvement activities must—


(i) Focus on high risk, high volume, or problem-prone areas;


(ii) Consider incidence, prevalence, and severity of problems in those areas; and


(iii) Lead to an immediate correction of any identified problem that directly or potentially threaten the health and safety of patients.


(2) Performance improvement activities must track adverse patient events, analyze their causes, and implement preventive actions.


(3) The HHA must take actions aimed at performance improvement, and, after implementing those actions, the HHA must measure its success and track performance to ensure that improvements are sustained.


(d) *Standard: Performance improvement projects.* Beginning July 13, 2018 HHAs must conduct performance improvement projects.


(1) The number and scope of distinct improvement projects conducted annually must reflect the scope, complexity, and past performance of the HHA's services and operations.


(2) The HHA must document the quality improvement projects undertaken, the reasons for conducting these projects, and the measurable progress achieved on these projects.


(e) *Standard: Executive responsibilities.* The HHA's governing body is responsible for ensuring the following:


(1) That an ongoing program for quality improvement and patient safety is defined, implemented, and maintained;


(2) That the HHA-wide quality assessment and performance improvement efforts address priorities for improved quality of care and patient safety, and that all improvement actions are evaluated for effectiveness;


(3) That clear expectations for patient safety are established, implemented, and maintained; and


(4) That any findings of fraud or waste are appropriately addressed.



---

[N] [82 FR 4578, Jan. 13, 2017, as amended at 82 FR 31732, July 10, 2017]




