# § 63.7114   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations standard?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you, according to Table 4 to this subpart. For existing lime kilns and their associated coolers, you may perform VE measurements in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A to part 60 in lieu of installing a COMS or PM detector if any of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section exist:


(1) You use a FF for PM control, and the FF is under positive pressure and has multiple stacks; or


(2) The control device exhausts through a monovent; or


(3) The installation of a COMS in accordance with PS-1 of appendix B to part 60 is infeasible.




(b) For those LMP that comply with either the HCl emissions limit or the mercury emission limit using emissions averaging, the average HCl or mercury emissions determined according to the procedures in § 63.7112(n), must not exceed the applicable emission limit in table 9 to this subpart.


(c) For those LMP that comply with either the HCl emissions limit or the mercury emission limit using emissions averaging, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) You must complete the stack testing required in paragraph § 63.7112(n) for all lime kilns you wish to include in the emission average before submitting the implementation plan required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(2) You must develop and submit to the applicable regulatory authority for review and approval, an implementation plan for emission averaging no later than 180 days before the date you intend to demonstrate compliance using the emission averaging option. You must include the information contained in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section in your implementation plan.


(i) Identification of all lime kilns in the averaging group, including the lime kiln subcategory, type of lime produced, typical stone production rate, control technology installed, and types of fuel(s) that will be burned.


(ii) The HCl or mercury emission rate for each lime kiln for each of the fuels identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.


(iii) The date on which you are requesting emission averaging to commence.


(3) The regulatory authority shall review and approve or disapprove the plan according to the following criteria:


(i) Whether the content of the plan includes all the information specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and


(ii) Whether the plan presents sufficient information to determine that compliance will be achieved and maintained.


(4) The applicable regulatory authority shall not approve an emission averaging implementation plan containing any of the following provisions:


(i) Averaging between emissions of differing pollutants;


(ii) Averaging that includes lime kilns constructed or reconstructed on or after July 16, 2024; or


(iii) Averaging between lime kilns located at different facilities.


(iv) Averaging between lime kilns in different subcategories.




(d) You must establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements in § 63.7112(j) and Table 5 to this subpart. Alternative parameters may be monitored if approval is obtained according to the procedures in § 63.8(f).


(e) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.7130(e).





---

[N] [69 FR 416, Jan. 5, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 44979, July 24, 2020; 89 FR 57754, July 16, 2024]






