# ยง 1926.1415   Safety devices.

(a) *Safety devices.* The following safety devices are required on all equipment covered by this subpart, unless otherwise specified:


(1) *Crane level indicator.* (i) The equipment must have a crane level indicator that is either built into the equipment or is available on the equipment.


(ii) If a built-in crane level indicator is not working properly, it must be tagged-out or removed. If a removable crane level indicator is not working properly, it must be removed.


(iii) This requirement does not apply to portal cranes, derricks, floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation.


(2) Boom stops, except for derricks and hydraulic booms.


(3) Jib stops (if a jib is attached), except for derricks.


(4) Equipment with foot pedal brakes must have locks.


(5) Hydraulic outrigger jacks and hydraulic stabilizer jacks must have an integral holding device/check valve.


(6) Equipment on rails must have rail clamps and rail stops, except for portal cranes.


(7) *Horn.* (i) The equipment must have a horn that is either built into the equipment or is on the equipment and immediately available to the operator.


(ii) If a built-in horn is not working properly, it must be tagged-out or removed. If a removable horn is not working properly, it must be removed.


(b) *Proper operation required.* Operations must not begin unless all of the devices listed in this section are in proper working order. If a device stops working properly during operations, the operator must safely stop operations. If any of the devices listed in this section are not in proper working order, the equipment must be taken out of service and operations must not resume until the device is again working properly. *See* ยง 1926.1417 (Operation). Alternative measures are not permitted to be used.




