# § 401.109   Precedential Final Decisions of the Secretary.

(a) The Chair of the Department of Health and Human Services Departmental Appeals Board (DAB Chair) may designate a final decision of the Secretary issued by the Medicare Appeals Council in accordance with part 405, subpart I; part 422, subpart M; part 423, subpart U; or part 478, subpart B, of this chapter as precedential. In determining which decisions should be designated as precedential, the DAB Chair may take into consideration decisions that address, resolve, or clarify recurring legal issues, rules or policies, or that may have broad application or impact, or involve issues of public interest.


(b) Precedential decisions are made available to the public, with personally identifiable information of the beneficiary removed, and have precedential effect from the date they are made available to the public. Notice of precedential decisions is published in the _Federal Register_.


(c) Medicare Appeals Council decisions designated in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section have precedential effect and are binding on all CMS components, on all HHS components that adjudicate matters under the jurisdiction of CMS, and on the Social Security Administration to the extent that components of the Social Security Administration adjudicate matters under the jurisdiction of CMS.


(d) Precedential effect, as used in this section, means that the Medicare Appeals Council's—


(1) Legal analysis and interpretation of a Medicare authority or provision is binding and must be followed in future determinations and appeals in which the same authority or provision applies and is still in effect; and


(2) Factual findings are binding and must be applied to future determinations and appeals involving the same parties if the relevant facts are the same and evidence is presented that the underlying factual circumstances have not changed since the issuance of the precedential final decision.



---

[N] [82 FR 5105, Jan. 17, 2017]




