# § 52.778   Color.

(a) (*A*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a good color may be given a score of 18 to 20 points. “Good color” means a practically uniform color that is bright and typical of canned red tart pitted cherries which have been prepared and processed from properly ripened cherries.


(b) (*B*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a reasonably good color may be given a score of 16 or 17 points. “Reasonably good color” means a reasonably uniform color, typical of canned red tart pitted cherries which have been properly prepared and processed and which color may range from a slight yellowish-red color to a slightly mottled reddish brown.


(c) (*C*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a fairly good color may be given a score of 14 or 15 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good color” means a fairly uniform color typical of canned red tart pitted cherries which have been properly processed and which color may range from a brownish cast to mottled shades of brown.


(d) (*SStd.*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the color requirements for U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 15 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).




