# § 177.1810   Styrene block polymers.

The styrene block polymers identified in paragraph (a) of this section may be safely used as articles or as components of articles intended for use in contact with food, subject to provisions of this section.


(a) For the purpose of this section, styrene block polymers are basic polymers manufactured as described in this paragraph, so that the finished polymers meet the specifications prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, when tested by the methods described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) Styrene block polymers with 1,3-butadiene are those produced by the catalytic solution polymerization of styrene and 1,3-butadiene.


(2) Styrene block polymers with 2-methyl-1,3-butadiene are those produced by the catalytic solution polymerization of styrene and 2-methyl-1,3-butadiene.


(3) Styrene block polymers with 1,3-butadiene, hydrogenated are those produced by the catalytic solution polymerization of styrene and 1,3-butadiene, and subsequently hydrogenated.


(b) *Specifications:*

(c) The analytical methods for determining whether styrene block polymers conform to the specifications prescribed in this section are as follows and are applicable to the finished polymer.


(1) *Molecular weight.* Molecular weight shall be determined by intrinsic viscosity (or other suitable method).


(2) *Glass transition points.* The glass transition points shall be determined by either of the following methods:


(i) ASTM method D2236-70 (“Standard Method of Test for Dynamic Mechanical Properties of Plastics by Means of Torsional Pendulum,” which is incorporated by reference; copies are available from American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, Philadelphia, PA 19428-2959, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*) modified by using a forced resonant vibration instead of a fixed vibration and by using frequencies of 25 to 40 cycles per second instead of 0.1 to 10 cycles per second.


(ii) Direct reading viscoelastometric method titled “Direct Reading Viscoelastrometric Method for Determining Glass Transition Points of Styrene Block Polymers” (which is incorporated by reference; copies are available from the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*), by which the glass transition points are determined in the tensile mode of deformation at a frequency of 35 hertz using a Rheovibron Model DDV-II (or equivalent) Direct Reading Viscoelastometer. Take maxima in the out-of-phase component of the complex modulus as the glass transition points. For block polymers of low styrene content or for simple block polymers, the polymer may be treated with 0.3 part per hundred dicumyl peroxide and cured for 30 minutes at 153 °C to accentuate the upper transition point.


(3) *Maximum extractable fractions in distilled water and 50 percent ethanol and the maximum net residue solubles in chloroform.* The maximum extractable fractions in distilled water and 50 percent ethanol, and the maximum net residue solubles in chloroform, shall be determined in accordance with § 176.170(d)(3) of this chapter using a sandwich form of the finished copolymer of the specified thickness and for the time and temperature specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) The provisions of this section are not applicable to butadiene-styrene copolymers listed in other sections of this subpart.


(e) The provisions of this section are not applicable to styrene block polymers with 1,3-butadiene listed in § 175.105 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14572, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 43621, Aug. 30, 1977; 47 FR 11844, Mar. 19, 1982; 51 FR 16828, May 7, 1986; 54 FR 24898, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 65546, Dec. 15, 1993]




