# § 1.871-13   Taxation of individuals for taxable year of change of U.S. citizenship or residence.

(a) *In general.* (1) An individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States at the beginning of the taxable year but a nonresident alien at the end of the taxable year, or a nonresident alien at the beginning of the taxable year but a citizen or resident of the United States at the end of the taxable year, is taxable for such year as though his taxable year were comprised of two separate periods, one consisting of the time during which he is a citizen or resident of the United States and the other consisting of the time during which he is not a citizen or resident of the United States. Thus, for example, the income tax liability of an alien individual under chapter 1 of the Code for the taxable year in which he changes his residence will be computed under two different sets of rules, one relating to resident aliens for the period of residence and the other relating to nonresident aliens for the period of nonresidence. However, in determining the taxable income for such year which is subject to the graduated rate of tax imposed by section 1 or 1201 of the Code, all income for the period of U.S. citizenship or residence must be aggregated with the income for the period of nonresidence which is effectively connected for such year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. This section does not apply to alien individuals treated as residents for the entire taxable year under section 6013 (g) or (h). These individuals are taxed under the rules in § 1.1-1(b).


(2) For purposes of this section, an individual is deemed to be a citizen or resident of the United States for the day on which he becomes a citizen or resident of the United States, a nonresident of the United States for the day on which he abandons his U.S. residence, and an alien for the day on which he gives up his U.S. citizenship.


(b) *Acquisition of U.S. citizenship or residence.* Income from sources without the United States which is not effectively connected with the conduct by the taxpayer of a trade or business in the United States is not taxable if received by an alien individual while he is not a resident of the United States even though he becomes a citizen or resident of the United States after its receipt and before the close of the taxable year. However, income from sources without the United States which is not effectively connected with the conduct by the taxpayer of a trade or business in the United States is taxable if received by an individual while he is a citizen or resident of the United States, even though he earns the income earlier in the taxable year while he is neither a citizen nor resident of the United States.


(c) *Abandonment of U.S. citizenship or residence.* Income from sources without the United States which is not effectively connected with the conduct by the taxpayer of a trade or business in the United States is not taxable if received by an alien individual while he is not a resident of the United States, even though he earns the income earlier in the taxable year while he is a citizen or resident of the United States. However, income from sources without the United States which is not effectively connected with the conduct by the taxpayer of a trade or business in the United States is taxable if received by an individual while he is a citizen or resident of the United States, even though he abandons his U.S. citizenship or residence after its receipt and before the close of the taxable year.


(d) *Special rules*—(1) *Method of accounting.* Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may not apply to an individual who for the taxable year uses an accrual method of accounting.


(2) *Deductions for personal exemptions.* An alien individual to whom this section applies is entitled to deduct one personal exemption for the taxable year under section 151. In addition, he is entitled to such additional exemptions as are allowed as a deduction under section 151 but only to the extent the amount of such additional exemptions do not exceed his taxable income (determined without regard to any deduction for personal exemptions) for the period in the taxable year during which he is a citizen or resident of the United States. This subparagraph does not apply to the extent it is inconsistent with section 873, and the regulations thereunder, or with the provisions of an income tax convention to which the United States is a party.


(3) *Exclusion of dividends received.* In determining the $100 exclusion for the taxable year provided by section 116 in respect of certain dividends, only those dividends for the period during which the individual is neither a citizen nor resident of the United States may be taken into account as are effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. See § 1.116-1(e)(1).


(e) *Illustrations.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(f) *Effective date.* This section shall apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966. There are no corresponding rules in this part for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967.



---

[N] [T.D. 7332, 39 FR 44226, Dec. 23, 1974, as amended by T.D. 7670, 45 FR 6928, Jan. 31, 1980]




