# 8.712   Specification changes.

(a) The contracting activity shall notify the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency and appropriate central nonprofit agency of any change in specifications or descriptions. In the absence of such written notification, the AbilityOneparticipating nonprofit agency shall furnish the supplies or services under the specification or description cited in the order.


(b) The contracting activity shall provide 90-days advance notification to the Committee and the central nonprofit agency on actions that affect supplies on the Procurement List and shall permit them to comment before action is taken, particularly when it involves—


(1) Changes that require new national stock numbers or item designations;


(2) Deleting items from the supply system;


(3) Standardization; or


(4) Developing new items to replace items on the Procurement List.


(c) For services, the contracting activity shall notify the AbiiltyOneparticipating nonprofit agency and central nonprofit agency concerned at least 90 days prior to the date that any changes in the scope of work or other conditions will be required.


(d) When, in order to meet its emergency needs, a contracting activity is unable to give the 90-day notification required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the contracting activity shall, at the time it places the order or change notice, inform the AbilityOne participating nonprofit agency and the central nonprofit agency in writing of the reasons that it cannot meet the 90-day notification requirement.



---

[N] [48 FR 42129, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 19714, May 30, 1986; 59 FR 67029, Dec. 28, 1994; 73 FR 53995, Sept. 17, 2008]




