# ยง 162.31   Notice of fine, penalty, or forfeiture incurred.

(a) *Notice.* Written notice of any fine or penalty incurred as well as any liability to forfeiture shall be given to each party that the facts of record indicate has an interest in the claim or seized property. The notice shall also inform each interested party of his right to apply for relief under section 618, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1618), or any other applicable statute authorizing mitigation of penalties or remission of forfeitures, in accordance with part 171 of this chapter. The notice shall inform any interested party in a case involving forfeiture of seized property that unless the petitioner provides an express agreement to defer judicial or administrative forfeiture proceedings until completion of the administrative process, the case will be referred promptly to the U.S. attorney or the Department of Justice if the penalty was assessed under section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592), for institution of judicial proceedings, or summary forfeiture proceedings will be begun. For violations involving the possession of personal use quantities of a controlled substance, also see ยง 171.55. 


(b) *Contents of notice.* The notice shall contain the following:


(1) The provisions of law alleged to have been violated;


(2) A description of the specific acts or omissions forming the basis of the alleged violations;


(3) If the alleged violations involve the entry or attempted entry of merchandise,


(i) A description of the merchandise and the circumstances of its entry or attempted entry, and


(ii) The identity of each entry, if specific entries are involved; and


(4) If the alleged violations involve a loss of revenue,


(i) The total loss of revenue and how it was computed, and


(ii) The loss of revenue attributable to each entry, if readily susceptible to calculation.


(c) *Demand for deposit in case of smuggled articles of small value.* In the case of smuggled articles of small value, demand shall be made for immediate deposit of an amount equivalent to the domestic value of the articles on account of the liability to a penalty incurred as distinct from liability of the goods to forfeiture. Such sum shall be deposited whether or not a petition for relief is filed in accordance with part 171 of this chapter. A demand for deposit need not be made in connection with any liability incurred by the master of a vessel under the provisions of section 453, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1453). 



---

[N] [T.D. 72-211, 37 FR 16488, Aug. 15, 1972, as amended by T.D. 78-38, 43 FR 4255, Feb. 1, 1978; T.D. 79-160, 44 FR 31956, June 4, 1979; T.D. 85-90, 50 FR 21431, May 24, 1985; T.D. 89-86, 54 FR 37602, Sept. 11, 1989] 




