# ยง 180.142   2,4-D; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide, plant regulator, and fungicide 2,4-D, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels is to be determined by measuring residues of 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), both free and conjugated, determined as the acid, in or on the following commodities:


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved]


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in ยง 180.1(l), are established for residues of the herbicide, plant regulator, and fungicide 2,4-D, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels is to be determined by measuring residues of 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), both free and conjugated, determined as the acid, in or on the follow commodities:


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* Tolerances are established for indirect or inadvertent residues of the herbicide, plant regulator, and fungicide 2,4-D, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerances levels is to be determined by measuring residues of 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), both free and conjugated, determined as the acid, in or on the following commodities:



---

[N] [72 FR 52017, Sept. 12, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 53737, Sept. 17, 2008; 74 FR 48411, Sept. 23, 2009; 76 FR 55817, Sept. 9, 2011; 80 FR 72597, Nov. 20, 2015; 82 FR 9529, Feb. 7, 2017; 85 FR 82943, Dec. 21, 2020]




