# § 33.5   Instruction manual for installing and operating the engine.

Each applicant must prepare and make available to the Administrator prior to the issuance of the type certificate, and to the owner at the time of delivery of the engine, approved instructions for installing and operating the engine. The instructions must include at least the following: 


(a) *Installation instructions.* (1) The location of engine mounting attachments, the method of attaching the engine to the aircraft, and the maximum allowable load for the mounting attachments and related structure. 


(2) The location and description of engine connections to be attached to accessories, pipes, wires, cables, ducts, and cowling. 


(3) An outline drawing of the engine including overall dimensions. 


(4) A definition of the physical and functional interfaces with the aircraft and aircraft equipment, including the propeller when applicable.


(5) Where an engine system relies on components that are not part of the engine type design, the interface conditions and reliability requirements for those components upon which engine type certification is based must be specified in the engine installation instructions directly or by reference to appropriate documentation.


(6) A list of the instruments necessary for control of the engine, including the overall limits of accuracy and transient response required of such instruments for control of the operation of the engine, must also be stated so that the suitability of the instruments as installed may be assessed.


(b) *Operation instructions.* (1) The operating limitations established by the Administrator. 


(2) The power or thrust ratings and procedures for correcting for nonstandard atmosphere. 


(3) The recommended procedures, under normal and extreme ambient conditions for—


(i) Starting; 


(ii) Operating on the ground; and 


(iii) Operating during flight.


(4) For rotorcraft engines having one or more OEI ratings, applicants must provide data on engine performance characteristics and variability to enable the aircraft manufacturer to establish aircraft power assurance procedures.


(5) A description of the primary and all alternate modes, and any back-up system, together with any associated limitations, of the engine control system and its interface with the aircraft systems, including the propeller when applicable.


(c) *Safety analysis assumptions.* The assumptions of the safety analysis as described in § 33.75(d) with respect to the reliability of safety devices, instrumentation, early warning devices, maintenance checks, and similar equipment or procedures that are outside the control of the engine manufacturer.



---

[N] [Amdt. 33-6, 39 FR 35463, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 33-9, 45 FR 60181, Sept. 11, 1980; Amdt. 33-24, 47 FR 50867, Sept. 4, 2007; Amdt. 33-25, 73 FR 48123, Aug. 18, 2008; Amdt. 33-26, 73 FR 48284, Aug. 19, 2008]




