# § 982.635   Homeownership option: Amount and distribution of monthly homeownership assistance payment.

(a) *Amount of monthly homeownership assistance payment.* While the family is residing in the home, the PHA shall pay a monthly homeownership assistance payment on behalf of the family that is equal to the *lower of:*

(1) The payment standard minus the total tenant payment; or


(2) The family's monthly homeownership expenses minus the total tenant payment. 


(b) *Payment standard for family.* (1) The payment standard for a family is the lower of: 


(i) The payment standard for the family unit size; or


(ii) The payment standard for the size of the home. 


(2) If the home is located in an exception payment standard area, the PHA must use the appropriate payment standard for the exception payment standard area. 


(3) The payment standard amount may not be lower than what the payment standard amount was at commencement of homeownership assistance.




(4) The PHA must use the same payment standard schedule, payment standard amounts, and subsidy standards pursuant to §§ 982.402 and 982.503 for the homeownership option as for the rental voucher program. 


(c) *Determination of homeownership expenses.* (1) The PHA shall adopt policies for determining the amount of homeownership expenses to be allowed by the PHA in accordance with HUD requirements. 


(2) Homeownership expenses for a homeowner (other than a cooperative member) may only include amounts allowed by the PHA to cover: 


(i) Principal and interest on initial mortgage debt, any refinancing of such debt, and any mortgage insurance premium incurred to finance purchase of the home; 


(ii) Real estate taxes and public assessments on the home; 


(iii) Home insurance; 


(iv) The PHA allowance for maintenance expenses; 


(v) The PHA allowance for costs of major repairs and replacements; 


(vi) The PHA utility allowance for the home;


(vii) Principal and interest on mortgage debt incurred to finance costs for major repairs, replacements or improvements for the home. If a member of the family is a person with disabilities, such debt may include debt incurred by the family to finance costs needed to make the home accessible for such person, if the PHA determines that allowance of such costs as homeownership expenses is needed as a reasonable accommodation so that the homeownership option is readily accessible to and usable by such person, in accordance with parts 8 and 100 of this title; and


(viii) Land lease payments (where a family does not own fee title to the real property on which the home is located; see § 982.628(b)).


(3) Homeownership expenses for a cooperative member may only include amounts allowed by the PHA to cover: 


(i) The cooperative charge under the cooperative occupancy agreement including payment for real estate taxes and public assessments on the home; 


(ii) Principal and interest on initial debt incurred to finance purchase of cooperative membership shares and any refinancing of such debt; 


(iii) Home insurance; 


(iv) The PHA allowance for maintenance expenses; 


(v) The PHA allowance for costs of major repairs and replacements; 


(vi) The PHA utility allowance for the home; and


(vii) Principal and interest on debt incurred to finance major repairs, replacements or improvements for the home. If a member of the family is a person with disabilities, such debt may include debt incurred by the family to finance costs needed to make the home accessible for such person, if the PHA determines that allowance of such costs as homeownership expenses is needed as a reasonable accommodation so that the homeownership option is readily accessible to and usable by such person, in accordance with parts 8 and 100 of this title. 


(4) If the home is a cooperative or condominium unit, homeownership expenses may also include cooperative or condominium operating charges or maintenance fees assessed by the condominium or cooperative homeowner association. 


(d) *Payment to lender or family.* The PHA must pay homeownership assistance payments either: 


(1) Directly to the family or; 


(2) At the discretion of the PHA, to a lender on behalf of the family. If the assistance payment exceeds the amount due to the lender, the PHA must pay the excess directly to the family. 


(e) *Automatic termination of homeownership assistance.* Homeownership assistance for a family terminates automatically 180 calendar days after the last homeownership assistance payment on behalf of the family. However, a PHA has the discretion to grant relief from this requirement in those cases where automatic termination would result in extreme hardship for the family. 



---

[N] [65 FR 55163, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 64494, Oct. 18, 2002; 89 FR 38304, May 7, 2024]




