# ยง 257.3-6   Disease.

(a) *Disease Vectors.* The facility or practice shall not exist or occur unless the on-site population of disease vectors is minimized through the periodic application of cover material or other techniques as appropriate so as to protect public health.


(b) *Sewage sludge and septic tank pumpings (Interim Final).* A facility or practice involving disposal of sewage sludge or septic tank pumpings shall not exist or occur unless in compliance with paragraphs (b) (1), (2) or (3) of this section.


(1) Sewage sludge that is applied to the land surface or is incorporated into the soil is treated by a Process to Significantly Reduce Pathogens prior to application or incorporation. Public access to the facility is controlled for at least 12 months, and grazing by animals whose products are consumed by humans is prevented for at least one month. Processes to Significantly Reduce Pathogens are listed in appendix II, section A. (These provisions do not apply to sewage sludge disposed of by a trenching or burial operation.)


(2) Septic tank pumpings that are applied to the land surface or incorporated into the soil are treated by a Process to Significantly Reduce Pathogens (as listed in appendix II, section A), prior to application or incorporation, unless public access to the facility is controlled for at least 12 months and unless grazing by animals whose products are consumed by humans is prevented for at least one month. (These provisions do not apply to septic tank pumpings disposed of by a trenching or burial operation.) 


(3) Sewage sludge or septic tank pumpings that are applied to the land surface or are incorporated into the soil are treated by a Process to Further Reduce Pathogens, prior to application or incorporation, if crops for direct human consumption are grown within 18 months subsequent to application or incorporation. Such treatment is not required if there is no contact between the solid waste and the edible portion of the crop; however, in this case the solid waste is treated by a Process to Significantly Reduce Pathogens, prior to application; public access to the facility is controlled for at least 12 months; and grazing by animals whose products are consumed by humans is prevented for at least one month. If crops for direct human consumption are not grown within 18 months of application or incorporation, the requirements of paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section apply. Processes to Further Reduce Pathogens are listed in appendix II, section B.


(c) As used in this section:


(1) *Crops for direct human consumption* means crops that are consumed by humans without processing to minimize pathogens prior to distribution to the consumer.


(2) *Disease vector* means rodents, flies, and mosquitoes capable of transmitting disease to humans.


(3) *Incorporated into the soil* means the injection of solid waste beneath the surface of the soil or the mixing of solid waste with the surface soil.


(4) *Periodic application of cover material* means the application and compaction of soil or other suitable material over disposed solid waste at the end of each operating day or at such frequencies and in such a manner as to reduce the risk of fire and to impede vectors access to the waste. 


(5) *Trenching or burial operation* means the placement of sewage sludge or septic tank pumpings in a trench or other natural or man-made depression and the covering with soil or other suitable material at the end of each operating day such that the wastes do not migrate to the surface. 



---

[N] [44 FR 53460, Sept. 13, 1979; 44 FR 54708, Sept. 21, 1979]




