# § 405.2444   Change of ownership.

(a) *What constitutes change of ownership*—(1) *Incorporation.* The incorporation of an unincorporated FQHC constitutes change of ownership.


(2) *Merger.* The merger of the FQHC corporation into another corporation, or the consolidation of two or more corporations, one of which is the FQHC corporation, resulting in the creation of a new corporation, constitutes a change of ownership. (The merger of another corporation into the FQHC corporation does not constitute change of ownership.)


(3) *Leasing.* The lease of all or part of an entity constitutes a change of ownership of the leased portion.


(b) *Notice to CMS.* A FQHC which is contemplating or negotiating change of ownership must notify CMS.


(c) *Assignment of agreement.* When there is a change of ownership as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the agreement with the existing FQHC is automatically assigned to the new owner if it continues to meet the conditions to be a FQHC.


(d) *Conditions that apply to assigned agreements.* An assigned agreement is subject to all applicable statutes and regulations and to the terms and conditions under which it was originally issued including, but not limited to, the following:


(1) Compliance with applicable health and safety standards.


(2) Compliance with the ownership and financial interest disclosure requirements of part 420, subpart C of this subchapter.



---

[N] [57 FR 24978, June 12, 1992, as amended at 79 FR 25476, May 2, 2014]




