# § 1775.10   Applications.

(a) *Filing period.* Applications may be filed on or after October 1 and must be received by close of business or postmarked by midnight December 31. If an application is received either before October 1 or after December 31, the receiving office will return it to the applicant.


(b) *Where to file.* (1) An applicant will apply to the appropriate State Office of Rural Development if the project will serve a single state.


(2) An applicant will apply to the National Office if the project will serve multiple states. The application must be submitted to the following address: Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, Rural Utilities Service, Washington, DC 20250-1570.


(3) Electronic applications will be accepted prior to the filing deadline through the Federal Government's eGrants website (*Grants.gov*) at *https://www.grants.gov.* Applicants should refer to instructions found on the *Grants.gov* website to submit an electronic application. A Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) from the System for Award Management and a Central Contractor Registry (CCR) registration is required prior to electronic submission. The sign-up procedures, required by *Grants.gov,* may take several business days to complete.




(c) *Application requirements.* To file an application, an organization must provide their UEI in accordance with2 CFR part 25. Instructions for obtaining the UEI are available at *https://sam.gov/.* To file a complete application, the following information should be submitted:




(1) Standard Form 424, “Application for Federal Assistance (For Non-Construction).”


(2) Standard Form 424A & B, “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs.”


(3) Form AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transaction.”


(4) Form AD 1049, “Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative I—For Grantees Other Than Individuals.”


(5) Form AD 1048, “Certification Regarding Debarment.”


(6) Attachment regarding assistance provided to Rural Development Employees as required by RD Instruction 1900-D.


(7) Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement.”


(8) Form RD 400-1, “Equal Opportunity Agreement.”


(9) Indirect cost documentation such as cost rate proposals, cost allocation plans, or other election for indirect costs and appropriate certification of indirect costs in accordance with Cost Principles in 2 CFR 200, subpart E, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.


(10) Statement of Compliance for Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.


(11) SF LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities” (include only if grant is over $100,000).


(12) Certification regarding Forest Service grant.


(d) *Supporting information.* All applications shall be accompanied by:


(1) Evidence of applicant's legal existence and authority in the form of:


(i) Certified copies of current authorizing and organizational documents for new applicants or former grantees where changes were made since the last legal opinion was obtained in conjunction with receipt of an RUS grant, or, certification that no changes have been made in authorizing or organizing documents since receipt of last RUS grant by applicant.


(ii) Current annual corporation report, Certificate of Good Standing, or statement they are not required.


(iii) For public nonprofits, Certificate of Continued Status from local attorney (if applicable).


(iv) Certified list of directors/officers with their respective terms.


(2) Evidence of tax exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), if applicable.


(3) Narrative of applicant's experience in providing services similar to those proposed. Provide brief description of successfully completed projects including the need that was identified and objectives accomplished.


(4) Latest financial information to show the applicant's financial capacity to carry out the proposed work. A current audit report is preferred, however applicants can submit a balance sheet and an income statement in lieu of an audit report.


(5) List of proposed services to be provided.


(6) Estimated breakdown of costs (direct and indirect) including those to be funded by grantee as well as other sources. Sufficient detail should be provided to permit the approval official to determine reasonableness, applicability, and allowability.


(7) Evidence that a Financial Management System is in place or proposed.


(8) Documentation on each of the priority ranking criteria listed in § 1775.11 as follows:


(i) List of the associations to be served and the State or States where assistance will be provided. Identify associations by name, or other characteristics such as size, income, location, and provide MHI and population.


(ii) Description of the type of technical assistance and/or training to be provided and the tasks to be contracted.


(iii) Description of how the project will be evaluated and provide clearly stated goals and the method proposed to measure the results that will be obtained.


(iv) Documentation of need for proposed service. Provide detailed explanation of how the proposed services differ from other similar services being provided in the same area.


(v) Personnel on staff or to be contracted to provide the service and their experience with similar projects.


(vi) Statement indicating the number of months it takes to complete the project or service.


(vii) Documentation on cost effectiveness of project. Provide the cost per association to be served or proposed cost of personnel to provide assistance.


(viii) Other factors for consideration, such as emergency situation, training need identified, health or safety problems, geographic distribution, Rural Development Office recommendations, etc.



---

[N] [70 FR 70878, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 76005, Dec. 19, 2014; 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]




