# ยง 165.837   Safety Zone; Invista Inc Facility Docks, Victoria Barge Canal, Victoria, Texas.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: All waters contained within a 500-foot (152.5m) extension east and west of the Invista Inc facility docks while performing offloading operations.


(b) *Enforcement period.* This rule will be enforced for periods of 24-30 hours twice a month, from the time the oversized barge docks at the Invista Inc facility until the vessel departs the facility upon conclusion of its offloading operations. The Captain of the Port Corpus Christi will issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners before beginning enforcement and upon ceasing enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Definitions.* The following definition applies to this section:


*designated representative* means any commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the Coast Guard on board Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, and local, state, and Federal law enforcement vessels who have been authorized to act on the behalf of the Captain of the Port Corpus Christi.


(d) *Regulations.* (1) Persons desiring to transit the area of the safety zone may contact the Captain of the Port at telephone number 1-361-939-6393, or the barge on VHF Channel 16 (156.800MHz) to seek permission to transit the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representative.


(2) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Coast Guard Captain of the Port or the designated representative.


(3) Upon being hailed by U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means the operator of a vessel must proceed as directed.


(4) The Coast Guard may be assisted by other Federal, State, or local agencies.


(5) In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR part 165.23, no person or vessel may enter or remain in the zone described in paragraph (a) of this section except for support vessels/aircraft and support personnel, or other vessels authorized by the Captain of the Port Corpus Christi or his designated representative.


(e) *Penalties.* Vessels or persons violating this rule are subject to the penalties set forth in 46 U.S.C. 70036 and 46 U.S.C. 70052.



---

[N] [USCG-2009-0797, 75 FR 13436, Mar. 22, 2010]




