# § 488.406   Available remedies.

(a) *General.* In addition to the remedy of termination of the provider agreement, the following remedies are available:


(1) Temporary management.


(2) Denial of payment including—


(i) Denial of payment for all individuals, imposed by CMS, to a—


(A) Skilled nursing facility, for Medicare;


(B) State, for Medicaid; or


(ii) Denial of payment for all new admissions.


(3) Civil money penalties.


(4) State monitoring.


(5) Transfer of residents.


(6) Closure of the facility and transfer of residents.


(7) Directed plan of correction.


(8) Directed in-service training.


(9) Alternative or additional State remedies approved by CMS.


(b) *Remedies that must be established.* At a minimum, and in addition to termination of the provider agreement, the State must establish the following remedies or approved alternatives to the following remedies:


(1) Temporary management.


(2) Denial of payment for new admissions.


(3) Civil money penalties.


(4) Transfer of residents.


(5) Closure of the facility and transfer of residents.


(6) State monitoring.


(c) *State plan requirement.* If a State wishes to use remedies for noncompliance that are either additional or alternative to those specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, it must—


(1) Specify those remedies in the State plan; and 


(2) Demonstrate to CMS's satisfaction that those remedies are as effective as the remedies listed in paragraph (a) of this section, for deterring noncompliance and correcting deficiencies. 


(d) *State remedies in dually participating facilities.* If the State's remedy is unique to the State plan and has been approved by CMS, then that remedy, as imposed by the State under its Medicaid authority, may be imposed by CMS against the Medicare provider agreement of a dually participating facility. 



---

[N] [59 FR 56243, Nov. 10, 1994; 60 FR 50118, Sept. 28, 1995]




