# § 205.2   Terms defined.

*Accreditation.* A determination made by the Secretary that authorizes a private, foreign, or State entity to conduct certification activities as a certifying agent under this part. 


*Act.* The Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, as amended (7 U.S.C. 6501 *et seq.*). 


*Action level.* The limit at or above which the Food and Drug Administration will take legal action against a product to remove it from the market. Action levels are based on unavoidability of the poisonous or deleterious substances and do not represent permissible levels of contamination where it is avoidable. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator for the Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Departure of Agriculture, or the representative to whom authority has been delegated to act in the stead of the Administrator. 


*Adverse action.* A noncompliance decision that adversely affects certification, accreditation, or a person subject to the Act, including a proposed suspension or revocation; a denial of certification, accreditation, or reinstatement; a cease and desist notice; or a civil penalty.


*Agricultural inputs.* All substances or materials used in the production or handling of organic agricultural products. 


*Agricultural product.* Any agricultural commodity or product, whether raw or processed, including any commodity or product derived from livestock, that is marketed in the United States for human or livestock consumption. 


*Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS).* The Agricultural Marketing Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*Allowed synthetic.* A substance that is included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic production or handling. 


*AMDUCA.* The Animal Medicinal Drug Use Clarification Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-396).


*Animal drug.* Any drug as defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 321), that is intended for use in livestock, including any drug intended for use in livestock feed but not including such livestock feed. 


*Annual seedling.* A plant grown from seed that will complete its life cycle or produce a harvestable yield within the same crop year or season in which it was planted. 


*Area of operation.* The types of operations: crops, livestock, wild-crop harvesting or handling, or any combination thereof that a certifying agent may be accredited to certify under this part. 


*Audit trail.* Documentation that is sufficient to determine the source, transfer of ownership, and transportation of any agricultural product labeled as “100 percent organic,” the organic ingredients of any agricultural product labeled as “organic” or “made with organic (specified ingredients)” or the organic ingredients of any agricultural product containing less than 70 percent organic ingredients identified as organic in an ingredients statement. 


*Beak trimming.* The removal of not more than one-quarter to one-third of the upper beak or the removal of one-quarter to one-third of both the upper and lower beaks of a bird in order to control injurious pecking and cannibalism.


*Biodegradable.* Subject to biological decomposition into simpler biochemical or chemical components. 


*Biodegradable biobased mulch film.* A synthetic mulch film that meets the following criteria:


(1) Meets the compostability specifications of one of the following standards: ASTM D6400, ASTM D6868, EN 13432, EN 14995, or ISO 17088 (all incorporated by reference; see § 205.3);


(2) Demonstrates at least 90% biodegradation absolute or relative to microcrystalline cellulose in less than two years, in soil, according to one of the following test methods: ISO 17556 or ASTM D5988 (both incorporated by reference; see § 205.3); and


(3) Must be biobased with content determined using ASTM D6866 (incorporated by reference; see § 205.3).


*Biologics.* All viruses, serums, toxins, and analogous products of natural or synthetic origin, such as diagnostics, antitoxins, vaccines, live microorganisms, killed microorganisms, and the antigenic or immunizing components of microorganisms intended for use in the diagnosis, treatment, or prevention of diseases of animals. 


*Breeder stock.* Female livestock whose offspring may be incorporated into an organic operation at the time of their birth. 


*Buffer zone.* An area located between a certified production operation or portion of a production operation and an adjacent land area that is not maintained under organic management. A buffer zone must be sufficient in size or other features (e.g., windbreaks or a diversion ditch) to prevent the possibility of unintended contact by prohibited substances applied to adjacent land areas with an area that is part of a certified operation. 


*Bulk.* The presentation to consumers at retail sale of an agricultural product in unpackaged, loose form, enabling the consumer to determine the individual pieces, amount, or volume of the product purchased. 


*Caponization.* Castration of chickens, turkeys, pheasants, and other avian species.


*Cattle wattling.* The surgical separation of two layers of the skin from the connective tissue along a 2-to-4-inch path on the dewlap, neck, or shoulders used for ownership identification.


*Certification activity.* Any business conducted by a certifying agent, or by a person acting on behalf of a certifying agent, including but not limited to: certification management; administration; application review; inspection planning; inspections; sampling; inspection report review; material review; label review; records retention; compliance review; investigating complaints and taking adverse actions; certification decisions; and issuing transaction certificates.


*Certification office.* Any site or facility where certification activities are conducted, except for certification activities that occur at certified operations or applicants for certification, such as inspections and sampling.


*Certification or certified.* A determination made by a certifying agent that a production or handling operation is in compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part, which is documented by a certificate of organic operation. 


*Certification review.* The act of reviewing and evaluating a certified operation or applicant for certification and determining compliance or ability to comply with the USDA organic regulations. This does not include performing an inspection.


*Certified operation.* A crop or livestock production, wild-crop harvesting or handling operation, or portion of such operation that is certified by an accredited certifying agent as utilizing a system of organic production or handling as described by the Act and the regulations in this part. 


*Certifying agent.* Any entity accredited by the Secretary as a certifying agent for the purpose of certifying a production or handling operation as a certified production or handling operation. 


*Certifying agent's operation.* All sites, facilities, personnel, and records used by a certifying agent to conduct certification activities under the Act and the regulations in this part. 


*Claims.* Oral, written, implied, or symbolic representations, statements, or advertising or other forms of communication presented to the public or buyers of agricultural products that relate to the organic certification process or the term, “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)),” or, in the case of agricultural products containing less than 70 percent organic ingredients, the term, “organic,” on the ingredients panel. 


*Class of animal.* A group of livestock that shares a similar stage of life or production. The classes of animals are those that are commonly listed on feed labels.


*Commercially available.* The ability to obtain a production input in an appropriate form, quality, or quantity to fulfill an essential function in a system of organic production or handling, as determined by the certifying agent in the course of reviewing the organic plan. 


*Commingling.* Physical contact between unpackaged organically produced and nonorganically produced agricultural products during production, processing, transportation, storage or handling, other than during the manufacture of a multiingredient product containing both types of ingredients. 


*Compost.* The product of a managed process through which microorganisms break down plant and animal materials into more available forms suitable for application to the soil. Compost must be produced through a process that combines plant and animal materials with an initial C:N ratio of between 25:1 and 40:1. Producers using an in-vessel or static aerated pile system must maintain the composting materials at a temperature between 131 °F and 170 °F for 3 days. Producers using a windrow system must maintain the composting materials at a temperature between 131 °F and 170 °F for 15 days, during which time, the materials must be turned a minimum of five times. 


*Conformity assessment system.* All activities, including oversight, accreditation, compliance review, and enforcement, undertaken by a government to ensure that the applicable technical requirements for the production and handling of organic agricultural products are fully and consistently applied.


*Control.* Any method that reduces or limits damage by populations of pests, weeds, or diseases to levels that do not significantly reduce productivity. 


*Crop.* Pastures, cover crops, green manure crops, catch crops, or any plant or part of a plant intended to be marketed as an agricultural product, fed to livestock, or used in the field to manage nutrients and soil fertility.


*Crop residues.* The plant parts remaining in a field after the harvest of a crop, which include stalks, stems, leaves, roots, and weeds. 


*Crop rotation.* The practice of alternating the annual crops grown on a specific field in a planned pattern or sequence in successive crop years so that crops of the same species or family are not grown repeatedly without interruption on the same field. Perennial cropping systems employ means such as alley cropping, intercropping, and hedgerows to introduce biological diversity in lieu of crop rotation. 


*Crop year.* That normal growing season for a crop as determined by the Secretary. 


*Cultivation.* Digging up or cutting the soil to prepare a seed bed; control weeds; aerate the soil; or work organic matter, crop residues, or fertilizers into the soil. 


*Cultural methods.* Methods used to enhance crop health and prevent weed, pest, or disease problems without the use of substances; examples include the selection of appropriate varieties and planting sites; proper timing and density of plantings; irrigation; and extending a growing season by manipulating the microclimate with green houses, cold frames, or wind breaks. 


*De-beaking.* The removal of more than one-third of the upper beak or removal of more than one-third of both the upper and lower beaks of a bird.


*De-snooding.* The removal of the turkey snood (a fleshy protuberance on the forehead of male turkeys).


*Detectable residue.* The amount or presence of chemical residue or sample component that can be reliably observed or found in the sample matrix by current approved analytical methodology. 


*Disease vectors.* Plants or animals that harbor or transmit disease organisms or pathogens which may attack crops or livestock. 


*Drift.* The physical movement of prohibited substances from the intended target site onto an organic operation or portion thereof. 


*Dry lot.* A fenced area that may be covered with concrete, but that has little or no vegetative cover.


*Dry matter.* The amount of a feedstuff remaining after all the free moisture is evaporated out.


*Dry matter demand.* The expected dry matter intake for a class of animal.


*Dry matter intake.* Total pounds of all feed, devoid of all moisture, consumed by a class of animals over a given period of time.


*Dubbing.* The removal of poultry combs and wattles.


*Emergency pest or disease treatment program.* A mandatory program authorized by a Federal, State, or local agency for the purpose of controlling or eradicating a pest or disease. 


*Employee.* Any person providing paid or volunteer services for a certifying agent. 


*Excipients.* Any ingredients that are intentionally added to livestock medications but do not exert therapeutic or diagnostic effects at the intended dosage, although they may act to improve product delivery (e.g., enhancing absorption or controlling release of the drug substance). Examples of such ingredients include fillers, extenders, diluents, wetting agents, solvents, emulsifiers, preservatives, flavors, absorption enhancers, sustained-release matrices, and coloring agents.


*Excluded methods.* A variety of methods used to genetically modify organisms or influence their growth and development by means that are not possible under natural conditions or processes and are not considered compatible with organic production. Such methods include cell fusion, microencapsulation and macroencapsulation, and recombinant DNA technology (including gene deletion, gene doubling, introducing a foreign gene, and changing the positions of genes when achieved by recombinant DNA technology). Such methods do not include the use of traditional breeding, conjugation, fermentation, hybridization, in vitro fertilization, or tissue culture. 


*Feed.* Edible materials which are consumed by livestock for their nutritional value. Feed may be concentrates (grains) or roughages (hay, silage, fodder). The term, “feed,” encompasses all agricultural commodities, including pasture ingested by livestock for nutritional purposes. 


*Feed additive.* A substance added to feed in micro quantities to fulfill a specific nutritional need; i.e., essential nutrients in the form of amino acids, vitamins, and minerals. 


*Feedlot.* A dry lot for the controlled feeding of livestock.


*Feed supplement.* A combination of feed nutrients added to livestock feed to improve the nutrient balance or performance of the total ration and intended to be: 


(1) Diluted with other feeds when fed to livestock; 


(2) Offered free choice with other parts of the ration if separately available; or


(3) Further diluted and mixed to produce a complete feed. 


*Fertilizer.* A single or blended substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrient(s) which is used primarily for its plant nutrient content and which is designed for use or claimed to have value in promoting plant growth. 


*Field.* An area of land identified as a discrete unit within a production operation. 


*Forage.* Vegetative material in a fresh, dried, or ensiled state (pasture, hay, or silage), which is fed to livestock. 


*Governmental entity.* Any domestic government, tribal government, or foreign governmental subdivision providing certification services. 


*Graze.* (1) The consumption of standing or residual forage by livestock.


(2) To put livestock to feed on standing or residual forage.


*Grazing.* To graze.


*Grazing season.* The period of time when pasture is available for grazing, due to natural precipitation or irrigation. Grazing season dates may vary because of mid-summer heat/humidity, significant precipitation events, floods, hurricanes, droughts or winter weather events. Grazing season may be extended by the grazing of residual forage as agreed in the operation's organic system plan. Due to weather, season, or climate, the grazing season may or may not be continuous. Grazing season may range from 120 days to 365 days, but not less than 120 days per year.


*Handle.* To sell, process, or package agricultural products, including but not limited to trading, facilitating sale or trade on behalf of a seller or oneself, importing to the United States, exporting for sale in the United States, combining, aggregating, culling, conditioning, treating, packing, containerizing, repackaging, labeling, storing, receiving, or loading.


*Handler.* Any person that handles agricultural products, except final retailers of agricultural products that do not process agricultural products.


*Handling operation.* Any operation that handles agricultural products, except final retailers of agricultural products that do not process agricultural products.


*Immediate family.* The spouse, minor children, or blood relatives who reside in the immediate household of a certifying agent or an employee, inspector, contractor, or other personnel of the certifying agent. For the purpose of this part, the interest of a spouse, minor child, or blood relative who is a resident of the immediate household of a certifying agent or an employee, inspector, contractor, or other personnel of the certifying agent shall be considered to be an interest of the certifying agent or an employee, inspector, contractor, or other personnel of the certifying agent. 


*Inclement weather.* Weather that is violent, or characterized by temperatures (high or low), or characterized by excessive precipitation that can cause physical harm to a given species of livestock. Production yields or growth rates of livestock lower than the maximum achievable do not qualify as physical harm.


*Indoors or indoor space.* The space inside of an enclosed building or housing structure available to livestock. Indoor space for avian species includes, but is not limited to:


(1) *Mobile housing.* A mobile structure for avian species with solid or perforated flooring that is moved regularly and allows birds to continuously access areas outside the structure during daytime hours.


(2) *Aviary housing.* A fixed structure for avian species that has multiple tiers or levels.


(3) *Slatted/mesh floor housing.* A fixed structure for avian species that has both: a slatted floor where perches, feed, and water are provided over a pit or belt for manure collection; and litter covering the remaining solid floor.


(4) *Floor litter housing.* A fixed structure for avian species that has absorbent litter covering the entire floor.


*Induced molting.* Molting that is artificially initiated.


*Inert ingredient.* Any substance (or group of substances with similar chemical structures if designated by the Environmental Protection Agency) other than an active ingredient which is intentionally included in any pesticide product (40 CFR 152.3(m)). 


*Information panel.* That part of the label of a packaged product that is immediately contiguous to and to the right of the principal display panel as observed by an individual facing the principal display panel, unless another section of the label is designated as the information panel because of package size or other package attributes (e.g., irregular shape with one usable surface). 


*Ingredient.* Any substance used in the preparation of an agricultural product that is still present in the final commercial product as consumed. 


*Ingredients statement.* The list of ingredients contained in a product shown in their common and usual names in the descending order of predominance. 


*Inspection.* The act of examining and evaluating the production or handling operation of an applicant for certification or certified operation to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part. 


*Inspector.* Any person retained or used by a certifying agent to conduct inspections of certification applicants or certified production or handling operations. 


*Internal control system.* An internal quality management system that establishes and governs the review, monitoring, training, and inspection of the producer group operation, and the procurement and distribution of shared production and handling inputs and resources, to maintain compliance with the USDA organic regulations.


*Label.* A display of written, printed, or graphic material on the immediate container of an agricultural product or any such material affixed to any agricultural product or affixed to a bulk container containing an agricultural product, except for package liners or a display of written, printed, or graphic material which contains only information about the weight of the product. 


*Labeling.* All written, printed, or graphic material accompanying an agricultural product at any time or written, printed, or graphic material about the agricultural product displayed at retail stores about the product. 


*Livestock.* Any cattle, sheep, goats, swine, poultry, or equine animals used for food or in the production of food, fiber, feed, or other agricultural-based consumer products; wild or domesticated game; or other nonplant life, except such term shall not include aquatic animals for the production of food, fiber, feed, or other agricultural-based consumer products.


*Lot.* Any number of containers which contain an agricultural product of the same kind located in the same conveyance, warehouse, or packing house and which are available for inspection at the same time. 


*Manure.* Feces, urine, other excrement, and bedding produced by livestock that has not been composted. 


*Market information.* Any written, printed, audiovisual, or graphic information, including advertising, pamphlets, flyers, catalogues, posters, and signs, distributed, broadcast, or made available outside of retail outlets that are used to assist in the sale or promotion of a product. 


*Mulch.* Any nonsynthetic material, such as wood chips, leaves, or straw, or any synthetic material included on the National List for such use, such as newspaper or plastic that serves to suppress weed growth, moderate soil temperature, or conserve soil moisture. 


*Mulesing.* The removal of skin from the buttocks of sheep, approximately 2 to 4 inches wide and running away from the anus to the hock to prevent fly strike.


*Narrow range oils.* Petroleum derivatives, predominately of paraffinic and napthenic fractions with 50 percent boiling point (10 mm Hg) between 415 °F and 440 °F. 


*National List.* A list of allowed and prohibited substances as provided for in the Act. 


*National Organic Program (NOP).* The program authorized by the Act for the purpose of implementing its provisions. 


*National Organic Standards Board (NOSB).* A board established by the Secretary under 7 U.S.C. 6518 to assist in the development of standards for substances to be used in organic production and to advise the Secretary on any other aspects of the implementation of the National Organic Program. 


*Natural resources of the operation.* The physical, hydrological, and biological features of a production operation, including soil, water, wetlands, woodlands, and wildlife. 


*Nonagricultural substance.* A substance that is not a product of agriculture, such as a mineral or a bacterial culture, that is used as an ingredient in an agricultural product. For the purposes of this part, a nonagricultural ingredient also includes any substance, such as gums, citric acid, or pectin, that is extracted from, isolated from, or a fraction of an agricultural product so that the identity of the agricultural product is unrecognizable in the extract, isolate, or fraction. 


*Non-ambulatory.* As defined in 9 CFR 309.2(b).


*Nonsynthetic (natural).* A substance that is derived from mineral, plant, or animal matter and does not undergo a synthetic process as defined in section 6502(21) of the Act (7 U.S.C. 6502(21)). For the purposes of this part, nonsynthetic is used as a synonym for natural as the term is used in the Act. 


*Nonretail container.* Any container used for shipping or storage of an agricultural product that is not used in the retail display or sale of the product. 


*Nontoxic.* Not known to cause any adverse physiological effects in animals, plants, humans, or the environment. 


*Organic.* A labeling term that refers to an agricultural product produced in accordance with the Act and the regulations in this part. 


*Organic exporter.* The final certified exporter of the organic agricultural product, who facilitates the trade of, consigns, or arranges for the transport/shipping of the organic agricultural product from a foreign country to the United States.


*Organic fraud.* Deceptive representation, sale, or labeling of nonorganic agricultural products or ingredients as “100 percent organic,” “organic,” or “made with organic (specified ingredients or food group(s)).”


*Organic importer.* The operation responsible for accepting imported organic agricultural products within the United States and ensuring NOP Import Certificate data are entered into the U.S. Customs and Border Protection import system of record.


*Organic Integrity Database.* The National Organic Program's electronic, web-based reporting tool for the submission of data, completion of certificates of organic operation, and other information, or the tool's successors.


*Organic management.* Management of a production or handling operation in compliance with all applicable provisions under this part.


*Organic matter.* The remains, residues, or waste products of any organism. 


*Organic production.* A production system that is managed in accordance with the Act and regulations in this part to respond to site-specific conditions by integrating cultural, biological, and mechanical practices that foster cycling of resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity. 


*Organic system plan.* A plan of management of an organic production or handling operation that has been agreed to by the producer or handler and the certifying agent and that includes written plans concerning all aspects of agricultural production or handling described in the Act and the regulations in subpart C of this part. 


*Outdoors or outdoor space.* Any area outside an enclosed building or enclosed housing structure. Enclosed housing structures with open sides (e.g., open-sided freestall barns) are not to be considered outdoors or outdoor space. Outdoor space for avian species includes, but is not limited to:


(1) Pasture pens (avian). Floorless pens, with full or partial roofing, that are moved regularly, provide direct access to soil and vegetation, and allow birds to express natural behaviors.


(2) Shade structures that are not enclosed.


*Paper-based crop planting aid.* A material that is comprised of at least 60% cellulose-based fiber by weight, including, but not limited to, pots, seed tape, and collars that are placed in or on the soil and later incorporated into the soil, excluding biodegradable mulch film. Up to 40% of the ingredients can be nonsynthetic, other permitted synthetic ingredients in § 205.601(j), or synthetic strengthening fibers, adhesives, or resins. Contains no less than 80% biobased content as verified by a qualified third-party assessment (e.g., laboratory test using ASTM D6866 or composition review by qualified personnel).


*Pasture.* Land used for livestock grazing that is managed to provide feed value and maintain or improve soil, water, and vegetative resources. 


*Peer review panel.* A panel of individuals who have expertise in organic production and handling methods and certification procedures and who are appointed by the Administrator to assist in evaluating applicants for accreditation as certifying agents. 


*Perch.* A rod- or branch-type structure above the floor or ground that accommodates roosting and allows birds to utilize vertical space.


*Person.* An individual, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or other entity. 


*Pesticide.* Any substance which alone, in chemical combination, or in any formulation with one or more substances is defined as a pesticide in section 2(u) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136(u) *et seq*). 


*Petition.* A request to amend the National List that is submitted by any person in accordance with this part. 


*Planting stock.* Any plant or plant tissue other than annual seedlings but including rhizomes, shoots, leaf or stem cuttings, roots, or tubers, used in plant production or propagation. 


*Practice standard.* The guidelines and requirements through which a production or handling operation implements a required component of its production or handling organic system plan. A practice standard includes a series of allowed and prohibited actions, materials, and conditions to establish a minimum level performance for planning, conducting, and maintaining a function, such as livestock health care or facility pest management, essential to an organic operation. 


*Principal display panel.* That part of a label that is most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under customary conditions of display for sale. 


*Private entity.* Any domestic or foreign nongovernmental for-profit or not-for-profit organization providing certification services. 


*Processing.* Cooking, baking, curing, heating, drying, mixing, grinding, churning, separating, extracting, slaughtering, cutting, fermenting, distilling, eviscerating, preserving, dehydrating, freezing, chilling, or otherwise manufacturing and includes the packaging, canning, jarring, or otherwise enclosing food in a container. 


*Processing aid.* (1) Substance that is added to a food during the processing of such food but is removed in some manner from the food before it is packaged in its finished form; 


(2) a substance that is added to a food during processing, is converted into constituents normally present in the food, and does not significantly increase the amount of the constituents naturally found in the food; and 


(3) a substance that is added to a food for its technical or functional effect in the processing but is present in the finished food at insignificant levels and does not have any technical or functional effect in that food. 


*Producer.* A person who engages in the business of growing or producing food, fiber, feed, and other agricultural-based consumer products. 


*Producer group member.* An individual engaged in the activity of producing or harvesting agricultural products as a member of a producer group operation.


*Producer group operation.* A producer, organized as a person, consisting of producer group members and production units in geographic proximity governed by an internal control system under one organic system plan and certification.


*Producer group production unit.* A defined subgroup of producer group members in geographic proximity within a single producer group operation that use shared practices and resources to produce similar agricultural products.


*Production lot number/identifier.* Identification of a product based on the production sequence of the product showing the date, time, and place of production used for quality control purposes. 


*Prohibited substance.* A substance the use of which in any aspect of organic production or handling is prohibited or not provided for in the Act or the regulations of this part. 


*Pullets.* Female chickens or other avian species being raised for egg production that have not yet started to lay eggs.


*Records.* Any information in written, visual, or electronic form that documents the activities undertaken by a producer, handler, or certifying agent to comply with the Act and regulations in this part. 


*Religious (or ritual) slaughter.* Slaughtering in accordance with the ritual requirements of any religious faith that prescribes a method of slaughter whereby the animal suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by the simultaneous and instantaneous severance of the carotid arteries with a sharp instrument and handling in connection with such slaughtering.


*Residual forage.* Forage cut and left to lie, or windrowed and left to lie, in place in the pasture.


*Residue testing.* An official or validated analytical procedure that detects, identifies, and measures the presence of chemical substances, their metabolites, or degradation products in or on raw or processed agricultural products. 


*Responsibly connected.* Any person who is a partner, officer, director, holder, manager, or owner of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of an applicant or a recipient of certification or accreditation. 


*Retail establishment.* Restaurants, delicatessens, bakeries, grocery stores, or any retail business with a restaurant, delicatessen, bakery, salad bar, bulk food self-service station, or other eat-in, carry-out, mail-order, or delivery service of raw or processed agricultural products.


*Routine use of parasiticide.* The regular, planned, or periodic use of parasiticides. 


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture or a representative to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Secretary's stead. 


*Sewage sludge.* A solid, semisolid, or liquid residue generated during the treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works. Sewage sludge includes but is not limited to: domestic septage; scum or solids removed in primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes; and a material derived from sewage sludge. Sewage sludge does not include ash generated during the firing of sewage sludge in a sewage sludge incinerator or grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works. 


*Shelter.* Structures such as barns, sheds, or windbreaks; or natural areas such as woods, tree lines, large hedge rows, or geographic land features, that are designed or selected to provide physical protection or housing to all animals.


*Slaughter stock.* Any animal that is intended to be slaughtered for consumption by humans or other animals. 


*Soil and water quality.* Observable indicators of the physical, chemical, or biological condition of soil and water, including the presence of environmental contaminants. 


*Split operation.* An operation that produces or handles both organic and nonorganic agricultural products. 


*Stage of life.* A discrete time period in an animal's life which requires specific management practices different than during other periods (e.g., poultry during feathering). Breeding, freshening, lactation and other recurring events are not a stage of life.


*State.* Any of the several States of the United States of America, its territories, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 


*State certifying agent.* A certifying agent accredited by the Secretary under the National Organic Program and operated by the State for the purposes of certifying organic production and handling operations in the State. 


*State organic program (SOP).* A State program that meets the requirements of section 6506 of the Act, is approved by the Secretary, and is designed to ensure that a product that is sold or labeled as organically produced under the Act is produced and handled using organic methods. 


*State organic program's governing State official.* The chief executive official of a State or, in the case of a State that provides for the statewide election of an official to be responsible solely for the administration of the agricultural operations of the State, such official who administers a State organic certification program. 


*Stocking density.* The liveweight or number of animals on a given area or unit of land.


*Supply chain traceability audit.* The process of identifying and tracking the movement, sale, custody, handling, and organic status of an agricultural product along a supply chain to verify the agricultural product's compliance with this part.


*Synthetic.* A substance that is formulated or manufactured by a chemical process or by a process that chemically changes a substance extracted from naturally occurring plant, animal, or mineral sources, except that such term shall not apply to substances created by naturally occurring biological processes. 


*Technical requirements.* A system of relevant laws, regulations, regulatory practices, standards, policies, and procedures that address the certification, production, and handling of organic agricultural products.


*Temporary and Temporarily.* Occurring for a limited time only (e.g., overnight, throughout a storm, during a period of illness, the period of time specified by the Administrator when granting a temporary variance), not permanent or lasting.


*Third-year transitional crop.* Crops and forage from land included in the organic system plan of a producer's operation that is not certified organic but is in the third year of organic management and is eligible for organic certification in one year or less.


*Toe clipping.* The removal of the nail and distal joint of the back two toes of a bird.


*Tolerance.* The maximum legal level of a pesticide chemical residue in or on a raw or processed agricultural commodity or processed food. 


*Transitioned animal.* A dairy animal converted to organic milk production in accordance with § 205.236(a)(2) that has not been under continuous organic management from the last third of gestation; offspring born to a transitioned animal that, during its last third of gestation, consumes third-year transitional crops; and offspring born during the one-time transition exception that themselves consume third-year transitional crops.


*Transplant.* A seedling which has been removed from its original place of production, transported, and replanted. 


*Unannounced inspection.* The act of examining and evaluating all or a portion of the production or handling activities of a certified operation without advance notice to determine compliance with the Act and the regulations in this part.


*Unavoidable residual environmental contamination (UREC).* Background levels of naturally occurring or synthetic chemicals that are present in the soil or present in organically produced agricultural products that are below established tolerances. 


*Vegetation.* Living plant matter that is anchored in the soil by roots and provides ground cover.


*Wild crop.* Any plant or portion of a plant that is collected or harvested from a site that is not maintained under cultivation or other agricultural management. 


*Yards/Feeding pad.* An area for feeding, exercising, and outdoor access for livestock during the non-grazing season and a high traffic area where animals may receive supplemental feeding during the grazing season.



---

[N] [65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 70484, Dec. 12, 2007; 75 FR 7192, Feb. 17, 2010; 79 FR 58662, Sept. 30, 2014; 80 FR 6429, Feb. 5, 2015; 87 FR 19772, Apr. 5, 2022; 87 FR 68027, Nov. 14, 2022; 88 FR 3620, Jan. 19, 2023; 88 FR 75444, Nov. 2, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]




