# § 1600.21   General provisions.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This subpart contains the rules that the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (the “Foundation”) follows under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a. These rules should be read together with the Privacy Act, which provides additional information about records maintained on individuals. The rules in this subpart apply to all records in systems of records maintained by the Foundation that are retrieved by an individual's name or personal identifier. They describe the procedures by which individuals may request access to records about themselves, request amendment or correction of those records, and request an accounting of disclosures of those records by the Foundation. In addition, the Foundation processes all Privacy Act requests for access to records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, following the rules contained in subpart A of this part, which gives requests the benefit of both statutes. 


(b) *Applicability.* This subpart applies to all Foundation programs, including the U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution (USIECR). 


(c) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart: 


(1) *Request for access to a record means a request* made under Privacy Act subsection (d)(1). 


(2) *Request for amendment or correction of a record* means a request made under Privacy Act subsection (d)(2). 


(3) *Request for an accounting* means a request made under Privacy Act subsection (c)(3). 


(4) *Requester* means an individual who makes a request for access, a request for amendment or correction, or a request for an accounting under the Privacy Act. 




