# ยง 1721.105   Application documents.

(a) *Deferments for financial hardship.* A Borrower requesting a section 12 deferment because of financial hardship must submit the following: 


(1) A summary of the financial position of the Borrower, based on the latest information available (usually less than 60 days old). 


(2) A copy of the board resolution requesting an extension due to financial hardship. 


(3) A 10-year financial forecast of revenues and expenses on a cash basis, by year, for the period of the extension and 5 years beyond to establish that the remaining payments can be made as rescheduled. 


(4) A listing of notes or portions of notes to be extended, the effective date for the beginning of the extension, and the length of the extension. 


(5) A narrative description of the nature and cause of the hardship and the strategy that will be instituted to mitigate or eliminate the effects of the hardship. 


(b) *Deferments for energy resource conservation loans.* A Borrower requesting principle deferments for an ERC loan program must submit a letter from the Borrower's General Manager requesting an extension of principle payments for the purpose of offering an ERC loan program to its members and describing the details of the program.


(c) *Deferments for renewable energy projects.* A Borrower requesting principle deferments for its renewable energy project must submit a letter from the Borrower's General Manager requesting an extension of principle payments for the purpose of offering an ERC loan program to its members and describing the details of the program.


(d) *Deferments for distributed generation projects.* A Borrower requesting principle deferments for distributed generation projects must submit a letter from the Borrower's General Manager requesting an extension of principle payments for the purpose of offering an ERC loan program to its members and describing the details of the program and approval is also subject to any applicable terms and conditions of the Borrower's loan contract, mortgage, or indenture.


(e) *Deferments for contribution-in-aid of construction.* A Borrower requesting principle deferments for contribution-in-aid of construction must submit the following:


(1) A letter from the Borrower's General Manager requesting an extension of principle payments for the purpose of offering an ERC loan program to its members and describing the details of the program.


(2) A summary of the calculations used to determine the average cost per residential customer. (See ยง 1721.104(e)(2)). 



---

[N] [67 FR 485, Jan. 4, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 37954, June 26, 2003; 84 FR 32616, July 9, 2019]




