# § 1.168(i)-2   Lease term.

(a) *In general.* For purposes of section 168, a lease term is determined under all the facts and circumstances. Paragraph (b) of this section and § 1.168(j)-1T, Q&A 17, describe certain circumstances that will result in a period of time not included in the stated duration of an original lease (additional period) nevertheless being included in the lease term. These rules do not prevent the inclusion of an additional period in the lease term in other circumstances.


(b) *Lessee retains financial obligation*—(1) *In general.* An additional period of time during which a lessee may not continue to be the lessee will nevertheless be included in the lease term if the lessee (or a related person)—


(i) Has agreed that one or both of them will or could be obligated to make a payment of rent or a payment in the nature of rent with respect to such period; or


(ii) Has assumed or retained any risk of loss with respect to the property for such period (including, for example, by holding a note secured by the property).


(2) *Payments in the nature of rent.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a payment in the nature of rent includes a payment intended to substitute for rent or to fund or supplement the rental payments of another. For example, a payment in the nature of rent includes a payment of any kind (whether denominated as supplemental rent, as liquidated damages, or otherwise) that is required to be made in the event that—


(i) The leased property is not leased for the additional period;


(ii) The leased property is leased for the additional period under terms that do not satisfy specified terms and conditions;


(iii) There is a failure to make a payment of rent with respect to such additional period; or


(iv) Circumstances similar to those described in paragraph (b)(2) (i), (ii), or (iii) of this section occur.


(3) *De minimis rule.* For the purposes of this paragraph (b), obligations to make de minimis payments will be disregarded.


(c) *Multiple leases or subleases.* If property is subject to more than one lease (including any sublease) entered into as part of a single transaction (or a series of related transactions), the lease term includes all periods described in one or more of such leases. For example, if one taxable corporation leases property to another taxable corporation for a 20-year term and, as part of the same transaction, the lessee subleases the property to a tax-exempt entity for a 10-year term, then the lease term of the property for purposes of section 168 is 20 years. During the period of tax-exempt use, the property must be depreciated under the alternative depreciation system using the straight line method over the greater of its class life or 25 years (125 percent of the 20-year lease term).


(d) *Related person.* For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a person is related to the lessee if such person is described in section 168(h)(4).


(e) *Changes in status.* Section 168(i)(5) (changes in status) applies if an additional period is included in a lease term under this section and the leased property ceases to be tax-exempt use property for such additional period.


(f) *Example.* The following example illustrates the principles of this section. The example does not address common law doctrines or other authorities that may apply to cause an additional period to be included in the lease term or to recharacterize a lease as a conditional sale or otherwise for federal income tax purposes. Unless otherwise indicated, parties to the transactions are not related to one another.


(g) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, this section applies to leases entered into on or after April 20, 1995.


(2) *Special rules.* Paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (c) of this section apply to leases entered into after April 26, 1996.



---

[N] [T.D. 8667, 61 FR 18677, Apr. 29, 1996]




