# § 63.2840   What emission requirements must I meet?

For each facility meeting the applicability criteria in § 63.2832, you must comply with either the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d), or the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section. You must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section. You must comply with the work practice standard provided in paragraph (h) of this section, if you choose to operate your source under an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).


(a)(1) The emission requirements limit the number of gallons of HAP lost per ton of listed oilseeds processed. For each operating month, as defined in § 63.2872, you must calculate a compliance ratio which compares your actual HAP loss to your allowable HAP loss for the previous 12 operating months as shown in Equation 1 of this section. Equation 1 of this section follows:




(2) Equation 1 of this section can also be expressed as a function of total solvent loss as shown in Equation 2 of this section. Equation 2 of this section follows:


(b) When your source has processed listed oilseed for 12 operating months, calculate the compliance ratio by the end of each calendar month following an operating month, as defined in § 63.2872, using Equation 2 of this section. When calculating your compliance ratio, consider the conditions and exclusions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section:


(1) [Reserved]


(2) The 12-month compliance ratio may include operating months occurring prior to a source shutdown and operating months that follow after the source resumes operation.


(3) If your source shuts down and processes no listed oilseed for an entire calendar or accounting month, then you must categorize the month as a nonoperating month, as defined in § 63.2872. Exclude any nonoperating months from the compliance ratio determination.


(4) If your source is subject to an initial startup period as defined in § 63.2872, you may exclude from the compliance ratio determination any solvent and oilseed information recorded for the initial startup period, provided you meet the work practice standard in § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).


(5) Before September 15, 2020, if your source is subject to a malfunction period as defined in § 63.2872, exclude from the compliance ratio determination any solvent and oilseed information recorded for the malfunction period. The provisions of this paragraph (e) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.


(6) For sources processing cottonseed or specialty soybean, the solvent loss factor you use to determine the compliance ratio may change each operating month depending on the tons of oilseed processed during all normal operating periods in a 12 operating month period.


(c) If the compliance ratio is less than or equal to 1.00, your source was in compliance with the HAP emission requirements for the previous operating month.


(d) To determine the compliance ratio in Equation 2 of this section, you must select the appropriate oilseed solvent loss factor from Table 1 of this section. First, determine whether your source is new or existing using Table 1 of § 63.2833. Then, under the appropriate existing or new source column, select the oilseed solvent loss factor that corresponds to each type oilseed or process operation for each operating month.


(e) *Low-HAP solvent option.* For all vegetable oil production processes subject to this subpart, you must exclusively use solvent where the volume fraction of each HAP comprises 1 percent or less by volume of the solvent (low-HAP solvent) in each delivery, and you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section. Your vegetable oil production process is not subject to the requirements in §§ 63.2850 through 63.2870 unless specifically referenced in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You shall determine the HAP content of your solvent in accordance with the specifications in § 63.2854(b)(1).


(2) You shall maintain documentation of the HAP content determination for each delivery of the solvent at the facility at all times.


(3) You must submit an initial notification for existing sources in accordance with § 63.2860(a).


(4) You must submit an initial notification for new and reconstructed sources in accordance with § 63.2860(b).


(5) You must submit an annual compliance certification in accordance with § 63.2861(a). The certification should only include the information required under § 63.2861(a)(1) and (2), and a certification indicating whether the source complied with all of the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.


(f) You may change compliance options for your source if you submit a notice to the Administrator at least 60 days prior to changing compliance options. If your source changes from the low-HAP solvent option to the compliance ratio determination option, you must determine the compliance ratio for the most recent 12 operating months beginning with the first month after changing compliance options.


(g) On or after September 15, 2020, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, at all times in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.


(h) On and after September 15, 2020, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section if you choose to operate your source under an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).


(1) You must operate the mineral oil absorption system at all times during the initial startup period unless doing so is not possible due to safety considerations;


(2) You must operate the solvent condensers at all times during the initial startup period unless doing so is not possible due to safety considerations; and


(3) You must follow site-specific operating limits, established according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, for temperature and pressure for the desolventizing and oil distillation units associated with solvent recovery at all times, unless doing so is not possible due to safety considerations.


(i) Your site-specific operating limits may be based on equipment design, manufacturer's recommendations, or other site-specific operating values established for normal operating periods.


(ii) The operating limits may be in the form of a minimum, maximum, or operating range.



---

[N] [66 FR 19011, Apr. 12, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 53341, Sept. 1, 2004; 85 FR 15626, Mar. 18, 2020]




