# § 668.91   Initial and final decisions.

(a)(1)(i) A hearing official issues a written initial decision in a hearing by certified mail, return receipt requested to—


(A) The designated department official who began a proceeding against an institution or third-party servicer;


(B) The institution or servicer, as applicable; and


(C) In the case of a proceeding against a third-party servicer, each institution that contracts with the servicer.


(ii) The hearing official may also transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means if practical.


(iii) The hearing official issues the decision within the latest of the following dates:


(A) The 30th day after the last submission is filed with the hearing official.


(B) The 60th day after the last submission is filed with the hearing official if the Secretary, upon request of the hearing official, determines that the unusual complexity of the case requires additional time for preparation of the decision.


(C) The 50th day after the last day of the hearing, if the hearing official does not request the parties to make any posthearing submission.


(2) The hearing official's initial decision states whether the imposition of the fine, limitation, suspension, or termination or recovery sought by the designated department official is warranted, in whole or in part. If the designated department official brought a termination action against the institution or servicer, the hearing official may, if appropriate, issue an initial decision to fine the institution or servicer, as applicable, or, rather than terminating the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility, as applicable, impose one or more limitations on the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility.


(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section—


(i) If, in a termination action against an institution, the hearing official finds that the institution has violated the provisions of § 668.14(b)(18), the hearing official also finds that termination of the institution's participation is warranted;


(ii) If, in a termination action against a third-party servicer, the hearing official finds that the servicer has violated the provisions of § 668.14(b)(18), the hearing official also finds that termination of the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility is warranted;


(iii) In an action brought against an institution or third-party servicer that involves its failure to provide a letter of credit, or other financial protection under § 668.15 or § 668.171(c) or (d), the hearing official finds that the amount of the letter of credit or other financial protection established by the Secretary under § 668.175 is appropriate, unless the institution demonstrates that the amount was not warranted because—


(A) For financial protection demanded based on events or conditions described in § 668.171(c) or (d), the events or conditions no longer exist, have been resolved, or the institution demonstrates that it has insurance that will cover all potential debts and liabilities that arise from the triggering event or condition. The institution can demonstrate it has insurance that covers risk by presenting the Department with a copy of the insurance policy that makes clear the institution's coverage;


(B) For financial protection demanded based on the grounds identified in § 668.171(d), the action or event does not and will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, business, or results of operations of the institution;


(C) The institution has proffered alternative financial protection that provides students and the Department adequate protection against losses resulting from the risks identified by the Secretary. Adequate protection may consist of one or more of the following—


(*1*) An agreement with the Secretary that a portion of the funds due to the institution under a reimbursement or heightened cash monitoring funding arrangement will be temporarily withheld in such amounts as will meet, no later than the end of a six to 12 month period, the amount of the required financial protection demanded; or


(*2*) Other form of financial protection specified by the Secretary in a notice published in the _Federal Register_.


(iv) In a termination action taken against an institution or third-party servicer based on the grounds that the institution or servicer failed to comply with the requirements of § 668.23(c)(3), if the hearing official finds that the institution or servicer failed to meet those requirements, the hearing official finds that the termination is warranted;


(v)(A) In a termination action against an institution based on the grounds that the institution is not financially responsible under § 668.15(c)(1), the hearing official finds that the termination is warranted unless the institution demonstrates that all applicable conditions described in § 668.15(d)(4) have been met; and


(B) In a termination or limitation action against an institution based on the grounds that the institution is not financially responsible—


(*1*) Upon proof of the conditions in § 668.174(a), the hearing official finds that the limitation or termination is warranted unless the institution demonstrates that all the conditions in § 668.175(h)(2) have been met; and


(*2*) Upon proof of the conditions in § 668.174(b)(1), the hearing official finds that the limitation or termination is warranted unless the institution demonstrates that all applicable conditions described in § 668.174(b)(2) or § 668.175(h)(2) have been met; and


(vi) In a termination action against a GE program based upon the program's failure to meet the requirements in § 668.403 or § 668.404, the hearing official must terminate the program's eligibility unless the hearing official concludes that the Secretary erred in the applicable calculation.




(4) The hearing official bases findings of fact only on evidence considered at the hearing and on matters given judicial notice. 


(b)(1) In a suspension proceeding, the Secretary reviews the hearing official's initial decision and issues a final decision within 20 days after the initial decision. The Secretary adopts the initial decision unless it is clearly unsupported by the evidence presented at the hearing.


(2) The Secretary notifies the institution or servicer and, in the case of a suspension proceeding against a third-party servicer, each institution that contracts with the servicer of the final decision. If the Secretary suspends the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility, the suspension takes effect on the later of—


(i) The day that the institution or servicer receives the notice; or


(ii) The date specified in the designated department official's original notice of intent to suspend the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility.


(3) A suspension may not exceed 60 days unless a designated department official begins a limitation or termination proceeding under this subpart before the expiration of that period. In that case, the period may be extended until a final decision is issued in that proceeding according to paragraph (c) of this section.


(c)(1) In a fine, limitation, or termination proceeding, the hearing official's initial decision automatically becomes the Secretary's final decision 30 days after the initial decision is issued and received by both parties unless, within that 30-day period, the institution or servicer, as applicable, or the designated department official appeals the initial decision to the Secretary.


(2)(i) A party may appeal the hearing official's initial decision by submitting to the Secretary, within 30 days after the party receives the initial decision, a brief or other written statement that explains why the party believes that the Secretary should reverse or modify the decision of the hearing official.


(ii) At the time the party files its appeal submission, the party shall provide a copy of that submission to the opposing party.


(iii) The opposing party shall submit its brief or other responsive statement to the Secretary, with a copy to the appellant, within 30 days after the opposing party receives the appellant's brief or written statement.


(iv) The appealing party may submit proposed findings of fact or conclusions of law. However, the proposed findings of fact must be supported by—


(A) The evidence introduced into the record at the hearing;


(B) Stipulations of the parties if the hearing consisted of written submissions; or


(C) Matters that may be judicially noticed.


(v) Neither party may introduce new evidence on appeal.


(vi) The initial decision of the hearing official imposing a fine or limiting or terminating the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility does not take effect pending the appeal.


(vii) The Secretary renders a final decision. The Secretary may delegate to a designated department official the functions described in paragraph (c)(2) (vii) through (ix) of this section.


(viii) In rendering a final decision, the Secretary considers only evidence introduced into the record at the hearing and facts agreed to by the parties if the hearing consisted only of written submissions and matters that may be judicially noticed.


(ix) If the hearing official finds that a termination is warranted pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse the initial decision, or may remand the case to the hearing official for further proceedings consistent with the Secretary's decision. If the Secretary affirms the initial decision without issuing a statement of reasons, the Secretary adopts the opinion of the hearing official as the decision of the Secretary. If the Secretary modifies, remands, or reverses the initial decision, in whole or in part, the Secretary's decision states the reasons for the action taken.





---

[N] [59 FR 22448, Apr. 29, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 34964, July 7, 1994; 60 FR 61774, Dec. 1, 1995; 65 FR 65637, Nov. 1, 2000. 81 FR 76072, Nov. 1, 2016. Redesignated and amended at 82 FR 6257, 6259, Jan. 19, 201 7; 84 FR 49910, Sept. 23, 2019; 87 FR 66041, Nov. 1, 2022; 88 FR 70188, Oct. 10, 2023]




