# § 531.6   NVOCC Service Arrangements.

(a) Every NSA shall include the complete terms of the NSA including, but not limited to, the following:


(1) The origin port ranges in the case of port-to-port movements and geographic areas in the case of through intermodal movements;


(2) The destination port ranges in the case of port-to-port movements and geographic areas in the case of through intermodal movements;


(3) The commodity or commodities involved;


(4) The minimum volume or portion;


(5) The service commitments;


(6) The line-haul rate;


(7) Liquidated damages for non-performance (if any);


(8) Duration, including the


(i) Effective date; and


(ii) Expiration date;


(9) The legal names and business addresses of the NSA parties; the legal names of all affiliates of the NSA shipper entitled to access the NSA; the names, titles and addresses of the representatives signing the NSA for the parties, except that in the case of an NSA entered into by a shippers' association, individual members need not be named unless the contract includes or excludes specific members; and the date upon which the NSA was signed. Subsequent references in the NSA to the signatory parties shall be consistent with the first reference. An NVOCC party which enters into an NSA that includes affiliates must either:


(i) list the affiliates' business addresses; or


(ii) certify that this information will be provided to the Commission upon request within ten (10) business days of such request.


(10) A description of the shipment records which will be maintained to support the NSA and the address, telephone number, and title of the person who will respond to a request by making shipment records available to the Commission for inspection under § 531.12 of this part; and


(11) All other provisions of the NSA.


(b) *Certainty of terms.* The terms described in paragraph (b) of this section may not:


(1) Be uncertain, vague or ambiguous; or


(2) Make reference to terms not explicitly contained in the NSA itself unless those terms are readily available to the parties and the Commission. Reference may not be made to a tariff of a common carrier other than the NVOCC acting as carrier party to the NSA.


(3) Pursuant to § 531.12(b), the carrier party to the NSA must, upon written request by the Commission, provide the Commission with the associated records of the referenced terms. For the purpose of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the referenced terms will be deemed readily available to the Commission if the carrier party to the NSA provides the Commission with the associated records of the terms within thirty (30) days of the Commission's written request.


(c) *Other requirements.* (1) For service pursuant to an NSA, no NVOCC may, either alone or in conjunction with any other person, directly or indirectly, provide service in the liner trade that is not in accordance with the rates, charges, classifications, rules and practices contained in an NSA.


(2) For service pursuant to an NSA, no NVOCC, may, either alone or in conjunction with any other person, directly or indirectly, engage in any unfair or unjustly discriminatory practice in the matter of rates or charges with respect to any port; and


(3) For service under an NSA, no NVOCC may, either alone or in conjunction with any other person, directly or indirectly, give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage or impose any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage with respect to any port.


(4) No NVOCC may knowingly and willfully enter into an NSA with an ocean transportation intermediary that does not have a tariff and a bond, insurance, or other surety as required by sections 8 (46 U.S.C. 40501-40503) and 19 (46 U.S.C. 40901-40904) of the Act.


(5) Except for the carrier party's rules tariff, the requirement in 46 U.S.C. 40501(a)-(c) that the NVOCC include its rates in a tariff open to public inspection in an automated tariff system and the Commission's corresponding regulations at 46 CFR part 520 shall not apply.


(d) *Format requirements.* Every NSA shall include:


(1) A unique NSA number of more than one (1) but less than ten (10) alphanumeric characters in length (“NSA Number”); and


(2) A consecutively numbered amendment number no more than three digits in length, with initial NSAs using “0” (“Amendment number”).



---

[N] [69 FR 75853, Dec. 20, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 56580, Sept. 28, 2005; 74 FR 50724, Oct. 1, 2009; 77 FR 13510, Mar. 7, 2012; 82 FR 16297, Apr. 4, 2017; 83 FR 34792, July 23, 2018]




