# § 12.609   Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement as Rating Forming Part of an Engineering Watch.

(a) To qualify for an STCW endorsement as Ratings Forming Part of an Engineering Watch (RFPEW) in a manned engineroom or to qualify to be designated to perform duties in a periodically unmanned engineroom, an applicant must—


(1) Be not less than 16 years of age;


(2) Provide evidence of service as follows:


(i) Six months of seagoing service, which includes training and experience associated with engine room functions, and involves the performance of duties carried out under the supervision of an engineer officer or a qualified STCW rating; or


(ii) Proof of successful completion of a Coast Guard-approved or -accepted training, which includes not less than 2 months approved seagoing service; and


(3) Provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence as specified in Table A-III/4 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see § 12.103 of this part).


(b) The Coast Guard may exempt an applicant from meeting any individual knowledge, understanding, and proficiency required in Section A-III/4 of the STCW Code. These exemptions must be approved by the Coast Guard based upon vessel type. Under these circumstances, the endorsement may include a corresponding limitation.


(c) Seafarers with the following national rating endorsements will be eligible for this endorsement upon completion of requirements designated in this section:


(d) *Limitations.* (1) STCW RFPEW endorsements issued in accordance with this section will be restricted to specific propulsion modes for steam, motor, or gas turbine-propelled vessels, as appropriate.


(2) STCW RFPEW endorsements issued in accordance with this section for motor or gas turbine-propelled vessels may be endorsed as limited to serve on vessels without auxiliary boilers, waste-heat boilers, or distilling plants. An applicant may qualify for removal of any of these limitations by demonstrating the appropriate competencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77975, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93104, Nov. 25, 2024]






