# § 84.58   Labeling.

(a) Effective upon the dates listed for each subsector in § 84.54(a) and (c), any product, specified component, or system manufactured, imported, or installed within the refrigeration, air-conditioning, and heat pump sector using any regulated substance, or blend containing any regulated substance, regardless of global warming potential must have a permanent label compliant with paragraph (d) of this section stating:


(1) The chemical name(s) or American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers designation of the regulated substance(s) or blend containing a regulated substance;


(2) The full date, or at minimum the four-digit year, of manufacture. For field-charged system installations, this shall be the date of first charge and the label shall be completed at first charge. For MVACs listed in § 84.54(a)(13)(i) and (ii), the model year may be used instead of the date of manufacture.


(3) An indication of the full refrigerant charge capacity, either as the specific charge size of the system, or the charge size as it relates to the threshold for the relevant subsector. This means an indication that the charge is either two hundred pounds or more, or less than two hundred pounds, in the following subsectors:


(i) Industrial process refrigeration (without chillers);


(ii) Retail food refrigeration—supermarket systems;


(iii) Retail food refrigeration—remote condensing units; and


(iv) Cold storage warehouses.


(4) An indication of the charge size of the equipment or the charge size as it relates to the threshold for self-contained refrigerated food processing and dispensing products. This means an indication that the charge is greater than or equal to 500 grams, or less than 500 grams.


(5) An indication of the harvest rate, either as the specific harvest rate of the equipment, or the harvest rate as it relates to the threshold for self-contained automatic commercial ice machines, and the type of ice machine (either batch or continuous). This means an indication that that harvest rate is either greater than 1,000 pounds of ice per day or less than or equal to 1,000 pounds of ice per day for batch type ice makers, and an indication that the harvest rate is either greater than 1,200 pounds of ice per day or less than or equal to 1,200 pounds of ice per day for continuous type ice makers.


(6) An indication of the designed exiting fluid temperature range for industrial process refrigeration chillers and the designed refrigerant temperature range when it enters the evaporator for industrial process refrigeration systems without chillers.


(b) Effective upon the date listed for each subsector in § 84.54(c), or the earliest date should the specified component be used in multiple subsectors, any specified component manufactured or imported and intended for use in those subsectors that uses or is intended to use any regulated substance, or blend containing any regulated substance, regardless of global warming potential, must have a permanent label compliant with paragraph (c) of this section containing the information in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. For specified components that are intended for use with a regulated substance or blends containing a regulated substance that exceed the applicable GWP limit or HFC restriction, the label must state “For servicing existing equipment only” in addition to the other required labeling elements.


(c) Effective upon the dates listed for each subsector in § 84.54(a) and (c), any product manufactured, imported, or installed within the foam or aerosol sectors using any regulated substance, or blend containing any regulated substance, regardless of global warming potential, must have a permanent label compliant with paragraph (d) of this section stating:


(1) The chemical name(s) or American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers designation of any regulated substance(s) or blend containing a regulated substance used;


(2) If an HFC with a GWP higher than the limit is used or if multiple HFCs are used, either the weights of the HFC(s) relative to the other blowing agents, propellants, solvents, or to the other HFCs must be on the label, or the label must state “GWP<150.”


(3) The full date, or at minimum the four-digit year, of manufacture.


(d) The permanent label must be:


(1) In English;


(2) Durable and printed or otherwise labeled on, or affixed to, an external surface of the product;


(3) Readily visible and legible;


(4) Able to withstand open weather exposure without a substantial reduction in visibility or legibility, if applicable; and


(5) Displayed on a background of contrasting color.


(e) The requirements of this section may be met through the use of existing labels required under other authorities that contain the necessary information. The labeling requirements may also be met by providing the required information in packaging materials or through an on-product QR code. The packaging must be present with the product or specified component at the point of sale and import. The QR code must direct to the required information and meet all the requirements of the on-product label. The QR code must be functional and include adjacent text to indicate the purpose of the QR code.


(f) For products sold or distributed, offered for sale or distribution, or made available electronically through online commerce, the label must be readily visible and legible in either photographs of the products, photographs of packaging materials that contain the required information, or an item description that contains the required information.


(g) Any product or system, using a regulated substance manufactured, imported, or installed after the compliance date for that sector or subsector, that lacks a label will be presumed to use a regulated substance with a global warming potential that exceeds the limit or is specifically listed in § 84.54(a) or (c).






