# § 4284.503   Definitions.

These are the definitions for terms used in this subpart. Additional terms used in this subpart are found in the applicable laws and regulations, in particular 2 CFR part 200 and 7 CFR part 11.


*1994 Institution* means a college identified as such for purposes of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note).


*Adverse Decision* has the meaning located at 7 CFR 11.1.


*Adverse Decision Letter* means a letter issued by the Agency to the Applicant or Recipient that explains the Adverse Decision.


*Agency* means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS or the Agency), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA or the Department), or a successor agency.


*Applicant* means the Nonprofit Institution that is applying for funding through the RCDG program.


*Board of Directors (Board)* means the group of individuals that manage or direct the Center.


*Business Plan* means a formal statement of a set of business goals, the reasons why they are believed attainable, and the plan for reaching those goals, including pro forma financial statements appropriate to the term and scope of the Project and sufficient to evidence the viability of the Project. It may also contain background information about the organization or team attempting to reach those goals.


*Center* means the Rural Cooperative Development Center to be established and/or operated by a Recipient of the RCDG program.


*Cooperative* means a business or organization owned, democratically governed, controlled and operated by those who use and benefit from it. Profits and losses generated by the organization are distributed in proportion to use as patronage to the user-owners, also known as members. Investment returns to non-members are limited.


*Cooperative Development* refers to a type of Technical Assistance that establishes and promotes Cooperative businesses through hands-on activities, often but not exclusively, assisting a group through a series of stages. These stages include but are not limited to the following: idea exploration by a group with shared needs, member-use analysis, identifying a steering committee and guiding them through the development process, modeling effective democratic processes and good governance practices, creation of legal and policy documents, conducting a membership drive, raising member equity, acquiring sufficient capital, supporting operations, ongoing education and training, ongoing Board development and relations with management, supporting decision-making regarding patronage, and fostering an environment that is supportive of Cooperatives.


*Economic Development* means the economic growth of an area as evidenced by an increase in total income, employment opportunities, decreased out-migration of population, value of production, increased diversification of industry, higher labor force participation rates, increased duration of employment, higher wage levels, or gains in other measurements of economic activity, such as land values.


*Equipment* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Feasibility Study* means a comprehensive analysis of the economic, market, technical, financial, and management capabilities of a Project or business in terms of the Project's expectation for success.


*Federal Award* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Grant Agreement or Financial Assistance Agreement* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Institutions of Higher Education* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Key Personnel* means employees, new hires, consultants, and/or contractors of the Center who provide Technical Assistance including Cooperative Development and oversee and/or complete the tasks in the work plan.


*Letter of Conditions* means the letter that the Agency issues to an entity whose application is selected for funding. The letter outlines all the conditions of the award that must be met before the award can be approved. Other agencies may call this letter an award letter or award notice.


*Matching Funds* means a cost-sharing contribution to the Project that is 25 percent of the eligible Project Cost. For 1994 Institutions, a cost-sharing contribution that is 5 percent of the eligible Project Cost.


*Mutually Owned Business* means a business not incorporated under a Cooperative statute but operating as a Cooperative. Cooperative operation of the business is reflected in the articles and by-laws.


*Networking* means the creation and sharing of knowledge, best practices and transferrable strategies, engaging in mentor/mentee relationships amongst Centers, and developing joint Technical Assistance Projects with other Centers and other organizations engaged in Economic Development with the intent of advancing Cooperative Development and its practice.


*New Cooperative Approach* refers to development of a Cooperatively or Mutually Owned Business approach in a new industry, utilizing a new Cooperative structure, or serving a new function. This industry, structure, or function must be new to the Center or new to the service area.


*Nonprofit Institution* means any organization or institution, including an accredited Institution of Higher Education, no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.


*Operating Cost* means the day-to-day expenses of running a business; for example: utilities, rent on the office space a business occupies, salaries, depreciation, marketing and advertising, and other basic overhead items.


*Period of Performance* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Project* means all of the eligible activities to be funded by the grant and Matching Funds under this subpart.


*Project Cost* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Public Body* means any State, county, city, township, incorporated town or village, borough, authority, district, Economic Development authority, or Indian tribe on Federal or State reservations or other federally recognized Indian tribe.


*Real Property* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Recipient* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Research and Development (R&D)* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Rural and Rural Area* means any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, according to the latest decennial census of the United States, or in the urban area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and any area that has been determined to be “rural in character” by the Under Secretary for Rural Development (RD), or as otherwise identified in this definition as follows:


(1) An area that is attached to the urban area of a city or town with more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than two (2) census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their RD State office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a Rural Area under this provision.


(2) For the purposes of this definition, cities and towns are incorporated population centers with definite boundaries, local self-government, and legal powers set forth in a charter granted by the State.


(3) For the purposes of this definition, populations of individuals incarcerated on a long-term or regional basis shall not be included in determining whether an area is “rural” or a “rural area”.


(4) For the purposes of this definition, the first 1,500 individuals who reside in housing located on a military base shall not be included in determining whether an area is “rural” or a “rural area”.


(5) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered Rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be eligible if they are “not urban in character.”


(6) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered Rural and eligible for Business Programs assistance, except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu.


(7) For the purpose of defining a Rural Area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes Rural and Rural Area based on available population data.


(8) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of RD. The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (8)(ii) of this definition.


(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:


(A) An urban area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urban area of such a city or town; or


(B) An urban area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within one-quarter mile of a Rural Area.


(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of RD for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to both the appropriate RD State Director and the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (8)(i)(A) or (B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within five (5) business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's website, and the Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration.


*Rural Development* (RD) refers to a mission area within the USDA which includes RBCS, the Rural Housing Service, and the Rural Utilities Service, and their successors.


*State* means any of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.


*State Office* refers to USDA RD offices located in each State.


*Subaward* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Technical Assistance* means the process of providing targeted support for the startup, expansion, and operational improvement of Cooperatively and Mutually Owned Businesses typically delivered via multiple contacts over a period of time. It includes the transfer of skills and knowledge through research and collection of information to provide guidance and advice; assessment and analysis through Feasibility Studies and Business Plans, customized training, written information, in person or virtual exchanges, web-based curricula, and webinars.


*Underserved and Economically Distressed* has the meaning located in the annual notification issued on the program website.


*Value-Added* means the incremental profit earned from each transaction or step in processing after deducting processing costs, depreciation, and other relevant expenses. Each stage of processing or ownership transfer typically adds value to a good, product, or service.






