# § 516.23   Litigation reports.

The SJA or legal adviser will prepare a litigation report when directed by HQDA. The report will contain the following sections: Statement of Facts; Setoff or Counterclaim; Responses to Pleadings; Memorandum of Law; Witness List; and, Exhibits.


(a) *Statement of Facts.* Include a complete statement of the facts upon which the action and any defense thereto are based. Where possible, support facts by reference to documents or witness statements. Include details of previous administrative actions, such as the filing and results of an administrative claim. If the action is predicated on the Federal Tort Claims Act, include a description of the plaintiff's relationship to the United States, its instrumentalities, or its contractors. Also include a statement whether an insurance company or other third party has an interest in the plaintiff's claim by subrogation or otherwise and whether there are additional claims related to the same incident.


(b) *Setoff or Counterclaim.* Discuss whether setoff or counterclaim exists. If so, highlight the supportive facts.


(c) *Responses to Pleadings.* Prepare a draft answer or other appropriate response to the pleadings. (See figure C-1, to this part). Discuss whether allegations of fact are well-founded. Refer to evidence that refutes factual allegations.


(d) *Memorandum of Law.* Include a brief statement of the applicable law with citations to legal authority. Discussions of local law, if applicable, should cover relevant issues such as measure of damages, scope of employment, effect of contributory negligence, or limitations upon death and survival actions. Do not unduly delay submission of a litigation report to prepare a comprehensive memorandum of law.


(e) *Potential witness information.* List each person having information relevant to the case and provide an office address and telephone number. If there is no objection, provide the individual's social security account number, home address, and telephone number. This is “core information” required by Executive Order No. 12778 (Civil Justice Reform). Finally, summarize the information or potential testimony that each person listed could provide.


(f) *Exhibits.* (1) Attach a copy of all relevant documents. This is “core information” required by Executive Order No. 12778 (Civil Justice Reform). Unless otherwise directed by HQDA, each exhibit should be tabbed and internally paginated. References to exhibits in the litigation report should be to page numbers of particular exhibits. 


(2) Copies of relevant reports of claims officers, investigating officers, boards or similar data should be attached, although such reports will not obviate the requirement for preparation of a complete litigation report. 


(3) Prepare an index of tabs and exhibits. 


(4) Where a relevant document has been released pursuant to a FOIA request, provide a copy of the response, or otherwise identify the requestor and the records released. 


(g) *Distribution and number of copies.* Unless HQDA directs otherwise, SJAs or legal advisers will mail (first class) an original and one copy of the litigation report to the responsible HQDA office (See § 516.15 of this part) and one copy to the U.S. Attorney's Office handling the case. If possible, record the litigation report onto a magnetic diskette, using either WordPerfect, Enable, or ACSII, and send it to Litigation Division. 




