# ยง 360.2   Description of program.

(a) The program is designed for all States regardless of their present level of involvement in training or their degree of expertise in originating and presenting training courses in the past. The needs of individual States, difference in numbers to be trained, and levels of sophistication in any previous training program have been recognized. It is thus believed that all States are best able to meet their own unique situations and those of local government by being given this opportunity and flexibility.


(b) Each State is asked to submit an acceptable application, to be accompanied by a Training and Education (T&E) plan for a total of three years, only the first year of which will be required to be detailed. The remaining two year program should be presented in terms of ongoing training objectives and programs. In the first year plan applicants shall delineate their objectives in training and education, including a description of the programs to be offered, and identify the audiences and numbers to be trained. Additionally, the State is asked to note the month in which the activity is to be presented, the location, and cost estimates including instructional costs and participant's travel and per diem. These specifics of date, place, and costs will be required for the first year of any three year plan. A three year plan will be submitted each year with an application. Each negotiated agreement will include a section of required training (Radiological Defense), and a section including optional courses to be conducted in response to State and local needs.


(c) FEMA support to the States in their training program for State and local officials, has been designed around three Program elements. Each activity listed in the State Training and Education (T&E) Plan will be derived from the following three elements:


(1) *Government Conducted Courses:* Such courses require the least capability on the part of the State. They are usually conducted through provisions in a FEMA Regional Support Contract and/or FEMA or other Federal agency staff. The State's responsibilities fall primarily into administrative areas of recruiting participants, making all arrangements for the facilities needed for presentation of the course, and the handling of the cost reimbursement to participants, though State staff may participate as instructors. These courses for example include:


(i) Career Development Courses: Phases I, II, and III,


(ii) Radiological Officer and Instructor Courses,


(iii) Technical Workshops on Disaster Recovery or Hazard Mitigation.


(2) *Government and recipient conducted courses:* Responsibilities in these courses fall jointly upon Federal and State government as agreed in the planning for the course. Courses in this category might include:


(i) Emergency Management Workshops,


(ii) Multijurisdictional Emergency Operations Simulation Training.


(3) *Recipient conducted courses:* This element requires the greatest degree of sophistication in program planning and delivery on the part of the State. Training events proposed by the State must be justified as addressing Emergency Management Training Program objectives. Additionally, they must address State or community needs and indicate the State's ability to present and carry out the Program of Instruction. Courses in this category could include:


(i) Radiological Monitoring,


(ii) Emergency Operations Simulating Training,


(iii) Shelter Management.


(d) In order that this three year comprehensive Training and Education Program planning can proceed in a timely and logical manner, each State will be provided three target appropriation figures, one for each of the three program years. States will develop their proposals, using the target figure to develop their scope of work. Adjustments in funding and the scope of work will be subject to negotiation before finalization. Both the funding and the scope of work will be reviewed each year and adjustments in the out years will reflect increased sophistication and expertise of the States as well as changing training needs within each State.


(e)(1) FEMA funding through the State Cooperative Agreement for the training activities is to be used for travel and per diem expenses of students selected by the States for courses reflecting individually needed or required training. Additionally funds may be expended for course materials and instructor expenses. The funding provided in the State Cooperative Agreement is not for the purpose of conducting ongoing State activities or for funding staff positions to accomplish work to be performed under this Agreement. Nor is the Agreement for the purpose of purchasing equipment which may be obtained with the help of Personnel and Administrative funds. In cases where equipment has been identified as needed in the scope of work submitted with the application, and where it serves as an outreach to a new audience or methodology, equipment purchase may be approved at the time of initial application approval.


(2) Allowable cost will be funded at 100%.



---

[N] [46 FR 1271, Jan. 6, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 9646, Mar. 8, 1983]




