# § 238.4   Records, reports, and inspections.

(a) *Records.* Each savings and loan holding company shall maintain such books and records as may be prescribed by the Board. Each savings and loan holding company and its non-depository affiliates shall maintain accurate and complete records of all business transactions. Such records shall support and be readily reconcilable to any regulatory reports submitted to the Board and financial reports prepared in accordance with GAAP.


The records shall be maintained in the United States and be readily accessible for examination and other supervisory purposes within 5 business days upon request by the Board, at a location acceptable to the Board.


(b) *Reports.* Each savings and loan holding company and each subsidiary thereof, other than a savings association, shall file with the Board such reports as may be required by the Board. Such reports shall be made under oath or otherwise, and shall be in such form and for such periods, as the Board may prescribe. Each report shall contain information concerning the operations of such savings and loan holding company and its subsidiaries as the Board may require.


(c) *Registration statement*—(1) *Filing of registration statement.* Not later than 90 days after becoming a savings and loan holding company, each savings and loan holding company shall register with the Board by furnishing information in the manner and form prescribed by the Board.


(2) *Date of registration.* The date of registration of a savings and loan holding company shall be the date on which its registration statement is received by the Board.


(3) *Extension of time for registration.* For timely and good cause shown, the Board may extend the time within which a savings and loan holding company shall register.


(d) *Release from registration.* The Board may at any time, upon its own motion or upon application, release a registered savings and loan holding company from any registration theretofore made by such company, if the Board shall determine that such company no longer has control of any savings association or no longer qualifies as a savings and loan holding company.


(e) *Examinations.* Each savings and loan holding company and each subsidiary thereof shall be subject to such examinations as the Board may prescribe. The Board shall, to the extent deemed feasible, use for the purposes of this section reports filed with or examinations made by other Federal agencies or the appropriate State supervisory authority.


(f) *Appointment of agent.* The Board may require any savings and loan holding company, or persons connected therewith if it is not a corporation, to execute and file a prescribed form of irrevocable appointment of agent for service of process.




