# § 277.11   Financial reporting requirements.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes requirements for the State agencies to report financial information to FNS.


(b) *Authorized forms and instructions.* (1) Only forms specified by this part, or other forms authorized by FNS, may be used for obtaining financial information from State agencies for the program.


(2) All instructions for use in connection with the form specified in § 277.11(c) shall be followed. FNS may prescribe supplementary instructions.


(3) State agencies shall submit the original and two copies of forms required by this section unless FNS approves a waiver of this requirement.


(4) The forms and instructions in this part shall be available to the State agency and to the public upon request to FNS Regional Offices as set out in § 271.6(b).


(c) *Financial status report*—(1) *Form.* State agencies shall use the standard Financial Status Report (SF-425, using FNS-778/FNS-778A worksheet) to report program costs.


(2) *Frequency.* The report (SF-425, using FNS-778/FNS-778A worksheet) shall be required quarterly.


(3) *Exceptions.* Those State agencies that receive payments under the U.S. Treasury check system shall submit to FNS a Quarterly Report of Federal Cash Transactions (Form SF-272).


(4) *Due dates.* Quarterly reports shall be due April 30 (for the period January through March), July 30 (April through June), October 30 (July through September), January 30 (October through December). Final reports are due December 30 for all completed Federal fiscal years (October 1 through September 30) or 90 days after termination of Federal financial support. Requests from State agencies for extension of reporting due dates may be approved, if necessary.


(d) *Time limit for State agencies to file claims.* (1) After the deadline in paragraph (c)(4) of this section for the final SF-425, using FNS-778/FNS-778A worksheet, State agencies shall use the form specified by FNS as needed within three years of the end of the Federal fiscal year to amend a prior expenditure report pertaining to such Federal fiscal year. The three-year reporting deadline may be extended by FNS if litigation, an audit, or a claim is unresolved at the end of the three-year period. The reporting form shall be used to amend prior expenditure reports, and to request reimbursement for any additional funding due, or to pay back to FNS any inadvertent prior overclaim. Requests for reimbursement will only be honored if the claim is filed within the timeframe in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. FNS reserves the right to bill State agencies for amounts due FNS resulting from an overclaim, even if no reporting form has been submitted. 


(2) Subject to the availability of funds from the appropriation for the year in which the expenditure was incurred, FNS may reimburse State agencies for an allowable expenditure only if the State agency files a claim with FNS for that expenditure within two years after the calendar quarter in which the State agency (or local agency) incurred the cost. FNS will consider non-cash expenditures such as depreciation to have been made in the quarter the expenditure was recorded in the accounting records of the State agency in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 


(3) For Automated Data Processing (ADP) expenditures approved under § 277.18(c), subject to the availability of funds and required FNS approval related to the Advance Planning Document, FNS may reimburse State agencies for allowable expenditures at the appropriate rate in effect at the time the equipment or service was received only if the State agency files for a claim with FNS within two years after the calendar quarter in which the cost was incurred. FNS will consider non-cash expenditures such as depreciation to have been made in the quarter the expenditure was recorded in the accounting records of the State agency in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 


(4) States wishing to request an extension of the deadline in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section must submit the request in writing to FNS prior to the applicable deadline. The State agency's request for an extension must include a specific explanation, justification, and documentation of why the claim will be late and when the claim will be filed. 


(5) The time limits in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section will not apply to any of the following: 


(i) Any claim for an adjustment to prior year costs previously claimed under an interim rate concept; 


(ii) Any claim arising from an audit exception as defined in this section. An audit exception means a proposed adjustment by the Department to any expenditure claimed by a State agency by virtue of a Federal-or State-initiated audit. The audit must comply with the requirements of § 277.17 and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and must have been started within 3 years of the date of submission of the final SF-425, using FNS-778/FNS-778A worksheet of the relevant Federal fiscal year to which it applies. 


(iii) Any claim resulting from a court-ordered retroactive payment. However, this provision does not bind FNS to a State or Federal court decision when FNS was not a party to the action; 


(iv) Any claim for which FNS determines there was good cause for the State agency's not filing it within the time limit. Good cause is lateness due to circumstances beyond the State agency's control such as Acts of God or documented action or inaction of the Federal Government. It does not include neglect or administrative inadequacy on the part of the State, State agency, legislature, or any of their offices or employees.



---

[N] [Amdt. 188, 45 FR 85702, Dec. 30, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 385, 65 FR 33440, May 24, 2000; 81 FR 66499, Sept. 28, 2016]




