# ยง 9701.603   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Adverse action* means a furlough for 30 days or less, a suspension, a demotion, a reduction in pay, or a removal.


*Band* means a work level or pay range within an occupational cluster.


*Competencies* means the measurable or observable knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics required by a position.


*Current continuous service* means a period of service immediately preceding an adverse action in the same or similar positions without any break in Federal civilian employment.


*Day* means a calendar day.


*Demotion* means a reduction in grade, a reduction to a lower band within the same occupational cluster, or a reduction to a lower band in a different occupational cluster under rules prescribed by DHS pursuant to ยง 9701.355.


*Furlough* means the placement of an employee in a temporary status without duties and pay because of lack of work or funds or other non-disciplinary reasons.


*Grade* means a level of work under a position classification or job grading system.


*Indefinite suspension* means the placement of an employee in a temporary status without duties and pay pending investigation, inquiry, or further Department action. An indefinite suspension continues for an indeterminate period of time and usually ends with either the employee returning to duty or the completion of any subsequent administrative action.


*Initial service period (ISP)* means the 1 to 2 years employees must serve after selection (on or after the date this subpart becomes applicable, as determined under ยง 9701.102(b)) for a designated DHS position in the competitive service for the purpose of providing an employee the opportunity to demonstrate competencies in a specific occupation.


*Mandatory removal offense (MRO)* means an offense that the Secretary determines, in his or her sole, exclusive, and unreviewable discretion, has a direct and substantial adverse impact on the Department's homeland security mission.


*Mandatory Removal Panel (MRP)* means the three-person panel composed of officials appointed by the Secretary for fixed terms to decide appeals of removals based on a mandatory removal offense.


*Pay* means the rate of basic pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any kind. For the purpose of this subpart, pay does not include locality-based comparability payments under 5 U.S.C. 5304, locality or special rate supplements under subpart C of this part, or other similar payments.


*Probationary period* has the meaning given that term in 5 CFR 315.801.


*Removal* means the involuntary separation of an employee from the Department.


*Similar positions* means positions in which the duties performed are similar in nature and character and require substantially the same or similar qualifications, so that the incumbent could be moved from one position to another without significant training or undue interruption to the work.


*Suspension* means the temporary placement of an employee, for disciplinary reasons, in a nonduty/nonpay status.


*Trial period* has the meaning given that term in 5 CFR 316.304. 




