# § 227.201   Criteria for requiring availability of EEBAs in the locomotive cab.

(a) *In general.* (1)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a railroad is required to provide an EEBA to each of the following of its employees while the employee is located in the cab of a locomotive of an in-service freight train transporting a PIH material, including a residue of a PIH material:


(A) Any train employee;


(B) Any direct supervisor of the train employee;


(C) Any employee who is deadheading; and


(D) Any other employee designated by the railroad in writing and at the discretion of the railroad.


(ii) Each EEBA provided to an employee identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section must meet the EEBA-selection criteria of § 227.203 and must have been inspected and be in working order pursuant to the requirements of § 227.207 at the time that the EEBA is provided to the employee.


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a railroad shall not use a locomotive to transport a PIH material, including a residue of a PIH material, in an in-service freight train unless each of the employees identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section while occupying a locomotive cab of the train has access to an EEBA that satisfies the EEBA selection criteria in § 227.203 and that has been inspected and is in working order pursuant to the requirements in § 227.207.


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) A railroad is not required to provide an EEBA, or make accessible an EEBA, to an employee while in the locomotive cab of an in-service freight train transporting a PIH material if all of the PIH materials in the train, including a residue of a PIH material, are being transported in one or more intermodal containers.


(2) This subpart does not apply to any of the following:


(i) Employees who are moving a locomotive or group of locomotives coupled to a car or group of cars transporting a PIH material, including a residue of a PIH material, only within the confines of a locomotive repair or servicing area.


(ii) Employees who are moving a locomotive or group of locomotives coupled to a car or group of cars transporting a PIH material, including a residue of a PIH material for distances of less than 100 feet for inspection or maintenance purposes.


(c) *Employee misconduct.* Notwithstanding any exceptions identified in this subpart, any employee who willfully tampers with or vandalizes an EEBA shall be subject to this subpart for purposes of enforcement relating to § 227.213.






