# § 63.3110   What notifications must I submit?

(a) *General.* You must submit the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (e) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(b) You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b) for a new or reconstructed affected source no later than 120 days after initial startup, 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or 120 days after June 25, 2004, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the Initial Notification no later than 1 year after April 26, 2004, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. Existing sources that have previously submitted notifications of applicability of this rule pursuant to section 112(j) of the CAA are not required to submit an Initial Notification under § 63.9(b) except to identify and describe all additions to the affected source made pursuant to § 63.3082(c). If you elect to include the surface coating of new other motor vehicle bodies, body parts for new other motor vehicles, parts for new other motor vehicles, or aftermarket repair or replacement parts for other motor vehicles in your affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c) and your affected source has an initial startup before February 20, 2007, then you must submit an Initial Notification of this election no later than 120 days after initial startup or February 20, 2007, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(c) *Notification of compliance status.* If you have an existing source, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.3160. If you have a new source, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 60 days after the first day of the first full month following completion of all applicable performance tests. The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section and in § 63.9(h). 


(1) Company name and address. 


(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. 


(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.3160 that applies to your affected source. 


(4) Identification of the compliance option specified in § 63.3090(a) or (b) or § 63.3091(a) or (b) that you used for electrodeposition primer, primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive operations plus all coatings and thinners, except for deadener materials and for adhesive and sealer materials that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c) in the affected source during the initial compliance period. 


(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period. 


(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) A description and statement of the cause of the deviation. 


(ii) If you failed to meet any of the applicable emission limits in § 63.3090 or § 63.3091, include all the calculations you used to determine the applicable emission rate or applicable average organic HAP content for the emission limit(s) that you failed to meet. You do not need to submit information provided by the materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.


(7) All data and calculations used to determine the monthly average mass of organic HAP emitted per volume of applied coating solids from: 


(i) The combined primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive operations plus all coatings and thinners, except for deadener materials and for adhesive and sealer materials that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c) if you were eligible for and chose to comply with the emission limits of § 63.3090(b) or § 63.3091(b); or 


(ii) The combined electrodeposition primer, primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive operations plus all coatings and thinners, except for deadener materials and for adhesive and sealer materials that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c). 


(8) All data and calculations used to determine compliance with the separate limits for electrodeposition primer in § 63.3092(a) or (b) if you were eligible for and chose to comply with the emission limits of § 63.3090(b) or § 63.3091(b). 


(9) All data and calculations used to determine the monthly mass average HAP content of materials subject to the emission limits of § 63.3090(c) or (d) or the emission limits of § 63.3091(c) or (d). 


(10) All data and calculations used to determine the transfer efficiency for primer-surfacer and topcoat coatings, and for all coatings, except for deadener and for adhesive and sealer that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c). 


(11) You must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(11)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. Include a description of the procedure followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports. 


(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports unless requested. 


(iii) A list of each emission capture system's and add-on control device's operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits. 


(12) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plans required by § 63.3094(b) and (c). 



---

[N] [69 FR 22623, Apr. 26, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 76927, Dec. 22, 2006; 85 FR 73904, Nov. 19, 2020]




