# § 52.2275   Control strategy and regulations: Ozone.

(a) Section 510.3 of revised Regulation V, which was submitted by the Governor on July 20, 1977, is disapproved.


(b) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Texas Implementation Plan, the control measures listed in paragraph (d) of this section shall be implemented in accordance with the schedule set forth below.


(c)(1) Removal from service of a 12,000 BPD vacuum distillation unit at the Corpus Christi refinery of the Champlin Petroleum Company, Corpus Christi, Texas, with a final compliance date no later than October 1, 1979. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 139 tons per year.


(2) Dedication of gasoline storage tank 91-TK-3 located at the Corpus Christi refinery of the Champlin Petroleum Company, Corpus Christi, Texas to the exclusive storage of No. 2 Fuel Oil or any fluid with a vapor pressure equivalent to, or less than that of No. 2 Fuel Oil, with a final compliance date no later than October 1, 1979. This shall result in an estimated hydrocarbon emission reduction of at least 107.6 tons per year.


(d) *Determinations that Certain Areas Did Not Attain the 1-Hour Ozone NAAQS.* EPA has determined that the Houston/Galveston/Brazoria severe-17 1-hour ozone nonattainment area did not attain the 1-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of November 15, 2007. This determination bears on the area's obligations with respect to implementation of two specific 1-hour ozone standard anti-backsliding requirements: section 172(c)(9) contingency measures for failure to attain and sections 182(d)(3) and 185 major stationary source fee programs.


(e) Approval—The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) submitted a revision to the Texas SIP on February 18, 2003, concerning the Victoria County 1-hour ozone maintenance plan. This SIP revision was adopted by TCEQ on February 5, 2003. This SIP revision satisfies the Clean Air Act requirement, as amended in 1990, for the second 10-year update to the Victoria County 1-hour ozone maintenance area.


(f) *Determination of attainment.* Effective November 17, 2008 EPA has determined that the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) 1-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1-hour ozone standard. Under the provisions of EPA's Clean Data Policy, this determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration or 5% increment of progress plan, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other State Implementation Plans related to attainment of the 1-hour ozone NAAQS for so long as the area continues to attain the 1-hour ozone NAAQS.


(g) *Approval.* The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) submitted a 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS maintenance plan for the area of El Paso County on January 20, 2006. The area is designated unclassifiable/attainment for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. EPA determined this request for El Paso County was complete on June 13, 2006. The maintenance plan meets the requirements of section 110(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act and is consistent with EPA's maintenance plan guidance document dated May 20, 2005. The EPA therefore approved the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS maintenance plan for the area of El Paso County on January 15, 2009.


(h) *Determination of attainment for the 1-hour ozone standard and redesignation for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.* Effective November 19, 2010, EPA has determined that the Beaumont/Port Arthur ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) and has redesignated the area to attainment for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. With this final redesignation to attainment for the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS and this final determination of attainment for the 1-hour ozone NAAQS, the 1-hour anti-backsliding obligations to submit planning SIPs to meet the attainment demonstration and reasonably available control measures (RACM) requirements, and the ROP and contingency measures requirements, cease to apply.


(i) *Determination of attainment.* Effective October 1, 2015 the EPA has determined that the Dallas/Fort Worth 8-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 ozone standard. Under the provisions of the EPA's Clean Data Policy, this determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration and other State Implementation Plans related to attainment of the 1997 ozone NAAQS for so long as the area continues to attain the 1997 ozone NAAQS.


(j) *Determination of attainment.* Effective November 19, 2015, the EPA has determined that the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria 1-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1-hour ozone standard.


(k) *Determination of attainment.* Effective January 29, 2016 the EPA has determined that the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria 8-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 ozone standard. Under the provisions of the EPA's Clean Data Policy, this determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration and other State Implementation Plans related to attainment of the 1997 ozone NAAQS for so long as the area continues to attain the 1997 ozone NAAQS.


(l) The portion of the SIP submitted on December 13, 2012 addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2008 ozone NAAQS is disapproved.




(m) *Termination of Anti-backsliding Obligations for the Revoked 1-hour and 1997 8-hour ozone standards.* Effective May 6, 2020 EPA has determined that the Dallas-Fort Worth area has met the Clean Air Act criteria for redesignation. Anti-backsliding obligations for the revoked 1-hour and 1997 8-hour ozone standards are terminated in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.




(n) *Termination of Anti-backsliding Obligations for the Revoked 1-hour and 1997 8-hour ozone standards.* Effective March 16, 2020 EPA has determined that the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area has met the Clean Air Act criteria for redesignation. Anti-backsliding obligations for the revoked 1-hour and 1997 8-hour ozone standards are terminated in the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area.




(o) *Disapproval.* The portion of the SIP submittal from September 12, 2018, addressing Clean Air Act section 110(a)(2)(D)(i)(I) for the 2015 ozone NAAQS is disapproved.





---

[N] [42 FR 37380, July 21, 1977]


