# § 721.11571   Hindered amine alkyl ester compounds (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as hindered amine alkyl ester compounds (PMN P-16-167) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) through (iv), (a)(3) through (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure of confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible). For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate (including solids or liquid droplets), gas/vapor (all substances in gas form), and combination gas/vapor and particulate (gas and liquid/solid physical states are present).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i) through (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), (g)(4)(i) through (iii), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin irritation; respiratory complications; central nervous system effects; blood effects. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4), where N = 1.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (h), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain modification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [87 FR 73946, Dec. 2, 2022; 88 FR 5789, Jan. 30, 2023]








