# § 1065.270   Chemiluminescent NO

(a) *Application.* You may use a chemiluminescent detector (CLD) to measure NO_X_ concentration in raw or diluted exhaust for batch or continuous sampling. We generally accept a CLD for NO_X_ measurement, even though it measures only NO and NO_2_, when coupled with an NO_2_-to-NO converter, since conventional engines and aftertreatment systems do not emit significant amounts of NO_X_ species other than NO and NO_2_. Measure other NO_X_ species if required by the standard-setting part. While you may also use other instruments to measure NO_X_, as described in § 1065.272, use a reference procedure based on a chemiluminescent detector for comparison with any proposed alternate measurement procedure under § 1065.10.


(b) *Component requirements.* We recommend that you use a CLD that meets the specifications in Table 1 of § 1065.205. Note that your CLD-based system must meet the quench verification in § 1065.370 and it must also meet the linearity verification in § 1065.307. You may use a heated or unheated CLD, and you may use a CLD that operates at atmospheric pressure or under a vacuum.


(c) *NO*_2_*-to-NO converter.* Place upstream of the CLD an internal or external NO_2_-to-NO converter that meets the verification in § 1065.378. Configure the converter with a bypass line if it is needed to facilitate this verification.


(d) *Humidity effects.* You must maintain all CLD temperatures to prevent aqueous condensation. If you remove humidity from a sample upstream of a CLD, use one of the following configurations:


(1) Connect a CLD downstream of any dryer or chiller that is downstream of an NO_2_-to-NO converter that meets the verification in § 1065.378.


(2) Connect a CLD downstream of any dryer or thermal chiller that meets the verification in § 1065.376.


(e) *Response time.* You may use a heated CLD to improve CLD response time.



---

[N] [70 FR 40516, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 37300, June 30, 2008; 76 FR 57442, Sept. 15, 2011; 79 FR 23761, Apr. 28, 2014]




