# ยง 1212.51   Records and files maintenance.

(a) *Records.* Each lessee, operator, revenue payor, or other person shall make and retain accurate and complete records necessary to demonstrate that payments of rentals, royalties, net profit shares, and other payments related to offshore and onshore Federal and Indian oil and gas leases are in compliance with lease terms, regulations, and orders. Records covered by this section include those specified by lease terms, notices and orders, and by the various parts of this chapter. Records also include computer programs, automated files, and supporting systems documentation used to produce automated reports or magnetic tape submitted to the Office of Natural Resources Revenue (ONRR). 


(b) *Period for keeping records.* Lessees, operators, revenue payors, or other persons required to keep records under this section shall maintain and preserve them for 6 years from the day on which the relevant transaction recorded occurred unless the Secretary notifies the record holder of an audit or investigation involving the records and that they must be maintained for a longer period. When an audit or investigation is underway, records shall be maintained until the recordholder is released in writing from the obligation to maintain the records. Lessees, operators, revenue payors, or other persons shall maintain the records generated during the period for which they have paying or operating responsibility on the lease for a period of 6 years. 


(c) *Inspection of records.* The lessee, operator, revenue payor, or other person required to keep records shall be responsible for making the records available for inspection. Records shall be provided at a business location of the lessee, operator, revenue payor, or other person during normal business hours upon the request of any officer, employee or other party authorized by the Secretary. Lessees, operators, revenue payors, and other persons will be given a reasonable period of time to produce historical records. 



---

[N] [49 FR 37345, Sept. 21, 1984; 49 FR 40576, Oct. 17, 1984, as amended at 67 FR 19111, Apr. 18, 2002]




