# § 314.530   Withdrawal procedures.

(a) For new drugs approved under §§ 314.510 and 314.520, FDA may withdraw approval, following a hearing as provided in part 15 of this chapter, as modified by this section, if:


(1) A postmarketing clinical study fails to verify clinical benefit;


(2) The applicant fails to perform the required postmarketing study with due diligence; 


(3) Use after marketing demonstrates that postmarketing restrictions are inadequate to assure safe use of the drug product;


(4) The applicant fails to adhere to the postmarketing restrictions agreed upon;


(5) The promotional materials are false or misleading; or 


(6) Other evidence demonstrates that the drug product is not shown to be safe or effective under its conditions of use.


(b) *Notice of opportunity for a hearing.* The Director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research will give the applicant notice of an opportunity for a hearing on the Center's proposal to withdraw the approval of an application approved under § 314.510 or § 314.520. The notice, which will ordinarily be a letter, will state generally the reasons for the action and the proposed grounds for the order.


(c) *Submission of data and information.* (1) If the applicant fails to file a written request for a hearing within 15 days of receipt of the notice, the applicant waives the opportunity for a hearing. 


(2) If the applicant files a timely request for a hearing, the agency will publish a notice of hearing in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with §§ 12.32(e) and 15.20 of this chapter.


(3) An applicant who requests a hearing under this section must, within 30 days of receipt of the notice of opportunity for a hearing, submit the data and information upon which the applicant intends to rely at the hearing. 


(d) *Separation of functions.* Separation of functions (as specified in § 10.55 of this chapter) will not apply at any point in withdrawal proceedings under this section.


(e) *Procedures for hearings.* Hearings held under this section will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of part 15 of this chapter, with the following modifications:


(1) An advisory committee duly constituted under part 14 of this chapter will be present at the hearing. The committee will be asked to review the issues involved and to provide advice and recommendations to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.


(2) The presiding officer, the advisory committee members, up to three representatives of the applicant, and up to three representatives of the Center may question any person during or at the conclusion of the person's presentation. No other person attending the hearing may question a person making a presentation. The presiding officer may, as a matter of discretion, permit questions to be submitted to the presiding officer for response by a person making a presentation.


(f) *Judicial review.* The Commissioner's decision constitutes final agency action from which the applicant may petition for judicial review. Before requesting an order from a court for a stay of action pending review, an applicant must first submit a petition for a stay of action under § 10.35 of this chapter.



---

[N] [57 FR 58958, Dec. 11, 1992, as amended at 64 FR 402, Jan. 5, 1999]




