# § 40.1   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part—


(a) *Act* means the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act, Public Law 96-247, 94 Stat. 349 (42 U.S.C. 1997).


(b) *Applicant* means a state or political subdivision of a state that submits to the Attorney General a request for certification of a grievance procedure.


(c) *Attorney General* means the Attorney General of the United States or the Attorney General's designees.


(d) *Grievance* means a written complaint by an inmate on the inmate's own behalf regarding a policy applicable within an institution, a condition in an institution, an action involving an inmate of an institution, or an incident occurring within an institution. The term “grievance” does not include a complaint relating to a parole decision.


(e) *Inmate* means an individual confined in an institution for adults, who has been convicted of a crime.


(f) *Institution* means a jail, prison, or other correctional facility, or pretrial detention facility that houses adult inmates and is owned, operated, or managed by or provides services on behalf of a State or political subdivision of a State.


(g) *State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any of the territories and possessions of the United States.


(h) *Substantial compliance* means that there is no omission of any essential part from compliance, that any omission consists only of an unimportant defect or omission, and that there has been a firm effort to comply fully with the standards.




