# § 301.52-1   Definitions.

Terms used in the singular form in this subpart shall be deemed to import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this subpart, shall be construed, respectively to mean: 


*Certificate.* A document issued or authorized to be issued under this subpart by an inspector to allow the interstate movement of regulated articles to any destination. 


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between a person engaged in growing, handling, or moving regulated articles, and the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, wherein the former agrees to comply with the requirements of this subpart identified in the agreement by the inspector who executes the agreement on behalf of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs as applicable to the operations of such person.


*Deputy Administrator.* The Deputy Administrator of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any other officer or employee of said Service to whom authority to act in his stead has been or may hereafter be delegated. 


*Generally infested area.* Any part of a regulated area not designated as a suppressive area in accordance with § 301.52-2. 


*Infestation.* The presence of the pink bollworm or the existence of circumstances that make it reasonable to believe that pink bollworm is present. 


*Inspector.* Any employee of the Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or other person authorized by the Deputy Administrator to enforce the provisions of the quarantine and regulations in this subpart. 


*Interstate.* From any State, territory, or district of the United States into or through any other State, territory, or district of the United States (including Puerto Rico). 


*Limited permit.* A document issued or authorized to be issued by an inspector to allow the interstate movement of noncertified regulated articles to a specified destination for limited handling, utilization, or processing or for treatment. 


*Moved* (*movement, move*). Shipped, offered for shipment to a common carrier, received for transportation or transported by a common carrier, or carried, transported, moved, or allowed to be moved by any means. “Movement” and “move” shall be construed accordingly. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, society, or association, or other organized group of any of the foregoing. 


*Pink bollworm.* The live insect known as the pink bollworm of cotton (Pectinophora gossypiella Saund.), in any stage of development. 








*Regulated area.* Any quarantined State, territory, or district, or any portion thereof, listed in accordance with § 301.52-2.




*Regulated articles.* Any article identified as a regulated article under § 301.52 as follows: listed as of January 30, 2023, added in accordance with § 301.52(c), or otherwise designated in accordance with § 301.52(d).




*Restricted destination permit.* A document issued or authorized to be issued by an inspector to allow the interstate movement of regulated articles not certified under all applicable Federal domestic plant quarantines to a specified destination for other than scientific purposes. 


*Scientific permit.* A document issued by the Deputy Administrator to allow the interstate movement to a specified destination of regulated articles for scientific purposes. 




*Suppressive area.* That part of a regulated area where eradication of infestation is undertaken as an objective, as designated by the Deputy Administrator in accordance with § 301.52-2.





---

[N] [32 FR 16385, Nov. 30, 1967, as amended at 35 FR 2859, Feb. 12, 1970; 36 FR 24917, Dec. 24, 1971; 37 FR 10554, May 25, 1972; 52 FR 26943, July 17, 1987; 67 FR 34818, May 16, 2002; 70 FR 33268, June 7, 2005; 87 FR 80007, Dec. 29, 2022] 




