# ยง 1005.711   Assumption and release of personal liability.

(a) *Assumption.* Section 184 Guaranteed Loans may be fully assumed by an eligible substitute Borrower(s), based on the following:


(1) *Creditworthiness.* At least one person acquiring ownership must be determined to be creditworthy under subpart D of this part. If the Servicer is approved as a Direct Guarantee Lender, the Servicer performs a creditworthiness determination under ยง 1005.409. If the Servicer or Holder is not approved as a Direct Guarantee Lender, then the Servicer shall request a creditworthiness determination in a manner prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(2) *Trust Lands.* (i) As applicable, a lease approved by HUD, the Tribe or the BIA in the new Borrower's name is required. Servicers shall not proceed to closing on the assumption until and unless the Tribe has consented to assign the property interest to the new Borrower at closing. Where applicable, a final certified Title Status Report documenting the assignment of the lease or recordation of a new lease is required.


(ii) Where applicable, the lease may contain other conveyance restrictions. Servicer must review the lease for conveyance restrictions and ensure the lease complies with ยง 1005.303(b)(2).


(iii) Other requirements prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.


(b) *Fees.* The Servicer may collect from the Borrower the following fees and costs:


(1) A charge to compensate the Direct Guarantee Lender for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred as part of the assumption review and processing. HUD may establish limitations on the amount of any such charge.


(2) Reasonable and customary costs, but not more than the amount actually paid by the Direct Guarantee Lender, for any of the following items: credit report, verification of employment and the execution of additional release of liability forms.


(3) Additional fees and costs over and above the assumption fee and reasonable and customary costs cannot be assessed.


(c) *Release of liability.* At closing, the Servicer must release the existing Borrower from any personal liability on a form approved by HUD; the eligible and approved substitute Borrower assumes personal liability of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan when the release is executed.


(d) *Modification of Loan Guarantee Certificate.* Upon completion of an assumption, the Servicer shall submit copies of the documentation required in this section to HUD, in a manner and form prescribed by HUD. HUD will review the assumption for compliance prior to issuing a revised Loan Guarantee Certificate.






