# ยง 121.907   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Crew Resource Management (CRM)* means the effective use of all the resources available to crewmembers, including each other, to achieve a safe and efficient flight.


*Curriculum outline* means a listing of each segment, module, lesson, and lesson element in a curriculum, or an equivalent listing acceptable to the FAA.


*Evaluation of proficiency* means a Line Operational Evaluation (LOE) or an equivalent evaluation under an AQP acceptable to the FAA.


*Evaluator* means a person who assesses or judges the performance of crewmembers, instructors, other evaluators, aircraft dispatchers, or other operations personnel.


*First Look* means the assessment of performance to determine proficiency on designated flight tasks before any briefing, training, or practice on those tasks is given in the training session for a continuing qualification curriculum. First Look is conducted during an AQP continuing qualification cycle to determine trends of degraded proficiency, if any, due in part to the length of the interval between training sessions.


*Instructional systems development* means a systematic methodology for developing or modifying qualification standards and associated curriculum content based on a documented analysis of the job tasks, skills, and knowledge required for job proficiency.


*Job task listing* means a listing of all tasks, subtasks, knowledge, and skills required for accomplishing the operational job.


*Line Operational Evaluation (LOE)* means a simulated line environment, the scenario content of which is designed to test integrating technical and CRM skills.


*Line Operational Simulation (LOS)* means a training or evaluation session, as applicable, that is conducted in a simulated line environment using equipment qualified and approved for its intended purpose in an AQP.


*Planned hours* means the estimated amount of time (as specified in a curriculum outline) that it takes a typical student to complete a segment of instruction (to include all instruction, demonstration, practice, and evaluation, as appropriate, to reach proficiency).


*Qualification standard* means a statement of a minimum required performance, applicable parameters, criteria, applicable flight conditions, evaluation strategy, evaluation media, and applicable document references.


*Qualification standards document* means a single document containing all the qualification standards for an AQP together with a prologue that provides a detailed description of all facets of the evaluation process.


*Special tracking* means assigning a person to an augmented schedule of training, checking, or both.


*Training session* means a contiguously scheduled period devoted to training activities at a facility approved by the FAA for that purpose.


*Variant* means a specifically configured aircraft for which the FAA has identified training and qualifications that are significantly different from those applicable to other aircraft of the same make, model, and series.




