# § 165.812   Security Zones; Lower Mississippi River, Southwest Pass Sea Buoy to Mile Marker 96.0, New Orleans, LA.

(a) *Location.* Within the Lower Mississippi River and Southwest Pass, moving security zones are established around all cruise ships between the Southwest Pass Entrance Lighted Buoy “SW”, at approximate position 28°52′42″ N, 89°25′54″ W [NAD 83] and Lower Mississippi River mile marker 96.0 in New Orleans, Louisiana. These moving security zones encompass all waters within 500 yards of a cruise ship. These zones remain in effect during the entire transit of the vessel and continue while the cruise ship is moored or anchored. 


(b) *Regulations.* (1) Entry of persons and vessels into these zones is prohibited unless authorized as follows. 


(i) Vessels may enter within 500 yards but not closer than 100 feet of a cruise ship provided they operate at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course. 


(ii) No person or vessel may enter within 100 feet of a cruise ship unless expressly authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port New Orleans or his designated representative. 


(iii) Moored vessels or vessels anchored in a designated anchorage area are permitted to remain within 100 feet of a cruise ship while it is in transit. 


(2) Vessels requiring entry within 500 yards of a cruise ship that cannot slow to the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course must request express permission to proceed from the Captain of the Port New Orleans or his designated representative. 


(3) For the purpose of this rule the term “cruise ship” is defined as a passenger vessel over 100 gross tons, carrying more than 12 passengers for hire, making a voyage lasting more than 24 hours, any part of which is on the high seas, and for which passengers are embarked or disembarked in the United States or its territories. 


(4) The Captain of the Port New Orleans will inform the public of the moving security zones around cruise ships via Marine Safety Information Broadcasts. 


(5) To request permission as required by these regulations contact “New Orleans Traffic” via VHF Channels 13/67 or via phone at (504) 589-2780 or (504) 589-6261. 


(6) All persons and vessels within the moving security zones shall comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port New Orleans and designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel. On-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard. 


(c) *Authority.* In addition to 46 U.S.C. 70034, the authority for this section includes 46 U.S.C. 70116.



---

[N] [COTP New Orleans-02-005, 67 FR 61989, Oct. 3, 2002]




