# § 62.01-5   Applicability.

(a) *Vessels.* This part applies to self-propelled vessels of 500 gross tons and over that are certificated under subchapters D, I, or U, to self-propelled vessels of 100 gross tons and over that are certificated under subchapter H, and to OSVs of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned) as defined in § 125.160 of this chapter. 


(b) *Systems and equipment.* Except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section, this part applies to automation of vital systems or equipment that—


(1) Is automatically controlled or monitored; 


(2) Is remotely controlled or monitored; or 


(3) Utilizes automation for the purpose of replacing specific personnel or to reduce overall crew requirements. 


(c) *Exceptions.* This part does not apply to the following systems and equipment unless they are specifically addressed or unless their failure would degrade the safety and reliability of the systems required by this part: 


(1) Automatic auxiliary heating equipment (see part 63 of this subchapter). 


(2) Steering systems (see subparts 58.25 and 111.93 of this chapter). 


(3) Non-vital and industrial systems. 


(4) The communication and alarm systems in part 113 of this chapter. 


(d) *Central control rooms.* The requirements of subpart 62.50 only apply to vessels automated to replace specific personnel or to reduce overall crew requirements, except where the main propulsion or ship service electrical generating plants are automatically or remotely controlled from a control room. In this case, § 62.50-20(a)(3) (except the provision in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) relating to electrical power distribution), (b)(3), (c), (e)(1), (2), and (4), and (f)(2) apply, regardless of manning.



---

[N] [CGD 81-030, 53 FR 17838, May 18, 1988, as amended by USCG-2000-7790, 65 FR 58460, Sept. 29, 2000; USCG-2012-0208, 79 FR 48925, Aug. 18, 2014; USCG-2020-0634, 89 FR 50189, June 12, 2024]






