# § 61.156   Training requirements: Airplane category—multiengine class or multiengine airplane type rating concurrently with an airline transport pilot certificate.

A person who applies for the knowledge test for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating must present a graduation certificate from an authorized training provider under part 121, 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter certifying the applicant has completed the following training in a course approved by the Administrator.


(a) *Academic training.* The applicant for the knowledge test must receive at least 30 hours of classroom instruction that includes the following:


(1) At least 8 hours of instruction on aerodynamics including high altitude operations;


(2) At least 2 hours of instruction on meteorology, including adverse weather phenomena and weather detection systems; and


(3) At least 14 hours of instruction on air carrier operations, including the following areas:


(i) Physiology;


(ii) Communications;


(iii) Checklist philosophy;


(iv) Operational control;


(v) Minimum equipment list/configuration deviation list;


(vi) Ground operations;


(vii) Turbine engines;


(viii) Transport category aircraft performance;


(ix) Automation, navigation, and flight path warning systems.


(4) At least 6 hours of instruction on leadership, professional development, crew resource management, and safety culture.


(b) *FSTD training.* The applicant for the knowledge test must receive at least 10 hours of training in a flight simulation training device qualified under part 60 of this chapter that represents a multiengine turbine airplane. The training must include the following:


(1) At least 6 hours of training in a Level C or higher full flight simulator qualified under part 60 of this chapter that represents a multiengine turbine airplane with a maximum takeoff weight of 40,000 pounds or greater. The training must include the following areas:


(i) Low energy states/stalls;


(ii) Upset recovery techniques; and


(iii) Adverse weather conditions, including icing, thunderstorms, and crosswinds with gusts.


(2) The remaining FSTD training may be completed in a Level 4 or higher flight simulation training device. The training must include the following areas:


(i) Navigation including flight management systems; and


(ii) Automation including autoflight.


(c) *Deviation authority.* The Administrator may issue deviation authority from the weight requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section upon a determination that the objectives of the training can be met in an alternative device.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2010-0100, 78 FR 42375, July 15, 2013, as amended by Amdt. 61-149, 86 FR 62087, Nov. 9, 2021]




