# ยง 118.115   Applicability to existing vessels.

(a) Except as otherwise required by paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, an existing vessel must comply with the fire protection equipment regulations applicable to the vessel on March 10, 1996, or, as an alternative, the vessel may comply with the regulation in this part.


(b) An existing vessel with a hull, or a machinery space boundary bulkhead or deck, composed of wood or fiber reinforced plastic, or sheathed on the interior in fiber reinforced plastic, must comply with the requirements of ยง 118.400 of this part.

(c) New installations of fire protection equipment on an existing vessel, which are completed to the satisfaction of the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) on or after March 11, 1996, must comply with the regulations of this part. Replacement of existing equipment installed on the vessel prior to March 11, 1996, need not comply with the regulations in this part.


(d) For vessels contracted for prior to August 22, 2016, extinguishers with extinguishing capacities smaller than what is required in Table 118.500(a) of this part need not be replaced and may be continued in service so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the OCMI. All new equipment and installations must meet the applicable requirements in this subpart for new vessels.



---

[N] [CGD 85-080, 61 FR 917, Jan. 10, 1996, as amended by USCG-2006-24797, 77 FR 33883, June 7, 2012; USCG-2012-0196, 81 FR 48269, July 22, 2106; USCG-2023-0759, 89 FR 22949, Apr. 3, 2024]




