# ยง 322.1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or an individual authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Bee.* Any member of the superfamily *Apoidea* in any life stage, including germ plasm.


*Beekeeping byproduct.* Material for use in hives, including, but not limited to, beeswax for beekeeping, pollen for bee feed, or honey for bee feed.


*Beekeeping equipment.* Equipment used to house and manage bees, including, but not limited to, bee boards, hive bodies, bee nests and nesting material, smokers, hive tools, gloves or other clothing, and shipping containers.


*Beekeeping establishment.* All of the facilities, including apiaries, honey houses, and other facilities, and land that comprise a proprietor's beekeeping business.


*Brood.* The larvae, pupae, or postovipositional ova (including embryos) of bees.


*Destination State.* The State, district, or territory of the United States that is the final destination of imported bees, beekeeping byproducts, or beekeeping equipment.


*Germ plasm.* The semen and preovipositional ova of bees.


*Hive.* A box or other shelter containing a colony of bees.


*Honeybee.* Any live bee of the genus Apis in any life stage except germ plasm.


*Inspector.* Any employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or other individual authorized by the Administrator to carry out the provisions of this part.


*Office International des Epizooties (OIE).* The organization in the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations responsible for the International Animal Health Code, which includes a section regarding bee diseases in international trade.


*Package bees.* Queen honeybees with attendant adult honeybees placed in a shipping container, such as a tube or cage.


*Queen.* The actively reproducing adult female in a colony of bees.


*Slumgum.* Residue remaining after the beeswax rendering process. It is composed of beeswax mixed with debris or refuse that accumulates when wax cappings or comb are melted. The residue can include wax moth cocoons, dead bees, bee parts, and other detritus from the colony.


*Undesirable species or subspecies of honeybees.* Honeybee species or subspecies including, but not limited to, *Apis mellifera scutellata*, commonly known as the African honeybee, and its hybrids; *Apis mellifera capensis*, commonly known as the Cape honeybee; and *Apis cerana*, commonly known as the Oriental honeybee.


*United States.* The States, District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.




