# ยง 123.11   Sanitation control procedures.

(a) *Sanitation SOP.* Each processor should have and implement a written sanitation standard operating procedure (herein referred to as SSOP) or similar document that is specific to each location where fish and fishery products are produced. The SSOP should specify how the processor will meet those sanitation conditions and practices that are to be monitored in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Sanitation monitoring.* Each processor shall monitor the conditions and practices during processing with sufficient frequency to ensure, at a minimum, conformance with those conditions and practices specified in part 110 of this chapter and in subpart B of part 117 of this chapter that are both appropriate to the plant and the food being processed and relate to the following:


(1) Safety of the water that comes into contact with food or food contact surfaces, or is used in the manufacture of ice;


(2) Condition and cleanliness of food contact surfaces, including utensils, gloves, and outer garments;


(3) Prevention of cross-contamination from insanitary objects to food, food packaging material, and other food contact surfaces, including utensils, gloves, and outer garments, and from raw product to cooked product;


(4) Maintenance of hand washing, hand sanitizing, and toilet facilities;


(5) Protection of food, food packaging material, and food contact surfaces from adulteration with lubricants, fuel, pesticides, cleaning compounds, sanitizing agents, condensate, and other chemical, physical, and biological contaminants;


(6) Proper labeling, storage, and use of toxic compounds;


(7) Control of employee health conditions that could result in the microbiological contamination of food, food packaging materials, and food contact surfaces; and


(8) Exclusion of pests from the food plant.


The processor shall correct in a timely manner, those conditions and practices that are not met.


(c) *Sanitation control records.* Each processor shall maintain sanitation control records that, at a minimum, document the monitoring and corrections prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section. These records are subject to the requirements of ยง 123.9.


(d) *Relationship to HACCP plan.* Sanitation controls may be included in the HACCP plan, required by ยง 123.6(b). However, to the extent that they are monitored in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section they need not be included in the HACCP plan, and vice versa. 



---

[N] [60 FR 65197, Dec. 18, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 56167, Sept. 17, 2015]




