# ยง 158.2174   Experimental use permit microbial pesticides nontarget organisms and environmental fate data requirements table.

(a) *General.* Sections 158.100 through 158.130 describe how to use this table to determine the terrestrial and aquatic nontarget organisms data requirements for a particular microbial pesticide product. Notes that apply to an individual test including specific conditions, qualifications, or exceptions to the designated test are listed in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Use patterns.* Aquatic uses include: food and feed, nonfood uses (e.g., outdoor, residential, and industrial). Terrestrial uses include: Food, Feed, Non-Food, Forestry, Residential outdoor, greenhouse (food and food), Indoor (food and nonfood), and Industrial.


(c) *Key.* R = Required; CR = Conditionally required; NR = Not required; MP = Manufacturing-use product; EP = End-use product; TEP = Typical end-use product; TGAI = Technical grade of the active ingredient; All = All of the above. Specific conditions, qualifications, or exceptions to the designated test procedures appear in paragraph (e) of this section, and apply to the individual tests in the following table:


(d) *Table.* The following table shows the data requirements for experimental use permit microbial pesticides nontarget organisms and environmental fate. The test notes are shown in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Test notes.* The following test notes are applicable to the data requirements for microbial pesticides nontarget organism and environmental fate as referenced in the last column of the table contained in paragraph (d) of this section.


