# § 202.10   Governmental institutions, Government-sponsored enterprises, public housing agencies and State housing agencies.

(a) *Federal, state, and municipal governmental agencies and Federal Reserve Banks.* A Federal, State, or municipal government agency or a Federal Reserve Bank may be an approved lender or mortgagee. A mortgagee approved under this paragraph (a) may submit applications for Title II mortgage insurance. A lender or mortgagee approved under this paragraph (a) may originate, purchase, service, or sell Title I loans and insured mortgages, respectively. A mortgagee or lender approved under this paragraph (a) is not required to meet a net worth requirement. A lender or mortgagee shall maintain fidelity bond coverage and errors and omissions insurance acceptable to the Secretary and in an amount required by the Secretary, or alternative insurance coverage approved by the Secretary, that assures the faithful performance of the responsibilities of the mortgagee. There are no additional requirements beyond the general approval requirements in § 202.5 or as provided under paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Government-Sponsored Enterprises.* The Government-Sponsored Enterprises are the Federal Home Loan Banks, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Federal National Mortgage Association. A Government-Sponsored Enterprise may be an approved lender or mortgagee. A lender or mortgagee approved under this paragraph (b) may purchase, service, or sell Title I loans and insured mortgages, respectively. A mortgagee or lender approved under this paragraph (b) is not required to meet a net worth requirement. There are no additional requirements beyond the general approval requirements in § 202.5.


(c) *Public housing agencies and State housing agencies.* Under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe and notwithstanding the general requirements of § 202.5 or the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a public housing agency or its instrumentality or a State housing agency may be approved as a mortgagee for the purpose of originating and holding multifamily mortgages funded by issuance of tax exempt obligations by the agency.


(d) *Audit requirements.* The insuring of loans and mortgages under the Act constitutes “Federal financial assistance” (as defined in 2 CFR 200.1) for purposes of audit requirements set out in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. Non-Federal entities (as defined in 2 CFR 200.1) that receive insurance as lenders and mortgagees shall conduct audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.



---

[N] [62 FR 20082, Apr. 24, 1997, as amended at 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015; 89 FR 30277, Apr. 23, 2024]




