# ยง 320.26   Guidelines on the design of a single-dose in vivo bioavailability or bioequivalence study.

(a) *Basic principles.* (1) An in vivo bioavailability or bioequivalence study should be a single-dose comparison of the drug product to be tested and the appropriate reference material conducted in normal adults.


(2) The test product and the reference material should be administered to subjects in the fasting state, unless some other approach is more appropriate for valid scientific reasons. 


(b) *Study design.* (1) A single-dose study should be crossover in design, unless a parallel design or other design is more appropriate for valid scientific reasons, and should provide for a drug elimination period. 


(2) Unless some other approach is appropriate for valid scientific reasons, the drug elimination period should be either: 


(i) At least three times the half-life of the active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety, or its metabolite(s), measured in the blood or urine; or 


(ii) At least three times the half-life of decay of the acute pharmacological effect. 


(c) *Collection of blood samples.* (1) When comparison of the test product and the reference material is to be based on blood concentration time curves, unless some other approach is more appropriate for valid scientific reasons, blood samples should be taken with sufficient frequency to permit an estimate of both: 


(i) The peak concentration in the blood of the active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety, or its metabolite(s), measured; and 


(ii) The total area under the curve for a time period at least three times the half-life of the active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety, or its metabolite(s), measured. 


(2) In a study comparing oral dosage forms, the sampling times should be identical. 


(3) In a study comparing an intravenous dosage form and an oral dosage form, the sampling times should be those needed to describe both: 


(i) The distribution and elimination phase of the intravenous dosage form; and 


(ii) The absorption and elimination phase of the oral dosage form. 


(4) In a study comparing drug delivery systems other than oral or intravenous dosage forms with an appropriate reference standard, the sampling times should be based on valid scientific reasons. 


(d) *Collection of urine samples.* When comparison of the test product and the reference material is to be based on cumulative urinary excretion-time curves, unless some other approach is more appropriate for valid scientific reasons, samples of the urine should be collected with sufficient frequency to permit an estimate of the rate and extent of urinary excretion of the active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety, or its metabolite(s), measured. 


(e) *Measurement of an acute pharmacological effect.* (1) When comparison of the test product and the reference material is to be based on acute pharmacological effect-time curves, measurements of this effect should be made with sufficient frequency to permit a reasonable estimate of the total area under the curve for a time period at least three times the half-life of decay of the pharmacological effect, unless some other approach is more appropriate for valid scientific reasons. 


(2) The use of an acute pharmacological effect to determine bioavailability may further require demonstration of dose-related response. In such a case, bioavailability may be determined by comparison of the dose-response curves as well as the total area under the acute pharmacological effect-time curves for any given dose. 



---

[N] [42 FR 1648, Jan. 7, 1977, as amended at 67 FR 77674, Dec. 19, 2002]




