# ยง 98.308   Definitions.

Except as specified in this section, all terms used in this subpart have the same meaning given in the Clean Air Act and subpart A of this part.


*Facility,* with respect to an electric power system, means the electric power system as set out in this definition. An electric power system is comprised of all electric transmission and distribution equipment insulated with or containing fluorinated GHGs that is linked through electric power transmission or distribution lines and functions as an integrated unit, that is owned, serviced, or maintained by a single electric power transmission or distribution entity (or multiple entities with a common owner), and that is located between:


(1) The point(s) at which electric energy is obtained from an electricity generating unit or a different electric power transmission or distribution entity that does not have a common owner; and


(2) The point(s) at which any customer or another electric power transmission or distribution entity that does not have a common owner receives the electric energy. The facility also includes servicing inventory for such equipment that contains fluorinated GHGs.


*Electric power transmission or distribution entity* means any entity that transmits, distributes, or supplies electricity to a consumer or other user, including any company, electric cooperative, public electric supply corporation, a similar Federal department (including the Bureau of Reclamation or the Corps of Engineers), a municipally owned electric department offering service to the public, an electric public utility district, or a jointly owned electric supply project.


*Energized,* for the purposes of this subpart, means connected through busbars or cables to an electrical power system or fully-charged, ready for service, and being prepared for connection to the electrical power system. Energized equipment does not include spare gas insulated equipment (including hermetically-sealed pressure switchgear) in storage that has been acquired by the facility, and is intended for use by the facility, but that is not being used or prepared for connection to the electrical power system.


*Insulating gas,* for the purposes of this subpart, means any fluorinated GHG or fluorinated GHG mixture, including but not limited to SF_6_ and PFCs, that is used as an insulating and/or arc-quenching gas in electrical equipment.


*New equipment,* for the purposes of this subpart, means either any gas insulated equipment, including hermetically-sealed pressure switchgear, that is not energized at the beginning of the reporting year but is energized at the end of the reporting year, or any gas insulated equipment other than hermetically-sealed pressure switchgear that has been transferred while in use, meaning it has been added to the facility's inventory without being taken out of active service (*e.g.,* when the equipment is sold to or acquired by the facility while remaining in place and continuing operation).


*Operator,* for the purposes of this subpart, means any person who operates or supervises a facility, excluding a person whose sole responsibility is to ensure reliability, balance load or otherwise address electricity flow.


*Reportable insulating gas,* for purposes of this subpart, means an insulating gas whose weighted average GWP, as calculated in equation DD-3 to ยง 98.302, is greater than one. A fluorinated GHG that makes up either part or all of a reportable insulating gas is considered to be a component of the reportable insulating gas.


*Retired equipment,* for the purposes of this subpart, means either any gas insulated equipment including hermetically-sealed pressure switchgear, that is energized at the beginning of the reporting year but is not energized at the end of the reporting year, or any gas insulated equipment other than hermetically-sealed pressure switchgear that has been transferred while in use, meaning it has been removed from the facility's inventory without being taken out of active service (*e.g.,* when the equipment is acquired by a new facility while remaining in place and continuing operation).










