# § 1902.9   Deposits.

(a) *Deposit by Rural Development personnel.* (1) Checks made payable solely to the Federal Government or any Agency thereof, and a joint check when the Treasurer of the United States is a joint payee, may not be deposited in a supervised bank account.


(2) Rural Development personnel will accept funds for deposit in a borrower's supervised bank account ONLY in the form of: A check or money order endorsed by the borrower “For Deposit Only;” a check drawn to the order of the financial institution in which the funds are to be deposited; a loan check drawn on the U.S. Treasury; or a Rural Development electronic funds transfer disbursement.


(i) A joint check that is payable to the borrower and Rural Development will be endorsed by the Servicing Official as provided in 7 CFR part 1951, subpart B, Exhibit B, section 4.


(ii) Ordinarily, when deposits are made from funds which are received as the result of consent or subordination agreements or assignments of income, the check should be drawn to the order of the financial institution in which the supervised bank account is established or jointly to the order of the borrower and Rural Development. All such checks should be delivered or mailed to the Servicing Office.


(3) If direct or insured loan funds or borrower contributions are to be deposited in a supervised bank account, such funds will be deposited on the date of loan closing after it has been determined that the loan can be closed. However, if it is impossible to deposit the funds on the day the loan is closed due to reasons such as distance from the financial institution or banking hours, the funds will be deposited on the first banking day following the date of loan closing. 


(4) Grant funds will be deposited when such funds are delivered.


(5) When funds from any source in the form of cash, check, or money order are deposited by Rural Development personnel in a supervised bank account, a deposit slip will be prepared in an original and two copies with distribution as follows: Original to the financial institution, one copy to the borrower, and one copy for the borrower's case folder. The name of the borrower, the sources of funds, “Subject to Rural Development Countersignature” and, if applicable, the account number, will be entered on each deposit slip.


(6) A loan or grant check drawn on the U.S. Treasury may be deposited in a supervised bank account without endorsement by the borrower when it will facilitate delivery of the check and is acceptable to the financial institution. The borrower will be notified immediately of any deposit made and will be furnished a copy of the deposit slip. When a deposit of this nature is made, the following endorsement will be used:


(7) Accounts established through the use of Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement will be in the name of the depositor and the Government.


(b) *Deposits by borrowers.* Funds in the form of cash, check, or money order may be deposited in the supervised bank account by the borrower if authorized by Rural Development, provided the financial institution has agreed that when a deposit is made to the account by other than Rural Development personnel, the financial institution will promptly deliver or mail a copy of the deposit slip to the Rural Development Servicing Office.


(1) A loan or grant check drawn on the U.S. Treasury may be deposited in a supervised bank account by a borrower, provided the following endorsement is used and is inserted thereon prior to delivery to the borrower for signature:


(2) Funds other than loan or grant funds may be deposited by the borrower in those exceptional instances where an agreement is reached between the Servicing Official and the borrower, whereby the borrower will make deposits of income from any source directly into the supervised bank account. In such instances the borrower will be instructed to prepare the deposit slip in the manner described in § 1902.9 (a)(5) of this subpart.



---

[N] [46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 70 FR 59227, Oct. 12, 2005; 80 FR 9869, Feb. 24, 2015]




