# § 602.10   Definitions.

*Commercial use request* means an information request by an individual or entity seeking information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of that individual or entity.


*Direct costs* means the costs FCA incurs in searching for and reproducing documents to respond to a FOIA request. For a commercial use request, it also means the costs we incur in reviewing documents to respond to the request. Direct costs include the pro rated cost of the salary of the employee performing the work (based on the basic rate of pay plus 16 percent to cover benefits) and the cost of operating reproduction equipment. They do not include overhead expenses.


*Educational institution* means a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of undergraduate or graduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education that runs a program of scholarly research.


*Noncommercial scientific institution* means a nonprofit institution that conducts scientific research that is not intended to promote any particular product or industry.


*Pages* mean 8-1/2 × 11 inch or 11 × 14 inch paper copies.


*Representative of the news media* means any person actively gathering news for an entity that publishes or broadcasts news to the public. *News* means information about current events or of current interest to the public.


*Reproduce (or reproduction)* means copying a record.


*Review* means looking at documents found in response to a FOIA request to decide whether any portion should be withheld. It does not include the time spent resolving legal or policy issues.


*Search* means all time spent looking for material responsive to a FOIA request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents.




