# ยง 503.21   Lack of alternate fuel supply.

(a) *Eligibility.* Section 211(a)(1) of the Act provides for a temporary exemption due to the unavailability of an adequate and reliable supply of an alternate fuel at a cost which does not substantially exceed the cost of using imported petroleum. To qualify, a petitioner must certify that:


(1) A good faith effort has been to obtain an adequate and reliable supply of an alternate fuel of the quality necessary to conform to the design and operational requirements of the unit;


(2) For the period of the proposed exemption, the cost of using such alternate fuel would substantially exceed the cost of using imported petroleum as a primary energy source as defined in ยง 503.6 (Cost calculation) of these regulations;


(3) The petitioner will be able to comply with the applicable prohibitions of the Act at the end of the proposed exemption period; and


(4) No alternate power supply exists, as required under ยง 503.8 of these regulations. 


(b) *Evidence required in support of a petition.* The petition must include the following evidence in order to make the demonstration required by this section:


(1) Duly executed certifications required under paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) Exhibits containing the basis for the certifications required under paragraph (a) of this section (including those factual and analytical materials deemed by the petitioner to be sufficient to support the granting of this exemption);


(3) All data required by ยง 503.6 (cost calculation) of these regulations necessary for computing the cost calculation formula; and


(4) The anticipated duration of the lack of alternate fuel supply which constitutes the basis for the exemption.


(c) *Duration.* This temporary exemption, taking into account any extensions or renewals, may not exceed 10 years.



---

[N] [46 FR 59903, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 15315, Apr. 9, 1982; 54 FR 52894, Dec. 22, 1989]




