# ยง 247.22   Allocation and disbursement of administrative funds to State agencies.

(a) *What must State agencies do to be eligible to receive administrative funds?* In order to receive administrative funds, the State agency must have signed an agreement with FNS to operate the program, in accordance with ยง 247.4(a)(1), and must have an approved State Plan.


(b) *How does FNS allocate administrative funds to State agencies?* (1) As required by law, each fiscal year FNS allocates to each State agency an administrative grant per assigned caseload slot, adjusted each year for inflation.


(2) For fiscal year 2003, the amount of the grant per assigned caseload slot was equal to the per-caseload slot amount provided in fiscal year 2001, adjusted by the percentage change between:


(i) The value of the State and local government price index, as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June 30, 2001; and


(ii) The value of that index for the 12-month period ending June 30, 2002.


(3) For subsequent fiscal years, the amount of the grant per assigned caseload slot is equal to the amount of the grant per assigned caseload slot for the preceding fiscal year, adjusted by the percentage change between:


(i) The value of the State and local government price index, as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the second preceding fiscal year; and


(ii) The value of that index for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the preceding fiscal year.


(c) *How do State agencies access administrative funds?* FNS provides administrative funds to State agencies on a quarterly basis. Such funds are provided by means of a Letter of Credit, unless other funding arrangements have been made with FNS. The State agency obtains the funds by electronically accessing its Letter of Credit account.


