# § 63.5150   If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?

(a) To demonstrate continuing compliance with the standards, you must monitor and inspect each capture system and each control device required to comply with § 63.5120 following the date on which the initial performance test of the capture system and control device is completed. You must install and operate the monitoring equipment as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. On and after August 24, 2020, you must also maintain the monitoring equipment at all times in accordance with § 63.5140(b) and keep the necessary parts readily available for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.


(1) *Bypass monitoring.* If you operate coil coating lines with intermittently-controllable work stations, you must follow at least one of the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section for each curing oven associated with these work stations to monitor for potential bypass of the control device: 


(i) *Flow control position indicator.* Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that provides a record indicating whether the exhaust stream from the curing oven is directed to the control device or is diverted from the control device. The time and flow control position must be recorded at least once per hour, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the exhaust stream away from the control device to the atmosphere. 


(ii) *Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.* Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration when the control device is in operation; a visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism will be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve or damper is maintained in the closed position, and the exhaust stream is not diverted through the bypass line. 


(iii) *Valve closure continuous monitoring.* Ensure that any bypass line valve or damper is in the closed position through continuous monitoring of valve position when the control device is in operation. The monitoring system must be inspected at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position. 


(iv) *Automatic shutdown system.* Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coil coating line is stopped when flow is diverted away from the control device to any bypass line when the control device is in operation. The automatic shutdown system must be inspected at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shut down operations. 


(2) *Continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS).* If you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the standards in § 63.5120(a)(1) or (2) through continuous emission monitoring of a control device, you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain continuous emission monitors to measure the total organic volatile matter concentration at both the control device inlet and outlet, and you must continuously monitor flow rate. If you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the outlet organic HAP concentration limit in § 63.5120(a)(3), you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a continuous emission monitor to measure the total organic volatile matter concentration at the control device outlet. 


(i) All CEMS must comply with performance specification 8 or 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, as appropriate for the detection principle you choose. The requirements of 40 CFR part 60, procedure 1, appendix F must also be followed. In conducting the quarterly audits of the monitors as required by procedure 1, appendix F, you must use compounds representative of the gaseous emission stream being controlled. 


(ii) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(ii), each CEMS and each flow rate monitor must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. Information which must be determined for recordkeeping purposes, as required by § 63.5190(a)(1)(i) includes: 


(A) The hourly average of all recorded readings; 


(B) The daily average of all recorded readings for each operating day; and 


(C) The monthly average for each month during the semiannual reporting period. 


(3) *Temperature monitoring of oxidizers.* If you are complying with the requirements of the standards in § 63.5120 through the use of an oxidizer and demonstrating continuous compliance through monitoring of an oxidizer operating parameter, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate temperature monitoring equipment according to manufacturer's specifications. The calibration of the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator must be verified every 3 months; or the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator must be replaced. You must replace the equipment either if you choose not to perform the calibration, or if the equipment cannot be calibrated properly. Each temperature monitoring device must be equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must have an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±1 °Celsius, whichever is greater. 


(ii) For an oxidizer other than a catalytic oxidizer, to demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit established according to § 63.5160(d)(3)(i), you must install the thermocouple or temperature sensor in the combustion chamber at a location in the combustion zone. 


(iii) For a catalytic oxidizer, if you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the operating limit established according to § 63.5160(d)(3)(ii)(A) and (B), then you must install the thermocouples or temperature sensors in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the inlet and outlet of the catalyst bed. Calculate the temperature difference across the catalyst. If you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the operating limit established according to § 63.5160(d)(3)(ii)(C) and (D), then you must install the thermocouple or temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the inlet of the catalyst bed. 


(4) *Capture system monitoring.* If you are complying with the requirements of the standards in § 63.5120 through the use of a capture system and control device, you must develop a capture system monitoring plan containing the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. You must monitor the capture system in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section. You must make the monitoring plan available for inspection by the permitting authority upon request. 


(i) The monitoring plan must identify the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during compliance tests is maintained, explain why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance, and identify the specific monitoring procedures.


(ii) The plan also must specify operating limits at the capture system operating parameter value, or range of values, that demonstrates compliance with the standards in § 63.5120. The operating limits must represent the conditions indicative of proper operation and maintenance of the capture system. 


(iii) You must conduct monitoring in accordance with the plan. 


(b) If an operating parameter monitored in accordance with paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section is out of the allowed range specified in Table 1 to this subpart it will be considered a deviation from the operating limit.



---

[N] [67 FR 39812, June 10, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 10862, Feb. 25, 2020]







