# ยง 23.40   Exclusions.

(a) *Grants.* The requirements of this part do not apply to grants within the meaning of the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 6301 *et seq.*

(b) *Contracts or agreements with Indian Tribes.* This part does not apply to contracts or agreements with Indian Tribes under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 5301 *et seq.*

(c) *Procurement contracts for construction that are excluded from coverage of the Davis-Bacon Act.* Procurement contracts for construction that are not covered by the Davis-Bacon Act are not subject to this part.


(d) *Contracts for services that are exempted from coverage under the Service Contract Act.* Service contracts, except for those expressly covered by ยง 23.30(a)(1)(iii) or (iv), that are exempt from coverage of the Service Contract Act pursuant to its statutory language at 41 U.S.C. 6702(b) or its implementing regulations, including those at 29 CFR 4.115 through 4.122 and 29 CFR 4.123(d) and (e), are not subject to this part.


(e) *Employees who are exempt from the minimum wage requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act under 29 U.S.C. 213(a) and 214(a)-(b).* Except for workers who are otherwise covered by the Davis-Bacon Act or the Service Contract Act, this part does not apply to employees who are not entitled to the minimum wage set forth at 29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 213(a) and 214(a)-(b). Pursuant to the exclusion in this paragraph (e), individuals that are not subject to the requirements of this part include but are not limited to:


(1) *Learners, apprentices, or messengers.* This part does not apply to learners, apprentices, or messengers whose wages are calculated pursuant to special certificates issued under 29 U.S.C. 214(a).


(2) *Students.* This part does not apply to student workers whose wages are calculated pursuant to special certificates issued under 29 U.S.C. 214(b).


(3) *Individuals employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity.* This part does not apply to workers who are employed by Federal contractors in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, as those terms are defined and delimited in 29 CFR part 541.


(f) *FLSA-covered workers performing in connection with covered contracts for less than 20 percent of their work hours in a given workweek.* This part does not apply to FLSA-covered workers performing in connection with covered contracts, *i.e.,* those workers who perform work duties necessary to the performance of the contract but who are not directly engaged in performing the specific work called for by the contract, that spend less than 20 percent of their hours worked in a particular workweek performing in connection with such contracts. The exclusion in this paragraph (f) is inapplicable to covered workers performing on covered contracts, *i.e.,* those workers directly engaged in performing the specific work called for by the contract.


(g) *Contracts that result from a solicitation issued before January 30, 2022, and that are entered into on or between January 30, 2022 and March 30, 2022.* This part does not apply to contracts that result from a solicitation issued prior to January 30, 2022 and that are entered into on or between January 30, 2022 and March 30, 2022. However, if such a contract is subsequently extended or renewed, or an option is subsequently exercised under that contract, the Executive Order and this part shall apply to that extension, renewal, or option.




