# § 141.710   Bin classification for filtered systems.

(a) Following completion of the initial round of source water monitoring required under § 141.701(a), filtered systems must calculate an initial *Cryptosporidium* bin concentration for each plant for which monitoring was required. Calculation of the bin concentration must use the *Cryptosporidium* results reported under § 141.701(a) and must follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(b)(1) For systems that collect a total of at least 48 samples, the bin concentration is equal to the arithmetic mean of all sample concentrations.


(2) For systems that collect a total of at least 24 samples, but not more than 47 samples, the bin concentration is equal to the highest arithmetic mean of all sample concentrations in any 12 consecutive months during which *Cryptosporidium* samples were collected.


(3) For systems that serve fewer than 10,000 people and monitor for *Cryptosporidium* for only one year (*i.e.*, collect 24 samples in 12 months), the bin concentration is equal to the arithmetic mean of all sample concentrations.


(4) For systems with plants operating only part of the year that monitor fewer than 12 months per year under § 141.701(e), the bin concentration is equal to the highest arithmetic mean of all sample concentrations during any year of *Cryptosporidium* monitoring.


(5) If the monthly *Cryptosporidium* sampling frequency varies, systems must first calculate a monthly average for each month of monitoring. Systems must then use these monthly average concentrations, rather than individual sample concentrations, in the applicable calculation for bin classification in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(c) Filtered systems must determine their initial bin classification from the following table and using the *Cryptosporidium* bin concentration calculated under paragraphs (a)-(b) of this section:


(d) Following completion of the second round of source water monitoring required under § 141.701(b), filtered systems must recalculate their *Cryptosporidium* bin concentration using the *Cryptosporidium* results reported under § 141.701(b) and following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. Systems must then redetermine their bin classification using this bin concentration and the table in paragraph (c) of this section.


(e)(1) Filtered systems must report their initial bin classification under paragraph (c) of this section to the State for approval no later than 6 months after the system is required to complete initial source water monitoring based on the schedule in § 141.701(c).


(2) Systems must report their bin classification under paragraph (d) of this section to the State for approval no later than 6 months after the system is required to complete the second round of source water monitoring based on the schedule in § 141.701(c).


(3) The bin classification report to the State must include a summary of source water monitoring data and the calculation procedure used to determine bin classification.


(f) Failure to comply with the conditions of paragraph (e) of this section is a violation of the treatment technique requirement.




