# § 522.2471   Tilmicosin.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 300 milligrams (mg) tilmicosin base as tilmicosin phosphate.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 058198 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.735 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* 10 to 20 milligrams per kilograms (mg/kg) of body weight as a single subcutaneous injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) associated with *Mannheimia haemolytica*, *Pasteurella multocida*, and *Histophilus somni.* For the control of respiratory disease in cattle at high risk of developing BRD associated with *M. haemolytica.*

(iii) *Limitations.* Animals intended for human consumption must not be slaughtered within 42 days of last treatment. Do not use in lactating dairy cattle 20 months of age or older. Use of tilmicosin in this class of cattle may cause milk residues. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.




(2) *Sheep*—(i) *Amount.* 10 mg/kg body weight as a single subcutaneous injection.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the treatment of ovine respiratory disease (ORD) associated with *Mannheimia* (*P.) haemolytica.*

(iii) *Limitations.* Not for use in lactating ewes producing milk for human consumption. Animals intended for human consumption must not be slaughtered within 42 days of last treatment. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.







---

[N] [67 FR 72367, Dec. 5, 2002, as amended at 75 FR 9334, Mar. 2, 2010; 81 FR 48703, July 26, 2016; 88 FR 16548, Mar. 20, 2023]




