# ยง 1205.3   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part 1205:


(1) *Blade* means any rigid or semi-rigid device or means that is intended to cut grass during mowing operations and includes all blades of a multi-bladed mower.


(2) *Blade tip circle* means the path described by the outermost point of the blade as it moves about its axis.


(3) *Crack* means a visible external fissure in a solid body caused by tensile, compressive, or shear forces.


(4) *Cutting width* means the blade tip circle diameter or, for a multi-bladed mower, the width, measured perpendicular to the forward direction, of a composite of all blade tip circles.


(5) *Deform* means any visible alteration of shape or dimension of a body caused by stresses induced by external forces.


(6) *Engine* means a power producing device which converts thermal energy from a fuel into mechanical energy.


(7) *Manual starting* means starting the mower engine with power obtained from the physical efforts of the operator.


(8) *Maximum operating speed* means the maximum revolutions per minute (rpm) obtainable by the engine or motor under the conditions of the particular test where the term is used. For an electrically powered mower, it is the speed attained when the mower is energized from a 60 Hz alternating current source that delivers a voltage no greater than 120 V and no less than 115 V at the power input to the mower, with the mower running. For a battery-powered mower, it is the speed attained after the battery has been fully charged in accordance with the mower manufacturer's instructions.


(9) *Motor* means a power producing device that converts electrical energy into mechanical energy.


(10) *Normal starting means* is the primary mechanism intended to be actuated by the operator to start a mower's engine or motor (e.g., the cord mechanism of a manual start engine, the switch of an electric motor, or a power start mechanism).


(11) *Operating control zone* means the space enclosed by a cylinder with a radius of 15 in (381 mm) having a horizontal axis that is (1) perpendicular to the fore-aft centerline of the mower and (2) tangent to the rearmost part of the mower handle, extending 4 in (102 mm) beyond the outermost portion of each side of the handle (See Fig. 1).


(12) *Power source* means an engine or motor.


(13) *Reel-type mower* means a lawn mower which cuts grass by rotating one or more helically formed blades about a horizontal axis to provide a shearing action with a stationary cutter bar or bed knife.


(14) *Rotary mower* means a power lawn mower in which one or more cutting blades rotate in essentially a horizontal plane about at least one vertical axis.


(15) *Separate* means to cause to have any apparent relative displacement induced by external forces.


(16) *Shield* means a part or an assembly which restricts access to a hazardous area. For the purposes of this part 1205, the blade housing is considered a shield.


(17) *Stress* means a force acting across a unit area in a solid material in resisting separation, compacting, or sliding that tends to be induced by external forces.


(18) *Top of the mower's handles* means the uppermost portion(s) of the handle that would be gripped by an operator in the normal operating position.


(19) *Walk-behind power lawn mower* means a grass cutting machine either pushed or self-propelled, with a minimum cutting width of 12 in (305 mm) that employs an engine or a motor as a power source and is normally controlled by an operator walking behind the mower.


(b) Where applicable, the definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) apply to this part 1205.



---

[N] [44 FR 10024, Feb. 15, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 54934, Nov. 5, 1981]




