# § 9.96   Mississippi Delta.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Mississippi Delta.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the Mississippi Delta viticultural area are three U.S.G.S. maps. They are titled:


(1) Helena, scale of 1:250,000, 1955 (revised 1977).


(2) Greenwood, scale of 1:250,000, 1953 (revised 1979).


(3) Jackson, scale of 1:250,000, 1955 (revised 1973).


(c) *Boundary*—(1) *General.* The Mississippi Delta viticultural area is located in Mississippi, Louisiana, and Tennessee. The starting point of the following boundary description is the intersection of the Illinois Central Gulf (I.C.G.) Railroad and the Mississippi River levee system, on the southeast side of Lake Horne, between Lake View, Mississippi, and Walls, Mississippi, on the Helena map.


(2) *Boundary Description.* (i) From the starting point generally southward along the Mississippi River levee system until it again intersects the I.C.G. Railroad, near Twin Lake, Mississippi (about 10 miles north of Vicksburg, on the Jackson map). In any place where there is more than one continuous levee, the one closest to the Mississippi River is the boundary.


(ii) From the intersection described in paragraph (c)(2)(i), the boundary continues southward along the I.C.G. tracks, until they merge with another branch of the I.C.G. Railroad, near Redwood, Mississippi.


(iii) Then generally northeastward along that other branch of the I.C.G. Railroad, to the Leflore County-Holmes County line (on the Greenwood map).


(iv) Then southeastward along that county line to the Leflore County-Carroll County line.


(v) Then generally northward along that county line to Mississippi Route 7.


(vi) Then generally northeastward along Route 7 to the 90°00′ longitude line.


(vii) Then northward along that longitude line to Mississippi Route 8.


(viii) Then eastward along Route 8 to Mississippi Route 35.


(ix) Then northward along Route 35 to Mississippi Route 322 (on the Helena map).


(x) Then generally eastward along Route 322 to the Panola Quitman Floodway.


(xi) Then northward along that floodway to the range line R.9W./R.8W.


(xii) Then northward along that range line to the 200 ft. contour line (north of Ballentine, Mississippi).


(xiii) Then generally northeastward along that contour line to Mississippi Route 3.


(xiv) Then northward along Route 3 to the Tunica County-Tate County line.


(xv) Then northward along that county line to the Tunica County-De Soto County line.


(xvi) Then northward along that county line to the I.C.G. Railroad.


(xvii) Then northward along the I.C.G. tracks to the starting point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-181, 49 FR 34354, Aug. 30, 1984]




