# § 124.31   Pre-application public meeting and notice.

(a) *Applicability.* The requirements of this section shall apply to all RCRA part B applications seeking initial permits for hazardous waste management units over which EPA has permit issuance authority. The requirements of this section shall also apply to RCRA part B applications seeking renewal of permits for such units, where the renewal application is proposing a significant change in facility operations. For the purposes of this section, a “significant change” is any change that would qualify as a class 3 permit modification under 40 CFR 270.42. For the purposes of this section only, “hazardous waste management units over which EPA has permit issuance authority” refers to hazardous waste management units for which the State where the units are located has not been authorized to issue RCRA permits pursuant to 40 CFR part 271. The requirements of this section shall also apply to hazardous waste management facilities for which facility owners or operators are seeking coverage under a RCRA standardized permit (see 40 part 270, subpart J), including renewal of a standardized permit for such units, where the renewal is proposing a significant change in facility operations, as defined at § 124.211(c). The requirements of this section do not apply to permit modifications under 40 CFR 270.42 or to applications that are submitted for the sole purpose of conducting post-closure activities or post-closure activities and corrective action at a facility.


(b) Prior to the submission of a part B RCRA permit application for a facility, or to the submission of a written Notice of Intent to be covered by a RCRA standardized permit (see 40 CFR part 270, subpart J), the applicant must hold at least one meeting with the public in order to solicit questions from the community and inform the community of proposed hazardous waste management activities. The applicant shall post a sign-in sheet or otherwise provide a voluntary opportunity for attendees to provide their names and addresses.


(c) The applicant shall submit a summary of the meeting, along with the list of attendees and their addresses developed under paragraph (b) of this section, and copies of any written comments or materials submitted at the meeting, to the permitting agency as a part of the part B application, in accordance with 40 CFR 270.14(b), or with the written Notice of Intent to be covered by a RCRA standardized permit (see 40 CFR part 270, subpart J).


(d) The applicant must provide public notice of the pre-application meeting at least 30 days prior to the meeting. The applicant must maintain, and provide to the permitting agency upon request, documentation of the notice. 


(1) The applicant shall provide public notice in all of the following forms: 


(i) *A newspaper advertisement.* The applicant shall publish a notice, fulfilling the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or equivalent jurisdiction that hosts the proposed location of the facility. In addition, the Director shall instruct the applicant to publish the notice in newspapers of general circulation in adjacent counties or equivalent jurisdictions, where the Director determines that such publication is necessary to inform the affected public. The notice must be published as a display advertisement. 


(ii) *A visible and accessible sign.* The applicant shall post a notice on a clearly marked sign at or near the facility, fulfilling the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. If the applicant places the sign on the facility property, then the sign must be large enough to be readable from the nearest point where the public would pass by the site. 


(iii) *A broadcast media announcement.* The applicant shall broadcast a notice, fulfilling the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, at least once on at least one local radio station or television station. The applicant may employ another medium with prior approval of the Director. 


(iv) *A notice to the permitting agency.* The applicant shall send a copy of the newspaper notice to the permitting agency and to the appropriate units of State and local government, in accordance with § 124.10(c)(1)(x). 


(2) The notices required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include: 


(i) The date, time, and location of the meeting; 


(ii) A brief description of the purpose of the meeting; 


(iii) A brief description of the facility and proposed operations, including the address or a map (e.g., a sketched or copied street map) of the facility location; 


(iv) A statement encouraging people to contact the facility at least 72 hours before the meeting if they need special access to participate in the meeting; and 


(v) The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person for the applicant. 



---

[N] [60 FR 63431, Dec. 11, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 53449, Sept. 8, 2005]




