# § 625.13   Restrictions on entitlement; disqualification.

(a) *Income reductions.* The amount of DUA payable to an individual for a week of unemployment, as computed pursuant to § 625.6, shall be reduced by the amount of any of the following that an individual has received for the week or would receive for the week if the individual filed a claim or application therefor and took all procedural steps necessary under the appropriate law, contract, or policy to receive such payment: 


(1) Any benefits or insurance proceed from any source not defined as “compensation” under § 625.2(d) for loss of wages due to illness or disability; 


(2) A supplemental unemployment benefit pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement. 


(3) Private income protection insurance; 


(4) Any workers' compensation by virtue of the death of the head of the household as the result of the major disaster in the major disaster area, prorated by weeks, if the individual has become the head of the household and is seeking suitable work because the head of the household died as the result of the major disaster in the major disaster area; and 


(5) The prorated amount of a retirement pension or annuity under a public or private retirement plan or system, prorated, where necessary, by weeks, but only if, and to the extent that, such amount would be deducted from regular compensation payable under the applicable State law. 


(6) The prorated amount of primary benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, but only to the extent that such benefits would be deduced from regular compensation if payable to the individual under the applicable State law. 


(b) *Disqualification.* (1) An individual shall not be entitled to DUA for any week after the week in which the individual is reemployed in a suitable position. 


(2) An individual who refuses without good cause to accept a bona fide offer of reemployment in a position suitable to the individual, or to investigate or accept a referral to a position which is suitable to and available to the individual, shall not be entitled to DUA with respect to the week in which such refusal occurs or in any subsequent week in the Disaster Assistance Period. For the purposes of this paragraph, a position shall not be deemed to be suitable for an individual if the circumstances present any unusual risk to the health, safety, or morals of the individual, if it is impracticable for the individual to accept the position, or if acceptance for the position would, as to the individual, be inconsistent with any labor standard in section 3304(a)(5) of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, 26 U.S.C. 3304(a)(5), or the comparable provisions of the applicable State law. 



---

[N] [42 FR 46712, Sept. 16, 1977, as amended at 55 FR 556, Jan. 5, 1990]




