# § 165.T01-0820   Safety Zone; Kernwood Avenue Bridge Repairs—Danvers River, Salem, MA, and Beverly, MA.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: all navigable waters within a 100-yard radius of the center point of the Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT) Kernwood Avenue Bridge, at mile 1.0 spanning the Danvers River between Salem, MA, and Beverly, MA, in approximate position 42°32′34.8″N 70°53′54.2″W.


(b)* Enforcement period.* The safety zone in paragraph (a) of this section is effective from December 20, 2024, through 11:59 p.m. on November 30, 2025. The section is subject to enforcement only during periods the navigable channel is restricted by the contractor's work vessels, when the span cannot be mechanically operated, or in response to an emergency or hazardous condition during this period. The Coast Guard will make notice of this safety zone via the Local Notice to Mariners and issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners via marine channel 16 (VHF-FM) as soon as practicable in response to an emergency or hazardous condition. In addition, if the project is completed before 11:59 p.m. on November 30, 2025, enforcement of the safety zone will be suspended, and notice given via Local Notice to Mariners. The First Coast Guard District Local Notice to Mariners can be found at: *http://www.navcen.uscg.gov.*

(c) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


(1) *Designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, petty officer, or any federal, state, or local law enforcement officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port Boston (COTP) to act on his or her behalf. The designated representative may be on an official patrol vessel or may be on shore and will communicate with vessels via VHF-FM radio or loudhailer. In addition, members of the Coast Guard Auxiliary may be present to inform vessel operators of this regulation.


(2) *Official patrol vessels* mean any Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, state, or local law enforcement vessels assigned or approved by the COTP to enforce this section.


(d) *Regulations.* When this safety zone is enforced, the following regulations, along with those contained in 33 CFR 165.23 apply:


(1) No person or vessel may enter or remain in this safety zone without the permission of the COTP or the COTP's designated representatives. Any person or vessel permitted to enter the safety zone must comply with the lawful directions and orders of the COTP or the COTP's designated representatives.


(2) To seek permission to enter the safety zone, individuals may reach the COTP or a COTP-designated representative via Channel 16 (VHF-FM) or (857) 416-3015 (Sector Boston Command Center).





---

[N] [USCG-2024-0820, 89 FR 77453, Sept, 23, 2024, as amended by USCG-2024-0820, 89 FR 106328, Dec. 30, 2024]




