# § 63.6012   What are my rubber processing monitoring installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) You must install and operate a THC continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) according to § 63.8 (b) and (c) and comply with the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. Standard operating procedures must be incorporated into the monitoring plan required by § 63.5990(e).


(1) On each stack used to exhaust emissions from a rubber processing mixer to the atmosphere, you must install, operate, and maintain a THC CEMS in accordance with Performance Specification 8A of appendix B to 40 CFR part 60 and comply with all of the requirements for CEMS found in the general provisions, subpart A of this part. The THC CEMS must be installed downstream of any organic vapor control device (such as a thermal oxidizer), if present. A single THC CEMS may be used to monitor the combined emissions from multiple rubber mixers.


(2) You must operate and maintain each CEMS according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to 40 CFR part 60. Where a dual range analyzer is used, the daily calibration drift check must be performed for each operating range. For THC CEMS certified under Performance Specification 8A of appendix B to 40 CFR part 60, conduct the relative accuracy test audits required under Procedure 1 in accordance with Performance Specification 8, sections 8 and 11 using Method 25A in appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 as the reference method; the relative accuracy must meet the criteria of Performance Specification 8, section 13.2.


(b) Parameter monitoring requirements. If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS), you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section by the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.5983. Standard operating procedures must be incorporated into the monitoring plan required by § 63.5990(e).


(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four successive cycles of operation to have a valid hour of data.


(2) You must conduct all monitoring in continuous operation at all times that the mixer is operating.


(3) Determine the 1-hour block average of all recorded readings.


(4) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.


(c) For each bag leak detection system (BLDS), you must meet any applicable requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section. Standard operating procedures must be incorporated into the monitoring plan required by § 63.5990(e).


(1) The BLDS must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting fPM emissions at concentrations of 1.0 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter or less.


(2) The sensor on the BLDS must provide output of relative fPM emissions.


(3) The BLDS must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.


(4) The BLDS must have an alarm that will sound automatically when it detects an increase in relative fPM emissions greater than a preset level.


(5) The alarm must be located in an area where appropriate plant personnel will be able to hear it.


(6) For a positive-pressure fabric filter baghouse, each compartment or cell must have a bag leak detector (BLD). For a negative-pressure or induced-air fabric filter baghouse, the BLD must be installed downstream of the fabric filter. If multiple BLD are required (for either type of fabric filter baghouse), the detectors may share the system instrumentation and alarm.


(7) Each triboelectric BLDS must be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained according to EPA-454/R-98-015, *Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance,* (incorporated by reference; see § 63.14). Other types of bag leak detection systems must be installed, operated, calibrated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations. Standard operating procedures must be incorporated into the monitoring plan required by § 63.5990(e).


(8) At a minimum, initial adjustment of the system must consist of establishing the baseline output in both of the following ways in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) and (ii), according to section 5.0 of the EPA-454/R-98-015, *Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance,* (incorporated by reference; see § 63.14):


(i) Adjust the range and the averaging period of the device.


(ii) Establish the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.


(9) After initial adjustment, the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time may not be adjusted except as specified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.5990(e). In no event may the range be increased by more than 100 percent or decreased by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period, unless such adjustment follows a complete fabric filter inspection that demonstrates that the fabric filter is in good operating condition, as defined in section 5.2 of the EPA-454/R-98-015, *Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance,* (incorporated by reference; see § 63.14). You must record each adjustment.


(10) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.


(d) For each emission unit equipped with an add-on air pollution control device, you must inspect each capture/collection and closed vent system at least once each calendar year to ensure that each system vents captured emissions through a closed system, except that dilution air may be added to emission streams for the purpose of controlling temperature at the inlet to a fabric filter. You must record the results of each inspection.



---

[N] [89 FR 94909, Nov. 29, 2024]




