# § 1090.108   Automobile financing market.

(a) *Market-related definitions.* As used in this section:


*Aggregate annual originations* means the sum of the number of annual originations of a nonbank covered person and the number of annual originations of each of the nonbank covered person's affiliated companies, calculated as follows:


(i) *Annual Originations.* (A) Annual originations means the sum of the following transactions for the preceding calendar year:


(*1*) Credit granted for the purpose of purchasing an automobile;


(*2*) Automobile leases;


(*3*) Refinancings of obligations described in (i)(A)(*1*) of this definition that are secured by an automobile, and any subsequent refinancings thereof that are secured by an automobile; and


(*4*) Purchases or acquisitions of obligations described in (i)(A)(*1*), (*2*), or (*3*) of this definition.


(B) The term annual originations does not include:


(*1*) Investments in asset-backed securities; and


(*2*) Purchases or acquisitions of obligations by a special purpose entity established for the purpose of facilitating asset-backed securities transactions if the purchases or acquisitions are made for the purpose of facilitating an asset-backed securities transaction.


(ii) *Aggregating the annual originations of affiliated companies.* The annual originations of a nonbank covered person must be aggregated with the annual originations of any person (other than an entity described in paragraph (c) of this section) that was an affiliated company of the nonbank covered person at any time during the preceding calendar year. The annual originations of a nonbank covered person and its affiliated companies are aggregated for the entire preceding calendar year, even if the affiliation did not exist for the entire calendar year.


*Automobile* means any self-propelled vehicle primarily used for personal, family, or household purposes for on-road transportation. The term does not include motor homes, recreational vehicles (RVs), golf carts, and motor scooters.


*Automobile financing* means providing or engaging in the transactions identified under the term “Annual originations” as defined in this section.


*Automobile lease* means a lease that is for the use of an automobile, as defined in this section, and that meets the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(ii) or 12 CFR 1001.2(a).


*Refinancing* has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 1026.20(a), except that the nonbank covered person need not be the original creditor or a holder or servicer of the original obligation.


(b) *Test to define larger participants.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a nonbank covered person that engages in automobile financing is a larger participant of the automobile financing market if the person has at least 10,000 aggregate annual originations.


(c) *Exclusion for dealers.* The following entities do not qualify as larger participants under this section:


(1) Persons excluded from the Bureau's authority by 12 U.S.C. 5519; and


(2) Persons who meet the definition in 12 U.S.C. 5519(f)(2); are identified in 12 U.S.C. 5519(b)(2); and are predominantly engaged in the sale and servicing of motor vehicles (as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 5519(f)(1)), the leasing and servicing of motor vehicles, or both.



---

[N] [80 FR 37526, June 30, 2015]








