# § 202.170   Initiation of disapproval proceedings for PCAOB proposed rules.

Initiation of disapproval proceedings for proposed rules of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as defined by section 107 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are subject to the provisions of §§ 201.700 and 201.701 of this chapter as fully as if it were a *registered securities association,* except that:


(a) *Demonstration of consistency with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.* For purposes of proposed rules of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, apply this paragraph in lieu of paragraph (b)(3) of § 201.700 of this chapter. The burden to demonstrate that a proposed rule is consistent with the requirements of title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations issued thereunder, or as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, is on the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In its filing the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board must explain in a clear and comprehensible manner why the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations thereunder, or as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. A mere assertion that the proposed rule change is consistent with those requirements is not sufficient. Instead, the description of the proposed rule, its purpose and operation, its effect, and a legal analysis of its consistency with applicable requirements must all be sufficiently detailed and specific to support an affirmative Commission finding. Any failure by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in its proposed rule filing with the Commission may result in the Commission not having a sufficient basis to make an affirmative finding that a proposed rule change is consistent with the title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations issued thereunder, or as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.


(b) For each reference to “the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the self-regulatory organization” apply “title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations issued thereunder applicable to such organization, or as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.”



---

[N] [76 FR 4072, Jan. 24, 2011]




