# § 63.361   Definitions.

Terms and nomenclature used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (the Act) as amended in 1990, §§ 63.2 and 63.3, or in this section. For the purposes of this subpart, if the same term is defined in subpart A of this part and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section.


*Acid-water scrubber* means an add-on air pollution control device that uses an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquor to absorb and neutralize acid gases.


*Aeration* means, for the purposes of this rule, exposing sterilized material at elevated temperatures to drive EtO out of the material.


*Aeration room* means any vessel or room that is used to facilitate off-gassing of EtO at a sterilization facility. If a facility uses only combination sterilization units, for the purposes of this rule, there are no aeration rooms at the facility.


*Aeration room vent (ARV)* means the point(s) through which the evacuation of EtO-laden air from an aeration room occurs. For combination sterilization units, there is no ARV.


*Catalytic oxidizer* means a combustion device that uses a solid-phase catalyst to lower the temperature required to promote the oxidization and achieve adequate reduction of volatile organic compounds, as well as volatile hazardous air pollutants.


*Chamber exhaust vent (CEV)* means the point(s) through which EtO-laden air is removed from the sterilization chamber during chamber unloading following the completion of sterilization and associated air washes. This may also be referred to as a “backvent” (or “back vent”). For combination sterilization units, there is no CEV.


*Combination sterilization unit* means any enclosed vessel in which both sterilization and aeration of the same product occur within the same vessel, *i.e.,* the vessel is filled with ethylene oxide gas or an ethylene oxide/inert gas mixture for the purpose of sterilizing and is followed by aeration of ethylene oxide.


*Combined emission stream* means when the emissions from more than one emission source are routed together using common ductwork prior to the control system.


*Continuous monitoring system (CMS)* means, for the purposes of this rule, the equipment necessary to continuously samples the regulated parameter specified in § 63.364 or § 63.365 of this subpart without interruption, evaluates the detector response at least once every 15 seconds, and computes and records the average value at least every 60 seconds, except during allowable periods of calibration and except as defined otherwise by the continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) performance specifications (PS) in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.


*Control System Residence Time* means the time elapsed from entrance of flow into the control system until gaseous materials exit the control system. For control systems with multiple exhaust streams whereby the residence time may vary for the streams, the residence time for purposes of complying with this subpart means the longest residence time for any exhaust stream in use. If a peak shaver is used, it is part of the control system, and its residence time must be considered.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an owner or operator of an affected source, subject to this subpart:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limitation, parameter value, or best management practice; or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart or that is included in the operating permit for any facility required to obtain such a permit.


*EtO dispensing* means charging a sterilization chamber or chambers with EtO from non-cartridge storage media (*e.g.,* drums, cylinders) via the use of piping, lines, and other equipment. This includes injection rooms and post-injection handling of containers.


*Gas/solid reactor* means an add-on air pollution control device that uses a dry, solid-phase system to chemically convert EtO so that it becomes bound to the solid packing. This may also be referred to as a “dry bed reactor” or a “dry bed scrubber.”


*Group 1 room air emissions* mean emissions from indoor EtO storage, EtO dispensing, vacuum pump operations, and pre-aeration handling of sterilized material.


*Group 2 room air emissions* mean emissions from post-aeration handling of sterilized material.


*Indoor EtO storage* means the storage of EtO within non-cartridge media (*e.g.,* drums, cylinders) inside a sterilization building.


*Initial startup* means the moment when an affected source subject to an emissions standard in § 63.362 first begins operation.


*Injection room* means any room where EtO is injected into containers (*e.g.,* bags, pouches) that are filled with product to be sterilized.


*Maximum ethylene glycol concentration* means the concentration of ethylene glycol in the scrubber liquor of an acid-water scrubber control device established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.


*Maximum gas/solid reactor pressure drop* means the pressure drop of the gas/solid reactor established during a performance test when the gas/solid reactor achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.


*Maximum liquor tank level* means the level of scrubber liquor in the acid-water scrubber liquor recirculation tank established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.


*Maximum scrubber liquor pH* means the pH of the acid-water scrubber liquor established during a performance test when the scrubber achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.


*Minimum stack volumetric flow rate* means the stack volumetric flow rate corrected established during a compliance demonstration when permanent total enclosure (PTE) requirements are met.


*Minimum temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed* means the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed established during a performance test when the catalytic oxidizer achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.


*Minimum temperature difference across the catalyst bed* means the temperature difference across the catalyst bed established during a performance test when the catalytic oxidizer achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.


*Minimum temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox* means the temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox established during a performance test when the thermal oxidizer achieves the appropriate control of EtO emissions.


*Natural draft opening (NDO)* means any permanent opening in the enclosure that remains open during operation of the facility and is not connected to a duct in which a fan is installed.


*Operating day* means any day that a facility is engaged in a sterilization operation.


*Peak shaver* means a device that is used to reduce high EtO concentrations within an exhaust stream such that the downstream control device is not overwhelmed.


*Permanent total enclosure (PTE)* means a permanently installed enclosure that meets the criteria of Method 204 of appendix M, 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE. A PTE completely surrounds a source of emissions such that all EtO emissions are captured, contained, and directed to a control system or to an outlet(s).


*Post-aeration handling of sterilized material* means the storage and transportation of material that has been removed from aeration but has not been placed in a vehicle for the sole purpose of distribution to another facility. Post-aeration handling of sterilized material ends when that vehicle is closed for the final time before leaving the facility. This definition does not include handling of material that has been both previously sterilized and not removed from aeration following re-sterilization.


*Post-injection handling of containers* means the storage and transportation of containers (*e.g.,* bags, pouches) that have been injected with EtO but have not been placed in a sterilization chamber.


*Pre-aeration handling of sterilized material* means the storage and transportation of material that has been removed from a sterilization chamber but has not been placed in an aeration room. If only combination sterilization units are used, and if material is not moved out of the vessel between sterilization and aeration, then emissions from this source do not exist. This does not include post-injection handling of containers.


*Rolling sum* means the weighted sum of all data, meeting QA/QC requirements or otherwise normalized, collected during the applicable rolling time period. The period of a rolling sum stipulates the frequency of data collection, summing, and reporting. As an example, to demonstrate compliance with a rolling 30-operating day sum emission reduction standard determined from hourly data, you must (1) determine the total mass of ethylene oxide prior to control and following control for each operating day; (2) then sum the current daily total mass prior to control with the previous 29 operating day total mass values and repeat the same process for the current daily total mass following control; and (3) then divide the 30-operating day total mass emissions following control by the 30-operating day total mass prior to control and subtract the resulting value from one to obtain the 30-operating day emission reduction achieved.


*Single-item sterilization* means a process in which one or more items are placed in a pouch, EtO is injected into the pouch, and the sealed pouch is placed in a vessel to allow sterilization to occur.


*Sterilization chamber* means any enclosed vessel or room that is filled with EtO gas, or an EtO/inert gas mixture, for the purpose of sterilizing and/or fumigating at a sterilization facility. This does not include injection rooms.


*Sterilization chamber vent (SCV)* means the point (prior to the vacuum pump) through which the evacuation of EtO from the sterilization chamber occurs following sterilization or fumigation, including any subsequent air washes.


*Sterilization facility* means any stationary source where EtO is used in the sterilization or fumigation of materials, including but not limited to facilities that engage in single-item sterilization.


*Sterilization operation* means any time when EtO is removed from the sterilization chamber through the SCV or the chamber exhaust vent, when EtO is removed from the aeration room through the aeration room vent, when EtO is stored within the building, when EtO is dispensed from a container to a chamber, when material is moved from sterilization to aeration, or when materials are handled post-aeration.


*Thermal oxidizer* means all combustion devices except flares.


*Vacuum pump operation* means the operation of vacuum pumps, excluding dry seal vacuum pumps, for the purpose of removing EtO from a sterilization chamber.






