# § 490.804   Eligible reductions in petroleum consumption.

(a) *Motor vehicles.* Demonstrated reductions in petroleum consumption during the model year for which a waiver is requested that are attributable to motor vehicles owned, operated, leased or otherwise under the control of a State or covered person are applicable towards the petroleum fuel reduction required in § 490.803(a) of this subpart.


(b) *Qualified nonroad vehicles.* Demonstrated reductions in petroleum consumption during the model year for which a waiver is requested that are attributable to nonroad vehicles owned, operated, leased or otherwise under the control of a State or covered person acquired during waiver years are applicable towards the petroleum fuel reduction required in § 490.803(a) of this subpart:


(1) If acquisition of the nonroad vehicles leads directly to the establishment or upgrading of refueling or recharging infrastructure during a waiver year that would also allow for increased petroleum replacement by serving the fleet's on-road light-duty vehicles; and


(2) To the extent that additional reductions attributable to motor vehicles are not reasonably available.


(c) *Rollover of excess petroleum reductions.* (1) Upon approval by DOE, petroleum fuel use reductions achieved by a fleet in excess of the amount required for alternative compliance in a previous model year may be applied towards the petroleum fuel use reduction requirement under § 490.803(a) in a model year for which a waiver is granted and for which the fleet experiences a shortfall.


(2)(i) A fleet seeking to roll over for future use the petroleum fuel use reductions that it achieved in excess of the amount required for alternative compliance in a particular model year must make a written request to DOE as part of the fleet's annual report required under § 490.807 for the model year in which the excess reductions were achieved.


(ii) Following receipt of a request under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, DOE will notify the requesting fleet of the amount of excess petroleum fuel use reductions that DOE has approved for rollover and potential application towards the petroleum fuel use reduction requirement in a future model year.


(iii) A fleet seeking to apply excess petroleum fuel use reductions rolled over pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section in a model year for which a waiver is granted and for which the fleet experiences a shortfall in achieving the petroleum fuel use reduction requirement under § 490.803(a) must make a written request to DOE as part of the fleet's annual report required under § 490.807. The written request must specify the amount of the rollover reductions (in GGE) the fleet wishes to have applied and the total balance of rollover reductions (in GGE) the fleet possesses.


(3)(i) In considering a written request to apply rollover reductions under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, DOE may seek from the fleet additional information about the fleet and its operations.


(ii) Upon approving a request to apply rollover reductions, DOE will apply the approved rollover reductions only to the extent that other reductions in petroleum consumption through any of the means set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section were not reasonably achievable.


(4) Excess petroleum reductions are not tradable.


(d) *Ineligible reductions.* The petroleum reduction plan required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section must not include reductions in petroleum attributable to incentives for third parties to reduce their petroleum use, petroleum reductions that are not transportation-related, or petroleum reductions attributable to non-qualified nonroad vehicles.



---

[N] [72 FR 12964, Mar. 20, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 15907, Mar. 21, 2014]




