# § 1.7519-1T   Required payments for entities electing not to have required year (temporary).

(a) *In general*—(1) *Applicability.* This section applies to any taxable year that a partnership or S corporation has an election under section 444 in effect (an “applicable election year”).


(2) *Returns and required payments.* For each applicable election year, a partnership or S corporation must—


(i) File a return as provided in § 1.7519-2T(a)(2), and


(ii) Make a required payment (as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section) as provided in § 1.7519-2T.


(3) *Required payment.* The term “required payment” means, with respect to any applicable election year, an amount equal to the excess of—


(i) The product of the applicable percentage of the adjusted highest section 1 rate, multiplied by the net base year income (as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) of the entity over


(ii) The cumulative amount of required payments actually made for all preceding applicable election years (reduced by the cumulative amount of such payments refundable under section 7519(c) for all such preceding years).


(4) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.


(b) *Definitions and special rules*—(1) *Applicable percentage*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the term “applicable percentage” means the percentage determined in accordance with the following table:


(ii) *Exception for certain applicable election years beginning after 1987.* [Reserved]


(iii) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following example.


(2) *Adjusted highest section 1 rate*—(i) *General rule.* For any applicable election year, the term “adjusted highest section 1 rate” means the highest rate of tax under section 1 applicable to the period defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, plus 1 percentage point. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the adjusted highest section 1 rate is 36 percent for applicable election years beginning in 1987. For purposes of this section, the highest rate of tax is determined without regard to the effect of section 1(g), relating to the phaseout of the 15-percent rate and personal exemptions.


(ii) *Period for determining highest section 1 rate.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the period for determining the highest rate of tax under section 1 is the 12 month period that—


(A) Ends with the required taxable year for the applicable election year, and


(B) Includes the end of the base year.


(3) *Base year.* The term “base year” means, with respect to any applicable election year, the taxable year of the partnership or S corporation preceding such applicable election year.


(4) *Special rules for certain applicable election years*—(i) *First applicable election year of new entities.* If an applicable election year is a partnership's or S corporation's first year in existence (*i.e.,* the partnership or S corporation is newly formed and therefore does not have a base year), the required payment for such applicable election year is zero.


(ii) *Applicable election years ending prior to the required taxable year.* If a partnership or S corporation makes a section 444 election and the resulting applicable election year (the “first applicable election year”) of the partnership or S corporation ends prior to the last day of the required year, the required payment for the first applicable election year is zero. See example (5) in paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section.


(5) *Net base year income*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section (relating to short base years), the net base year income of a partnership or S corporation is the sum of—


(A) The deferral ratio multiplied by the partnership's or S corporation's net income for the base year, plus


(B) The excess (if any) of—


(*1*) The deferral ratio multiplied by the aggregate amount of applicable payments made by the partnership or S corporation during the base year, over


(*2*) The aggregate amount of such applicable payments made during the deferral period of the base year.


(ii) *Partnership net income.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section—


(A) *In general.* The net income of the partnership is the amount (not below zero) determined by taking into account the aggregate amount of the partnership's items described in section 702(a), except for—


(*1*) Credits,


(*2*) Tax-exempt income, and


(*3*) Guaranteed payments under section 707(c).


(B) *Treatment of deductions and losses.* For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of partnership items, deductions and losses are treated as negative income. Thus, for example, if under section 702(a) a partnership has $1,000 of ordinary taxable income, $500 of specially allocated deductions, and $300 of capital loss, the net income of the partnership is $200 ($1,000-$500-$300).


(C) *Partner limitations disregarded.* Any limitation on the amount of a partnership item described in section 702(a) which may be taken into account for purposes of computing the taxable income of a partner shall be disregarded in computing the net income of the partnership.


(iii) *S corporation net income.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section—


(A) *In general.* The net income of an S corporation is the amount (not below zero) determined by taking into account the aggregate amount of the S corporation's items described in section 1366(a) (other than credits and tax-exempt income). If the S corporation was a C corporation for the base year, the taxable income of the C corporation shall be treated as the net income of the S corporation for such year.


(B) *Treatment of deductions and losses.* For purposes of determining the aggregate amount of S corporation items, deductions and losses are treated as negative income. Thus, for example, if under section 1366(a) an S corporation has $2,000 of ordinary taxable income, $1,000 of deductions described in section 1366(a)(1)(A) of the Code, and $500 of capital loss, the net income of the S corporation is $500 ($2,000-$1,000-$500).


(C) *Shareholder limitations disregarded.* Any limitation on any amount described in section 1366(a) which may be taken into account for purposes of computing the taxable income of a shareholder shall be disregarded in computing the net income of the S corporation.


(iv) *Applicable payments*—(A) *In general.* The term *applicable payment* means any amount deductible in the base year that is includable at any time, directly or indirectly, in the gross income of a taxpayer that during the base year is a partner or shareholder.


(B) *Exceptions.* The term *applicable payment* does not include any guaranteed payments under section 707(c).


(C) *Special rule for corporation electing S status.* If an S corporation was a C corporation for the base year, the corporation shall be treated as if it were an S corporation for the base year for purposes of determining the amount of applicable payments under this section. Thus, amounts deductible by the C corporation in the base year that are includable at any time in the gross income of a taxpayer that is a shareholder during the base year are treated as if from an S corporation, and therefore within the meaning of the term “applicable payments.”


(D) *Special rules for certain payments*—(*1*) *Certain indirect payments.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, an amount is indirectly includable in the gross income of a partner or shareholder of a partnership or S corporation that has a section 444 election in effect (an electing partnership or S corporation) if the amount is includable in the gross income of—


(*i*) The spouse (other than a spouse who is legally separated from the partner or shareholder under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance) or child (under age 14) of such partner or shareholder, or


(*ii*) A corporation more than 50 percent (measured by fair market value) of which is owned in the aggregate by partners or shareholders (and individuals related under paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(D)(*1*)(*i*) of this section to any such partners or shareholders), of the electing partnership or S corporation, or


(*iii*) A partnership more than 50 percent of the profits and capital of which is owned in the aggregate by partners or shareholders (and individuals related under paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(D)(*1*)(*i*) of this section to any such partners or shareholders) of the electing partnership or S corporation, or


(*iv*) A trust more than 50 percent of the beneficial ownership of which is owned in the aggregate by partners or shareholders (and individuals related under paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(D)(*1*)(*i*) of this section to any such partners or shareholders), of the electing partnership or S corporation.


(*2*) *Payments by a downstream controlled partnership*—(*i*) *In general.* If a partnership or S corporation has made a section 444 election, any amounts deducted by a downstream controlled partnership will be considered deducted by the partnership or S corporation that has made the section 444 election for purposes of determining the applicable payments of the partnership or S corporation that has made the section 444 election.


(*ii*) *Definition of a downstream controlled partnership.* If a partnership or S corporation that has made a section 444 election owns more than 50 percent of a partnership's profits and capital, such owned partnership is considered a downstream controlled partnership for purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(D)(*2*)(*i*) of this section. Furthermore, if more than 50 percent of a partnership's profits and capital are owned by a downstream controlled partnership, such owned partnership is considered a downstream controlled partnership for purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(D)(*2*)(*i*) of this section.


(*3*) *Examples.* The provisions of this paragraph (b)(5)(iv)(D) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(v) *Special rule for base year of less than twelve months*—(A) *In general.* If a base year is a taxable year of less than twelve months (a “short base year”), net base year income for such year is an amount equal to the excess, if any, of—


(*1*) The deferral ratio multiplied by the annualized short base year income, over


(*2*) Applicable payments made during the deferral period of the applicable election year following the base year.


(B) *Annualized short base year income.* The annualized short base year income is determined by—


(*1*) Increasing the net income for the short base year by applicable payments deductible in the short base year, and


(*2*) Multiplying the short base year income as increased in paragraph (b)(5)(v)(B)(*1*) of this section by twelve, and dividing the result by the number of months in the short base year.


(vi) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (b)(5) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.


(c) *Refunds of required payments.* A partnership of S corporation is entitled to make a claim for refund, in accordance with the procedures provided in § 1.7519-2T(a)(6), if—


(1) The amount specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is less than the amount specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section; or


(2) The partnership or S corporation terminates its section 444 election, within the meaning of § 1.444-1T(a)(5).


(d) *Example.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.



---

[N] [T.D. 8205, 53 FR 19706, May 27, 1988]




