# § 751.317   Workplace requirements for energized electrical cleaner.

(a) *Applicability.* The provisions of this section apply to the industrial and commercial use of TCE in energized electrical cleaner.


(b) *Energized electrical cleaner requirements—(1) Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).* (i) The provisions of this paragraph (b) apply after September 15, 2025.


(ii) Owners or operators must ensure that all potentially exposed persons using TCE, including any TCE-containing products, are provided with dermal PPE and training on proper use of PPE as outlined in § 751.315(e)(2).


(iii) Owners or operators must ensure that all persons using TCE, including any TCE containing products, are provided with respiratory PPE and training on proper use of PPE in accordance with § 751.315(e)(1), except that instead of selecting appropriate respirators based on monitoring results pursuant to paragraph (e)(1)(ix), owners or operators must select from and provide the following types of respirators: any NIOSH Approved air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with organic vapor cartridges or canisters; any NIOSH Approved Powered Air-Purifying Respirator (PAPR) with a half mask equipped with organic vapor cartridges or canisters; any NIOSH Approved Supplied-Air Respirator (SAR) or Airline Respirator in a continuous flow mode equipped with a half mask; any NIOSH Approved Supplied-Air Respirator (SAR) or Airline Respirator operated in a pressure-demand or other positive-pressure mode with a half mask; any NIOSH Approved SCBA in demand-mode equipped with a full facepiece or helmet/hood [APF 50]; or any respirator affording a higher degree of protection.


(2) *Alternative to PPE Requirements.* (i) As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator may choose to follow the Workplace Chemical Protection Program (WCPP) provisions in § 751.315.


(ii) Owners or operators who choose to follow the WCPP as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must:


(A) Document and maintain a statement that they are electing to comply with the WCPP.


(B) Comply with the WCPP provisions in § 751.315 and document compliance in accordance with § 751.323(b).






