# § 141.62   Place and time of filing.

(a) *Place.* An application for immediate delivery and entry, entry summary, or withdrawal documentation shall be filed at the customhouse or at any other Customs location approved by the director of the port where the merchandise is to be or has been released. 


(b) *Time*—(1) *Normal business hours.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an application for immediate delivery or entry documentation shall be filed when the customhouse is open for the general transaction of business, or when Customs has established a regular tour of duty in accordance with § 101.6(f) of this chapter. 


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, entry summary or withdrawal documentation shall be filed when the customhouse is open for the general transaction of business, as provided in § 101.6 of this chapter. 


(2) *Overtime services*—(i) *Generally.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, an application for immediate delivery or entry documentation may be filed when the customhouse is not open for the general transaction of Customs business and no regular tour of duty has been established; and entry summary or withdrawal documentation may be filed when the customhouse is not open for the general transaction of business, if:


(A) The person desiring to transact business has applied for and received authorization for overtime services on a reimbursable basis, as provided for in § 24.16 of this chapter, and 


(B) Overtime services of Customs officers are available. 


(ii) *Quota-class merchandise.* Overtime shall not be authorized for the presentation of entry summary documentation which serves as both the entry and entry summary or withdrawal documentation, for quota-class merchandise without Headquarters authorization. If Headquarters authorization is granted, the time of delivery of the entry summary or withdrawal documentation, with the estimated duties attached, or without the estimated duties attached, if the entry/entry summary information and a scheduled statement date have been successfully received by Customs via the Automated Broker Interface, shall be the time of presentation for quota purposes. However, if an entry summary or withdrawal for quota-class merchandise is delivered inadvertently during overtime hours without Headquarters authorization, the time of presentation for quota purposes shall be the opening of business on the next business day.



---

[N] [T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46818, Aug. 9, 1979, as amended by T.D. 89-104, 54 FR 50498, Dec. 7, 1989] 




