# § 205.242   Transport and slaughter.

(a) *Transportation.* (1) Certified organic livestock must be clearly identified as organic, and this identity must be traceable for the duration of transport.


(2) All livestock must be fit for transport to buyers, auction or slaughter facilities.


(i) Calves must have a dry navel cord and be able to stand and walk without human assistance.


(ii) Seriously crippled and non-ambulatory animals must not be transported for sale or slaughter. Such animals may be medically treated or euthanized.


(3) Adequate and season-appropriate ventilation is required for all livestock trailers, shipping containers, and any other mode of transportation used to protect animals against cold and heat stresses.


(4) During any transport and prior to slaughter, bedding must be provided on trailer floors and in holding pens, as needed, to keep livestock clean, dry, and comfortable. Use of bedding must be appropriate to the species and type of transport. Bedding is not required in poultry crates. When roughages are used for bedding, they must be certified organic.


(5) For transport that exceeds eight hours, measured from the time all animals are loaded onto a vehicle until the vehicle arrives at its final destination, the operation must describe how organic management and animal welfare will be maintained.


(i) The producer or handler of an organic livestock operation, who is responsible for overseeing the transport of organic livestock, must provide records to certifying agents during inspections or upon request that demonstrate that transport times for organic livestock are not detrimental to the welfare of the animals and meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(ii) [Reserved]


(6) Organic producers and handlers, who are responsible for overseeing the transport of organic livestock, must have emergency plans in place that adequately address possible animal welfare problems that might occur during transport.


(b) *Mammalian slaughter.* (1) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic livestock must be in compliance, as determined by FSIS, with the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603(b) and 21 U.S.C. 610(b)), the regulations at 9 CFR part 313 regarding humane handling and slaughter of livestock, and the regulations of 9 CFR part 309 regarding ante-mortem inspection.


(2) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic exotic animals must be in compliance with the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621, *et seq.*), the regulations at 9 CFR parts 313 and 352 regarding the humane handling and slaughter of exotic animals, and the regulations of 9 CFR part 309 regarding ante-mortem inspection.


(3) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic livestock or exotic animals must provide all noncompliance records related to humane handling and slaughter issued by the controlling national, federal, or state authority and all records of subsequent corrective actions to certifying agents during inspections or upon request.


(c) *Avian slaughter.* (1) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic poultry must be in compliance, as determined by FSIS, with the Poultry Products Inspection Act requirements (21 U.S.C. 453(g)(5)); the regulations at paragraph (v) of the definition of “*Adulterated”* in 9 CFR 381.1(b), and 9 CFR 381.90, and 381.65(b)); and applicable FSIS Directives.


(2) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic poultry must provide all noncompliance records related to the use of good commercial practices in connection with slaughter issued by the controlling national, federal, or state authority and all records of subsequent corrective actions to the certifying agent at inspection or upon request.


(3) Producers and handlers who slaughter organic poultry, but are exempt from or not covered by the requirements of the Poultry Products Inspection Act, must ensure that:


(i) No lame birds may be shackled, hung, or carried by their legs;


(ii) All birds shackled on a chain or automated system must be stunned prior to exsanguination, with the exception of religious slaughter; and


(iii) All birds must be irreversibly insensible prior to being placed in the scalding tank.



---

[N] [88 FR 75446, Nov. 6, 2023; 88 FR 86259, Dec. 13, 2023; 88 FR 89539, Dec. 28, 2023]








