# ยง 4274.340   Application content and submittal.

Intermediaries seeking to participate in the IRP program must submit an application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. Intermediaries applying for a subsequent Agency IRP loan may instead submit a streamlined application in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. All intermediaries must submit their applications as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(a) *Intermediary application content.* A complete application will include forms as requested in the intermediary application checklist guide available on the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website plus information identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (12) of this section.


(1) A work plan/narrative that demonstrates the feasibility of the intermediary's program to meet the objectives of this program. The work plan must include, at a minimum:


(i) A copy of the intermediary's policy and/or procedural manuals to assure the Agency that its mission and goals align with that of the Agency (*i.e.,* economic development, promoting rural America, regional and community development.)


(ii) Document the intermediary staff's ability in administering an IRP revolving loan fund. This includes but is not limited to providing a complete listing of all personnel responsible for administering this program along with a statement of their qualifications and experience. Their qualifications should detail their experience in loan making, loan monitoring, and loan servicing including liquidations. The personnel may be either members or employees of the intermediary's organization or on an as-needed basis and as allowed by this regulation, contracted personnel.


(A) Contract personnel may be used to train, develop, or supervise the intermediary's members or employees or to provide interim expertise while the intermediary develops relevant in-house experience. The intermediary may contract for general services, such as clerical, administrative, and accounting services, and loan packaging.


(B) The intermediary cannot use contract personnel for the primary functions of its lending program, such as credit analysis and loan underwriting. The intermediary is expected to make an independent lending decision for each ultimate recipient loan request.


(*1*) The contract between the intermediary and the person or entity providing such service must be submitted for Agency review.


(*2*) The terms of the contract and its duration must be sufficient to develop in-house expertise and to ensure the Agency loan is adequately serviced throughout its term. The contract must provide for termination at the request of the Agency whether or not for cause.


(C) If the Agency determines the intermediary's personnel lack the necessary expertise to administer the program, the loan request will not be approved;


(iii) Demonstrate a need for loan funds. At a minimum, the intermediary must either positively identify a sufficient number of proposed and known ultimate recipients it has on hand to justify the level of Agency funding of its loan request, or include well developed targeting criteria for ultimate recipients consistent with the intermediary's mission and strategy for the IRP, along with supporting statistical or narrative evidence that such prospective recipients exist in sufficient numbers to justify Agency funding of the loan request;


(iv) Provide a set of goals, strategies, and anticipated outcomes for the intermediary's program. Outcomes should be expressed in quantitative or observable terms (*e.g.,* jobs created for low-income area residents or self-empowerment opportunities funded) and should relate to the purpose of IRP (*see* ยง 4274.301(b)); and


(v) Provide specific information as to whether and how the intermediary will ensure that technical assistance is made available to ultimate recipients and potential ultimate recipients. Describe the qualifications of the technical assistance providers, the nature of technical assistance that will be available, and expected and committed sources of funding for technical assistance. If other than the intermediary itself, describe the organizations providing such assistance and the arrangements between such organizations and the intermediary.


(2) Demonstrate the sustainability of the IRP revolving loan fund by providing a pro forma balance sheet at start-up and projected balance sheets for at least three additional years including the accumulated debt service reserve; financial statements for the last three years, or from inception of the operations of the intermediary if less than three years; and projected cash flow and earnings statements for at least three years supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. The projected earnings statement and balance sheet must include one set of projections that shows the IRP revolving loan fund only and a separate set of projections that shows the intermediary organization's total operations. Also, if principal repayment on the IRP loan will not be scheduled during the first three years, the projections for the IRP revolving loan fund must extend to include at least one year with a full annual installment on the IRP loan.


(3) Provide documentation of any funds pledged and intermediary equity contribution that will be contributed into the IRP revolving loan fund to serve as security for the IRP loan and to pay for part of the cost of the ultimate recipient projects. Pledged funds and intermediary equity contribution must be in the form of cash and cannot be in-kind contributions; they also cannot be used as intermediary operating funds.


(4) A written agreement of the intermediary to abide with the Agency audit requirements.


(5) Complete organizational documents including: Articles of Incorporation (initial loan only), Bylaws, Certificate of Good Standing, a list of board members with contact and lending experience information, and evidence of authority to conduct the proposed lending activities (this could be satisfied with a statement from the intermediary's counsel).


(6) Document the intermediary's ability to commit financial resources under the control of the intermediary to the establishment of an IRP program. This should include a statement of the sources of non-Agency funds for administration of the intermediary's operations and financial assistance for projects.


(7) Demonstrate to Agency satisfaction that the intermediary has secured commitments of significant financial support from public agencies and private organizations.


(8) Provide evidence to Agency satisfaction that the intermediary has a proven record of obtaining private or philanthropic funds for the operation of similar programs to the IRP.


(9) Latest audit report, if available.


(10) The IRP revolving loan fund plan is a separate stand-alone document from the application and may be revised in the future. The IRP revolving loan fund plan governs the use of the RLF and must be developed by the intermediary and approved by the Agency. The plan must include a detailed explanation of the intermediary's fund administration policies and procedures in addition to planned fund use after the original IRP loan funds in the RLF have revolved. Fund administration policies and procedures must also include information regarding the review and approval of loans from the fund, including participation loans. The revolving loan fund plan must be of sufficient and detailed information to provide the Agency with a complete understanding of what the intermediary will accomplish by lending the funds to the ultimate recipient and the complete mechanics of how the funds will get from the intermediary to the ultimate recipient, including participation loans. The IRP revolving loan fund plan must contain:


(i) The specific service area of the IRP fund including names of counties and or cities within the service area;


(ii) Borrower eligibility criteria, loan purposes, loan priorities, fees, rates, terms, loan limits and collateral requirements;


(iii) Details on the intermediary's application review and approval process;


(iv) Details on the method of disposition of funds to the ultimate recipient, monitoring of the ultimate recipient's accomplishments, the reporting requirements by the ultimate recipient's management; and


(v) A copy of the intermediary's ultimate recipient loan application package and sample loan documents (*i.e.,* application forms, debt instruments, collateral and security documents, etc.).


(11) Credit Elsewhere Certification (*see* Agency template available at the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website).


(12) Prior to applying for program funding, a resolution by the intermediary's board of directors is required. At a minimum, the executive director of the intermediary must make the organization's board of directors aware of the possibility that the organization may be entering into a significant debt.


(b) *Streamlined applications.* Intermediaries that have an active Agency IRP loan may submit a streamlined application that includes the following:


(1) Submission of the information required under the Intermediary Guide (available at the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website) and paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section except that the information required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be limited to projections for the proposed new IRP revolving loan fund.


(2) A statement that the new loan would be operated in accordance with the work plan on file for the previous IRP loan(s) may be submitted in lieu of a new work plan. Any substantial change to an existing work plan would require the submission of a new work plan.


(3) Intermediaries that have received one or more Agency IRP loans may apply for and be considered for additional Agency IRP loans provided that the outstanding loans of the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund are generally sound, the intermediary is in compliance with all applicable regulations and its loan agreements with the Agency, and the revolving loan fund's liabilities do not significantly exceed their assets. The intermediary must have a reasonable plan to disburse any unused IRP loan funds within six months of loan closing in addition to showing the need for additional IRP funds in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.


(c) *Application submittal.* Intermediaries must submit the complete application in one package. The intermediary must file its application with the Agency State Office in the State in which the intermediary's headquarters is located. An intermediary headquartered in the District of Columbia may file its application with the Delaware/Maryland Rural Development State Office, Attention: Business Programs, 1221 College Park Drive, Suite 200, Dover, DE 19904.






