# ยง 532.235   Conduct of full-scale wage survey.

(a) Wage survey data shall not be collected before the date the survey is ordered by the lead agency.


(b) Data collection for a full-scale wage survey shall be accomplished by personal visit to private sector establishments. With the unanimous consent of the members of a Local Wage Survey Committee, data may also be obtained from a private sector establishment or establishments during a full-scale wage survey by telephone, mail, or electronic means. The following required data shall be collected:


(1) General information about the size, location, and type of product or service of the establishment sufficient to determine whether the establishment is within the scope of the survey and properly weighted, if the survey is a sample survey;


(2) Specific information about each job within the establishment that is similar to one of the jobs covered by the survey, including a brief description of the establishment job, the number of employees in the job, and their rate(s) of pay to the nearest mill (including any cost-of-living adjustments required by contract or that are regular and customary and monetary bonuses that are regular and customary); and 


(3) Any other information the lead agency believes is appropriate and useful in determining local prevailing rates.


(c) The data collectors shall submit the data they collect to the local wage survey committee together with their recommendations about the use of the data.



---

[N] [46 FR 21344, Apr. 10, 1981, as amended at 55 FR 46140, Nov. 1, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 46141, Nov. 1, 1990, as amended at 86 FR 11859, Mar. 1, 2021]




