# ยง 223.1   Definitions.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires:


*Affiliate* of a carrier means a person:


(1) Who controls that carrier, or is controlled by that carrier or by another person who controls or is controlled by that carrier; and


(2) Whose principal business in purpose or in fact is:


(i) The holding of stock in one or more carriers;


(ii) Transportation by air or the sale of tickets therefor;


(iii) The operation of one or more airports, one or more of which are used by that carrier or by another carrier who controls or is controlled by that carrier or that is under common control with that carrier by another person; or


(iv) Activities related to the transportation by air conducted by that carrier or by another carrier that controls or is controlled by that carrier or which is under common control with that carrier by another person.


*Air carrier* means the holder of a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the Department under 49 U.S.C. 41102 authorizing the carriage of persons. This definition is applicable to a holder of a certificate issued by the Civil Aeronautics Board before its sunset in 1984.


*Attendant* means any person required by a passenger with a disability in order to travel, whether or not that person's services are required while the passenger with a disability is in an aircraft.


*Carrier* means:


(1) An air carrier;


(2) An all-cargo air carrier operating under 49 U.S.C. 41102, 41103;


(3) A foreign air carrier;


(4) An intrastate carrier;


(5) An air taxi (including a commuter air carrier) operating under part 294 or 298 of this chapter; and


(6) Any person operating as a common carrier by air, or in the carriage of mail by air, or conducting transportation by air, in a foreign country.


*Delivery flight* means a flight from a point in the United States where a carrier has taken delivery of a newly manufactured aircraft to any point or points on its route system.


*Foreign air carrier* means the holder of a permit issued by the Department under 49 U.S.C. 41302 authorizing the carriage of persons. This definition is applicable to a holder of a certificate issued by the Civil Aeronautics Board before its sunset in 1984.


*Free transportation* means the carriage by an air carrier or foreign air carrier of any person or property (other than property owned by that carrier) in air transportation without compensation therefore.


*Inaugural flight* means a flight on an aircraft type being introduced by a carrier for the first time on a route, even if that aircraft type has been used by that carrier on other routes or on that route by other carriers.


*Passenger with a disability* means any person who has a physical or mental impairment (other than drug addiction or alcoholism), that substantially limits one or more major life activities.


*Pass* means a written authorization, other than actual ticket stock, issued by a carrier for free or reduced-rate transportation of persons or property.


*Reduced-rate transportation* means the carriage by an air carrier or foreign air carrier of any person or property (other than property owned by such carrier) in air transportation for a compensation less than that specified in the tariffs of that carrier on file with the Department and otherwise applicable to such carriage.


*Retired* means:


(1) With respect to carrier directors, officers, and employees, persons receiving retirement benefits from any carrier; and


(2) With respect to the general public, persons not regularly working at a full-time paying job, and not intending to do so in the future.



---

[N] [Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15930, Apr. 16, 2019]




