# ยง 49.4200   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section contains the approved implementation plan for the Northern Cheyenne Tribe, submitted to EPA on September 25, 2017. The plan consists of programs and procedures that cover general and emergency authorities, ambient air quality standards, permitting requirements for open burning, general prohibitory rules, open burning limitations, enforcement authorities, and procedures for administrative appeals and judicial review in Tribal court.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in paragraph (c) of this section was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval, and notice of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(2) EPA Region 8 certifies that the rules/regulations provided by EPA in the TIP compilation at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated tribal rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the Tribal Implementation Plan.


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference may be inspected at the Region 8 Office of EPA at 1595 Wynkoop Street, Denver, CO 80202 or call 303-312-6002; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, MC 2822T, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460 or call 202-566-1742; and the National Archives and Records Administration. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fr.inspection@nara.gov,* or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.* Copies of the Northern Cheyenne TIP regulations we have approved are also available at *http://www.epa.gov/region8/air/sip.html.*

(c) *EPA-approved regulations.*


---

[N] [87 FR 7722, Feb. 10, 2022]




