# § 1033.131   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*Authorized third party* means a third party that has complied with the authorization procedures described in § 1033.401.


*Card issuer* is defined at § 1033.111(c)(2).


*Consensus standard* means a standard that is adopted by a recognized standard setter and that continues to be maintained by that recognized standard setter.


*Consumer* means a natural person. Trusts established for tax or estate planning purposes are considered natural persons for purposes of this definition. *Consumer* also includes guardians, trustees, custodians, or other similar natural persons acting on behalf of a consumer pursuant to State law.


*Consumer interface* means an interface through which a data provider receives requests for covered data and makes available covered data in an electronic form usable by consumers in response to the requests.


*Covered consumer financial product or service* is defined at § 1033.111(b).


*Covered data* is defined at § 1033.211.


*Data aggregator* means a person that is retained by and provides services to the authorized third party to enable access to covered data.


*Data provider* is defined at § 1033.111(c).


*Depository institution* means any depository institution as defined by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1), or any credit union as defined by 12 CFR 700.2.


*Developer interface* means an interface through which a data provider receives requests for covered data and makes available covered data in an electronic form usable by authorized third parties in response to the requests.


*Financial institution* is defined at § 1033.111(c)(1).


*Recognized standard setter* means a standard-setting body that has been recognized by the CFPB under § 1033.141.


*Regulation E account* is defined at § 1033.111(b)(1).


*Regulation Z credit card* is defined at § 1033.111(b)(2).


*Third party* means any person that is not the consumer about whom the covered data pertains or the data provider that controls or possesses the consumer's covered data.






