# § 431.105   Materials incorporated by reference.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subpart with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the DOE must publish a document in the _Federal Register_ and the material must be available to the public. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at DOE and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact DOE at: the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Building Technologies Program, 1000 Independence Avenue SW, EE-5B, Washington, DC 20024, (202) 586-9127, *Buildings@ee.doe.gov, www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/building-technologies-office.* For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email: *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the sources in the following paragraphs of this section.




(b) *ASHRAE.* American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, 1791 Tullie Circle NE. Atlanta, GA 30329, (800) 527-4723, or go to *https://www.ashrae.org.*

(1) ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 118.1-2012, “Method of Testing for Rating Commercial Gas, Electric, and Oil Service Water-Heating Equipment,” approved by ASHRAE on October 26, 2012, IBR approved for appendix E to this subpart, as follows:


(i) Section 3—Definitions and Symbols;


(ii) Section 4—Classifications by Mode of Operation (sections 4.4, and 4.5 only);


(iii) Section 6—Instruments (except sections 6.3, 6.4 and 6.6);


(iv) Section 7—Apparatus (except section 7.4, Figures 1 through 4, section 7.7.5, Table 2, and section 7.7.7.4);


(v) Section 8—Methods of Testing:


(A) Section 8.2—Energy Supply, Section 8.2.1—Electrical Supply;


(B) Section 8.7—Water Temperature Control;


(vi) Section 9—Test Procedures: 9.1—Input Rating, Heating Capacity, Thermal Efficiency, Coefficient of Performance (COP), and Recovery Rating; 9.1.1—Full Input Rating;


(vii) Section 10—Calculation of Results: Section 10.3—Heat-Pump Water Heater Water-Heating Capacity, Coefficient of Performance (COP), and Recovery Rating; Section 10.3.1—Type IV and Type V Full-Capacity Test Method.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *ASTM.* ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959, (610) 832-9585, or go to *http://www.astm.org.*

(1) ASTM C177-13, “Standard Test Method for Steady-State Heat Flux Measurements and Thermal Transmission Properties by Means of the Guarded-Hot-Plate Apparatus,” approved September 15, 2013, IBR approved for § 431.102.


(2) ASTM C518-15, “Standard Test Method for Steady-State Thermal Transmission Properties by Means of the Heat Flow Meter Apparatus,” approved September 1, 2015, IBR approved for § 431.102t.


(3) ASTM D2156-09 (Reapproved 2013), “Standard Test Method for Smoke Density in Flue Gases from Burning Distillate Fuels,” approved October 1, 2013, IBR approved for appendices A and C to this subpart.


(d) CSA Group, 5060 Spectrum Way, Suite 100, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada L4W 5N6, 800-463-6727, or go to *http://www.csagroup.org/.*

(1) ANSI Z21.10.3-2015 * CSA 4.3-2015 (“ANSI Z21.10.3-2015”), “Gas-fired water heaters, volume III, storage water heaters with input ratings above 75,000 Btu per hour, circulating and instantaneous,” approved by ANSI on October 5, 2015, IBR approved for appendices A, B, and C to this subpart, as follows:


(i) Annex E (normative) Efficiency test procedures—E.1—Method of test for measuring thermal efficiency, paragraph c—Vent requirements; and


(ii) Annex E (normative) Efficiency test procedures—E.1—Method of test for measuring thermal efficiency, paragraph f—Installation of temperature sensing means.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [77 FR 28996, May 16, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 79322, Nov. 10, 2016; 88 FR 69821, Oct. 6, 2023]




