# ยง 1213.4   Complaints and appeals from a regulated entity or the Office of Finance.

(a) *Complaints.* (1) *General.* Any regulated entity or the Office of Finance may submit a complaint in accordance with procedures established by the Ombudsman.


(2) *Matters subject to complaint.* A regulated entity or the Office of Finance may submit a complaint regarding any matter relating to the regulation and supervision of a regulated entity or the Office of Finance by FHFA that is not subject to appeal or in litigation, arbitration, or mediation. The Ombudsman may further define what matters are subject to complaint.


(b) *Appeals.* (1) *General.* Any regulated entity or the Office of Finance may submit an appeal in accordance with procedures established by the Ombudsman.


(2) *Matters subject to appeal.* A regulated entity or the Office of Finance may submit an appeal regarding any final, written regulatory or supervisory conclusion, decision, or examination rating by FHFA. The Ombudsman may further define what matters are subject to appeal.


(3) *Matters not subject to appeal.* Matters for which there is an existing avenue of appeal or for which there is another forum for appeal; non-final decisions or conclusions; and matters in ongoing litigation, arbitration, or mediation, unless there has been a breakdown in the process, may not be appealed. Matters not subject to appeal include, but are not limited to, appointments of conservators or receivers, preliminary examination conclusions, formal enforcement decisions, formal and informal rulemakings, Freedom of Information Act appeals, final FHFA decisions subject to judicial review, and matters within the jurisdiction of the FHFA Inspector General. The Ombudsman may further define what matters are not subject to appeal.


(4) *Effect of filing an appeal.* An appeal under this section does not excuse a regulated entity or the Office of Finance from complying with any regulatory or supervisory decision while the appeal is pending. However, the Director, upon consideration of a written request, may waive compliance with a regulatory or supervisory decision during the pendency of the appeal.




