# ยง 1.509(a)-7   Reliance by grantors and contributors to section 509(a) (1), (2), and (3) organizations.

(a) *General rule.* Once an organization has received a final ruling or determination letter classifying it as an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3), the treatment of grants and contributions and the status of grantors and contributors to such organization under sections 170, 507, 545(b)(2), 556(b)(2), 642(c), 4942, 4945, 2055, 2106(a)(2), and 2522 will not be affected by reason of a subsequent revocation by the service of the organization's classification as described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3) until the date on which notice of change of status is made to the public (such as by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin) or another applicable date, if any, specified in such public notice. In appropriate cases, however, the treatment of grants and contributions and the status of grantors and contributors to an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3) may be affected pending verification of the continued classification of such organization under section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3). Notice to this affect will be made in a public announcement by the service. In such cases the effect of grants and contributions made after the date of the announcement will depend upon the statutory qualification of the organization as an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3).


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply if the grantor or contributor:


(i) Had knowledge of the revocation of the ruling or determination letter classifying the organization as an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3), or


(ii) Was in part responsible for, or was aware of, the act, the failure to act, or the substantial and material change on the part of the organization which gave rise to the revocation of the ruling or determination letter classifying the organization as an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3).


(2) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply where a different rule is otherwise expressly provided in the regulations under sections 170(b)(1)(A), 507(b)(1)(B), or 509.



---

[N] [T.D. 7212, 37 FR 21923, Oct. 17, 1972]




