# § 86.142-90   Records required.

The following information shall be recorded with respect to each test:


(a) Test number.


(b) System or device tested (brief description).


(c) Date and time of day for each part of the test schedule.


(d) Test results. Also include a comparison of drive cycle energy and target cycle energy relative to both inertia and road load forces as specified in 40 CFR 1066.425 for each drive cycle or test phase, as appropriate.


(e) Driver and equipment operator IDs.


(f) *Vehicle.* ID number, manufacturer, model year, standards, engine family, evaporative emissions family, basic engine description (including displacement, number of cylinders, turbo-/supercharger used, and catalyst usage), fuel system (including number of carburetors, number of carburetor barrels, fuel injection type, and fuel tank(s) capacity and location), engine code, gross vehicle weight rating, inertia weight class, actual curb weight at zero miles, actual road load at 50 mph (80 kph), transmission configuration, axle ratio, car line, system miles, idle rpm, and drive wheel tire pressure, as applicable.


(g) *Dynamometer.* Dynamometer ID, inertia weight setting, indicated power absorption setting, records to verify compliance with the vehicle speed versus time requirements of the test, and driving distance for each of the three phases of the test, calculated from the measured roll or shaft revolutions.


(h) *Gas analyzers.* Analyzer bench ID, analyzer ranges, recordings of analyzer output during zero, span, and sample readings.


(i) Recorder charts: Test number, date, vehicle ID, operator ID, and identification of the measurements recorded.


(j) Test cell barometric pressure, ambient temperature, and humidity.


(k) *Temperatures.* Records to verify compliance with the ambient temperature requirements throughout the test procedure and recordings of vehicle fuel temperature(s) during the diurnal test and of the enclosure temperatures during the diurnal and hot soak tests.


(l) *CFV-CVS.* Total dilute exhaust volume (Vmix) for each phase of the exhaust test.


(m) *PDP-CVS.* Test measurements required to calculate the Vmix. Total dilute exhaust volume (Vmix) for each phase of the exhaust test.


(n) The humidity of the dilution air.


(o) *Additional records required for diesel vehicles.* (1) Pressure and temperature of the dilute exhaust mixture (and background air if sampled) at the inlet to the gas meter used for particulate sampling.


(2) The temperature of the dilute exhaust mixture inside the dilution tunnel near the inlet of the particulate probe.


(3) The temperature of the gas flowing in the heated sample line before the heated filter, and also before the HFID, and the temperature of the control system of the heated hydrocarbon detector.


(4) Gas meter or flow measurement instrumentation readings at the start of each sample period and at the end of each sample period.


(5) The stabilized pre-test weight and post-test weight of each particulate sample and back-up filter.


(6) Continuous temperature and humidity recording of the ambient air in which the particulate filters were stabilized.


(p) *Additional required records for methanol-fueled vehicles.* (1) Specification of the methanol-fuel or methanol-fuel mixtures used during the test.


(2) Volume of sample passed through the methanol sampling system and the volume of deionized water in each impinger.


(3) The concentration of the GC analyses of the test samples (methanol).


(4) Volume of sample passed through the formaldehyde sampling system and the volume of DNPH solution used.


(5) The concentration of the HPLC analysis of the test sample (formaldehyde). 


(6) The temperatures of the sample lines before the HFID and the impinger, the temperature of the exhaust transfer duct (as applicable), and the temperature of the control system of the heated hydrocarbon detector.


(7) A continuous measurement of the dew point of the raw and diluted exhaust. This requirement may be omitted if the temperatures of all heated lines are kept above 220 °F, or if the manufacturer performs an engineering analysis demonstrating that the temperature of the heated systems remains above the maximum dew point of the gas stream throughout the course of the test.


(q) *Additional required records for natural gas-fueled vehicles.* Composition, including all carbon containing compounds; e.g. CO_2_, of the natural gas-fuel used during the test. C_1_ and C_2_ compounds shall be individually reported. C_3_ and heavier hydrocarbons, and C_6_ and heavier compounds may be reported as a group.


(r) *Additional required records for liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles.* Composition of the liquefied petroleum gas-fuel used during the test. Each hydrocarbon compound present, through C_4_ compounds, shall be individually reported. C_5_ and heavier hydrocarbons may be reported as a group.



---

[N] [54 FR 14533, Apr. 11, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 58422, Nov. 1, 1993; 59 FR 48510, Sept. 21, 1994; 60 FR 34348, June 30, 1995; 79 FR 23697, Apr. 28, 2014]




