# § 98.444   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) *CO*_2_*received.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you must determine the quarterly flow rate of CO_2_ received by pipeline by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:


(i) You may measure flow rate at the receiving custody transfer meter prior to any subsequent processing operations at the facility and collect the flow rate quarterly.


(ii) If you took ownership of the CO_2_ in a commercial transaction, you may use the quarterly flow rate data from the sales contract if it is a one-time transaction or from invoices or manifests if it is an ongoing commercial transaction with discrete shipments.


(iii) If you inject CO_2_ received from a production process unit that is part of your facility, you may use the quarterly CO_2_ flow rate that was measured at the equivalent of a custody transfer meter following procedures provided in subpart PP of this part. To be the equivalent of a custody transfer meter, a meter must measure the flow of CO_2_ being transported to an injection well to the same degree of accuracy as a meter used for commercial transactions.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you must determine the quarterly mass or volume of contents in all containers if you receive CO_2_ in containers by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:


(i) You may measure the mass of contents of containers summed quarterly using weigh bills, scales, or load cells.


(ii) You may determine the volume of the contents of containers summed quarterly.


(iii) If you took ownership of the CO_2_ in a commercial transaction, you may use the quarterly mass or volume of contents from the sales contract if it is a one-time transaction or from invoices or manifests if it is an ongoing commercial transaction with discrete shipments.


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you must determine a quarterly concentration of the CO_2_ received that is representative of all CO_2_ received in that quarter by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:


(i) You may sample the CO_2_ stream at least once per quarter at the point of receipt and measure its CO_2_ concentration.


(ii) If you took ownership of the CO_2_ in a commercial transaction for which the sales contract was contingent on CO_2_ concentration, and if the supplier of the CO_2_ sampled the CO_2_ stream in a quarter and measured its concentration per the sales contract terms, you may use the CO_2_ concentration data from the sales contract for that quarter.


(iii) If you inject CO_2_ from a production process unit that is part of your facility, you may report the quarterly CO_2_ concentration of the CO_2_ stream supplied that was measured following the procedures provided in subpart PP of this part.


(4) If the CO_2_ you receive is wholly injected and is not mixed with any other supply of CO_2_, you may report the annual mass of CO_2_ injected that you determined following the requirements under paragraph (b) of this section as the total annual mass of CO_2_ received instead of using Equation RR-1 or RR-2 of this subpart to calculate CO_2_ received.


(5) You must assume that the CO_2_ you receive meets the definition of a CO_2_ stream unless you can trace it through written records to a source other than a CO_2_ stream.


(b) *CO*_2_*injected.* (1) You must select a point or points of measurement at which the CO_2_ stream(s) is representative of the CO_2_ stream(s) being injected. You may use as the point or points of measurement the location(s) of the flow meter(s) used to comply with the flow monitoring and reporting provisions in your Underground Injection Control permit.


(2) You must measure flow rate of CO_2_ injected with a flow meter and collect the flow rate quarterly.


(3) You must sample the injected CO_2_ stream at least once per quarter immediately upstream or downstream of the flow meter used to measure flow rate of that CO_2_ stream and measure the CO_2_ concentration of the sample.


(c) *CO*_2_*produced.* (1) The point of measurement for the quantity of CO_2_ produced from oil or other fluid production wells is a flow meter directly downstream of each separator that sends a stream of gas into a recycle or end use system.


(2) You must sample the produced gas stream at least once per quarter immediately upstream or downstream of the flow meter used to measure flow rate of that gas stream and measure the CO_2_ concentration of the sample.


(3) You must measure flow rate of gas produced with a flow meter and collect the flow rate quarterly.


(d) *CO*_2_*emissions from equipment leaks and vented emissions of CO*_2_. If you have equipment located on the surface between the flow meter used to measure injection quantity and the injection wellhead or between the flow meter used to measure production quantity and the production wellhead, you must follow the monitoring and QA/QC requirements specified in subpart W of this part for the equipment.


(e) *Measurement devices.* (1) All flow meters must be operated continuously except as necessary for maintenance and calibration.


(2) You must calibrate all flow meters used to measure quantities reported in § 98.446 according to the calibration and accuracy requirements in § 98.3(i).


(3) You must operate all measurement devices according to one of the following. You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists or an industry standard practice. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Gas Association (AGA), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB).


(4) You must ensure that any flow meter calibrations performed are National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable.


(f) *General.* (1) If you measure the concentration of any CO_2_ quantity for reporting, you must measure according to one of the following. You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists or an industry standard practice.


(2) You must convert all measured volumes of CO_2_ to the following standard industry temperature and pressure conditions for use in Equations RR-2, RR-5 and RR-8 of this subpart: Standard cubic meters at a temperature of 60 degrees Fahrenheit and at an absolute pressure of 1 atmosphere.


(3) For 2011, you may follow the provisions of § 98.3(d)(1) through (2) for best available monitoring methods only for parameters required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 98.443 rather than follow the monitoring requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. For purposes of this subpart, any reference to the year 2010 in § 98.3(d)(1) through (2) shall mean 2011.



---

[N] [75 FR 75078, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73906, Nov. 29, 2011]




