# ยง 1.501(c)(19)-1   War veterans organizations.

(a) *In general.* (1) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969, a veterans post or organization which is organized in the United States or any of its possessions may be exempt as an organization described in section 501(c)(19) if the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are met and if no part of its net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. Paragraph (b) of this section contains the membership requirements such a post or organization must meet in order to qualify under section 501(c)(19). Paragraph (c) of this section outlines the purposes, at least one of which such a post or organization must have in order to so qualify.


(2) In addition, an auxiliary unit or society described in paragraph (d) of this section of such a veterans post or organization and a trust or foundation described in paragraph (e) of this section for such post or organization may be exempt as an organization described in section 501(c)(19).


(b) *Membership requirements.* (1) In order to be described in section 501(c)(19) under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an organization must meet the membership requirements of section 501(c)(19)(B) and this paragraph. There are two requirements that must be met under this paragraph. The first requirement is that at least 75 percent of the members of the organization must be war veterans. For purposes of this section the term *war veterans* means persons, whether or not present members of the United States Armed Forces, who have served in the Armed Forces of the United States during a period of war (including the Korean and Vietnam conflicts).


(2) The second requirement of this paragraph is that at least 97.5 percent of all members of the organization must be described in one or more of the following categories:


(i) War veterans,


(ii) Present or former members of the United States Armed Forces,


(iii) Cadets (including only students in college or university ROTC programs or at Armed Services academies), or


(iv) Spouses, widows, or widowers of individuals referred to in paragraph (b)(2) (i), (ii) or (iii) of this section.


(c) *Exempt purposes.* In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section, in order to be described in section 501(c)(19) under paragraph (a)(1) of this section an organization must be operated exclusively for one or more of the following purposes:


(1) To promote the social welfare of the community as defined in ยง 1.501(c)(4)-1(a)(2).


(2) To assist disabled and needy war veterans and members of the United States Armed Forces and their dependents, and the widows and orphans of deceased veterans,


(3) To provide entertainment, care, and assistance to hospitalized veterans or members of the Armed Forces of the United States,


(4) To carry on programs to perpetuate the memory of deceased veterans and members of the Armed Forces and to comfort their survivors,


(5) To conduct programs for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes,


(6) To sponsor or participate in activities of a patriotic nature,


(7) To provide insurance benefits for their members or dependents of their members or both, or


(8) To provide social and recreational activities for their members.


(d) *Auxiliary units or societies for war veterans organizations.* A unit or society may be exempt as an organization described in section 501(c)(19) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section if it is an auxiliary unit or society of a post or organization of war veterans described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A unit or society is an auxiliary unit or society or such a post or organization if it meets the following requirements:


(1) It is affiliated with, and organized in accordance with, the bylaws and regulations formulated by an organization described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section,


(2) At least 75 percent of its members are either war veterans, or spouses of war veterans, or are related to a war veteran within two degrees of consanguinity (i.e., grandparent, brother, sister, grandchild, represent the most distant allowable relationships),


(3) All of its members are either members of an organization described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or spouses of a member of such an organization or are related to a member of such an organization, within two degrees of consanguinity, and


(4) No part of its net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.


(e) *Trusts or foundations.* A trust or foundation may be exempt as an organization described in section 501(c)(19) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section if it is a trust or foundation for a post or organization of war veterans described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A trust or foundation is a trust or foundation for such a post or organization if it meets the following requirements:


(1) The trust or foundation is in existence under local law and, if organized for charitable purposes, has a dissolution provision described in ยง 1.501(c)(3)-1(b)(4).


(2) The corpus or income cannot be diverted or used other than for the funding of a post or organization of war veterans described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for section 170(c)(4) purposes, or as an insurance set aside (as defined in ยง 1.512(a)-4(b)).


(3) The trust income is not unreasonably accumulated and, if the trust or foundation is not an insurance set aside, a substantial portion of the income is in fact distributed to such post or organization or for section 170(c)(4) charitable purposes, and


(4) It is organized exclusively for one or more of those purposes enumerated in paragraph (c) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 7438, 41 FR 44392, Oct. 8, 1976]




