# ยง 35.1135   Eligible costs.

A PHA may use financial assistance received under the modernization program (CIAP or CGP) for the notice, evaluation and reduction of lead-based paint hazards in accordance with ยง 968.112 of this title. Eligible costs include:


(a) *Evaluation and insurance costs.* Evaluation and hazard reduction activities, and costs for insurance coverage associated with these activities.


(b) *Planning costs.* Planning costs are costs that are incurred before HUD approval of the CGP or CIAP application and that are related to developing the CIAP application or carrying out eligible modernization planning, such as planning for abatement, detailed design work, preparation of solicitations, and evaluation. Planning costs may be funded as a single work item. Planning costs shall not exceed 5 percent of the CIAP funds available to a HUD Field Office in a particular fiscal year.


(c) *Architectural/engineering and consultant fees.* Eligible costs include fees for planning, identification of needs, detailed design work, preparation of construction and bid documents and other required documents, evaluation, planning and design for abatement, and inspection of work in progress.


(d) *Elevated blood lead level response costs.* The PHA may use its operating reserves and, when necessary, may request reimbursement from the current fiscal year CIAP funds, or request the reprogramming of previously approved CIAP funds to cover the costs of evaluation and hazard reduction.



---

[N] [64 FR 50215, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 4170, Jan. 13, 2017]




