# § 63.127   Transfer operations provisions—monitoring requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a Group 1 transfer rack equipped with a combustion device used to comply with the 98 percent total organic hazardous air pollutants reduction or 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration requirements in § 63.126(b)(1) of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturers' specifications (or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately) the monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of this section, as appropriate.


(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.


(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.




(2) Where a flare is used, except as specified in § 63.108(a), a device (including but not limited to a thermocouple, infrared sensor, or an ultra-violet beam sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame is required.




(3) Where a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity less than 44 megawatts is used, a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with the primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from this requirement.


(4) Where a scrubber is used with an incinerator, boiler, or process heater in the case of halogenated vent streams, the following monitoring equipment is required for the scrubber:


(i) A pH monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be installed to monitor the pH of the scrubber effluent.


(ii) A flow meter equipped with a continuous recorder shall be located at the scrubber influent for liquid flow. Gas stream flow shall be determined using one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (a)(4)(ii)(C) of this section. 


(A) The owner or operator may determine gas stream flow using the design blower capacity, with appropriate adjustments for pressure drop. 


(B) If the scrubber is subject to regulations in 40 CFR parts 264 through 266 that have required a determination of the liquid to gas (L/G) ratio prior to the applicable compliance date for this subpart specified in § 63.100(k) of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator may determine gas stream flow by the method that had been utilized to comply with those regulations. A determination that was conducted prior to the compliance date for this subpart may be utilized to comply with this subpart if it is still representative. 


(C) The owner or operator may prepare and implement a gas stream flow determination plan that documents an appropriate method which will be used to determine the gas stream flow. The plan shall require determination of gas stream flow by a method which will at least provide a value for either a representative or the highest gas stream flow anticipated in the scrubber during representative operating conditions other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions. The plan shall include a description of the methodology to be followed and an explanation of how the selected methodology will reliably determine the gas stream flow, and a description of the records that will be maintained to document the determination of gas stream flow. The owner or operator shall maintain the plan as specified in § 63.103(c). For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, the phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” in this paragraph no longer applies.




(b) Each owner or operator of a Group 1 transfer rack that uses a recovery device or recapture device to comply with the 98-percent organic hazardous air pollutants reduction or 20 parts per million by volume hazardous air pollutants concentration requirements in § 63.126(b)(1) of this subpart shall install either an organic monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder, or the monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section, depending on the type of recovery device or recapture device used. All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately. 


(1) Where an absorber is used, a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be used; and a specific gravity monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be used.


(2) Where a condenser is used, a condenser exit (product side) temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be used.


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, where a carbon adsorber is used, an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent or better, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass flow for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the temperature of the carbon bed after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle shall be used.


(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), if the owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then the owner or operator must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.


(ii) Monitor the HAP or total organic compound (TOC) concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section. The owner or operator must measure the concentration of HAP or TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter using methane, propane, isobutylene, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas or Method 25A of part 60, appendix A-7, using methane, propane, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas.


(iii) Comply with paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.


(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.101, is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph, “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. The owner or operator must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.


(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.












(c) An owner or operator of a Group 1 transfer rack may request approval to monitor parameters other than those listed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) or § 63.152(e) of this subpart. Approval shall be requested if the owner or operator: 


(1) Seeks to demonstrate compliance with the standards specified in § 63.126(b) of this subpart with a control device other than an incinerator, boiler, process heater, flare, absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber; or


(2) Uses one of the control devices listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, but seeks to monitor a parameter other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subpart.


(d) The owner or operator of a Group 1 transfer rack using a closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream flow away from the control device used to comply with § 63.126(b) shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) or (2) and (d)(3) of this section. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.


(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.130(b). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere; or


(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.


(i) A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line.


(ii) If a car-seal has been broken or a valve position changed, the owner or operator shall record that the vent stream has been diverted. The car-seal or lock-and-key combination shall be returned to the secured position as soon as practicable but not later than 15 calendar days after the change in position is detected.


(3) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10):


(i) The use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions (subject to the emission standards in § 63.112) to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in this subpart is an emissions standards violation.


(ii) The last sentence in paragraph (d) of this section no longer applies. Instead, the exemptions specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section apply.


(A) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.165(e)(4), equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part are not subject to this paragraph (d).


(B) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (d).




(e) The owner or operator shall establish a range that indicates proper operation of the control device for each parameter monitored under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 63.152(b)(2) of this subpart shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application or amendment.



---

[N] [59 FR 19468, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 2749, Jan. 17, 1997; 89 FR 43197, May 16, 2024]










