# § 142.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, and except as otherwise specifically provided: 


*Act* means the Public Health Service Act. 


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his authorized representative. 


*Agency* means the United States Environmental Protection Agency. 


*Approved State primacy program* consists of those program elements listed in § 142.11(a) that were submitted with the initial State application for primary enforcement authority and approved by the EPA Administrator and all State program revisions thereafter that were approved by the EPA Administrator.


*Contaminant* means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water. 


*Federal agency* means any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States. 


*Indian Tribe* means any Indian Tribe having a Federally recognized governing body carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. 


*Interstate Agency* means an agency of two or more States established by or under an agreement or compact approved by the Congress, or any other agency of two or more States or Indian Tribes having substantial powers or duties pertaining to the control of pollution as determined and approved by the Administrator. 


*Maximum contaminant level* means the maximum permissible level of a contaminant in water which is delivered to the free flowing outlet of the ultimate user of a public water system; except in the case of turbidity where the maximum permissible level is measured at the point of entry to the distribution system. Contaminants added to the water under circumstances controlled by the user, except for those resulting from corrosion of piping and plumbing caused by water quality are excluded from this definition. 


*Municipality* means a city, town, or other public body created by or pursuant to State law, or an Indian Tribe which does not meet the requirements of subpart H of this part. 


*National primary drinking water regulation* means any primary drinking water regulation contained in part 141 of this chapter. 


*Person* means an individual; corporation; company; association; partnership; municipality; or State, federal, or Tribal agency. 


*Primary enforcement responsibility* means the primary responsibility for administration and enforcement of primary drinking water regulations and related requirements applicable to public water systems within a State. 


*Public water system* or *PWS* means a system for the provision to the public of water for human consumption through pipes or, after August 5, 1998, other constructed conveyances, if such system has at least fifteen service connections or regularly serves an average of at least twenty-five individuals daily at least 60 days out of the year. Such term includes:


Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with such system; and any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control which are used primarily in connection with such system. Such term does not include any “special irrigation district.” A public water system is either a “community water system” or a “noncommunity water system” as defined in § 141.2.


*Sanitary survey* means an onsite review of the water source, facilities, equipment, operation and maintenance of a public water system for the purpose of evaluating the adequacy of such source, facilities, equipment, operation and maintenance for producing and distributing safe drinking water. 


*Service connection,* as used in the definition of *public water system,* does not include a connection to a system that delivers water by a constructed conveyance other than a pipe if:


(1) The water is used exclusively for purposes other than residential uses (consisting of drinking, bathing, and cooking, or other similar uses);


(2) The Administrator or the State exercising primary enforcement responsibility for public water systems, determines that alternative water to achieve the equivalent level of public health protection provided by the applicable national primary drinking water regulation is provided for residential or similar uses for drinking and cooking; or


(3) The Administrator or the State exercising primary enforcement responsibility for public water systems, determines that the water provided for residential or similar uses for drinking, cooking, and bathing is centrally treated or treated at the point of entry by the provider, a pass-through entity, or the user to achieve the equivalent level of protection provided by the applicable national primary drinking water regulations.


*Special irrigation district* means an irrigation district in existence prior to May 18, 1994 that provides primarily agricultural service through a piped water system with only incidental residential or similar use where the system or the residential or similar users of the system comply with the exclusion provisions in section 1401(4)(B)(i)(II) or (III).


*State* means one of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or an eligible Indian tribe. 


*State primary drinking water regulation* means a drinking water regulation of a State which is comparable to a national primary drinking water regulation. 


*State program revision* means a change in an approved State primacy program.


*Supplier of water* means any person who owns or operates a public water system. 


*Treatment technique requirement* means a requirement of the national primary drinking water regulations which specifies for a contaminant a specific treatment technique(s) known to the Administrator which leads to a reduction in the level of such contaminant sufficient to comply with the requirements of part 141 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [41 FR 2918, Jan. 20, 1976, as amended at 53 FR 37410, Sept. 26, 1988; 54 FR 52137, Dec. 20, 1989; 59 FR 64344, Dec. 14, 1994; 63 FR 23367, Apr. 28, 1998]




