# § 6.11   Meaning of terms.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, terms have the meanings given in this section. Any other term defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act and used in this part shall have the meaning assigned to it by that Act.


*Act.* The Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.6, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 6, *Tied-House.*

*Brand.* For purposes of administering this part, the term “brand” refers to differences in the brand name of a product or in the nature of a product. Examples of different brands are products having a different brand name or class, type, or kind designation; appellation of origin (wine); vintage date (wine); age (distilled spirits); or percentage of alcohol. Differences in packaging such as difference in label design or color, or a different style, type or size of container are not considered different brands.


*Equipment.* All functional items such as tap boxes, glassware, pouring racks, and similar items used in the conduct of a retailer's business.


*Industry member.* Any person engaged in business as a distiller, brewer, rectifier, blender, or other producer, or as an importer or wholesaler, of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, or as a bottler, or warehousemen and bottler, of distilled spirits; industry member does not include an agency of a State or political subdivision thereof, or an officer or employee of such agency.


*Product.* Distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, as defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Retail establishment.* Any premises where distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages are sold or offered for sale to consumers, whether for consumption on or off the premises where sold.


*Retailer.* Any person engaged in the sale of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages to consumers. A wholesaler who makes incidental retail sales representing less than five percent of the wholesaler's total sales volume for the preceding two-month period shall not be considered a retailer with respect to such incidental sales.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-74, 45 FR 63251, Sept. 23, 1980, as amended by T.D. ATF-364, 60 FR 20421, Apr. 26, 1995; T.D. ATF-428, 65 FR 52020, Aug. 28, 2000; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16922, Apr. 4, 2006]




