# § 98.445   Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG quantities calculations is required. Whenever the monitoring procedures cannot be followed, you must use the following missing data procedures:


(a) A quarterly flow rate of CO_2_ received that is missing must be estimated as follows:


(1) Another calculation methodology listed in § 98.444(a)(1) must be used if possible.


(2) If another method listed in § 98.444(a)(1) cannot be used, a quarterly flow rate value that is missing must be estimated using a representative flow rate value from the nearest previous time period.


(b) A quarterly mass or volume of contents in containers received that is missing must be estimated as follows:


(1) Another calculation methodology listed in § 98.444(a)(2) must be used if possible.


(2) If another method listed in § 98.444(a)(2) cannot be used, a quarterly mass or volume value that is missing must be estimated using a representative mass or volume value from the nearest previous time period.


(c) A quarterly CO_2_ concentration of a CO_2_ stream received that is missing must be estimated as follows:


(1) Another calculation methodology listed in § 98.444(a)(3) must be used if possible.


(2) If another method listed in § 98.444(a)(3) cannot be used, a quarterly concentration value that is missing must be estimated using a representative concentration value from the nearest previous time period.


(d) A quarterly quantity of CO_2_ injected that is missing must be estimated using a representative quantity of CO_2_ injected from the nearest previous period of time at a similar injection pressure.


(e) For any values associated with CO_2_ emissions from equipment leaks and vented emissions of CO_2_ from surface equipment at the facility that are reported in this subpart, missing data estimation procedures should be followed in accordance with those specified in subpart W of this part.


(f) The quarterly quantity of CO_2_ produced from subsurface geologic formations that is missing must be estimated using a representative quantity of CO_2_ produced from the nearest previous period of time.


(g) You must estimate the mass of CO_2_ emitted by surface leakage that is missing as required by your approved MRV plan.


(h) You must estimate other missing data as required by your approved MRV plan.



---

[N] [75 FR 75078, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73906, Nov. 29, 2011]




