# § 757.5   Assertion of claims and collection procedures.

(a) *General.* The controlling procedures for administrative collection of claims are established in 31 CFR part 901.


(b) *Officials authorized to pursue claims.* The Judge Advocate General; the Deputy Judge Advocate General; any Assistant Judge Advocate General; the Deputy Assistant Judge Advocate General (Claims and Tort Litigation) are authorized to pursue and collect all affirmative claims in favor of the United States, except in countries where another service has single service responsibility in accordance with DoD Directive 5515.8.


(c) *Dollar limitations.* All of the officers listed in § 757.5(b) are authorized to compromise and terminate collection action on affirmative claims of $100,000.00 or less.


(d) *Determining liability.* Liability must be determined in accordance with the law of the place in which the damage occurred, including the applicable traffic laws, elements of tort, and possible defenses.


(e) *Assertion of a claim.* (1) Assertion of the claim is accomplished by mailing to the tortfeasor a “Notice of Claim.” The notice is to be mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, and should include the following information:


(i) Reference to the statutory right to collect;


(ii) A demand for payment or restoration;


(iii) A description of damage and estimate of repair;


(iv) A description of the incident, including date and place; and


(v) The name, phone number, and office address of the claims personnel to contact.


(2) See also 31 CFR part 901.


(f) *Full payment.* When a responsible party or insurer tenders full payment or a compromise settlement on a claim, the payment should be in the form of a check or money order made payable to “United States Treasury.” The check or money order shall then be forwarded to the disbursing officer serving the collecting activity for deposit in accordance with the provisions of the Navy Comptroller Manual. For collections for damages to real property, the collection is credited to the account available for the repair or replacement of the real property at the time of recovery. (10 U.S.C. 2782.) For damages to personal property, the money is returned to the general treasury.


(g) *Installment payments.* See 31 CFR 901.8 for specific procedures. In general, if the debtor is financially unable to pay the debt in one lump sum, an installment payment plan may be arranged. Installment payments will be required on a monthly basis and the size of payment must bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. The installment agreements should specify payments of such size and frequency to liquidate the Government's claim in not more than 3 years. Installment payments of less than $50.00 per month should be accepted only if justified on the grounds of financial hardship or for some other reasonable cause. In all installment arrangements, a confession of judgment note setting out a repayment schedule should be executed.


(h) *Damage to nonappropriated-fund instrumentality (NAFI) property.* Any amount collected for loss or damage to property of a NAFI shall be forwarded to the headquarters of the nonappropriated-fund activity for deposit with that activity. In those situations where the recovery involves damage to both NAFI-owned property and other Government property, e.g., destruction of an exchange building resulting in damage to both the building and the exchange-owned property inside, recovery for the exchange-owned property shall be forwarded to the NAFI. Recovery for building damage shall be deposited in accordance with § 757.5(f) above.


(i) *Damage to industrial-commercial property.* When a loss or cost of repair has been borne by an industrial-commercial activity, payment shall be deposited in the Navy Industrial Fund of the activity in accordance with the provisions of the Navy Comptroller Manual. When a claim is based on a loss or damage sustained by such an activity, a notation to this effect shall be included in any claim file forwarded to the Judge Advocate General.


(j) *Replacement in kind or repair.* The responsible party, or insurer, may want to repair or replace in kind damaged property. The commanding officer or officer in charge of the activity sustaining the loss is authorized to accept repair or replacement if, in his discretion, it is considered to be in the best interests of the United States.


(k) *Release.* The Supervisory Attorney, Tort Claims Unit, Norfolk is authorized to execute a release of the claim when all repairs have been completed to the Government's satisfaction, and when all repair bills have been paid. No prior approval from the Judge Advocate General is required for this procedure. If repair or replacement is made, a notation shall be made in any investigation or claims file.



---

[N] [57 FR 5072, Feb. 12, 1992, as amended at 72 FR 53427, Sept. 19, 2007]




