# 204.7304   Solicitation provisions and contract clauses.

(a) Use the provision at 252.204-7008, Compliance with Safeguarding Covered Defense Information Controls, in all solicitations, including solicitations using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, except for solicitations solely for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) items.


(b) Use the clause at 252.204-7009, Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Third-Party Contractor Reported Cyber Incident Information, in all solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, for services that include support for the Government's activities related to safeguarding covered defense information and cyber incident reporting.


(c) Use the clause at 252.204-7012, Safeguarding Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting, in all solicitations and contracts, including solicitations and contracts using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, except for solicitations and contracts solely for the acquisition of COTS items.


(d) Use the provision at 252.204-7019, Notice of NIST SP 800-171 DoD Assessment Requirements, in all solicitations, including solicitations using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, except for solicitations solely for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) items.


(e) Use the clause at 252.204-7020, NIST SP 800-171 DoD Assessment Requirements, in all solicitations and contracts, task orders, or delivery orders, including those using FAR part 12 procedures for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services, except for those that are solely for the acquisition of COTS items.



---

[N] [80 FR 51743, Aug. 26, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 56929, Sept. 21, 2015; 81 FR 72999, Oct. 21, 2016; 82 FR 61480, Dec. 28, 2017; 85 FR 61519, Sept. 29, 2020; 88 FR 6581, Jan. 31, 2023]




