# ยง 2884.18   What if there are two or more competing applications for the same pipeline?

(a) If there are two or more competing applications for the same pipeline and your application is in:


(1) *Processing Categories 1 through 4.* You must reimburse the Federal Government for processing costs as if the other application or applications had not been filed.


(2) *Processing Category 6.* You are responsible for processing costs identified in your application. If BLM cannot readily separate costs, such as costs associated with preparing environmental analyses, you and any competing applicants must pay an equal share or a proportion agreed to in writing among all applicants and BLM. If you agree to share costs that are common to your application and that of a competing applicant, and the competitor does not pay the agreed upon amount, you are liable for the entire amount due. The applicants must pay the entire processing fee in advance. BLM will not process the application until we receive the advance payments.


(b) *Who determines whether competition exists?* BLM determines whether the applications are compatible in a single right-of-way or are competing applications to build the same pipeline.


(c) If we determine that competition exists, we will describe the procedures for a competitive bid through a bid announcement in the _Federal Register_ and may use other notification methods, such as a newspaper of general circulation or the Internet. We may offer lands through a competitive process on our own initiative.



---

[N] [70 FR 21078, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92227, Dec. 19, 2016]




