# ยง 21.5131   Educational assistance allowance.

(a) *General.* Statements in this section concerning payments of educational assistance allowance assume that the veteran or servicemember:


(1) Is eligible for educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 32;


(2) Has remaining entitlement; and


(3) Has not passed the 10-year delimiting date and any applicable extension to that date. 


(b) *Payment of educational assistance allowance for pursuit of programs of education and other courses.* (1) VA will pay educational assistance allowance at the rate specified in ยง 21.5136 or ยง 21.5138 while the veteran or servicemember is pursuing:


(i) An approved program of education;


(ii) A refresher or deficiency course; or


(iii) Special education or training which is necessary to enable the veteran or servicemember to pursue an approved program of education.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, VA will not pay educational assistance allowance for pursuit of any course unless the course is:


(i) Part of the veteran's or servicemember's program of education;


(ii) A refresher or deficiency course; or


(iii) Special education or training which is necessary to enable the veteran or servicemember to pursue an approved program of education.


(3) VA may withhold a payment until it receives verification or certification of the veteran's or servicemember's continued enrollment and adjusts accordingly the veteran's or servicemember's account. 


(c) *Payment for taking a licensing or certification test.* VA will pay educational assistance allowance to an eligible veteran or servicemember who takes an approved licensing or certification test and applies, in accordance with the provisions of ยง 21.1030(b), for that assistance. VA will not pay educational assistance for a licensing or certification test that neither a State approving agency nor VA has approved. 



---

[N] [72 FR 16978, Apr. 5, 2007]




