# § 415.115   Flight safety.

(a) *Flight safety analysis.* An applicant's safety review document must describe each analysis method employed to meet the flight safety analysis requirements of part 417, subpart C, of this chapter. An applicant's safety review document must demonstrate how each analysis method satisfies the flight safety analysis requirements of part 417, subpart C, of this chapter. An applicant's safety review document must contain analysis products and other data that demonstrate the applicant's ability to meet the public risk criteria of § 417.107 of this chapter and to establish launch safety rules as required by § 417.113 of this chapter. An applicant's flight safety analysis must satisfy the following requirements:


(1) An applicant must file the proposed flight safety analysis methodology and the preliminary flight safety analysis products no later than 18 months for any orbital or guided suborbital launch vehicle, and nine months for any unguided suborbital launch vehicle, prior to bringing any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site.


(2) For a launch operator license, an applicant must file flight safety analysis products that account for the range of launch vehicles and flight trajectories applied for, or the worst case vehicle and trajectory under which flight will be attempted, no later than 6 months before the applicant brings any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site. For a launch specific license, an applicant must file flight safety analysis products that account for the actual flight conditions, no later than 6 months before the applicant brings any launch vehicle to the proposed launch site.


(3) The flight safety analysis performed by an applicant must be completed as required by subpart C of part 417 of this chapter. An applicant may identify those portions of the analysis that it expects to refine as the first proposed flight date approaches. An applicant must identify any analysis product subject to change, describe what needs to be done to finalize the product, and identify when before flight it will be finalized. If a license allows more than one launch, an applicant must demonstrate the applicability of the analysis methods to each of the proposed launches and identify any expected differences in the flight safety analysis methods among the proposed launches. Once licensed, a launch operator must perform a flight safety analysis for each launch using final launch vehicle performance and other data as required by subpart C of part 417 of this chapter and using the analysis methods approved by the FAA through the licensing process.


(b) *Radionuclides.* An applicant's safety review document must identify the type and quantity of any radionuclide on a launch vehicle or payload. For each radionuclide, an applicant must include a reference list of all documentation addressing the safety of its intended use and describe all approvals by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for launch processing. An applicant must provide radionuclide information to the FAA at the pre-application consultation as required by § 415.105. The FAA will evaluate launch of any radionuclide on a case-by-case basis, and issue an approval if the FAA finds that the launch is consistent with public health and safety.


(c) *Flight safety plan.* An applicant's safety review document must contain a flight safety plan that satisfies § 417.111(b) of this chapter. The plan need not be restricted to public safety related issues and may combine other flight safety issues as well, such as employee safety, so as to be all-inclusive.


(d) *Natural and triggered lightning.* For any orbital or guided suborbital expendable launch vehicle, an applicant must demonstrate that it will satisfy the flight commit criteria of § 417.113(c) of this chapter and appendix G of part 417 of this chapter for natural and triggered lightning. If an applicant's safety review document states that any flight commit criterion that is otherwise required by appendix G of part 417 of this chapter does not apply to a proposed launch or series of launches, the applicant's safety review document must demonstrate that the criterion does not apply. 




