# § 1.7874-2   Surrogate foreign corporation.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules for determining whether a foreign corporation is treated as a surrogate foreign corporation under section 7874(a)(2)(B). Paragraph (b) of this section provides definitions and special rules. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules to determine whether a foreign corporation has acquired properties held by a domestic corporation (or a partnership). Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules that apply when two or more foreign corporations complete, in the aggregate, a domestic entity acquisition. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules that apply when, pursuant to a plan, a single foreign corporation completes more than one domestic entity acquisition. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules to identify the stock of a foreign corporation that is held by reason of holding stock in a domestic corporation (or an interest in a domestic partnership). Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules that treat certain publicly traded foreign partnerships as foreign corporations for purposes of section 7874. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules concerning the treatment of certain options (or similar interests) for purposes of section 7874. Paragraph (i) of this section provides rules that treat certain interests (including debt, stock, or a partnership interest) as stock of a foreign corporation for purposes of section 7874. Paragraph (j) of this section provides rules concerning the conversion of a foreign corporation to a domestic corporation by reason of section 7874(b). Paragraph (k) of this section provides examples that illustrate the rules of this section. Paragraph (l) of this section provides the applicability dates of this section. For additional definitions that apply for purposes of this section, see § 1.7874-12.


(b) *Definitions and special rules.* In addition to the definitions in § 1.7874-12, the following definitions and special rules apply for purposes of this section.

(1) The rules of this section are subject to section 7874(c)(4).


(2) References to *properties held* by a domestic corporation include properties held directly or indirectly by the domestic corporation.


(3) The rules and principles of sections 701 through 777 shall be applied for purposes of determining a proportionate amount (or share) of properties held by a partnership (such as stock).


(4) Any reference to the acquisition of properties held by a domestic corporation (or a partnership) includes a direct or indirect acquisition of such properties.


(5) In the case of an acquisition of stock of a domestic corporation or an interest in a partnership, the proportionate amount of properties held by the domestic corporation (or the partnership) that is treated as indirectly acquired shall, as applicable, be determined at the time of the acquisition based on the relative value of—


(i) The stock acquired compared to all outstanding stock of the domestic corporation; or


(ii) The interest acquired compared to all interests in the partnership.


(6) The determination of whether a foreign corporation is a surrogate foreign corporation is made after the domestic entity acquisition. A foreign corporation that is treated as a surrogate foreign corporation (including a surrogate foreign corporation treated as a domestic corporation described in section 7874(b)) shall continue to be treated as a surrogate foreign corporation (or a domestic corporation), even if the conditions of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) and (iii) are not satisfied at a later date.


(7) A *former initial acquiring corporation shareholder* of an initial acquiring corporation means any person that held stock in the initial acquiring corporation before the subsequent acquisition, including any person that holds stock in the initial acquiring corporation both before and after the subsequent acquisition.


(8) An *initial acquisition* means, with respect to a subsequent acquisition, a domestic entity acquisition occurring, pursuant to a plan that includes the subsequent acquisition (or a series of related transactions), before the subsequent acquisition.


(9) An *initial acquiring corporation* means, with respect to an initial acquisition, the foreign acquiring corporation.


(10) A *subsequent acquisition* means, with respect to an initial acquisition, a transaction occurring, pursuant to a plan that includes the initial acquisition (or a series of related transactions), after the initial acquisition in which a foreign corporation directly or indirectly acquires (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section) substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by the initial acquiring corporation.


(11) A *subsequent acquiring corporation* means, with respect to a subsequent acquisition, the foreign corporation that directly or indirectly acquires substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by the initial acquiring corporation.


(12) *Special rule regarding initial acquisitions.* With respect to an initial acquisition, the determination of the ownership percentage described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) is made without regard to the subsequent acquisition and all related transactions occurring after the subsequent acquisition.


(13) *Special rule regarding subsequent acquisitions.* With respect to a subsequent acquisition (or a similar acquisition under the principles of paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section) that is an inversion transaction, the applicable period begins on the first date that properties are acquired as part of the initial acquisition.


(c) *Acquisition of properties*—(1) *Indirect acquisition of properties.* For purposes of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i), an indirect acquisition of properties held by a domestic corporation (or a partnership) includes, but is not limited to, the acquisitions described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. An acquisition of less than all of the stock of a domestic corporation (or interests in a partnership) shall constitute an indirect acquisition of a proportionate amount of the properties held by the domestic corporation or the partnership. See paragraph (b)(8) of this section for rules determining the proportionate amount of properties indirectly acquired.


(i) An acquisition of stock of a domestic corporation. See *Example 1* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (c)(1)(i).


(ii) An acquisition of an interest in a partnership. See *Example 2* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (c)(1)(ii).


(iii) An acquisition by a corporation (acquiring corporation) of properties held by a domestic corporation (or a partnership) in exchange for stock of a foreign corporation (foreign issuing corporation) that is part of the expanded affiliated group that includes the acquiring corporation after the acquisition shall be treated as an acquisition by the foreign issuing corporation. See *Example 3* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (c)(1)(iii).


(iv) An acquisition by a partnership (acquiring partnership) of properties held by a domestic corporation (or a partnership) in exchange for stock of a foreign corporation that is part of the expanded affiliated group that would include the acquiring partnership after the acquisition (if the partnership were a corporation) shall be treated as an acquisition by the foreign issuing corporation.


(2) *Acquisition of stock of a foreign corporation.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, an acquisition of stock of a foreign corporation that owns directly or indirectly stock of a domestic corporation (or an interest in a partnership) shall not constitute an indirect acquisition of any properties held by the domestic corporation (or the partnership). See *Example 4* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (c)(2).


(3) *Downstream transactions.* An acquisition by a corporation of its stock from another corporation or a partnership (for example, as a result of a downstream merger) is an acquisition of the other corporation's or partnership's properties for purposes of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i).


(4) *Multiple-step acquisitions*—(i) *Rule.* A subsequent acquisition is treated as a domestic entity acquisition, and the subsequent acquiring corporation is treated as a foreign acquiring corporation. See *Example 21* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of this rule. See also paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section (treating certain stock of the subsequent acquiring corporation as stock of a foreign corporation that is held by reason of holding stock of, or a partnership interest in, the domestic entity).


(ii) *Acquisition of property pursuant to a subsequent acquisition.* In determining whether a foreign corporation directly or indirectly acquires substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by an initial acquiring corporation, the principles of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i) apply, including paragraph (c) of this section other than paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For this purpose, the principles of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, including paragraph (b)(5) of this section, apply by substituting the term “foreign” for “domestic” wherever it appears.


(iii) *Additional related transactions.* If, pursuant to the same plan (or a series of related transactions), a foreign corporation directly or indirectly acquires (under the principles of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section) substantially all of the properties directly or indirectly held by a subsequent acquiring corporation in a transaction occurring after the subsequent acquisition, then the principles of paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section apply to such transaction (and any subsequent transaction or transactions occurring pursuant to the plan (or the series of related transactions)).


(d) *Acquisitions by multiple foreign corporations.* If, pursuant to a plan (or a series of related transactions), two or more foreign corporations complete, in the aggregate, a domestic entity acquisition, then each foreign corporation shall be treated as completing the acquisition for purposes of determining whether such foreign corporation is treated as a surrogate foreign corporation. See *Examples 5* and *6* of paragraph (k) of this section for illustrations of the rules of this paragraph (d).


(e) *Acquisitions of multiple domestic entities.* If, pursuant to a plan (or a series of related transactions), a foreign corporation completes two or more domestic entity acquisitions involving domestic corporations and/or domestic partnerships (domestic entities), then, for purposes of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii), the acquisitions shall be treated as a single acquisition and the domestic entities shall be treated as a single domestic entity. If the transaction involves one or more domestic corporations and one or more domestic partnerships, the stock of the foreign corporation held by former domestic entity shareholders and former domestic entity partners by reason of holding stock or a partnership interest in the domestic entities shall be aggregated for purposes of determining whether the ownership condition of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) is satisfied. See *Example 7* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (e).


(f) *Stock held by reason of holding stock in a domestic corporation or an interest in a domestic partnership*— 

(1) *Certain transactions.* For purposes of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii), stock of a foreign corporation that is held by reason of holding stock in a domestic corporation (or an interest in a domestic partnership) includes, but is not limited to, the stock described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Stock of a foreign corporation received in exchange for, or with respect to, stock of a domestic corporation.


(ii) Stock of a foreign corporation received in exchange for, or with respect to, an interest in a domestic partnership.


(iii) To the extent that paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section does not apply, stock of a foreign corporation received by a domestic partnership in exchange for all or part of its properties. In such a case, each partner in the domestic partnership shall be treated as holding its proportionate share of the stock of the foreign corporation by reason of holding an interest in the domestic partnership.


(iv) Stock of a subsequent acquiring corporation received by a former initial acquiring corporation shareholder pursuant to a subsequent acquisition in exchange for, or with respect to, stock of an initial acquiring corporation that is held by reason of holding stock of, or a partnership interest in, a domestic entity.


(2) *Transactions involving other property*—(i) *Stock of a domestic corporation.* If, pursuant to the same transaction, stock of a foreign corporation is received in exchange for, or with respect to, stock of a domestic corporation and other property, the stock of the foreign corporation that was received in exchange for, or with respect to, the stock of the domestic corporation shall be determined based on the relative value of the stock of the domestic corporation compared to the aggregate value of such stock and the other property.


(ii) *Interest in a domestic partnership.* If, pursuant to the same transaction, stock of a foreign corporation is received in exchange for, or with respect to, an interest in a domestic partnership and other property, the stock of the foreign corporation that was received in exchange for, or with respect to, the interest in the domestic partnership shall be determined based on the relative value of the interest in the domestic partnership compared to the aggregate value of such interest and the other property.


(3) See *Examples 8* through *10* of paragraph (k) of this section for illustrations of the rules of this paragraph (f).


(g) *Publicly traded foreign partnerships*—(1) *Treatment as a foreign corporation.* For purposes of section 7874, a publicly traded foreign partnership described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section shall be treated as a foreign corporation that is organized in the foreign country in which, or under the law of which, the publicly traded foreign partnership was created or organized, and the partnership interests in the publicly traded foreign partnership shall be treated as stock of the foreign corporation. For purposes of determining whether the foreign corporation shall be treated as a surrogate foreign corporation, a deemed acquisition of assets and liabilities by reason of § 1.708-1(b)(4) shall not constitute an acquisition described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i).


(2) *Publicly traded foreign partnership.* A publicly traded foreign partnership described in this paragraph (g)(2) is any foreign partnership that would, but for section 7704(c), be treated as a corporation under section 7704(a)—


(i) At the time of the domestic entity acquisition; or


(ii) At any time after the domestic entity acquisition pursuant to a plan that existed at the time of the domestic entity acquisition. For this purpose, a plan shall be deemed to exist at the time of the domestic entity acquisition if the foreign partnership would, but for section 7704(c), be treated as a corporation under section 7704(a) at any time during the two-year period following the completion of the domestic entity acquisition.


(3) *Surrogate foreign corporation to which section 7874(b) applies.* If paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies to a publicly traded foreign partnership and the foreign corporation is a surrogate foreign corporation to which section 7874(b) applies, the publicly traded foreign partnership shall be treated as a domestic corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). See paragraph (g)(6) of this section for the timing and treatment of the conversion of the publicly traded foreign partnership to a domestic corporation. See *Example 11* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (g)(3).


(4) *Surrogate foreign corporation to which section 7874(b) does not apply.* If paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies to a publicly traded foreign partnership and the foreign corporation is a surrogate foreign corporation to which section 7874(b) does not apply, the publicly traded foreign partnership shall continue to be treated as a foreign partnership for purposes of the Code, but section 7874(a)(1) shall apply to any expatriated entity (as defined in section 7874(a)(2)(A)). See *Example 13* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (g)(4).


(5) *Foreign corporation not treated as a surrogate foreign corporation.* If paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies to a publicly traded foreign partnership and the foreign corporation is not treated as a surrogate foreign corporation, the status of the publicly traded foreign partnership as a foreign partnership shall not be affected by section 7874. See *Example 12* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (g)(5).


(6) *Conversion to a domestic corporation.* Except for purposes of determining whether the publicly traded foreign partnership is a surrogate foreign corporation, if paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies to a publicly traded foreign partnership and the foreign corporation is a surrogate foreign corporation to which section 7874(b) applies, then at the later of the end of the day immediately preceding the first date properties are acquired as part of the domestic entity acquisition or immediately after the formation of the publicly traded foreign partnership, the publicly traded foreign partnership shall be treated as transferring all of its assets and liabilities to a newly formed domestic corporation in exchange solely for stock of the domestic corporation, and then distributing such stock to its partners in proportion to their partnership interests in liquidation of the partnership. The treatment of the transfer of assets and liabilities to the domestic corporation and the distribution of the stock of the domestic corporation to the partners in liquidation of the partnership shall be determined under all relevant provisions of the Code and general tax principles.


(h) *Options*—(1) *Value.* Except to the extent otherwise provided in this paragraph (h), for purposes of section 7874, including for purposes of determining the membership of an expanded affiliated group under section 7874(c)(1), an option with respect to a corporation or partnership will be treated as stock in the corporation, or an interest in the partnership, as applicable, with a value equal to the holder's claim on the equity of the corporation or partnership. For this purpose, claim on the equity equals the value of the stock or partnership interest that may be acquired pursuant to the option, less the exercise price (but in no case is a claim on the equity less than zero). Also for this purpose, the equity of the corporation or partnership shall not include the amount of any property the holder of the option would be required to provide to the corporation or partnership under the terms of the option if such option were exercised. See *Example 14* and *Example 16* of paragraph (k) of this section for illustrations of the rules of this paragraph (h)(1).


(2) *Voting power.* Except to the extent otherwise provided in this paragraph (h), for purposes of determining the voting power of a foreign corporation under section 7874, including for purposes of determining the membership of an expanded affiliated group under section 7874(c)(1), an option will be treated as exercised only if a principal purpose of the issuance or transfer of the option is to avoid the foreign corporation being treated as a surrogate foreign corporation.


(3) *Timing.* For purposes of this paragraph (h), the value of the holder's claim on the equity is determined—


(i) In the case of a domestic corporation or a domestic partnership, immediately before the domestic entity acquisition.


(ii) In the case of a foreign corporation or foreign partnership, immediately after the domestic entity acquisition.


(4) *Certain options disregarded.* The rules of paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall not apply to an option if—


(i) A principal purpose of the issuance or acquisition of the option is to avoid the foreign corporation being treated as a surrogate foreign corporation, or


(ii) At the time of the domestic entity acquisition, the probability of the option being exercised is remote.


(5) *Options and interests similar to an option.* For purposes of this paragraph (h), an option includes an interest similar to an option. Examples of options (including interests similar to options) include, but are not limited to, a warrant, a convertible debt instrument, an instrument other than debt that is convertible into stock or a partnership interest, a put, stock or a partnership interest subject to risk of forfeiture, a contract to acquire or sell stock or a partnership interest, and an exchangeable share or exchangeable partnership interest.


(6) *Multiple claims on equity.* Paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall not apply to an option to the extent treating the option as stock or a partnership interest would duplicate a shareholder's or partner's claim on the equity of the corporation or partnership by reason of holding stock in the corporation or an interest in the partnership. See *Example 15* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (h)(6).


(i) *Interests treated as stock of a foreign corporation*—(1) *Stock or other interests.* If the conditions of paragraphs (i)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are satisfied, then, for purposes of section 7874, any interest (including stock or a partnership interest) that is not otherwise treated as stock of a foreign corporation (including under paragraph (h) of this section) shall be treated as stock of the foreign corporation. See *Examples 17* and *18* of paragraph (k) of this section for illustrations of the rules of this paragraph (i)(1).


(i) The interest provides the holder distribution rights that are substantially similar in all material respects to the distribution rights provided by stock in the foreign corporation. For this purpose, distribution rights include rights to dividends (or partnership distributions), distributions in redemption of the interest (in whole or in part), distributions in liquidation, or other similar distributions that represent a return on, or of, the holder's investment in the interest.


(ii) Treating the interest as stock of the foreign corporation has the effect of treating the foreign corporation as a surrogate foreign corporation under section 7874(a)(2)(B).


(2) *Creditor claims*—(i) *Domestic corporation.* For purposes of section 7874, if, immediately prior to the first date properties are acquired as part of a domestic entity acquisition, a domestic corporation is in a title 11 or similar case (as defined in section 368(a)(3)), or the liabilities of the domestic corporation exceed the value of its assets, then each creditor of the domestic corporation shall be treated as a shareholder of the domestic corporation and any claim of the creditor against the domestic corporation shall be treated as stock of the domestic corporation. See *Example 19* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (i)(2)(i).


(ii) *Domestic or foreign partnership.* For purposes of section 7874, if, immediately prior to the first date properties are acquired as part of a domestic entity acquisition, a partnership (foreign or domestic) is in a title 11 or similar case (as defined in section 368(a)(3)), or the liabilities of the partnership exceed the value of its assets, then each creditor of the partnership shall be treated as a partner in the partnership and any claim of the creditor against the partnership shall be treated as an interest in the partnership.


(iii) *Treatment of creditor as shareholder or partner.* A creditor that is treated as a shareholder or partner under paragraph (i)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section shall be treated as a shareholder or partner for all purposes of section 7874. See, for example, § 1.7874-1(c) and paragraph (f) of this section. See *Example 19* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (i)(2)(iii).


(j) *Application of section 7874(b)*—(1) *Conversion to a domestic corporation.* Except for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is treated as a surrogate foreign corporation, the conversion of a foreign corporation to a domestic corporation by reason of section 7874(b) shall constitute a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F) that occurs at the later of the end of the day immediately preceding the first date properties are acquired as part of the domestic entity acquisition or immediately after the formation of the foreign corporation. See, for example, §§ 1.367(b)-2 and 1.367(b)-3 for certain consequences of the reorganization. The treatment of all other aspects of the conversion shall be determined under the relevant provisions of the Code and general tax principles. See *Example 20* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (j)(1).


(2) *Entity classification.* A foreign corporation that is treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874(b) is not an eligible entity as defined in § 301.7701-3(a), and therefore may not elect to be classified as other than an association (and thus cannot be treated as other than a corporation) for Federal tax purposes.


(3) *Application of section 367.* If a foreign corporation is treated as a domestic corporation under section 7874(b), section 367 shall not apply to any transfer of property by a United States person to such foreign corporation as part of the domestic entity acquisition. However, section 367 shall apply to the conversion of the foreign corporation to a domestic corporation. See paragraph (j)(1) of this section. See *Example 20* of paragraph (k) of this section for an illustration of the rules of this paragraph (j)(3).


(k) *Examples*—(1) *Assumed facts.* Except as otherwise stated, assume the following for purposes of the examples included in paragraph (k)(2) of this section.


(i) DC1 and DC2 are domestic corporations.


(ii) FA, FP, F1, F2, F3, and F4 are foreign corporations organized in Country A.


(iii) DPS is a domestic partnership that conducts a trade or business.


(iv) FPS is a foreign partnership that is not publicly traded.


(v) Under the terms of the partnership agreements of DPS and FPS, each partner's share in the partnership's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss is determined in accordance with the partner's partnership interest percentage in the partnership, as stated in the examples.


(vi) A, B, and C are unrelated individuals.


(vii) Each entity has a single class of equity outstanding and is unrelated to all other entities.


(viii) All transactions are completed pursuant to a plan.


(ix) All acquisitions of properties are completed after March 4, 2003.


(x) Section 7874(c)(4) does not apply, and no option is issued or acquired with a principal purpose to avoid a foreign corporation being treated as a surrogate foreign corporation.


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section.


(l) *Applicability date*—(1)*In general.* This section applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after June 7, 2012. For domestic entity acquisitions completed prior to June 7, 2012, see § 1.7874-2T(o), as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2012.


(2) *Applicability date of certain provisions of this section.* Paragraphs (a), (b)(7) through (13), (c)(2) and (4), and (f)(1)(iv) of this section, as well as the introductory text of paragraph (f)(1) and *Example 21* of paragraph (k)(2), apply to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after April 4, 2016.



---

[N] [T.D. 9591, 77 FR 34791, June 12, 2012, as amended by T.D. 9761, 81 FR 20894, Apr. 8, 2016; T.D. 9834, 83 FR 32544, July 12, 2018]




