# § 743.1   Wassenaar Arrangement.

(a) *Scope.* This section outlines special reporting requirements for exports of certain commodities, software and technology controlled under the Wassenaar Arrangement. Such reports must be submitted to BIS semiannually in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, and records of all exports subject to the reporting requirements of this section must be kept in accordance with part 762 of the EAR. This section does not require reports for reexports. This section is limited to the Wassenaar Arrangement reporting requirements for items listed on the Wassenaar Arrangement's Dual-Use list. For reporting requirements for conventional arms listed on the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List that are subject to the EAR (i.e., “600 series” ECCNs), see § 743.4 of this part for Wassenaar Arrangement and United Nations reporting requirements.


(b) *Requirements.* You must submit two (2) copies of each report required under the provisions of this section and maintain accurate supporting records (see § 762.2(b) of the EAR) for all exports of items specified in paragraph (c) of this section for the following:


(1) Exports authorized under License Exceptions GBS, CIV, TSR, LVS, APP, and the cooperating government portions (§ 740.11(c) of the EAR) of GOV (see part 740 of the EAR). Note that exports of technology and source code under License Exception TSR to foreign nationals located in the U.S. should not be reported; and 


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Exports authorized under the Validated End-User authorization (see § 748.15 of the EAR).


(4) Exports authorized under License Exception STA (See § 740.20 of the EAR).


(c) *Items for which reports are required.* You must submit reports to BIS under the provisions of this section only for exports of items on the Sensitive List (see supplement no. 6 to part 774 of the EAR).


(d) *Country Exceptions.* You must report each export subject to the provisions of this section, except for exports to Wassenaar member countries, as identified in supplement no. 1 to part 743.


(e) *Information that must be included in each report.* (1) Each report submitted to BIS for items other than those identified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section must include the following information for each export during the time periods specified in paragraph (f) of this section:


(i) Export Control Classification Number and paragraph reference as identified on the Commerce Control List;


(ii) Number of units in the shipment; and


(iii) Country of ultimate destination.


(2) [Reserved]


(f) *Frequency and timing of reports.* You must submit reports subject to the provisions of this section semiannually. The reports must be labeled with the exporting company's name and address at the top of each page and must include for each such export all the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section. The reports shall cover exports made during six month time periods spanning from January 1 through June 30 and July 1 through December 31.


(1) The first report must be submitted to and received by BIS no later than August 1, 1998 for the partial reporting period beginning January 15, 1998 and ending June 30, 1998. Thereafter, reports are due according to the provisions of paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section.


(2) Reports for the reporting period ending June 30 must be submitted to and received by BIS no later than August 1.


(3) Reports for the reporting period ending December 31 must be submitted to and received by BIS no later than February 1.


(g) *Where to submit Wassenaar reports*—(1) *Email.* Reports may be Emailed to *WAreports@bis.doc.gov.*

(2) *Mail.* If mailed, two (2) copies of reports are required to be delivered via courier to: Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Attn: “Wassenaar Reports”, Room 2099B, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20230. BIS will not accept reports sent C.O.D.


(3) *Facsimile.* Reports may also be sent by facsimile to: (202) 482-3345 or 202-482-1373, Attn: “Wassenaar Reports”.


(h) *Contacts.* General information concerning the Wassenaar Arrangement and reporting obligations thereof is available from the Office of National Security and Technology Transfer Controls, Tel. (202) 482-4479, Fax: (202) 482-3345 or (202) 482-1373, or Email: *WAreports@bis.doc.gov.*


---

[N] [63 FR 2458, Jan. 15, 1998]


