# § 63.7925   What emissions limitations and work practice standards must I meet for closed vent systems and control devices?

(a) For each closed-vent system and control device you use to comply with requirements in §§ 63.7890 through 63.7922, as applicable to your affected sources, you must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in this section. 


(b) You must comply with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply, if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019. If your initial startup date was on or before September 3, 2019, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section until January 7, 2021, and after that date, you must comply with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply.


(1) Whenever gases or vapors containing HAP are vented through the closed-vent system to the control device, the control device must be operating except at those times listed in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) The control device may be bypassed for the purpose of performing planned routine maintenance of the closed-vent system or control device in situations when the routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that the emission point vented to the control device is shutdown. On an annual basis, the total time that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform routine maintenance must not exceed 240 hours per each calendar year.


(ii) The control device may be bypassed for the purpose of correcting a malfunction of the closed-vent system or control device. You must perform the adjustments or repairs necessary to correct the malfunction as soon as practicable after the malfunction is detected.


(2) Whenever gases or vapors containing HAP are vented through the closed-vent system to the control device, the control device must be operating, except that the control device on a tank may be bypassed for the purpose of performing planned routine maintenance of the control device. When the tank control device is bypassed, the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The control device may only be bypassed when the planned routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that tank emissions are vented to the control device.


(ii) On an annual basis, the total time that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform routine maintenance must not exceed 240 hours per each calendar year.


(iii) The level of material in the tank must not be increased during periods that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform planned routine maintenance.


(c) For each closed vent system, you must meet the work practice standards in § 63.693(c). 


(d) For each control device other than a flare or a control device used to comply with the facility-wide process vent emission limits in § 63.7890(b), you must control HAP emissions to meet either of the emissions limits in paragraphs (d)(1) or (2) of this section except as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section. 


(1) Reduce emissions of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from each control device by 95 percent by weight; or 


(2) Limit the concentration of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from each combustion control device (a thermal incinerator, catalytic incinerator, boiler, or process heater) to 20 ppmv or less on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen. 


(e) If you use a flare for your control device, then you must meet the requirements for flares in § 63.11(b). 


(f) If you use a process heater or boiler for your control device, then as alternative to meeting the emissions limits in paragraph (d) of this section you may choose to comply with one of the work practice standards in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) Introduce the vent stream into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater and maintain the conditions in the combustion chamber at a residence time of 0.5 seconds or longer and at a temperature of 760 °C or higher; or 


(2) Introduce the vent stream with the fuel that provides the predominate heat input to the boiler or process heater (*i.e.,* the primary fuel); or 


(3) Introduce the vent stream to a boiler or process heater for which you either have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H—Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces; or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H. 


(g) For each control device other than a flare, you must meet each operating limit in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section that applies to your control device. 


(1) If you use a regenerable carbon adsorption system, you must: 


(i) Maintain the hourly average total regeneration stream mass flow during the adsorption bed regeneration cycle greater than or equal to the stream mass flow established in the design evaluation or performance test. 


(ii) Maintain the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed during regeneration (except during the cooling cycle) greater than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation or performance test. 


(iii) Maintain the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed after regeneration (and within 15 minutes after completing any cooling cycle) less than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation. 


(iv) Maintain the frequency of regeneration greater than or equal to the frequency established during the design evaluation. 


(2) If you use a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system, you must maintain the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed less than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation or performance test. 


(3) If you use a condenser, you must maintain the daily average condenser exit temperature less than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation or performance test. 


(4) If you use a thermal incinerator, you must maintain the daily average firebox temperature greater than or equal to the temperature established in the design evaluation or during the performance test. 


(5) If you use a catalytic incinerator, you must maintain the daily average temperature difference across the catalyst bed greater than or equal to the minimum temperature difference established during the performance test or design evaluation. 


(6) If you use a boiler or process heater to comply with an emission limit in paragraph (d) of this section, you must maintain the daily average firebox temperature within the operating level established during the design evaluation or performance test. 


(h) If you use a carbon adsorption system as your control, you must meet each work practice standard in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section that applies to your control device. 


(1) If you use a regenerable carbon adsorption system, you must: 


(i) Replace the existing adsorbent in each segment of the bed with an adsorbent that meets the replacement specifications established during the design evaluation before the age of the adsorbent exceeds the maximum allowable age established during the design evaluation. 


(ii) Follow the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4). 


(2) If you use a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system, you must: 


(i) Replace the existing adsorbent in each segment of the bed with an adsorbent that meets the replacement specifications established during the design evaluation before the age of the adsorbent exceeds the maximum allowable age established during the design evaluation. 


(ii) Meet the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4)(ii). 


(3) If you use a nonregenerative carbon adsorption system, you may choose to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. You must: 


(i) Immediately replace the carbon canister or carbon in the control device when the monitoring device indicates breakthrough has occurred according to the requirements in § 63.693(d)(4)(iii)(A), or replace the carbon canister or carbon in the control device at regular intervals according to the requirements in § 63.693(d)(4)(iii)(B).


(ii) Follow the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4)(ii). 


(i) If you use a catalytic incinerator, you must replace the existing catalyst bed with a bed that meets the replacement specifications before the age of the bed exceeds the maximum allowable age established in the design evaluation or during the performance test. 


(j) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the EPA to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section that apply to your closed vent systems and control devices. If you request for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2). 



---

[N] [68 FR 58190, Oct. 8, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 41706, July 10, 2020]




