# ยง 42.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Affidavit* means affidavit or declaration under ยง 1.68 of this chapter. A transcript of an *ex parte* deposition or a declaration under 28 U.S.C. 1746 may be used as an affidavit.


*Board* means the Patent Trial and Appeal Board. Board means a panel of the Board, or a member or employee acting with the authority of the Board, including:


(1) For petition decisions and interlocutory decisions, a Board member or employee acting with the authority of the Board.


(2) For final written decisions under 35 U.S.C. 135(d), 318(a), and 328(a), a panel of the Board.


*Business day* means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday within the District of Columbia.


*Confidential information* means trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information.


*Final* means final for the purpose of judicial review to the extent available. A decision is final only if it disposes of all necessary issues with regard to the party seeking judicial review, and does not indicate that further action is required.


*Hearing* means consideration of the trial.


*Involved* means an application, patent, or claim that is the subject of the proceeding.


*Judgment* means a final written decision by the Board, or a termination of a proceeding.


*Motion* means a request for relief other than by petition.


*Office* means the United States Patent and Trademark Office.


*Panel* means at least three members of the Board.


*Party* means at least the petitioner and the patent owner and, in a derivation proceeding, any applicant or assignee of the involved application.


*Petition* is a request that a trial be instituted.


*Petitioner* means the party filing a petition requesting that a trial be instituted.


*Preliminary Proceeding* begins with the filing of a petition for instituting a trial and ends with a written decision as to whether a trial will be instituted.


*Proceeding* means a trial or preliminary proceeding.


*Rehearing* means reconsideration.


*Trial* means a contested case instituted by the Board based upon a petition. A trial begins with a written decision notifying the petitioner and patent owner of the institution of the trial. The term trial specifically includes a derivation proceeding under 35 U.S.C. 135; an *inter partes* review under Chapter 31 of title 35, United States Code; a post-grant review under Chapter 32 of title 35, United States Code; and a transitional business-method review under section 18 of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act. Patent interferences are administered under part 41 and not under part 42 of this title, and therefore are not trials.




