# § 301-70.804   What amount must the Government be reimbursed for travel on a Government aircraft?

(a) No reimbursement is required for official travel on a Government aircraft.


(b) For personal travel on Government aircraft, reimbursement depends upon which of the following special cases applies:


(1) You must require a traveler on required-use travel to reimburse the Government for the excess of the full coach fare for all flights taken on a trip over the full coach fare for the flights that the traveler would have taken had they not engaged in personal activities during the trip; and














(2) No reimbursement is required for travel authorized under 10 U.S.C. 2648 and regulations implementing that statute, or when the traveler and the traveler's dependents are stationed by the Government in a remote location with no access to regularly scheduled commercial airline service.


(c) For political travel on a Government aircraft (*i.e.,* for any trip or part of a trip during which the traveler engages in political activities), you must require that the Government be reimbursed the excess of the full coach fare for all flights taken on the trip over the full coach fare for the flights that the traveler would have taken had they not engaged in political activities, except if other law or regulation specifies a different amount (see, e.g., 11 CFR 106.3, “Allocation of Expenses between Campaign and Non-campaign Related Travel”), in which case the amount reimbursed is the amount required by such law or regulation.



---

[N] [FTR Amdt. 2004-02, 69 FR 34305, June 21, 2004, as amended by FTR Amdt. 2010-04, 75 FR 59095, Sept. 27, 2010; FTR Case 2022-05, 89 FR 12252, Feb. 16, 2024]




