# ยง 635.7   Collection of deoxyribonucleic acid.

(a) Army Law Enforcement (LE) personnel will collect deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) pursuant to DoDI 5505.14 (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/550514p.pdf*), DNA Collection Requirements for Criminal Investigations. Per this subpart, a sample of an individual's DNA is to allow for positive identification and to provide or generate evidence to solve crimes through database searches of potentially matching samples. DNA samples will not be collected from juveniles.


(b) Army LE personnel will obtain a DNA sample from a civilian in their control at the point it is determined there is probable cause to believe the detained person violated a Federal statute equivalent to the offenses identified in DoDI 5505.11 (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/550511p.pdf*), Fingerprint Card and Final Disposition Report Submission Requirements, and 32 CFR part 310, Department of Defense Privacy Program, except for the listed violations that are exclusively military offenses. For the purposes of this rule, DNA shall be taken from all civilian drug offenders, except those who are arrested or detained for the offenses of simple possession and personal use.


(1) When Army LE personnel make a probable cause determination concerning a civilian not in their control, Army LE personnel are not required to collect DNA samples. Likewise, Army LE personnel are not required to obtain DNA samples when another LE agency has, or will, obtain the DNA.


(2) Army LE personnel will use the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Laboratory (USACIL) DNA kit which includes a DNA sample card and the USACIL DNA database collection eform. Army LE personnel will forward civilian DNA samples to the USACIL. Army LE personnel will document, in the appropriate case file, when civilian LE agencies handle any aspect of the DNA processing and whether the civilian LE agency forwarded the DNA sample to the FBI laboratory.


(c) DoD Instruction 5505.14 (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/550514p.pdf*) details the procedures former Soldiers and civilians must follow to request expungement of their DNA records. Former Soldiers and civilians from whom DNA samples have been taken, but who were not convicted of any offense giving rise to the collection of DNA, do not submit requests to have their DNA record expunged through installation PMO/DES channels. To request expungement of DNA records for civilians pursuant to Sections 14132 of title 42, United States Code, the requestor or legal representative must submit a written request to: FBI, Laboratory Division, 2501 Investigation Parkway, Quantico, VA 22135, Attention: Federal Convicted Offender Program Manager.




