# ยง 66.05-100   Designation of navigable waters as State waters for private aids to navigation.

In accordance with the procedures contained in ยง 66.05-10(d), the following navigable waters listed by the State in which they are located, are designated as State waters for private aids to navigation: 


(a) *Arizona.* The portion of Lake Havasu within the State, except that portion within Havasu Lake National Wildlife Refuge. 


(b) *Louisiana.* The portion of Toledo Bend Reservoir within the State. 


(c) *Missouri.* Teach water within the State except the: 


(1) Mississippi River; and 


(2) Missouri River. 


(d) *Montana.* The portion of Missouri River between the U.S. Highway 287 bridge near Townsend and Great Falls including the following impoundments: 


(1) Black Eagle Dam Reservoir. 


(2) Canyon Ferry Reservoir. 


(3) Hauser Lake. 


(4) Holter Lake. 


(5) Rainbow Dam Reservoir. 


(e) *North Carolina.* Navigable waters within the State not marked with Coast Guard aids to navigation on June 1, 1973. 


(f) *Pennsylvania.* The portion of Youghiogheny River Reservoir within the State. 


(f-1) *South Carolina.* (1) The portion of Lake Wylie within the State; (2) Lake Marion; (3) Lake Moultrie; and (4) Lake Murray.


(g) *Texas.* The portion of Toledo Bend Reservoir within the State. 


(h) *Virginia.* (1) Claytor Lake, on the New River in Pulaski County. 


(2) Leesville Lake, on the Roanoke River below Smith Mountain Dam. 


(3) The portions of the following reservoirs within the State: 


(i) Gaston. 


(ii) Holston. 


(iii) John H. Kerr. 


(iv) Philpott. 


(i) *Wisconsin.* Navigable waters within the State not marked with Coast Guard aids to navigation as of May 1, 1996. 



---

[N] [CGD 72-154R, 38 FR 33473, Dec. 5, 1973, as amended by CGD 76-015, 41 FR 12879, Mar. 29, 1976; CGD 80-132, 46 FR 27643, May 21, 1981; CGD 98-3604, 63 FR 55947, Oct. 20, 1998; USCG-2001-10714, 69 FR 24982, May 5, 2004]




