# ยง 351.1   Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.

(a) *Authority.* This part is issued by the FDIC under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851).


(b) *Purpose.* Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships with covered funds by certain banking entities, including any insured depository institution as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2)) and certain subsidiaries thereof for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)). This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act by defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships with covered funds, and explaining the statute's requirements.


(c) *Scope.* This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act with respect to insured depository institutions for which the FDIC is the appropriate Federal banking agency, as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and certain subsidiaries of the foregoing, but does not include such entities to the extent they are not within the definition of banking entity in ยง 351.2(c).


(d) *Relationship to other authorities.* Except as otherwise provided in under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of Bank Holding Company Act shall apply to the activities and investments of a banking entity, even if such activities and investments are authorized for a banking entity under other applicable provisions of law.


(e) *Preservation of authority.* Nothing in this part limits in any way the authority of the FDIC to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable provision of law.



---

[N] [79 FR 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35021, July 22, 2019]




