# § 2885.22   How may I make rental payments when land encumbered by my term or perpetual linear grant is being transferred out of Federal ownership?

(a) *One-time payment option for existing perpetual grants issued prior to November 16, 1973.* If you have a perpetual grant and the land your grant encumbers is being transferred out of Federal ownership, you may choose to make a one-time rental payment. The BLM will determine the one-time payment for perpetual right-of-way grants by dividing the current annual rent for the subject property by an overall capitalization rate calculated from market data, where the overall capitalization rate is the difference between a market yield rate and a percent annual rent increase as described in the formula in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section. The formula for this calculation is: One-time Payment = Annual Rent/(Y−CR), where:


(b) In paragraph (a) of this section, the annual rent is determined from the Per Acre Rent Schedule (see § 2885.19(b)), as updated under § 2885.19(a)(1) and(2). However, the per acre zone value and zone number used in this annual rental determination will be based on the per acre land value from acceptable market information or an appraisal report, if any, for the land transfer action and not the county average per acre land and building value from the NASS Census. You may also submit an appraisal report on your own initiative in accordance with § 2806.25(d) of this chapter.


(c) When no acceptable market information is available and no appraisal report has been completed for the land transfer action, or when the BLM requests it, you must prepare an appraisal report as required under § 2806.25(d) of this chapter.


(d) *Term Grant.* If the land your grant encumbers is being transferred out of Federal ownership, you may pay in advance the total rent amount for the entire term of the grant or any remaining years. The BLM will use the annual rent calculated from the Per Acre Rent Schedule multiplied by the number of years in the rent payment period (the length of time for which the holder is paying rent) to determine the one-time rent. However, this amount must not exceed the one-time rent payment for a perpetual grant as determined under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [73 FR 65074, Oct. 31, 2008]




