# § 248.161   Mandatory sale of housing in excess of the Federal cost limit.

(a) *In general.* With respect to any eligible low income housing for which the transfer preservation rent determined under § 248.121 exceeds the Federal cost limit, the owner shall offer the housing for transfer to qualified purchasers as provided in this section. 


(b) *Applicability of voluntary sale provisions.* The provisions of § 248.157, other than paragraphs (a) and (p) of this section thereof, shall be applicable to any sale conducted under this section. If the owner receives an offer to purchase the project for a sale price equal to the transfer preservation value of the project, as determined under § 248.111, the owner shall be obligated to accept the offer upon its receipt and sell the project to the purchaser. If the owner receives an offer to purchase the project for a sale price less than the transfer preservation value of the project, the owner may accept the offer, but is not obligated to do so. Any offer to purchase a project under this section for less than the transfer preservation value must comply with the requirements of a bona fide offer in § 248.101, except for the requirement that the sale price equal the transfer preservation value. At the time of submission of the offer, the potential purchaser must also submit the documentation required in § 248.157(g). 


(c) *Section 8 assistance.* Subject to the availability of amounts approved in appropriation acts, the Commissioner shall, for approvable plans of action, provide assistance to qualified purchasers under part 886, subpart A of this title sufficient to produce a gross potential income equal to the amount determined by multiplying 120 percent of the prevailing rents in the relevant local market in which the project is located by the number of units in the project, according to appropriate unit size, and any other incentives authorized under § 248.153 that would have been provided to a qualified purchaser under § 248.157. 


(d) *Grants to qualified purchasers.* From amounts made available by Congress, the Commissioner may make grants to assist in the completion of transfers under this section to any qualified purchasers. Any grant made pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall be in an amount not exceeding the difference between the amount of assistance provided under paragraph (c) of this section and the amount of assistance specified in § 248.157(m). 


(e) *Securing State and local funding.* The Commissioner shall assist any qualified purchaser of a project pursuant to this section in securing funding and other assistance, including tax and assessment reductions from State and local governments to facilitate a transfer under this section.




