# § 445.2   General definitions.

In addition to the definitions set forth in 40 CFR 122.2, 257.2, 258.2, 264.10, 265.10, 401.11, and 403.3 the following definitions apply to this part:


(a) *Contaminated ground water* means water below the land surface in the zone of saturation which has been contaminated by activities associated with waste disposal.


(b) *Contaminated storm water* means storm water which comes in direct contact with landfill wastes, the waste handling and treatment areas, or landfill wastewater as defined in paragraph (f) of this section. Some specific areas of a landfill that may produce contaminated storm water include (but are not limited to): the open face of an active landfill with exposed waste (no cover added); the areas around wastewater treatment operations; trucks, equipment or machinery that has been in direct contact with the waste; and waste dumping areas.


(c) *Landfill* directly associated with an industrial or commercial operation means:


(1) A landfill located on the same site as industrial or commercial operations; and


(2) A landfill not located on the same site as the industrial or commercial operations (off-site), but “wholly-owned” by the industrial or commercial facility and primarily dedicated to receiving waste from the related industrial or commercial facility.


(d) *Facility* means all contiguous property owned, operated, leased or under the control of the same person or entity.


(e) *Landfill unit* means an area of land or an excavation in which wastes are placed for permanent disposal, that is not a land application or land treatment unit, surface impoundment, underground injection well, waste pile, salt dome formation, a salt bed formation, an underground mine or a cave as these terms are defined in 40 CFR 257.2, 258.2 and 264.10.


(f) *Landfill wastewater* means all wastewater associated with, or produced by, landfilling activities except for sanitary wastewater, non-contaminated storm water, contaminated ground water, and wastewater from recovery pumping wells. Landfill wastewater includes, but is not limited to, leachate, gas collection condensate, drained free liquids, laboratory derived wastewater, contaminated storm water and contact washwater from washing truck, equipment, and railcar exteriors and surface areas which have come in direct contact with solid waste at the landfill facility.


(g) *Non-contaminated storm water* means storm water which does not come in direct contact with landfill wastes, the waste handling and treatment areas, or landfill wastewater that is defined in paragraph (f) of this section. Non-contaminated storm water includes storm water which flows off the cap, cover, intermediate cover, daily cover, and/or final cover of the landfill.


(h) *Off-site* means outside the boundaries of a facility.


(i) *On-site* means within the boundaries of a facility.


(j) *Public service* means the provision of landfill waste disposal services to individual members of the general public, publicly-owned organizations (schools, universities, government agencies, municipalities) and not-for-profit organizations for which the landfill does not receive a fee or other remuneration.


(k) The regulated parameters for this part, numbered (P) and listed with approved methods of analysis in Table 1B at 40 CFR 136.3, are defined as follows:


(1) *Ammonia (as N)* means ammonia reported as nitrogen. P4.


(2) *BOD*_5_ means 5-day biochemical oxygen demand. P9.


(3) *Arsenic* means total arsenic. P6.


(4) *Chromium* means total chromium. P19.


(5) *Zinc* means total zinc. P75.


(l) The regulated parameters for this part, numbered (P) and listed with approved methods of analysis in Table 1C at 40 CFR 136.3, are as follows:


(1) Naphthalene. P68.


(2) Phenol. P85.


(m) The regulated parameters for this part listed with approved methods of analysis in the attachments to Methods 625 and 1625B in appendix A at 40 CFR part 136 are as follows:


(1) Aniline.


(2) Benzoic acid.


(3) p-Cresol.


(4) Pyridine.


(5) a-Terpineol.




