# § 5101.103   Outside employment and activities.

(a) Subject to the restrictions and requirements contained in 5 CFR part 2635 and this part, Commission members and other employees are encouraged to engage in teaching, speaking, and writing activities and, when qualified, to participate without compensation in programs to provide legal assistance and representation to indigents.


(b) *Prohibitions.* A Commission member or other employee shall not engage in non-Federal employment or any other outside activity that:


(1) Involves the rendering of advice concerning any legal, accounting or economic matter, or any agricultural, mining, foreign currency market or other commodity-related matter, in which the Commission may be significantly interested, except that this prohibition shall not apply to a special Government employee unless the special Government employee:


(i) Has participated personally and substantially as an employee or special Government employee in the same matter; or


(ii) Has served with the Commission 60 days or more during the immediately preceding period of 365 consecutive days.


(2) Involves an appearance in court or on a brief in a representative capacity in relation to any matter which relates to any policy, program or operation of the Commission; or


(3) Is prohibited by section 2(a)(7) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as incorporated in 17 CFR 140.735-2 and 140.735-3. That statute provides that no Commission member or employee shall accept employment or compensation from any person, exchange or clearinghouse subject to regulation by the Commission, or participate, directly or indirectly, in any contract market operations or transactions of a character subject to regulation by the Commission.


(c) *Prior approval for outside employment.* (1) Before engaging in any outside employment, with or without compensation, an employee of the Commission, other than a special Government employee, must obtain written approval from his or her division or office head and the Executive Director, who may seek the concurrence of the General Counsel.


(2) In addition to the approval under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an employee, including a special Government employee, must obtain written approval from the Commission to appear in court or on a brief in a representative capacity.


(3) Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635 and this part.


(4) The approval required by paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section shall be requested in writing in advance of engaging in outside employment. The request shall be submitted to the employee's division or office head, through the employee's immediate supervisor, and shall set forth all pertinent facts regarding the anticipated employment, including the name of the employer, the nature of the work to be performed, its estimated duration and the amount of compensation to be received. If approved by the division or office head, the request shall be forwarded by the division or office head to the Executive Director. In granting or denying approval, the Executive Director may seek the concurrence of the General Counsel. If approved by the Executive Director, a request for permission to appear in court or on a brief in a representational capacity shall be forwarded to the Commission for final decision.


(5) For purposes of this section, “employment” means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes, but is not limited to personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, or civic organization, unless such activities involve the provision of professional services or advice or are for compensation other than reimbursement of expenses.




