# § 558.311   Lasalocid.

(a) *Specifications.* Each pound of Type A medicated article contains 68 grams (15 percent), 90.7 grams (20 percent), or 150 grams (33.1 percent) lasalocid as lasalocid sodium activity. A minimum of 90 percent of lasalocid activity is derived from lasalocid A.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerance.* See § 556.347 of this chapter. 


(d) *Special considerations.* (1) Type C cattle and sheep feeds may be manufactured from lasalocid liquid Type B feeds which have a pH of 4.0 to 8.0 and bear appropriate mixing directions as follows:


(i) For liquid feeds stored in recirculating tank systems: Recirculate immediately prior to use for no less than 10 minutes, moving not less than 1 percent of the tank contents per minute from the bottom of the tank to the top. Recirculate daily as described even when not used.


(ii) For liquid feeds stored in mechanical, air, or other agitation-type tank systems: Agitate immediately prior to use for not less than 10 minutes, creating a turbulence at the bottom of the tank that is visible at the top. Agitate daily as described even when not used.


(2) A physically stable lasalocid liquid feed will not be subject to the requirements for mixing directions prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section provided it has a pH of 4.0 to 8.0 and contains a suspending agent(s) sufficient to maintain a viscosity of not less than 300 centipoises per second for 3 months.


(3) If a manufacturer is unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section, the manufacturer may secure approval of a positionally stable liquid feed by:


(i) Either filing a new animal drug application for the product or establishing a master file containing data to support the stability of its product;


(ii) Authorizing the agency to reference and rely upon the data in the master file to support approval of a supplemental new animal drug application to establish physical stability; and


(iii) Requesting the sponsor of an approved new animal drug application to file a supplement to provide for use of its lasalocid Type A article in the manufacture of the liquid feed specified in the appropriate master file. If the data demonstrate the stability of the liquid feed described in the master file, the supplemental new animal drug application will be approved. The approval will provide a basis for the individual liquid feed manufacturer to manufacture under a medicated feed license the liquid mediated feed described in the master file. A manufacturer who seeks to market a physically unstable lasalocid liquid feed with mixing directions different from the standard directions established in paragraph (d)(1) of this section may also follow this procedure.


(4) If adequate information is submitted to show that a particular liquid feed containing lasalocid is stable outside the pH of 4.0 to 8.0, the pH restriction described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section may be waived.


(5) Required label statements:


(i) For liquid Type B feed (cattle and sheep): Mix thoroughly with grain and/or roughage prior to feeding. Feeding undiluted, mixing errors, or inadequate mixing (recirculation or agitation) may result in an excess lasalocid concentration which could be fatal to cattle and sheep. Do not allow horses or other equines access to Type A articles or Type B feeds containing lasalocid as ingestion may be fatal. Safety of lasalocid for use in unapproved species has not been established.


(ii) For Type A articles or Type B feeds (cattle and sheep): Feeding undiluted or mixing errors may result in an excess lasalocid concentration which could be fatal to cattle and sheep. Do not allow horses or other equines access to Type A articles or Type B feeds containing lasalocid as ingestion may be fatal. Safety of lasalocid for use in unapproved species has not been established.


(iii) For Type A articles, Type B or Type C feeds (cattle): A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in preruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal.


(6) Lasalocid Type A medicated articles containing lasalocid dried fermentation residue are for use in cattle and sheep feed only.


(7) Each use in a free-choice Type C cattle feed as in paragraphs (e)(3)(vi) through (e)(3)(viii) of this section must be the subject of an approved NADA or supplemental NADA as provided in § 510.455 of this chapter.


(e) *Conditions of use.* It is used as follows: 


(1) The conditions of use for chickens are:


(2) The conditions of use for turkeys are:





(3) The conditions of use for cattle are—





(4) The conditions of use for minor species are:



(5) It is used as a free-choice mineral Type C feed as follows:


(i) *Specifications.*

(ii) *Amount.* 1,440 grams per ton.


(iii) *Indications for use.* Pasture cattle (slaughter, stocker, feeder cattle, and dairy and beef replacement heifers): for increased rate of weight gain. Intakes of lasalocid in excess of 200 mg/head/day have not been shown to be more effective than 200 mg/head/day.


(iv) *Limitations.* For pasture cattle (slaughter, stocker, feeder cattle, and dairy and beef replacement heifers); feed continuously on a free-choice basis at a rate of 60 to 300 milligrams lasalocid per head per day. 


(v) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(6) It is used as a ruminant free-choice liquid Type C feed as follows:


(i) *Specifications.*

(ii) *Amount.* 150 grams per ton.


(iii) *Indications for use.* Pasture cattle (slaughter, stocker, feeder cattle, and dairy and beef replacement heifers): for increased rate of weight gain. Intakes of lasalocid in excess of 200 mg/head/day have not been shown to be more effective than 200 mg/head/day.


(iv) *Limitations.* For pasture cattle (slaughter, stocker, feeder cattle, and dairy and beef replacement heifers). Feed continuously on a free-choice basis at a rate of 60 to 300 milligrams lasalocid per head per day.


(v) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(7) It is used as a free-choice, loose mineral Type C feed as follows:


(i) *Specifications.*

(ii) *Amount.* 1,088 grams per ton.


(iii) *Indications for use.* Pasture cattle (slaughter, stocker, feeder cattle, and dairy and beef replacement heifers): For increased rate of weight gain. Intakes of lasalocid in excess of 200 mg/head/day have not been shown to be more effective than 200 mg/head/day.


(iv) *Limitations.* Feed continuously on a free-choice basis at a rate of 60 to 300 mg lasalocid per head per day.


(v) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(8) Lasalocid may also be used in combination with:


(i) Chlortetracycline as in § 558.128.


(ii) Chlortetracycline and sulfamethazine as in § 558.140.


(iii) Lincomycin as in § 558.325.


(iv) Melengestrol as in § 558.342.


(v) Oxytetracycline as in § 558.450.


(vi) Tylosin alone or in combination with melengestrol acetate as in § 558.625.


(vii) Virginiamycin as in § 558.635.



---

[N] [41 FR 44382, Oct. 8, 1976]


