# ยง 515.42   Forwarder and carrier compensation; fees.

(a) *Disclosure of principal.* The identity of the shipper must always be disclosed in the shipper identification box on the bill of lading. The licensed freight forwarder's name may appear with the name of the shipper, but the forwarder must be identified as the shipper's agent.


(b) *Certification required for compensation.* A common carrier may pay compensation to a licensed freight forwarder only pursuant to such common carrier's tariff provisions. When a common carrier's tariff provides for the payment of compensation, such compensation shall be paid on any shipment forwarded on behalf of others where the forwarder has provided a certification as prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section and the shipper has been disclosed on the bill of lading as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section. The common carrier shall be entitled to rely on such certification unless it knows that the certification is incorrect. The common carrier shall retain such certifications for a period of five (5) years.


(c) *Form of certification.* When a licensed freight forwarder is entitled to compensation, the forwarder shall provide the common carrier with a certification which indicates that the forwarder has performed the required services that entitle it to compensation. The required certification may be provided electronically by the forwarder or may be placed on one copy of the relevant bill of lading, a summary statement from the forwarder, the forwarder's compensation invoice, or as an endorsement on the carrier's compensation check. Electronic certification must contain confirmations by the forwarder and the carrier identifying the shipments upon which forwarding compensation may be paid. Each forwarder shall retain evidence in its shipment files that the forwarder, in fact, has performed the required services enumerated on the certification. The certification shall read as follows:


The undersigned hereby certifies that neither it nor any holding company, subsidiary, affiliate, officer, director, agent or executive of the undersigned has a beneficial interest in this shipment; that it is the holder of valid FMC License No. ____, issued by the Federal Maritime Commission and has performed the following services:


(1) Engaged, booked, secured, reserved, or contracted directly with the carrier or its agent for space aboard a vessel or confirmed the availability of that space; and


(2) Prepared and processed the ocean bill of lading, dock receipt, or other similar document with respect to the shipment.


(d) *Compensation pursuant to tariff provisions.* No licensed freight forwarder, or employee thereof, shall accept compensation from a common carrier which is different from that specifically provided for in the carrier's effective tariff(s). No conference or group of common carriers shall deny in the export commerce of the United States compensation to an ocean freight forwarder or limit that compensation, as provided for by section 19(e)(4) of the Act (46 U.S.C. 40904(d)) and 46 CFR part 535.


(e) *Electronic data interchange.* A licensed freight forwarder may own, operate, or otherwise maintain or supervise an electronic data interchange-based computer system in its forwarding business; however, the forwarder must directly perform value-added services as described in paragraph (c) of this section in order to be entitled to carrier compensation.


(f) *Compensation; services performed by underlying carrier; exemptions.* No licensed freight forwarder shall charge or collect compensation in the event the underlying common carrier, or its agent, has, at the request of such forwarder, performed any of the forwarding services set forth in ยง 515.2(h), unless such carrier or agent is also a licensed freight forwarder, or unless no other licensed freight forwarder is willing and able to perform such services.


(g) *Duplicative compensation.* A common carrier shall not pay compensation for the services described in paragraph (c) of this section more than once on the same shipment.


(h) *Non-vessel-operating common carriers; compensation.* (1) A licensee operating as an NVOCC and a freight forwarder, or a person related thereto, may collect compensation when, and only when, the following certification is made together with the certification required under paragraph (c) of this section:


(2) Whenever a person acts in the capacity of an NVOCC as to any shipment, such person shall not collect compensation, nor shall any underlying ocean common carrier pay compensation to such person, for such shipment.


(i) *Compensation; beneficial interest.* A licensed freight forwarder may not receive compensation from a common carrier with respect to any shipment in which the forwarder has a beneficial interest or with respect to any shipment in which any holding company, subsidiary, affiliate, officer, director, agent, or executive of such forwarder has a beneficial interest.



---

[N] [64 FR 11171, Mar. 8, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 50721, Oct. 1, 2009; 80 FR 68737, Nov. 5, 2015; 81 FR 4593, Jan. 27, 2016]




