# § 38.634   Commemorative urns and plaques.

(a) *General.* (1) In lieu of furnishing a headstone, marker, or medallion under this part, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will furnish, when requested—


(i) A commemorative urn; or


(ii) A commemorative plaque.


(2) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(i) *Commemorative urn* means a container that signifies the deceased individual's status as a veteran, in which the individual's cremated remains may be placed at private expense.


(ii) *Commemorative plaque* means a tablet that signifies the deceased individual's status as a veteran.


(3) If VA furnishes a commemorative plaque or a commemorative urn for an individual under this section, VA may not provide for such individual—


(i) A headstone, marker, or medallion; or


(ii) Any burial benefit under 38 U.S.C. 2402.


(4) Any commemorative plaque or commemorative urn furnished under this section shall be the personal property of the applicant.


(5) The Federal Government shall not be liable for any damage to a commemorative plaque or urn furnished under this section that occurs after the date on which the commemorative plaque or urn is furnished. VA will not replace a commemorative plaque or urn unless it was damaged during shipping or contains a manufacturing deficiency or inscription error.


(b) *Eligible individuals to be commemorated.* An eligible individual for purposes of this section is a deceased individual:


(1) Who served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917;


(2) Who is eligible for, but has not received, a headstone, marker, or medallion under 38 U.S.C. 2306(d) (or would be so eligible but for the date of the death of the individual); and


(3) Whose remains were cremated and not interred (see § 38.600 for definition of interment).


(c) *Application process*—(1) *Applicant.* An applicant for a commemorative plaque or urn must be a member of the veteran's family, which includes the veteran's spouse or individual who was in a legal union as defined in § 3.1702(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter with the veteran; a child, parent, or sibling of the veteran, whether biological, adopted, or step relation; and any lineal or collateral descendant of the veteran.


(2) *Application.* An applicant must submit a completed VA Form 40-1330UP, Claim for Commemorative Urn or Commemorative Plaque for Veteran's Cremains Not Interred in a Cemetery. The National Cemetery Administration will verify the decedent's eligibility for a commemorative plaque or urn. Applicants must certify that they have read a statement about other benefits to which the veteran will lose benefit rights, that the decedent's remains were cremated and are not interred at the time of application, that the applicant is a member of the decedent's family authorized to make decisions about the disposition of the decedent's remains, and that the applicant is in possession of the entirety of the cremains. Other required claim information will include documentation of the decedent's eligibility and the applicant's contact information and mailing address. VA's duty to notify claimants of necessary information or evidence under § 3.159(b) of this chapter and duty to assist claimants in obtaining evidence under § 3.159(c) of this chapter will apply.



---

[N] [89 FR 40391, May 10, 2024]






