# § 40.43   What steps must operators of collection sites and collectors take to protect the security and integrity of urine collections?

(a) Collectors and operators of collection sites must take the steps listed in this section to prevent unauthorized access that could compromise the integrity of collections. 


(b) As a collector, you must do the following before each collection to deter tampering with specimens: 


(1) Secure any water sources or otherwise make them unavailable to employees (*e.g.,* turn off water inlet, tape handles to prevent opening faucets); 


(2) Ensure that the water in the toilet is blue; 


(3) Ensure that no soap, disinfectants, cleaning agents, or other possible adulterants are present; 


(4) Inspect the site to ensure that no foreign or unauthorized substances are present; 


(5) Tape or otherwise secure shut any movable toilet tank top, or put bluing in the tank; 


(6) Ensure that undetected access (*e.g.,* through a door not in your view) is not possible; 


(7) Secure areas and items (*e.g.,* ledges, trash receptacles, paper towel holders, under-sink areas) that appear suitable for concealing contaminants; and 


(8) Recheck items in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section following each collection to ensure the site's continued integrity. 


(c) If the collection site uses a facility normally used for other purposes, like a public rest room or hospital examining room, you must, as a collector, also ensure before the collection that: 


(1) Access to collection materials and specimens is effectively restricted; and


(2) The facility is secured against access during the procedure to ensure privacy to the employee and prevent distraction of the collector. Limited-access signs must be posted. 


(d) As a collector, you must take the following additional steps to ensure security during the collection process: 


(1) To avoid distraction that could compromise security, you are limited to conducting a collection for only one employee at a time. However, during the time one employee is in the period for drinking fluids in a “shy bladder” situation (see § 40.193(b)), you may conduct a collection for another employee. 


(2) To the greatest extent you can, keep an employee's collection container within view of both you and the employee between the time the employee has urinated and the specimen is sealed. 


(3) Ensure you are the only person in addition to the employee who handles the specimen before it is poured into the bottles and sealed with tamper-evident seals. 


(4) In the time between when the employee gives you the specimen and when you seal the specimen, remain within the collection site. 


(5) Maintain personal control over each specimen and CCF throughout the collection process. 


(e) If you are operating a collection site, you must implement a policy and procedures to prevent unauthorized personnel from entering any part of the site in which urine specimens are collected or stored. 


(1) Only employees being tested, collectors and other collection site workers, DERs, employee and employer representatives authorized by the employer (*e.g.,* employer policy, collective bargaining agreement), and DOT agency representatives are authorized persons for purposes of this paragraph (e). 


(2) Except for the observer in a directly observed collection or the monitor in the case of a monitored collection, you must not permit anyone to enter the urination facility in which employees provide specimens. 


(3) You must ensure that all authorized persons are under the supervision of a collector at all times when permitted into the site. 


(4) You or the collector may remove any person who obstructs, interferes with, or causes a delay in the collection process. 


(f) If you are operating a collection site, you must minimize the number of persons handling specimens. 






