# ยง 24.110   Organizational documents.

The supporting information required by paragraph (c) of ยง 24.109, includes, as applicable, copies of:


(a) *Corporate documents.* (1) Corporate charter or a certificate of corporate existence or incorporation.


(2) List of the directors and officers, showing their names and addresses.


(3) Certified extracts or digests of minutes of meetings of the board of directors, authorizing certain individuals to sign for the corporation.


(4) Statement showing the number of shares of each class of stock or other evidence of ownership, authorized and outstanding, and the voting rights of the respective owners or holders of stock.


(b) *Articles of partnership.* True copies of the articles of partnership, if any, and of the certificate of partnership or association.


(c) *Statement of interest.* (1) Names and addresses of the 10 persons having the largest ownership or other interest in each of the classes of stock in the corporation, or other legal entity, and the nature and amount of the stockholding or other interest of each, whether the interest appears in the name of the interested party or in the name of another party. If a corporation is wholly-owned or controlled by another corporation, those persons of the parent corporation who meet the above standards are considered to be the persons interested in the business of the subsidiary, and the names thereof need to be furnished only upon the request of the appropriate TTB officer.


(2) In the case of an individual owner or partnership, the name and address of each person interested in the wine premises, whether the interest appears in the name of the interested party or in the name of another for that person.


(d) *Availability of additional corporate documents.* The originals of documents required to be submitted under this section and additional documents that may be required by the appropriate TTB officer (such as articles of incorporation, bylaws, and any certificate issued by a State authorizing operations) must be made available to any appropriate TTB officer upon request.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, 13685, Mar. 22, 1999]




