# § 1900.12   Requirements as to form and content.

(a) *Required information.* (1) Requests must reasonably describe the records of interest sought by the requester, as set forth at 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3). This means that documents must be described sufficiently so that Agency professionals who are familiar with the subject area of the request are able, with a reasonable effort, to determine which particular records are within the scope of the request. In order to assist CIA in identifying the specific records sought, all requesters are encouraged to be as specific as possible in describing the records they are seeking by including, for example, the relevant date or date range, the title of the record, the type of record (such as memorandum or report), the specific event or action to which the record refers, and the subject matter. Requests for electronic communications should attempt to specify a sender, recipient, date range, and subject or keyword. Extremely broad or vague requests or requests requiring research do not satisfy the requirement that a request be “reasonably described.”


(2) Requesters must provide a physical mailing address or email address where CIA can send a response or other correspondence related to the request.


(3) Failure to provide the required information in this section may result in a delay or declination in processing the request.


(b) *Requirements as to identification of requester.* (1) Individuals seeking access to records concerning themselves shall provide their full (legal) name, address, date and place of birth together with a signed statement that such information is true under penalty of perjury or a notarized statement swearing to or affirming identity. If the Agency determines that this information is not sufficient, the Agency may request additional or clarifying information.


(2) Attorneys or other individuals retained to represent a requester shall provide evidence of such representation by submission of a representational agreement or other document which establishes the relationship with the requester.


(3) Failure to provide the required information in this section may result in a delay or declination in processing the request.


(c) *Additional information for fee determination.* A requester should provide sufficient information to allow the Agency to determine the appropriate fee category for the request and the Agency may draw reasonable inferences from the identity and activities of the requester in making such a determination. A requester should also provide an agreement to pay all applicable fees or fees not to exceed a certain amount or request a fee waiver.


(d) *Additional communication with requester.* Although the Agency is not required to answer questions, create records, or perform research in response to a FOIA request, when the request lacks sufficient clarity to allow the records to be located with a reasonable effort, the Agency will provide the requester with an opportunity to narrow or further define the nature or scope of the request. Additionally, individuals may contact the CIA FOIA Requester Service Center for the purpose of obtaining recommendations as to how to frame or narrow a particular request.






