# § 801.6   Business results measures.

(a) *In general.* The business results measures will consist of numerical scores determined under the quality measures and the quantity measures described elsewhere in this section.


(b) *Quality measures.* Quality measures will be determined on the basis of a review by a specially dedicated staff within the IRS of a statistically valid sample of work items handled by certain functions or organizational units determined by the Commissioner or his delegate such as the following:


(1) *Examination and collection units and Automated Collection System Units (ACS).* The quality review of the handling of cases involving particular taxpayers will focus on such factors as whether IRS personnel devoted an appropriate amount of time to a matter, properly analyzed the facts, and complied with statutory, regulatory, and IRS procedures, including timeliness, adequacy of notifications, and required contacts with taxpayers.


(2) *Toll-free telephone sites.* The quality review of telephone services will focus on such factors as whether IRS personnel provided accurate tax law and account information.


(3) *Other work units.* The quality review of other work units will be determined according to criteria prescribed by the Commissioner or his delegate.


(c) *Quantity measures.* Quantity measures will consist of outcome-neutral production and resource data that does not contain information regarding the tax enforcement result reached in any case that involves particular taxpayers. Examples of quantity measures include, but are not limited to—


(1) Cases started;


(2) Cases closed;


(3) Work items completed;


(4) Customer education, assistance, and outreach efforts completed;


(5) Time per case;


(6) Direct examination time/out of office time;


(7) Cycle time;


(8) Number or percentage of overage cases;


(9) Inventory information;


(10) Toll-free level of access; and


(11) Talk time.


(d) *Definitions*—(1) *Tax enforcement results.* A tax enforcement result is the outcome produced by an IRS employee's exercise of judgment in recommending or determining whether or how the IRS should pursue enforcement of the tax laws. Examples of tax enforcement results include a lien filed, a levy served, a seizure executed, the amount assessed, the amount collected, and a fraud referral. Examples of data that are not tax enforcement results include a quantity measure and data derived from a quality review or from a review of an employee's or a work unit's work on a case, such as the number or percentage of cases in which correct examination adjustments were proposed or appropriate lien determinations were made.


(2) *Records of tax enforcement results.* Records of tax enforcement results are data, statistics, compilations of information or other numerical or quantitative recordations of the tax enforcement results reached in one or more cases. Such records may be used for purposes such as forecasting, financial planning, resource management, and the formulation of case selection criteria. Records of tax enforcement results may be used to develop methodologies and algorithms for use in selecting tax returns to audit. Records of tax enforcement results do not include tax enforcement results of individual cases when used to determine whether an employee exercised appropriate judgment in pursuing enforcement of the tax laws based upon a review of the employee's work on that individual case.



---

[N] [T.D. 9227, 70 FR 60215, Oct. 17, 2005. Redesignated by T.D. 9426, 73 FR 60628, Oct. 14, 2008]




