# § 60.543   Performance test and compliance provisions.

(a) Section 60.8(d) does not apply to the monthly performance test procedures required by this subpart. Section 60.8(d) does apply to initial performance tests and to the performance tests specified under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section. Section 60.8(f) does not apply when Method 24 is used.


(b) Performance tests shall be conducted as follows:


(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test, as required under § 60.8(a), except as described under paragraph (j) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility shall thereafter conduct a performance test each month, except as described under paragraphs (b)(4), (g)(1), and (j) of this section. Initial and monthly performance tests shall be conducted according to the procedures in this section.


(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to use a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator), as described under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, shall repeat the performance test when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the capture system or control device at conditions different from the most recent determination of overall reduction efficiency. The performance test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures described under paragraphs (f)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section. 


(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility who seeks to comply with the equipment design and performance specifications, as described under paragraph (j) of this section, shall repeat the performance test when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the capture system or control device at conditions different from the most recent determination of control device efficiency or measurement of capture system retention time or face velocity. The performance test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures described under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.


(4) The owner or operator of each tread end cementing operation and each green tire spraying operation using only water-based sprays (inside and/or outside) containing less than 1.0 percent, by weight, of VOC is not required to conduct a monthly performance test as described in paragraph (d) of this section. In lieu of conducting a monthly performance test, the owner or operator of each tread end cementing operation and each green tire spraying operation shall submit formulation data or the results of Method 24 analysis annually to verify the VOC content of each tread end cement and each green tire spray material, provided the spraying formulation has not changed during the previous 12 months. If the spray material formulation changes, formulation data or Method 24 analysis of the new spray shall be conducted to determine the VOC content of the spray and reported within 30 days as required under § 60.546(j). 


(c) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation where the owner or operator seeks to comply with the uncontrolled monthly VOC use limits, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the applicable (depending upon duration of compliance period) uncontrolled monthly VOC use limit specified under § 60.542(a) (1)(ii), (2)(ii), (6)(ii), (7)(iv), (8)(ii), (9)(ii), and (10)(ii). If both undertread cementing and sidewall cementing are performed at the same affected facility during a month, then the kg/mo limit specified under § 60.542(a)(1)(ii) shall apply for that month. 


(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC (including dilution VOC) of each cement or green tire spray from its formulation or by analysis of the cement or green tire spray using Method 24. If a dispute arises, the Administrator may require an owner or operator who used formulation data to analyze the cement or green tire spray using Method 24. 


(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M_o_) by the following procedure:


(i) For each affected facility for which cement or green tire spray is delivered in batch or via a distribution system that serves only the affected facility: 


(ii) For each affected facility for which cement or green tire spray is delivered via a common distribution system that also serves other affected or existing facilities:


(A) Calculate the total mass of VOC used for all of the facilities served by the common distribution system for the month (M):


(B) Determine the fraction (F_o_) of M used at the affected facility by comparing the production records and process specifications for the material cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month to the production records and process specifications for the material cemented or sprayed at all other facilities served by the common distribution system for the month or by another procedure acceptable to the Administrator.


(C) Calculate the total monthly mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M_o_):


(3) Determine the time duration of the monthly compliance period (T_d_).


(d) For each tread end cementing operation and each green tire spraying operation where water-based cements or sprays containing 1.0 percent, by weight, of VOC or more are used (inside and/or outside) that do not use a VOC emission reduction system, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the VOC emission per tire limit specified under § 60.542 (a)(3), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(7)(i), and (a)(7)(ii). 


(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC as specified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M_o_) as specified under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(3) Determine the total number of tires cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month (T_o_) by the following procedure:


(i) For a trend end cementing operation, T_o_ equals the number of tread or combined tread/sidewall components that receive an application of tread end cement for the month.


(ii) For a green tire spraying operation that uses water-based inside green tire sprays, T_o_ equals the number of green tires that receive an application of water-based inside green tire spray for the month.


(iii) For a green tire spraying operation that uses water-based outside green tire sprays, T_o_ equals the number of green tires that receive an application of water-based outside green tire spray for the month.


(4) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month (G):


(5) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire cemented or sprayed at the affected facility for the month (N):


(e) For each bead cementing operation that does not use a VOC emission reduction system, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the VOC emission per bead limit specified under § 60.542(a)(4).


(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC as specified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M_o_) as specified under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(3) Determine the number of beads cemented at the affected facility during the month (B_o_) using production records; B_o_ equals the number of beads that receive an application of cement for the month.


(4) Calculate the mass of VOC used per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (G_b_):


(5) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (N_b_):


(f) For each tread end cementing operation and each bead cementing operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the emission limit specified under § 60.542(a) (3) and (4).


(1) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (G), as specified under paragraphs (d) (1) through (4) of this section, or mass of VOC used per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (G_b_), as specified under paragraphs (e) (1) through (4) of this section.


(2) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (N) or mass of VOC emitted per bead cemented for the affected facility for the month (N_b_):


(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall construct a temporary enclosure around the application and drying areas during the performance test for the purpose of capturing fugitive VOC emissions. The enclosure must be maintained at a negative pressure to ensure that all evaporated VOC are measurable. Determine the fraction (F_c_) of total VOC used at the affected facility that enters the control device:


(ii) Determine the destruction efficiency of the control device (E) by using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the control device:


(iii) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R):


(iv) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall have the option of substituting the following procedure as an acceptable alternative to the requirements prescribed under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section. This alternative procedure is acceptable only in cases where a single VOC is used and is present in the capture system. The average capture efficiency value derived from a minimum of three runs shall constitute a test. 


(A) For each run, “i,” measure the mass of the material containing a single VOC used. This measurement shall be made using a scale that has both a calibration and a readability to within 1 percent of the mass used during the run. This measurement may be made by filling the direct supply reservoir (e.g., trough, tray, or drum that is integral to the operation) and related application equipment (e.g., rollers, pumps, hoses) to a marked level at the start of the run and then refilling to the same mark from a more easily weighed container (e.g., separate supply drum) at the end of the run. The change in mass of the supply drum would equal the mass of material used from the direct supply reservoir. Alternatively, this measurement may be made by weighing the direct supply reservoir at the start and end of the run or by weighing the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start and end of the run. The change in mass would equal the mass of the material used in the run. If only the direct supply reservoir is weighed, the amount of material in or on the related application equipment must be the same at the start and end of the run. All additions of VOC containing material made to the direct supply reservoir during a run must be properly accounted for in determining the mass of material used during that run. 


(B) For each run, “i,” measure the mass of the material containing a single VOC which is present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run, unless the ending weight fraction VOC in the material is greater than or equal to 98.5 percent of the starting weight fraction VOC in the material, in which case, this measurement is not required. This measurement may be made directly by emptying the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment and then filling them to a marked level from an easily weighed container (e.g. separate supply drum). The change in mass of the supply drum would equal the mass of material in the filled direct supply reservoir and related application equipment. Alternatively, this measurement may be made by weighing the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run and subtracting the mass of the empty direct supply reservoir and related application equipment (tare weight). 


(C) For each run, “i,” the starting weight fraction VOC in the material shall be determined by Method 24 analysis of a sample taken from the direct supply reservoir at the beginning of the run. 


(D) For each run, “i,” the ending weight fraction VOC in the material shall be determined by Method 24 analysis of a sample taken from the direct supply reservoir at the end of the run. 


(E) For each run, “i,” in which the ending weight fraction VOC in the material is greater than or equal to 98.5 percent of the starting weight fraction VOC in the material, calculate the mass of the single VOC used (Mi) by multiplying the mass of the material used in the run by the starting weight fraction VOC of the material used in the run.


(F) For each run, “i,” in which the ending weight fraction VOC in the material is less than 98.5 percent of the starting weight fraction VOC in the material, calculate the mass of the single VOC used (M_i_) as follows:


(*1*) Calculate the mass of VOC present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run by multiplying the mass of material in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run by the starting weight fraction VOC in the material for that run.


(*2*) Calculate the mass of VOC present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the end of the run by multiplying the mass of material in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the end of the run by the ending weight fraction VOC in the material for that run. The mass of material in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the end of the run shall be calculated by subtracting the mass of material used in the run from the mass of material in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run.


(*3*) The mass of the single VOC used (M_i_) equals the mass of VOC present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the start of the run minus the mass of VOC present in the direct supply reservoir and related application equipment at the end of the run.


(G) If Method 25A is used to determine the concentration of the single VOC in the capture system, then calculate the capture efficiency (FC_i_) for each run, “i,” as follows:


(H) If Method 25 is used to determine the concentration of the single VOC in the capture system, then calculate the capture efficiency (FC_i_) for each run, “i,” as follows:


(I) Calculate the average capture efficiency value, F_c_ as follows: 


(g) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the percent emission reduction requirement specified under § 60.542 (a) (1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), (8)(i), (9)(i), and (10)(i).


(1) For the initial performance test, the overall reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined as prescribed under paragraphs (f)(2) (i) through (iii) of this section. The performance test shall be repeated during conditions described under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. No monthly performance tests are required.


(h) For each tread end cementing operation and each bead cementing operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that recovers VOC (e.g., carbon adsorber), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the emission limit specified under § 60.542(a) (3) and (4).


(1) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (G), as specified under paragraphs (d) (1) through (4) of this section, or mass of VOC used per bead cemented at the affected facility for the month (G_b_), as specified under paragraphs (e) (1) through (4) of this section.


(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC recovered from the affected facility for the month (M_r_): 


(3) Calculate the overall reduction efficiency for the VOC emission reduction system (R) for the month: 


(4) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire cemented at the affected facility for the month (N) or mass of VOC emitted per bead cemeted at the affected facility for the month (N_b_):


(i) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cemeting operation, each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation that uses a VOC emission reduction system with a control device that recovers (VOC) (e.g., carbon adsorber), the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement specified under § 60.542(a) (1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), (8)(i), (9)(i), and (10)(i). 


(1) Determine the density and weight fraction VOC as specified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. 


(2) Calculate the total mass of VOC used at the affected facility for the month (M_o_) as described under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(3) Calculate the total mass of VOC recovered from the affected facility for the month (M_r_) as described under paragraph (h)(2) of this section. 


(4) Calculate the overall reduction efficiency for the VOC emission reduction system (R) for the month as described under paragraph (h)(3) of this section. 


(j) Rather than seeking to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of § 60.542(a) (1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), or (9)(i) using the performance test procedures described under paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section, an owner or operator of an undertread cementing operation, sidewall cementing operation, green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, or Michelin-B operation that use a VOC emission reduction system may seek to demonstrate compliance by meeting the equipment design and performance specifications listed under paragraphs (j)(1), (2), and (4) through (6) or under paragraphs (j)(1) and (3) through (6) of this section, and by conducting a control device efficiency performance test to determine compliance as described under paragraph (j)(7) of this section. The owner or operator shall conduct this performance test of the control device efficiency no later than 180 days after initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8(a). Meeting the capture system design and performance specifications, in conjunction with operating a 95 percent efficient control device, is an acceptable means of demonstrating compliance with the standard. Therefore, the requirement for the initial performance test on the enclosure, as specified under § 60.8(a), is waived. No monthly performance tests are required. 


(1) For each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, and each Michelin-B operation, the cement application and drying area shall be contained in an enclosure that meets the criteria specified under paragraphs (j) (2), (4), and (5) of this section; for each green tire spraying operation where organic solvent-based sprays are used, the spray application and drying area shall be contained in an enclosure that meets the criteria specified under paragraphs (j) (3), (4), and (5) of this section.


(2) The drying area shall be enclosed between the application area and the water bath or to the extent necessary to contain all tire components for at least 30 seconds after cement application, whichever distance is less.


(3) Sprayed green tires shall remain in the enclosure for a minimum of 30 seconds after spray application.


(4) A minimum face velocity of 30.5 meters (100 feet) per minute shall be maintained continuously through each permanent opening into the enclosure when all temporary enclosure openings are closed. The cross-sectional area of each permanent opening shall be divided into at least 12 equal areas, and a velocity measurement shall be performed at the centroid of each equal area with an anemometer or similar velocity monitoring device; the face velocity of each permanent opening is the average value of the velocity measurements taken. The monitoring device shall be calibrated and operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.


(5) The total area of all permanent openings into the enclosure shall not exceed the area that would be necessary to maintain the VOC concentration of the exhaust gas stream at 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) under the following conditions:


(i) The facility is operating at the maximum solvent use rate;


(ii) The face velocity through each permanent opening is 30.5 meters (100 feet) per minute; and


(iii) All temporary openings are closed.


(6) All captured VOC are ducted to a VOC emission control device that is operated on a continuous basis and that achieves at least a 95 percent destruction or recovery efficiency.


(7) The efficiency of the control device (E) for the initial performance test is determined by using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the control device as described under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. The control device efficiency shall be redetermined during conditions specified under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(k) Each owner or operator of an affected facility who initially elected to be subject to the applicable percent emission reduction requirement specified under § 60.542(a)(1)(i), (2)(i), (6)(i), (7)(iii), (8)(i), (9)(i), or (10)(i) and who later seeks to comply with the applicable total (uncontrolled) monthly VOC use limit specified under § 60.542(a)(1)(ii), (2)(ii), (6)(ii), (7)(iv), (8)(ii), (9)(ii), or (10)(ii) shall demonstrate, using the procedures described under paragraph (c) of this section, that the total VOC use at the affected facility has not exceeded the applicable total (uncontrolled) monthly VOC use limit during each of the last 6 months of operation. The owner or operator shall be subject to the applicable percent emission reduction requirement until the conditions of this paragraph and § 60.546(h) are satisfied.


(l) In determining compliance for each undertread cementing operation, each sidewall cementing operation, each green tire spraying operation, each Michelin-A operation, each Michelin-B operation, and each Michelin-C-automatic operation, the owner or operator shall include all the VOC used, recovered, or destroyed from cements and organic solvent-based green tire sprays including those cements or sprays used for tires other than those defined under § 60.541(a).


(m) In determining compliance for each tread end cementing operation, each bead cementing operation, and each green tire spraying operation, the owner or operator shall include only those tires defined under § 60.541(a) when determining T_o_ and B_o_.


(n) For each undertread cementing operation and each sidewall cementing operation that does not use a VOC emission reduction system, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure to determine compliance with the VOC emission per tire limit specified in § 60.542a:


(1) Calculate the total mass of VOC (M_o_) used at the affected facility for the month by the following procedure.


(i) For each affected facility for which cement is delivered in batch or via a distribution system which serves only that affected facility: 


(ii) For each affected facility for which cement is delivered via a common distribution system which also serves other affected or existing facilities.


(A) Calculate the total mass (M) of VOC used for all of the facilities served by the common distribution system for the month:


(B) Determine the fraction (F_o_) of “M” used by the affected facility by comparing the production records and process specifications for the material cemented at the affected facility for the month to the production records and process specifications for the material cemented at all other facilities served by the common distribution system for the month or by another procedure acceptable to the Administrator.


(C) Calculate the total monthly mass of VOC(M_o_) used at the affected facility:


(2) Determine the total number of tires (T_o_) processed at the affected facility for the month by the following procedure.


(i) For undertread cementing, T_o_ equals the number of tread or combined tread/sidewall components which receive an application of undertread cement.


(ii) For sidewall cementing, T_o_ equals the number of sidewall components which receive an application of sidewall cement, divided by 2.


(3) Calculate the mass of VOC used per tire processed (G) by the affected facility for the month:


(4) Calculate the mass of VOC emitted per tire processed (N) for the affected facility for the month:


(5) Where the value of the mass of VOC emitted per tire processed (N) is less than or equal to the VOC emission per tire limit specified under § 60.542a, the affected facility is in compliance.



---

[N] [52 FR 34874, Sept. 15, 1987; 52 FR 37874, Oct. 9, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 38635, Sept. 19, 1989; 65 FR 61765, Oct. 17, 2000]




