# § 1211.10   Requirements for all entrapment protection devices.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) An external entrapment protection device shall perform its intended function when tested in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section.


(2) The device is to be installed in the intended manner and its terminals connected to circuits of the door operator as indicated by the installation instructions.


(3) The device is to be installed and tested at minimum and maximum heights and widths representative of recommended ranges specified in the installation instructions. For doors, if not specified, devices are to be tested on a minimum 7 foot (2.1 m) wide door and maximum 20 foot (6.1 m) wide door.


(4) If powered by a separate source of power, the power-input supply terminals are to be connected to supply circuits of rated voltage and frequency.


(5) An external entrapment protection device requiring alignment, such as a photoelectric sensor, shall be provided with a means, such as a visual indicator, to show proper alignment and operation of the device.


(b) *Current protection test.* (1) There shall be no damage to the entrapment protection circuitry if low voltage field-wiring terminals or leads are shortened or miswired to adjacent terminals.


(2) To determine compliance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an external entrapment protection device is to be connected to a door operator or other source of power in the intended manner, after which all connections to low voltage terminals or leads are to be reversed as pairs, reversed individually, or connected to any low voltage lead or adjacent terminal.


(3) After restoring the connections in the intended manner:


(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation tests per § 1211.11(a) through (c); and


(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation test, per § 1211.12(a).


(c) *Splash test.* (1) An external entrapment protection device intended to be installed inside a garage 3 feet or less above the floor shall withstand a water exposure as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section without resulting in a risk of electric shock and shall function as intended, per paragraph (c)(3) of this section. After exposure, the external surface of the device may be dried before determining its functionality.


(2) External entrapment protection devices are to be indirectly sprayed using a hose having the free end fitted with a nozzle as illustrated in Figure 2 to subpart A and connected to a water supply capable of maintaining a flow rate of 5 gallons (19 liters) per minute as measured at the outlet orifice of the nozzle. The water from the hose is to be played, from all sides and at any angle against the floor under the device in such a manner most likely to cause water to splash the enclosure of electric components. However, the nozzle is not to be brought closer than 10 feet (3.05 m) horizontally to the device. The water is to be sprayed for 1 minute.


(3) After drying the external surface of the device:


(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation Tests per § 1211.11(a) through (c); and


(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation Test, per § 1211.12(a).


(iii) There shall be no water on uninsulated live parts of a line voltage circuit.


(d) *Ultraviolet light exposure test.* A polymeric material used as a functional part of a device that is exposed to outdoor weather conditions shall comply with the Ultraviolet Light Exposure Test described in UL 746C (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40).


(e) *Resistance to impact test.* (1) An external entrapment protection device employing a polymeric or elastomeric material as a functional part shall be subjected to the impact test specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. As a result of the test:


(i) There shall be no cracking or breaking of the part; and


(ii) The part shall operate as intended, per paragraph (e)(4) of this section at room temperature, or, if dislodged after the test, but not cracked or broken, is capable of being restored to its original condition. Exception: If a part is cracked or broken, as an alternative, it may be subjected to the Splash Tests, per paragraph (c) of this section, after the impact test. After the water exposure tests, the device shall either:


(A) Operate as intended per paragraph (e)(4) of this section; or


(B) Shut down safely (*i.e.* provide an obstruction signal to the door).


(2) Samples of the external entrapment protection device are to be subjected to the Resistance to Impact Test described in UL 746C (incorporated by reference, see § 1211.40). The external entrapment protection device is to be subjected to 5 foot-pound (6.8 J) impacts. Three samples are to be tested, each sample being subjected to three impacts at different points.


(3) In lieu of conducting the room temperature test described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, each of three samples of a device exposed to outdoor weather when the door is in the closed position are to be cooled to a temperature of minus 31.0 ±3.6 °F (minus 35.0 ±2.0 °C) and maintained at this temperature for 3 hours. Three samples of a device employed inside the garage are to be cooled to a temperature of 32.0 °F (0.0 °C) and maintained at this temperature for 3 hours. While the sample is still cold, the samples shall be subject to the test described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and shall comply with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. After determining compliance with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the sample shall be allowed to return to room temperature, and then shall comply with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.


(4) To determine compliance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section:


(i) A photoelectric sensor shall comply with the Normal Operation tests per § 1211.11(a) through (c); and


(ii) An edge sensor shall comply with the applicable Normal Operation Test, per § 1211.12(a).


(f) *External entrapment protection devices with wireless control*—(1) *Initial test set-up.* (i) For a wireless device intended to be powered by a non-rechargeable battery, a fully charged battery shall be installed per the instructions or markings on the product. See § 1211.16 (a)(7).


(ii) An entrapment protection device or system employing a wireless control, or separately supplied for, shall be installed per the manufacturer's instructions.


(2) *Radiated immunity test.* (i) An external entrapment protection device when employing wireless control shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) through (e) as applicable; or is rendered inoperative (any case in which the operator will not complete a full cycle, open and close, of travel) when tested in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) Compliance to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section is verified by simulating an obstruction during the period of the electric field strength test of § 1211.4(c).


(g) *Battery test for wireless devices.* (1) An external entrapment protection device when employing a battery powered wireless control shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) through (e) as applicable; or is rendered inoperative (any case in which the operator will not complete a full cycle, open and close, of travel) when tested in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(2) Compliance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall be verified with battery charge at the following levels:


(i) Fully charged; and


(ii) Discharged per the manufacturer's recommendations to the wireless device's lowest operational voltage.


(3) An external entrapment protection device employing a battery powered wireless device operating under conditions with a fully discharged battery or when the battery is discharged sufficiently to cause the device or system to render the moving door inoperative, shall be considered a single point fault for complying with §§ 1211.5(b) and 1211.8(c).


(h) *Ambient light test for wireless device with IR communication.* (1) An external entrapment protection device, when employing an IR communication shall operate as specified in § 1211.8(a) through (e) as applicable; or is rendered inoperative (any case in which the operator will not complete a full cycle, open and close, of travel) when subjected to ambient light impinging at an angle of 15 to 20 degrees from the axis of the beam when tested in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section.


(2) An external entrapment protection device when employing an IR communication shall be set up at maximum range per paragraph (h)(1) of this section. The ambient light test described in § 1211.11(e)(2) shall be conducted with the light source impinging on each IR receiver, one at a time that is part of the wireless control system between the external entrapment protection device and the operator.



---

[N] [81 FR 20231, Apr. 7, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 32569, July 13, 2018]




