# § 404.15   Alternative Time Frames.

(a) *General.* Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, an applicant, a licensee, a permittee, or a safety element approval holder must meet the time frames set forth in this chapter.


(b) *Request to change a time frame.* An applicant, a licensee, a permittee, or a safety element approval holder may file a written request to the FAA to propose an alternative time frame to any of the time frames included in the chapter III sections listed in Appendix A to part 404. The request must be—


(1) Emailed to *ASTApplications@faa.gov* in accordance with § 413.7; or


(2) Mailed to the Federal Aviation Administration, Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation, Room 331, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591. Attention: Alternative Time Frame Request.


(c) *Administrator review.* The Administrator will review and make a decision or grant a request for an alternative time frame as follows:


(1) The FAA will conduct its review on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the complexity of the request, the timeliness of the request, and whether the requested alternative allows sufficient time for the FAA to conduct its review and make the requisite public health and safety, safety of property, and national security and foreign policy findings;


(2) The FAA will provide its decision in writing; and


(3) The FAA may grant the request, deny the request, or grant an alternative time frame that differs from what was requested.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2019-0229, Amdt. 404-7, 85 FR 79710, Dec. 10, 2020]




