# § 4280.137   Combined grant and guaranteed loan funding requirements.

The requirements for a RES or EEI project for which an applicant is seeking a combined grant and guaranteed loan are specified in this section.


(a) *Eligibility.* All applicants must be eligible under the requirements specified in § 4280.112. If the applicant is seeking a loan, the applicant must also meet the borrower eligibility requirements specified in 7 CFR 5001.126. Lenders must meet eligibility requirements specified in 7 CFR 5001.130-132. Projects must meet the project eligibility requirements specified in §§ 4280.113, 7 CFR parts 5001.102 (b) and (c) and 5001.106-107, as applicable. For projects that include New Markets Tax Credits, the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request must meet provisions found in 5001.141.


(b) *Funding.* Funding provided under this section is subject to the limits described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (2) of this section.


(1) The amount of any combined grant and guaranteed loan shall not exceed 75 percent of eligible project costs and the grant portion shall not exceed 25 percent of eligible project costs. Loan amount provisions of 7 CFR part 5001.406(d) apply, except for (d)(2). For purposes of combined funding requests, eligible project costs are based on the total costs associated with those items specified in § 4280.115(c) and 7 CFR part 5001.121(d), except for (d)(2). The applicant must provide the remaining total funds needed to complete the project.


(2) The minimum guaranteed loan request allowed is $5,000, with the grant portion of the funding request being at least $1,500 for EEI projects and at least $2,500 for RES projects.


(c) *Loan origination provisions.* Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.201 through 5001.208 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of a combined grant and guaranteed loan funding request.


(d) *Application provisions and documentation.* When applying for combined funding, the applicant/borrower must provide all documentation outlined in this section and the lender must submit grant and guaranteed loan application information simultaneously.


(1) Applications must include the following documentation, including the requisite forms and certifications, specified in §§ 4280.118, 4280.119, or 4280.120 as applicable, for the grant request, except that applicants submitting a properly completed 5001-1 form only need to submit the applicable RD 4280-3 form containing the applicant's CAGE code and properly signed certifications. The guaranteed loan applications are filed in accordance with 7 CFR part 5001.301 where they will be processed in accordance with 7 CFR parts 5001.303 and 5001.307, and as follows:


(2) Where both the grant application and the guaranteed loan application provisions request the same documentation, form, or certification, such documentation, form, or certification may be submitted once; the combined application does not need to contain duplicate documentation, forms, and certifications.


(e) *Loan provisions.* Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.401 through 5001.408 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of a combined funding request.


(f) *Guarantee provisions.* Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.450 through 5001.459 apply to the guarantee on the guaranteed loan portion of a combined funding request.


(g) *Servicing provisions.* Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.501 through 5001.524 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of a combined funding request.


(h) *Evaluation, scoring, and award.* The Agency will evaluate each combined application according to § 4280.116(c) and 7 CFR part 5001.315 (a) and (b). The Agency will select applications according to applicable procedures specified in § 4280.122(a) and (b) unless modified by this section. A combination loan and grant request will be selected based upon the grant score of the project. The Agency will score combined funding applications based upon the grant score as noted in § 4280.121. Projects will be ranked and selected for award according to applicable competition procedures specified in § 4280.122 (c), unless modified by this section or via a _Federal Register_ notification.


(i) *Interest rate and terms of loan.* The interest rate and terms of the guaranteed loan for the loan portion of the combined funding request will be determined based on the procedures specified in 7 CFR parts 5001.401 and 5001.402.


(j) *Other provisions.* In addition to the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, the combined funding request is subject to the other requirements specified in this subpart, including, but not limited to, processing and servicing requirements, as applicable, as described in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) All other provisions of §§ 4280.101 through 4280.111 apply to the grant portion of the combined funding request and all other provisions as applicable of 7 CFR parts 5001.1 through 5001.10 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request.


(2) All other provisions of §§ 4280.112 through 4280.124 apply to the grant portion of the combined funding request and § 4280.125 applies if the project for which the grant is sought has a total project cost of $200,000 and greater.


(3) All guarantee loan and grant combination applications that are ranked, but not funded, will be processed in accordance with provisions found in § 4280.122(d), (e), and (f).


(4) Applicants whose combination applications are approved for funding must utilize both the loan and the grant. The guaranteed loan will be closed prior to grant funds being disbursed. The Agency reserves the right to reduce the total loan guarantee and grant award, as appropriate, if construction costs are less than projected or if funding sources differ from those provided in the application.


(5) Ineligible project provisions of §§ 5001.115 and 5001.119, and ineligible use of funds provision of § 5001.122 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request. Borrower ineligibility provisions of § 5001.127 are also applicable.






