# ยง 405.2415   Incident to services and direct supervision.

(a) Services and supplies incident to the services of a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, certified nurse midwife, clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, marriage and family therapist, or mental health counselor are payable under this subpart if the service or supply is all of the following:


(1) Of a type commonly furnished in physicians' offices.


(2) Of a type commonly rendered either without charge or included in the RHC's or FQHC's bill.


(3) Furnished as an incidental, although integral part of professional services furnished by a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, certified nurse-midwife, clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, marriage and family therapist, or mental health counselor.


(4) Furnished in accordance with applicable State law.


(5) Furnished under the direct supervision of a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or certified nurse-midwife, except that services and supplies furnished incident to Transitional Care Management, General Care Management, the Psychiatric Collaborative Care model, and behavioral health services can be furnished under general supervision of a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, or certified nurse-midwife, when these services or supplies are furnished by auxiliary personnel, as defined in ยง 410.26(a)(1) of this chapter.


(b) The direct supervision requirement is met in the case of any of the following persons only if the person is permitted to supervise these services under the written policies governing the RHC or FQHC:


(1) Nurse practitioner.


(2) Physician assistant.


(3) Certified nurse-midwife.


(4) Clinical psychologist.


(5) Clinical social worker.


(6) Marriage and family therapist.


(7) Mental health counselor.


(c) Only drugs and biologicals which cannot be self-administered are included within the scope of this benefit.



---

[N] [79 FR 25475, May 2, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 68001, Nov. 13, 2014; 81 FR 80552, Nov. 15, 2016; 82 FR 53358, Nov. 15, 2017; 88 FR 79523, Nov. 16, 2023]




