# ยง 3560.405   Borrower organizational structure or ownership interest changes.

(a) *General.* The requirements of this section apply to changes in a borrower entity's organizational structure or to a change in a borrower entity's controlling interest. If 100 percent of a borrower entity's ownership interest is transferred, within a 12-month period, the change will be considered a housing project transfer and the provisions of ยง 3560.406, which covers transfers or sales of housing projects, will apply.


(b) *Agency requirements.* Borrowers must notify the Agency prior to the implementation of any changes in a borrower entity's organizational structure. The Agency must give its consent prior to the implementation of changes in a borrower entity's controlling interest.


(1) Borrowers must submit written requests for Agency consent to the Agency at least 45 days prior to the anticipated effective date of the proposed organizational change. The request must document that the proposed changes will not adversely affect the program purposes or security interest of the Agency and will not adversely affect tenants.


(2) If the controlling interest change involves a transfer of interest to an entity not previously holding an ownership interest in the borrower entity, the request for consent must include a written certification, executed by the party receiving the ownership interest, certifying that the recipient of the ownership interest agrees to assume responsibilities and obligations required of a borrower as established in Agency program requirements including requirements in the promissory note, loan agreement, or other document related to Agency loans held by the borrower entity.


(3) The Agency will not take a consent request for a controlling interest change under consideration if the borrower's request fails to meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(c) *Documentation of organizational structures and ownership interest.* Borrowers must annually document their organizational structure and ownership.


(1) Documentation must be submitted with the annual financial reports required by ยง 3560.308 and must reflect any changes made during the 12-month period preceding the submission of the annual financial reports.


(2) If no changes in a borrower entity's organizational structure or ownership were made during the 12-month period prior to submission of the annual financial reports, borrowers are not required to submit documentation, but must submit a statement certifying that no changes have been made in the documents on file with the Agency.


(3) Organizational structure and ownership documentation must include the following items:


(i) A current organization description reflecting all approved changes in the organizational structure of the borrower entity and listing the names, addresses, and tax identification numbers of all parties with an ownership interest in the borrower entity; and


(ii) A written statement by the borrower certifying that the changes in the borrower entity's organizational structure or ownership interests were completed in compliance with state and local laws and in accordance with organizational requirements of the borrower entity. 




