# § 225.9   Telephonic reports of certain accidents/incidents and other events.

(a) *Types of accidents/incidents and other events to be reported*—(1) *Certain deaths or injuries.* Each railroad must report immediately, as prescribed in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, whenever it learns of the occurrence of an accident/incident arising from the operation of the railroad, or an event or exposure that may have arisen from the operation of the railroad, that results in the—


(i) Death of a rail passenger or a railroad employee; 


(ii) Death of an employee of a contractor to a railroad performing work for the railroad on property owned, leased, or maintained by the contracting railroad; or 


(iii) Death or injury of five or more persons. 


(2) *Certain train accidents or train incidents.* Each railroad must report immediately, as prescribed in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, whenever it learns of the occurrence of any of the following events that arose from the operation of the railroad: 


(i) A train accident that results in serious injury to two or more train crewmembers or passengers requiring their admission to a hospital; 


(ii) A train accident resulting in evacuation of a passenger train; 


(iii) A fatality resulting from a train accident or train incident at a highway-rail grade crossing when death occurs within 24 hours of the accident/incident;


(iv) A train accident resulting in damage (based on a preliminary gross estimate) of $150,000 or more to railroad and nonrailroad property; or


(v) A train accident resulting in damage of $25,000 or more to a passenger train, including railroad and nonrailroad property. 


(3) *Train accidents on or fouling passenger service main lines.* The dispatching railroad must report immediately, as prescribed in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, whenever it learns of the occurrence of any train accident reportable as a rail equipment accident/incident under §§ 225.11 and 225.19(c)— 


(i) That involves a collision or derailment on a main line that is used for scheduled passenger service; or 


(ii) That fouls a main line used for scheduled passenger service. 


(b) *Method of reporting.* (1) Telephonic reports required by this section shall be made by toll-free telephone to the National Response Center, Area Code 800-424-8802 or 800-424-0201. 


(2) Through one of the same telephone numbers (800-424-0201), the National Response Center (NRC) also receives notifications of rail accidents for the National Transportation Safety Board (49 CFR part 840) and the Research and Special Programs Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation (Hazardous Materials Regulations, 49 CFR 171.15). FRA Locomotive Safety Standards require certain locomotive accidents to be reported by telephone to the NRC at the same toll-free number (800-424-0201). 49 CFR 229.17. 


(c) *Contents of report.* Each report must state the: 


(1) Name of the railroad; 


(2) Name, title, and telephone number of the individual making the report; 


(3) Time, date, and location of the accident/incident; 


(4) Circumstances of the accident/incident; 


(5) Number of persons killed or injured; and 


(6) Available estimates of railroad and non-railroad property damage.


(d) *Timing of report.* (1) To the extent that the necessity to report an accident/incident depends upon a determination of fact or an estimate of property damage, a report will be considered immediate if made as soon as possible following the time that the determination or estimate is made, or could reasonably have been made, whichever comes first, taking into consideration the health and safety of those affected by the accident/incident, including actions to protect the environment. 


(2) NTSB has other specific requirements regarding the timeliness of reporting. *See* 49 CFR part 840.



---

[N] [68 FR 10138, Mar. 3, 2003, as amended at 75 FR 68905, Nov. 9, 2010]




