# § 4284.931   Application requirements.

All applications must include the following items:


(a) *Application forms.* The application must include the following forms (or their successor) and any additional forms listed in the annual notification for the program.


(1) *SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”* This form must be filled out completely and signed by an authorized representative of the Applicant organization.


(2) *SF-424A, “Budget Information-Non-Construction Programs.”* This form must be filled out completely.


(b) *Executive summary.* Applications must include a one-page executive summary containing the legal name of the Applicant entity, application type (Planning or Working Capital Grant), Applicant type, amount of grant request, a Project summary, whether a simplified application is being submitted, and must explicitly state whether reserved funds are being requested.


(c) *Eligibility discussion.* The Applicant must discuss how:


(1) Applicant eligibility requirements in § 4284.920 are met;


(2) Project eligibility requirements in § 4284.922 are met; and


(3) Allowable use of grant and Matching Funds requirements in § 4284.925 are met.


(d) *Proposal evaluation criteria.* Applicants for both Planning and Working Capital Grants must address each proposal evaluation criterion identified in § 4284.940 in narrative form.


(e) *Certification of Matching Funds.* Applicants must certify that:


(1) Matching Funds will be spent in advance of grant funding, such that for every dollar of grant funds disbursed, not less than an equal amount of Matching Funds will have been expended prior to submitting the request for reimbursement; and


(2) If Matching Funds are proposed in an amount exceeding the grant amount, those Matching Funds must be spent at a proportional rate equal to the match-to-grant ratio identified in the budget.


(f) *Reserved funds/priority points documentation.* Applicants must identify their priority category, as applicable, and provide the required supporting documentation indicated in §§ 4284.923 and 4284.924 for that category to demonstrate eligibility.


(g) *Business Plan.* For Working Capital Grant applications, Applicants must provide a copy of the Business Plan that was completed for the value-added Project, except as provided for in § 4284.932. The Agency must concur in the acceptability or adequacy of the Business Plan.


(h) *Feasibility Study.* Applicants for Working Capital Grants must provide a copy of a Feasibility Study prepared by a Qualified Consultant that was completed for the value-added Project, except as provided for at § 4284.932. The name and credentials of the Qualified Consultant must be provided along with the date the Feasibility Study was completed. The Feasibility Study must demonstrate a viable Project with a likelihood of success and be a thorough assessment of the practicality of the Project. The thorough assessment must include an analysis of the proposed Project that discusses its strengths and weaknesses, potential opportunities and threats, and resources required to carry it out. The Agency must concur in the acceptability or adequacy of the Feasibility Study and whether the Qualified Consultant who prepared the Feasibility Study possesses the necessary knowledge, expertise, and experience.


(i) *Customer Base and Revenue Increase Metrics.* Applicants must include a discussion on how their Project will result in an expanded market to new customers and increased revenue to the Agricultural Producer Applicant. Working Capital Grant Applicants must also provide estimates for increases in customer base and revenue returns and must include a description of the direct or indirect producer or food business benefits intended by the eligible entity to result from the proposed Project within a reasonable period of time after the receipt of a grant.






