# § 616.6   Definitions.

These definitions apply for the purpose of this arrangement and the procedures issued to effectuate it. 


(a) *State.* “State” includes the States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.


(b) *State agency.* The agency which administers the unemployment compensation law of a State. 


(c) *Combined-Wage Claim.* A claim filed under this arrangement. 


(d) *Combined-Wage Claimant.* A claimant who has covered wages under the unemployment compensation law of more than one State and who has filed a claim under this arrangement. 


(e) *Paying State.* A single State against which the claimant files a Combined-Wage Claim, if the claimant has wages and employment in that State's base period(s) and the claimant qualifies for unemployment benefits under the unemployment compensation law of that State using combined wages and employment.


(f) *Transferring State.* A State in which a Combined-Wage Claimant had covered employment and wages in the base period of a paying State, and which transfers such employment and wages to the paying State for its use in determining the benefit rights of such claimant under its law. 


(g) *Employment and wages.* “Employment” refers to all services which are covered under the unemployment compensation law of a State, whether expressed in terms of weeks of work or otherwise. “Wages” refers to all remuneration for such employment. 


(h) *Secretary.* The Secretary of Labor of the United States. 


(i) *Base period and benefit year.* The base period and benefit year applicable under the unemployment compensation law of the paying State. 



---

[N] [36 FR 24992, Dec. 28, 1971, as amended at 39 FR 45215, Dec. 31, 1974; 43 FR 2625, Jan. 17, 1978; 71 FR 35514, June 21, 2006; 73 FR 63072, Oct. 23, 2008] 




