# ยง 1169.2   Definitions.

The definitions of the Privacy Act apply to this part. In addition, as used in this part:


*Agency* means any executive department, military department, Government corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Federal government, including the Executive Office of the President or any independent regulatory agency.


*Business day* means a calendar day, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays.


*Chairperson* means the Chairperson of NEH, or his or her designee.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of NEH, or his or her designee;


*Individual* means any citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


*Maintain* means to collect, use, store, or disseminate records, as well as any combination of these recordkeeping functions. The term also includes exercise of control over and, therefore, responsibility and accountability for, systems of records.


*NEH* means the National Endowment for the Humanities.


*NEH system* means a system of records maintained by NEH.


*Privacy Act* means the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a).


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual, including, but not limited to, information regarding an individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the individual's name or another identifying particular, such as a number or symbol assigned to the individual, or his or her fingerprints, voice print, or photograph.


*Routine use* means, with respect to disclosure of a record, the use of a record for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.


*System of records* means a group of records under the control of NEH from which NEH retrieves information by use of an individual's name or by some number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to an individual.




