# § 758.6   Destination control statement and other information furnished to consignees.

(a) The exporter must incorporate the following information as an integral part of the commercial invoice whenever items on the Commerce Control List are shipped (*i.e.,* exported in tangible form), unless the shipment (*i.e.,* the tangible export) may be made under License Exception BAG or GFT (see part 740 of the EAR) or the item is designated as EAR99:


(1) The following statement: “These items are controlled by the U.S. Government and authorized for export only to the country of ultimate destination for use by the ultimate consignee or end-user(s) herein identified. They may not be resold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, to any other country or to any person other than the authorized ultimate consignee or end-user(s), either in their original form or after being incorporated into other items, without first obtaining approval from the U.S. government or as otherwise authorized by U.S. law and regulations” and






(2) The ECCN(s) for any 3A001.z, 3A090, 4A003.z, 4A004.z, 4A005.z, 4A090, 5A002.z, 5A004.z, 5A992.z, 9x515 or “600 series” “items” being shipped (*i.e.,* exported in tangible form). For the seven ECCNs with a .z paragraph, the requirement to include the classification only applies to commodities specified under the .z paragraphs. If the commodity is specified under any other paragraph in one of those seven ECCNs, then the requirement under this paragraph is not applicable. For ECCN 3A090, identify the commodity as either 3A090.a, .b, or .c.








(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [81 FR 54731, Aug. 17, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 73497, Oct. 25, 2023; 89 FR 96818, Dec. 5, 2024]




