# ยง 81.53   Processing of program requests.

(a) Each program request submitted to the Secretary by a GSE shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Secretary and the Director, Office of Government-Sponsored Enterprises, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, DC. For those requests submitted before 1 year after the effective date of the regulations issued by the Director of OFHEO under 12 U.S.C. 4611(e), the GSE shall simultaneously submit the program request to the Director. 


(b) Each program request shall include: 


(1) An opinion from counsel stating the statutory authority for the new program (Freddie Mac Act section 305(a) (1), (4), or (5), or Fannie Mae Charter Act section 302(b)(2)-(5) or 304); 


(2) A good-faith estimate of the anticipated dollar volume of the program over the short- and long-term; 


(3) A full description of: (i) The purpose and operation of the proposed program; 


(ii) The market targeted by the program; 


(iii) The delivery system for the program; 


(iv) The effect of the program on the mortgage market; and 


(v) Material relevant to the public interest. 


(c) Following receipt of a program request, the Secretary and, where a program request is submitted to the Director pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Director shall review the program request. 


(d) *Transition standard for approval.* Program requests submitted by the GSEs before the date occurring 1 year after the effective date of the regulations issued by the Director under 12 U.S.C. 4611(e) shall be approved or disapproved by the Secretary as provided in 12 U.S.C. 4542(b)(2). 


(e) *Permanent standard for approval by the Secretary.* Program requests submitted after the date occurring one year after the effective date of the regulations issued by the Director under 12 U.S.C. 4611(e) establishing the risk-based capital test shall be approved by the Secretary in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4542(b)(1). 


(f) *Time for review.* Unless the Secretary and, where appropriate, the Director of OFHEO, need additional information, a program request shall be approved or disapproved within 45 days from the date it is received by the Director, Office of Government-Sponsored Enterprises, and, where applicable, the Director of OFHEO. If within 45 days after receiving a request, the Secretary or the Director of OFHEO determine that additional information is necessary to review the matter and request such information from the GSE, the Secretary may extend the time period for consideration for an additional 15 days. 


(1) Where additional information is requested, the GSE must provide the requested information to the Secretary and, where appropriate, the Director, within 10 days after the request for additional information. 


(2) If the GSE fails to furnish requested information within 10 days after the request for information, the Secretary may deny the GSE's request for approval based on such failure and so report to the Committees of Congress in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. 


(g) *Approval or report.* Within 45 days or, if the period is extended, 60 days following receipt of a program request, the Secretary shall approve the request, in writing, or submit a report to the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, explaining the reasons for not approving the request. If the Secretary does not act within this time period, the GSE's program request will be deemed approved. 




