# § 2522.210   How are AmeriCorps participants recruited and selected?

(a) *Local recruitment and selection.* In general, AmeriCorps participants will be selected locally by an approved AmeriCorps program, and the selection criteria will vary widely among the different programs. Nevertheless, AmeriCorps programs must select their participants in a fair and non-discriminatory manner which complies with part 2540 of this chapter. In selecting participants, programs must also comply with the recruitment and selection requirements specified in this section. 


(b)(1) *National and State recruitment and selection.* AmeriCorps and each State Commission will establish a system to recruit individuals who desire to perform national service and to assist the placement of these individuals in approved AmeriCorps positions, which may include positions available under titles I and II of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 *et seq.*). The national and state recruitment and placement system will be designed and operated according to AmeriCorps guidelines. 


(2) *Dissemination of information.* AmeriCorps and State Commissions will disseminate information regarding available approved AmeriCorps positions through cooperation with secondary schools, institutions of higher education, employment service offices, community-based organizations, State vocational rehabilitation agencies within the meaning of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 *et seq.*) and other State agencies that primarily serve qualified individuals with disabilities, and other appropriate entities, particularly those organizations that provide outreach to disadvantaged youths and youths who are qualified individuals with disabilities. 


(c) *National leadership pool*—(1) *Selection and training.* From among individuals recruited under paragraph (b) of this section or nominated by service programs, AmeriCorps may select individuals with significant leadership potential, as determined by AmeriCorps, to receive special training to enhance their leadership ability. The leadership training will be provided by AmeriCorps directly or through a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement as AmeriCorps determines. 


(2) *Emphasis on certain individuals.* In selecting individuals to receive leadership training under this provision, AmeriCorps will make special efforts to select individuals who have served—


(i) In the Peace Corps; 


(ii) As VISTA volunteers; 


(iii) As participants in AmeriCorps programs receiving assistance under parts 2520 through 2524 of this chapter; 


(iv) As participants in National Service Demonstration programs that received assistance from the Commission on National and Community Service; or 


(v) As members of the Armed Forces of the United States and who were honorably discharged from such service. 


(3) *Assignment.* At the request of a program that receives assistance, AmeriCorps may assign an individual who receives leadership training under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to work with the program in a leadership position and carry out assignments not otherwise performed by regular participants. An individual assigned to a program will be considered to be a participant of the program. 




