# § 51.628   Tolerances.

In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling in each of the foregoing grades, the following tolerances, by count, based on a minimum 25 count sample, are provided as specified. No tolerance shall apply to wormy fruit.


(a) *Defects*—(1) *U.S. Fancy, U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. No. 1 Bronze, U.S. No. 2, and U.S. No. 2 Russet*—(i) *For defects at shipping point.*1 Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, including in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay.




(ii) *For defects en route or at destination.* Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the specified grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:


(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or


(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay.


(2) *U.S. Combination*—(i) *For defects at shipping point.*1 Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than 5 percent shall be allowed for defects causing very serious damage, included in this latter amount not more than 1 percent for decay.


(ii) *For defects en route or at destination.* Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the U.S. No. 2 grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:


(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or


(B) 7 percent for defects causing very serious damage, including therein not more than 5 percent for very serious damage by permanent defects and not more than 3 percent for decay.


(iii) *For defects at shipping point*1*and en route or at destination.* No part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce, for the lot as a whole, the 55 percent of U.S. No. 1 fruit required in the U.S. Combination grade, but individual samples may have not more than 15 percent less than the required percentage for the grade: *Provided,* That the entire lot averages within the percentage required.


(3) *U.S. No. 3*—(i) *For defects at shipping point.*1 Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than 1 percent for decay.


(ii) *For defects en route or at destination.* Not more than 12 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements of the grade: *Provided,* That included in this amount not more than the following percentages shall be allowed for defects listed:


(A) 10 percent for fruit having permanent defects; or


(B) 3 percent for decay.


(b) *Discoloration*—(1) *U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 1 Bright, U.S. Combination, and U.S. No. 2.* Not more than 10 percent of the fruit in any lot may fail to meet the requirements relating to discoloration as specified in each grade; No sample may have more than 20 percent of the fruit with excessive discoloration: *Provided,* That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.


(2) *U.S. No. 1 Bronze.* At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than one-half of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage: *Provided,* That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified. No tolerance is provided for fruit showing no discoloration.


(3) *U.S. No. 2 Russet.* At least 10 percent of the fruit shall have more than two-thirds of the surface, in the aggregate, affected by discoloration, and no part of any tolerance shall be allowed to reduce this percentage: *Provided,* That the entire lot averages within the percentage specified.



---

[N] [85 FR 68423, Oct. 29, 2020]




