# § 139.10   Ballast tanks.

(a) *Applicability.* Except for any vessel otherwise excluded in paragraph (b) of this section, the requirements in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section apply to any vessel equipped with one or more ballast tanks.


(b) *Exclusions.* The requirements of this section do not apply to the following vessels:


(1) A vessel that continuously takes on and discharges ballast water in a flow-through system, if the Administrator determines that system cannot materially contribute to the spread or introduction of ANS into waters of the United States;


(2) A vessel in the National Defense Reserve Fleet scheduled for disposal, if the vessel does not have an operable ballast water management system (BWMS);


(3) A vessel that discharges ballast water consisting solely of water taken onboard from a public or commercial source that, at the time the water is taken onboard, meets the applicable requirements or permit requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300f *et seq.*);


(4) A vessel that carries all permanent ballast water in sealed tanks that are not subject to discharge; or


(5) A vessel that only discharges ballast water to a reception facility.


(c) *Ballast Water Best Management Practices.* (1) Any vessel equipped with ballast tanks must minimize the introduction and spread of aquatic nuisance species (ANS) by adhering to the following practices:


(i) Maintain a ballast water management plan that addresses both the uptake and discharge of ballast water. The plan must describe the vessel-specific BWMSs and practices necessary to comply with the requirements in this section.


(ii) Minimize the use of gravity to drain ballast tanks in port.


(iii) Use high sea suction in port or where clearance to the bottom of the waterbody is less than 5 meters to the lower edge of the sea chest, as practicable.


(iv) Avoid the discharge or uptake of ballast water in areas with coral reefs. Discharge and uptake should be conducted as far from coral reefs as practicable.


(v) Periodically clean ballast tanks to remove sediment. Discharge of sediment from ballast tank cleaning is prohibited.


(vi) Maintain, and keep fully intact, sea chest screens.


(2) Any new Laker equipped with ballast tanks must install, operate, and maintain a BWMS that has been type-approved by the USCG.


(d) *Ballast Water Discharge Standard.* Unless exempted in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, any ballast water discharge must meet the following numeric discharge standard:


(1) Biological parameters (expressed as instantaneous maximums).


(i) Organisms greater than or equal to 50 micrometers in minimum dimension: less than 10 living organisms per cubic meter.


(ii) Organisms less than 50 micrometers and greater than or equal to 10 micrometers: less than 10 living organisms per milliliter (mL).


(iii) Toxicogenic *Vibrio cholerae* (serotypes O1 and O139): less than 1 colony-forming unit (cfu) per 100 mL.


(iv) *Escherichia coli:* a concentration of less than 250 cfu, or Most Probable Number (MPN), per 100 mL.


(v) Intestinal enterococci: a concentration of less than 100 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL.


(2) Biocide parameters (expressed as instantaneous maximums).


(i) Chlorine dioxide: for any discharge from a BWMS using chlorine dioxide, chlorine dioxide must not exceed 200 µg/L.


(ii) Total residual oxidizers: for any discharge from a BWMS using chlorine or ozone, total residual oxidizers must not exceed 100 µg/L.


(iii) Peracetic acid: for any discharge from a BWMS using peracetic acid, peracetic acid must not exceed 500 µg/L.


(iv) Hydrogen peroxide: for any discharge from a BWMS using peracetic acid, hydrogen peroxide must not exceed 1,000 µg/L.


(3) Exemptions: The ballast water discharge standards in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to any vessel that:


(i) Is less than or equal to 3,000 GT (1,600 GRT if GT is not assigned), and does not operate outside of the EEZ;


(ii) Is a non-seagoing, unmanned, unpowered barge, except any barge that is part of a dedicated vessel combination such as an integrated or articulated tug and barge unit;


(iii) Takes on and discharges ballast water exclusively in the contiguous portions of a single COTP Zone;


(iv) Does not travel more than 10 NM and passes through no locks;


(v) Discharges ballast water at the same location where that ballast water originated, provided that no mixing with unmanaged ballast water or sediment from other areas has occurred;


(vi) Operates exclusively in the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River west of a rhumb line drawn from Cap des Rosiers to Pointe-de-l'Ouest (West Point), Anticosti Island, and west of a line along 63° W. longitude from Anticosti Island to the north shore of the St. Lawrence River;


(vii) Is enrolled in the USCG Shipboard Technology Evaluation Program (STEP); or


(viii) Discharges ballast water prior to an applicable ballast water discharge standard compliance date established in regulations promulgated by the Secretary as described in 139.1(d).


(e) *Ballast Water Exchange and Saltwater Flush.* Except for any vessel identified in paragraph (f) or (g) of this section, prior to an applicable ballast water discharge standard compliance date established in regulations promulgated by the Secretary as described in § 139.1(d), any vessel must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section unless excluded under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(1) Any vessel that carries ballast water taken on in areas less than 200 NM from any shore that will subsequently operate outside the EEZ and more than 200 NM from any shore must:


(i) Conduct ballast water exchange in waters not less than 200 NM from any shore prior to discharging that ballast water; and


(ii) Commence ballast water exchange not less than 200 NM from any shore and as early in the vessel voyage as practicable.


(2) For any ballast tank that is empty or contains unpumpable residual water on a vessel bound for a port or place of destination subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, the master must, prior to arriving at that port or place of destination, either:


(i) Seal the tank so that there is no discharge or uptake and subsequent discharge of ballast water, or


(ii) Conduct a ballast water exchange or saltwater flush:


(A) Not less than 200 NM from any shore for a voyage originating outside the United States or Canadian EEZ; or


(B) Not less than 50 NM from any shore for a voyage originating within the United States or Canadian EEZ.


(3) Exceptions: Paragraphs (e)(1) and (2), do not apply under any of the following circumstances:


(i) If the unpumpable residual waters and sediments of an empty ballast tank were subject to treatment, in compliance with applicable requirements, through a BWMS approved or accepted by the Secretary;


(ii) Except as otherwise required under this part, if the unpumpable residual waters and sediments of an empty ballast tank were sourced solely within:


(A) The same port or place of destination; or


(B) Contiguous portions of a single COTP Zone;


(iii) If complying with an applicable requirement of this paragraph (e):


(A) Would compromise the safety of the vessel; or


(B) Is otherwise prohibited by any Federal, Canadian, or international law (including regulations) pertaining to vessel safety;


(iv) If design limitations of an existing vessel prevent a ballast water exchange or saltwater flush from being conducted in accordance with this paragraph (e); or


(v) If the vessel is operating exclusively within the internal waters of the United States and Canada.


(f) *Vessels entering the Great Lakes.* (1) Ballast Water Exchange: Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, any vessel entering the St. Lawrence Seaway through the mouth of the St. Lawrence River must conduct a complete ballast water exchange or saltwater flush:


(i) Not less than 200 NM from any shore for a voyage originating outside the EEZ; or


(ii) Not less than 50 NM from any shore for a voyage originating within the EEZ.


(2) Exceptions: The requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section do not apply to any vessel if:


(i) Complying with paragraph (f)(1) of this section:


(A) Would compromise the safety of the vessel; or


(B) Is otherwise prohibited by any Federal, Canadian, or international law (including regulations) pertaining to vessel safety.


(ii) Design limitations of an existing vessel prevent a ballast water exchange from being conducted in accordance with an applicable requirement of paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(iii) The vessel has no residual ballast water or sediments onboard.


(iv) The vessel retains all ballast water while in waters subject to the requirement.


(v) The empty ballast tanks on the vessel are sealed in a manner that ensures that no discharge or uptake occurs, and any subsequent discharge of ballast water is subject to the requirement.


(g) *Pacific Region.* (1) Ballast Water Exchange:


(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) and (g)(3) of this section, any vessel that operates either between two ports or places of destination within the Pacific Region; or a port or place of destination within the Pacific Region and a port or place of destination on the Pacific Coast of Canada or Mexico north of parallel 20 degrees north latitude, inclusive of the Gulf of California, must conduct a complete ballast water exchange in waters more than 50 NM from shore.


(ii) Exemptions: The requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section do not apply to any vessel:


(A) Using, in compliance with applicable requirements, a type-approved BWMS approved or accepted by the Secretary.


(B) Voyaging:


(*1*) Between or to a port or place of destination in the State of Washington, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from waters located between the parallel 46 degrees north latitude, including the internal waters of the Columbia River, and the internal waters of Canada south of parallel 50 degrees north latitude, including the waters of the Strait of Georgia and the Strait of Juan de Fuca;


(*2*) Between ports or places of destination in the State of Oregon, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from waters located between the parallel 40 degrees north latitude and the parallel 50 degrees north latitude;


(*3*) Between ports or places of destination in the State of California within the San Francisco Bay area east of the Golden Gate Bridge, including the Port of Stockton and the Port of Sacramento, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from ports or places within that area;


(*4*) Between the Port of Los Angeles, the Port of Long Beach, and the El Segundo offshore marine oil terminal, if the ballast water to be discharged from the commercial vessel originated solely from the Port of Los Angeles, the Port of Long Beach, or the El Segundo offshore marine oil terminal;


(*5*) Between a port or place of destination in the State of Alaska within a single COTP Zone;


(*6*) Between ports or places of destination in different counties of the State of Hawaii, if the vessel conducts a complete ballast water exchange in waters that are more than 10 NM from shore and at least 200 meters deep; or


(*7*) Between ports or places of destination within the same county of the State of Hawaii, if the vessel does not transit outside State marine waters during the voyage.


(2) Low-Salinity Ballast Water:


(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii) and (g)(3) of this section, a complete ballast water exchange must be conducted for any commercial vessel that transports ballast water sourced from waters with a measured salinity of less than 18 parts per thousand and voyages to a Pacific Region port or place of destination with a measured salinity of less than 18 parts per thousand:


(A) Not less than 50 NM from shore, if the ballast water was sourced from a Pacific Region port or place of destination.


(B) More than 200 NM from shore, if the ballast water was not sourced from a Pacific Region port or place of destination.


(ii) Exception: The requirements of paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section do not apply to any vessel voyaging to a port or place of destination in the Pacific Region that is using, in compliance with applicable requirements, a type-approved BWMS accepted by the Secretary, or a type-approved BWMS approved by the Secretary to achieve the following numeric discharge standard for biological parameters (expressed as instantaneous maximums):


(A) Organisms greater than or equal to 50 micrometers in minimum dimension: less than 1 living organism per 10 cubic meters.


(B) Organisms less than 50 micrometers and greater than or equal to 10 micrometers: Less than 1 living organisms per 10 milliliters (mL).


(C) Toxicogenic *Vibrio cholerae* (serotypes O1 and O139): less than 1 colony-forming unit (cfu) per 100 mL or less than 1 cfu per gram of wet weight of zoological samples.


(D) *Escherichia coli:* less than 126 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL.


(E) Intestinal enterococci: less than 33 cfu, or MPN, per 100 mL.


(3) General Exceptions: The requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to a commercial vessel if:


(i) Complying with the requirement would compromise the safety of the commercial vessel.


(ii) If design limitations of an existing vessel, prevent a ballast water exchange from being conducted in accordance with paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.


(iii) The commercial vessel:


(A) Has no residual ballast water or sediments onboard; or


(B) Retains all ballast water while in waters subject to those requirements.


(iv) Empty ballast tanks on the commercial vessel are sealed in a manner that ensures that:


(A) No discharge or uptake occurs; and


(B) Any subsequent discharge of ballast water is subject to those requirements.


(h) *Federally-protected waters.* Additional standards applicable to discharges from ballast tanks when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in § 139.40(b).






