# § 266.638   Issuance of HFA Debenture.

(a) *Condition to initial claim payment.* The HFA must issue an instrument in the form of a debenture to HUD within 30 calendar days of receiving the initial claim payment. The HFA Debenture shall meet the following requirements and shall be in a form that has been approved by HUD as part of the application approval process. 


(b) *Term of HFA Debenture.* The HFA Debenture shall be dated the same date that the initial claim payment is issued. The HFA Debenture shall have a term of 5 years in order to afford the mortgagor ample time to cure the default or the HFA time to foreclose and/or resell the project. HUD may provide a written extension of the 5-year term if the HFA certifies and provides documentation that the project owner has filed bankruptcy and the HFA is taking action to have the project discharged from the bankruptcy. The HFA Debenture shall, during this extended period, continue to bear interest as described below at HUD's published debenture rate at the earlier of initial endorsement or final endorsement. Interest shall be due and payable annually on the anniversary date of the initial claim payment. Interest is due on the full face amount of the HFA Debenture through the term of the HFA Debenture or through the date an application for final claim payment is received by the Commissioner. 


(c) *HFA Debenture amount.* (1) The HFA Debenture shall be for the full initial claim amount as determined under § 266.628(a)(1) (minus any excess funds returned to HUD under § 266.628(a)(3)). 


(2) The full amount of the HFA Debenture shall be payable to HUD upon maturity, unless the HFA Debenture is canceled because of: 


(i) A reinstatement of the contract of insurance under § 266.634; or 


(ii) Final claim settlement under § 266.654. 


(d) *HFA Debenture interest rate.* The HFA Debenture shall bear interest at HUD's published debenture rate at the earlier of initial endorsement or final endorsement. Interest shall be due and payable annually on the anniversary date of the initial claim payment and on the date of redemption when redeemed or canceled before an anniversary date. Interest shall be computed on the full face amount of the HFA Debenture through the term of the HFA Debenture. 


(e) *Form of HFA Debenture.* The HFA Debenture should follow the standard form of a State/Municipal Debenture issued under the Uniform Commercial Code, where applicable, and shall be supported by the full faith and credit of the HFA. For HFAs that operate as departments or divisions of States or units of local government and where such HFAs cannot pledge the full faith and credit of the HFA, such HFAs may collateralize their obligation through a letter of credit, reinsurance, or other forms of credit acceptable to the Commissioner. 


(f) *Debenture registration.* Unless otherwise required by law, including State or local laws, or other governing bodies, HUD will not require the HFA Debenture to be “Registered” (with the Securities and Exchange Commission) as it is a direct, or private, placement, and not a public offering, that is supported by the full faith and credit of the HFA. 



---

[N] [59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]




