# ยง 51.6   Destruction of animals; time limit for destruction of animals.

(a) *Cattle.* The claimant shall be responsible for ensuring that cattle subject to this part shall be sold under permit to a recognized slaughtering establishment or to a specifically approved stockyard for sale to a recognized slaughtering establishment.


(b) *Bison.* The claimant shall be responsible for insuring that bison subject to this part shall be sold under permit to a State or Federal slaughtering establishment approved by the Administrator for this purpose or to a stockyard approved by the Administrator for sale to such a slaughtering establishment, *Provided, However,* That the Administrator may approve such other bison slaughtering establishments as may be deemed necessary to accomplish destruction of bison subject to this part. 


(c) *Swine.* The claimant shall be responsible for insuring that swine subject to this part shall be sold under permit to a slaughtering establishment where State or Federal Meat inspection is available, or to a market approved by the State Animal Health Official, or to a market approved by the Administrator, for sale to such slaughtering establishment; 
5 except that in the case of indemnity for whole herd depopulation, as provided for in ยง 51.3, swine shall be destroyed, if possible, on the premises where the animals are held or penned at the time the indemnity is approved, or may be moved for destruction to another location when movement to the location is approved in advance by an APHIS representative. In cases where the swine are destroyed other than at a slaughtering establishment, the carcasses of the swine shall be disposed of by burial, incineration, or other disposal means authorized by applicable State law. The destruction and disposition of animals destroyed in accordance with this section other than at a slaughtering establishment shall be performed in the presence of an APHIS representative.


(d) *Time limit for destruction of animals.* Payment of indemnity shall be made under this part only if the animals are destroyed within 15 days after the date of identification, pursuant to ยง 51.5 of the regulations in this part, except that the appropriate Veterinarian in Charge may extend the time limit to 30 days when request for such extension is received from the owner prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period allowed, or when the animals were sold for slaughter prior to the expiration date of the original 15-day period, and when the Veterinarian in Charge determines that such extension will not adversely affect the Brucellosis Eradication Program; and except further, that the Administrator shall, upon request in specific cases, extend the time limit beyond the 30-day period when unusual and unforeseen circumstances occur which prevent or hinder the destruction of the animals within the 30-day period, such as, but not limited to, floods, storms, or other Acts of God which are beyond the control of the owner, or when destruction is delayed due to requirements of another Federal Agency.



---

[N] [42 FR 64336, Dec. 23, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 43680, June 27, 1980; 45 FR 86410, Dec. 31, 1980; 46 FR 5861, Jan. 21, 1981; 47 FR 53324, Nov. 26, 1982; 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 50 FR 11993, Mar. 27, 1985; 51 FR 11300, Apr. 2, 1986; 51 FR 32599, Sept. 12, 1986; 54 FR 32435, Aug. 8, 1989; 56 FR 18506, Apr. 23, 1991; 59 FR 12533, Mar. 17, 1994] 




