# § 63.742   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows: 


*Aerospace facility* means any facility that produces, reworks, or repairs in any amount any commercial, civil, or military aerospace vehicle or component. 


*Aerospace vehicle or component* means any fabricated part, processed part, assembly of parts, or completed unit, with the exception of electronic components, of any aircraft including but not limited to airplanes, helicopters, missiles, rockets, and space vehicles. 


*Aircraft fluid systems* means those systems that handle hydraulic fluids, fuel, cooling fluids, or oils. 


*Aircraft transparency* means the aircraft windshield, canopy, passenger windows, lenses, and other components which are constructed of transparent materials.


*Airless and air-assisted airless spray* mean any coating spray application technology that relies solely on the fluid pressure of the coating to create an atomized coating spray pattern and does not apply any atomizing compressed air to the coating before it leaves the spray gun nozzle. Air-assisted airless spray uses compressed air to shape and distribute the fan of atomized coating, but still uses fluid pressure to create the atomized coating.


*Antique aerospace vehicle or component* means an aircraft or component thereof that was built at least 30 years ago. An antique aerospace vehicle would not routinely be in commercial or military service in the capacity for which it was designed.


*Carbon adsorber* means one vessel in a series of vessels in a carbon adsorption system that contains carbon and is used to remove gaseous pollutants from a gaseous emission source. 


*Carbon Adsorber control efficiency* means the total efficiency of the control system, determined by the product of the capture efficiency and the control device efficiency. 


*Chemical milling maskant* means a coating that is applied directly to aluminum components to protect surface areas when chemical milling the component with a Type I or Type II etchant. Type I chemical milling maskants are used with a Type I etchant and Type II chemical milling maskants are used with a Type II etchant. This definition does not include bonding maskants, critical use and line sealer maskants, and seal coat maskants. Additionally, maskants that must be used with a combination of Type I or II etchants and any of the above types of maskants (*i.e.,* bonding, critical use and line sealer, and seal coat) are also not included in this definition. (*See* also Type I and Type II etchant definitions.)


*Chemical milling maskant application operation* means application of chemical milling maskant for use with Type I or Type II chemical milling etchants.


*Classified National Security Information* means information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 13526, “Classified National Security Information,” December 29, 2009 or any successor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form. The term “Classified Information” is an alternative term that may be used instead of “Classified National Security Information.”


*Cleaning operation* means collectively spray gun, hand-wipe, and flush cleaning operations. 


*Cleaning solvent* means a liquid material used for hand-wipe, spray gun, or flush cleaning. This definition does not include solutions that contain HAP and VOC below the de minimis levels specified in § 63.741(f).


*Closed-cycle depainting system* means a dust-free, automated process that removes permanent coating in small sections at a time and maintains a continuous vacuum around the area(s) being depainted to capture emissions.


*Coating* means a material that is applied to a substrate for decorative, protective, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, sealants, liquid plastic coatings, caulks, inks, adhesives, and maskants. Decorative, protective, or functional materials that consist only of protective oils for metal, acids, bases, or any combination of these substances; paper film or plastic film which may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the film manufacturer; or pre-impregnated composite sheets are not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart. Materials in handheld non-refillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, and marking pens are also not considered coatings for the purposes of this subpart. A liquid plastic coating means a coating made from fine particle-size polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in solution (also referred to as a plastisol).


*Coating operation* means the use of a spray booth, tank, or other enclosure or any area, such as a hangar, for the application of a single type of coating (e.g., primer); the use of the same spray booth for the application of another type of coating (e.g., topcoat) constitutes a separate coating operation for which compliance determinations are performed separately. 


*Coating unit* means a series of one or more coating applicators and any associated drying area and/or oven wherein a coating is applied, dried, and/or cured. A coating unit ends at the point where the coating is dried or cured, or prior to any subsequent application of a different coating. It is not necessary to have an oven or flashoff area in order to be included in this definition. 


*Confined space* means a space that: (1) Is large enough and so configured that an employee can bodily enter and perform assigned work; (2) has limited or restricted means for entry or exit (for example, fuel tanks, fuel vessels, and other spaces that have limited means of entry); and (3) is not suitable for continuous employee occupancy. 


*Control device* means destruction and/or recovery equipment used to destroy or recover HAP or VOC emissions generated by a regulated operation. 


*Control system* means a combination of pollutant capture system(s) and control device(s) used to reduce discharge to the atmosphere of HAP or VOC emissions generated by a regulated operation. 


*Depainting* means the removal of a permanent coating from the outer surface of an aerospace vehicle or component, whether by chemical or non-chemical means. For non-chemical means, this definition excludes hand and mechanical sanding, and any other non-chemical removal processes that do not involve blast media or other mechanisms that would result in airborne particle movement at high velocity. 


*Depainting operation* means the use of a chemical agent, media blasting, or any other technique to remove permanent coatings from the outer surface of an aerospace vehicle or components. The depainting operation includes washing of the aerospace vehicle or component to remove residual stripper, media, or coating residue. 


*Electrodeposition of paint* means the application of a coating using a water-based electrochemical bath process. The component being coated is immersed in a bath of the coating. An electric potential is applied between the component and an oppositely charged electrode hanging in the bath. The electric potential causes the ionized coating to be electrically attracted, migrated, and deposited on the component being coated. 


*Electrostatic spray* means a method of applying a spray coating in which an electrical charge is applied to the coating and the substrate is grounded. The coating is attracted to the substrate by the electrostatic potential between them. 


*Exempt solvent* means specified organic compounds that have been determined by the EPA to have negligible photochemical reactivity and are listed in 40 CFR 51.100. 


*Exterior primer* means the first layer and any subsequent layers of identically formulated coating applied to the exterior surface of an aerospace vehicle or component where the component is used on the exterior of the aerospace vehicle. Exterior primers are typically used for corrosion prevention, protection from the environment, functional fluid resistance, and adhesion of subsequent exterior topcoats. Coatings that are defined as specialty coatings are not included under this definition.


*Flush cleaning* means the removal of contaminants such as dirt, grease, oil, and coatings from an aerospace vehicle or component or coating equipment by passing solvent over, into, or through the item being cleaned. The solvent may simply be poured into the item being cleaned and then drained, or be assisted by air or hydraulic pressure, or by pumping. Hand-wipe cleaning operations where wiping, scrubbing, mopping, or other hand action are used are not included. 


*General aviation (GA)* means that segment of civil aviation that encompasses all facets of aviation except air carriers, commuters, and military. General aviation includes charter and corporate-executive transportation, instruction, rental, aerial application, aerial observation, business, pleasure, and other special uses.


*General aviation rework facility* means any aerospace facility with the majority of its revenues resulting from the reconstruction, repair, maintenance, repainting, conversion, or alteration of general aviation aerospace vehicles or components.


*Hand-wipe cleaning operation* means the removal of contaminants such as dirt, grease, oil, and coatings from an aerospace vehicle or component by physically rubbing it with a material such as a rag, paper, or cotton swab that has been moistened with a cleaning solvent. 


*Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)* means any air pollutant listed in or pursuant to section 112(b) of the Act. 


*High efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter* means a filter that has a 99.97 percent reduction efficiency for 0.3 micron aerosol. 


*High volume low pressure (HVLP) spray equipment* means spray equipment that is used to apply coating by means of a spray gun that operates at 10.0 psig of atomizing air pressure or less at the air cap.


*Inorganic hazardous air pollutant (HAP)* means any HAP that is not organic. 


*Large commercial aircraft* means an aircraft of more than 110,000 pounds, maximum certified take-off weight manufactured for non-military use.


*Leak* means any visible leakage, including misting and clouding. 


*Limited access space* means internal surfaces or passages of an aerospace vehicle or component that cannot be reached without the aid of an airbrush or a spray gun extension for the application of coatings. 


*Mechanical sanding* means aerospace vehicle or component surface conditioning which uses directional and random orbital abrasive tools and aluminum oxide or nylon abrasive pads for the purpose of corrosion rework, substrate repair, prepaint surface preparation, and other maintenance activities. 


*Natural draft opening* means any opening in a room, building, or total enclosure that remains open during operation of the facility and that is not connected to a duct in which a fan is installed. The rate and direction of the natural draft through such an opening is a consequence of the difference in pressures on either side of the wall containing the opening. 


*Non-chemical based depainting equipment* means any depainting equipment or technique, including, but not limited to, media blasting equipment, that can depaint an aerospace vehicle or component in the absence of a chemical stripper. This definition does not include mechanical sanding or hand sanding. 


*Non-HAP material* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a primer, topcoat, specialty coating, chemical milling maskant, cleaning solvent, or stripper that contains no more than 0.1 percent by mass of any individual organic HAP that is an Occupational Safety and Health Administration-defined carcinogen as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4) and no more than 1.0 percent by mass for any other individual HAP.


*Nonregenerative carbon adsorber* means a carbon adsorber vessel in which the spent carbon bed does not undergo carbon regeneration in the adsorption vessel. 


*Operating parameter value* means a minimum or maximum value established for a control device or process parameter which, if achieved by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator has complied with an applicable emission limitation. 


*Organic hazardous air pollutant (HAP)* means any HAP that is organic. 


*Primer* means the first layer and any subsequent layers of identically formulated coating applied to the surface of an aerospace vehicle or component. Primers are typically used for corrosion prevention, protection from the environment, functional fluid resistance, and adhesion of subsequent coatings. Coatings that are defined as specialty coatings are not included under this definition. 


*Radome* means the non-metallic protective housing for electromagnetic transmitters and receivers (e.g., radar, electronic countermeasures, etc.). 


*Recovery device* means an individual unit of equipment capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value, use, or reuse. Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators, or organic-water separators or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin-film evaporation units.


*Research and Development* means an operation whose primary purpose is for research and development of new processes and products, that is conducted under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not involved in the manufacture of final or intermediate products for commercial purposes, except in a de mimnimis manner. 


*Self-priming topcoat* means a topcoat that is applied directly to an uncoated aerospace vehicle or component for purposes of corrosion prevention, environmental protection, and functional fluid resistance. More than one layer of identical coating formulation may be applied to the vehicle or component. 


*Semi-aqueous cleaning solvent* means a solution in which water is a primary ingredient (″ 60 percent of the solvent solution as applied must be water.) 


*Softener* means a liquid that is applied to an aerospace vehicle or component to degrade coatings such as primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings specifically as a preparatory step to subsequent depainting by non-chemical based depainting equipment. Softeners may contain VOC but shall not contain any HAP as determined from MSDS's or manufacturer supplied information.


*Solids* means the non-volatile portion of the coating which after drying makes up the dry film. 


*Space vehicle* means a man-made device, either manned or unmanned, designed for operation beyond earth's atmosphere. This definition includes integral equipment such as models, mock-ups, prototypes, molds, jigs, tooling, hardware jackets, and test coupons. Also included is auxiliary equipment associated with test, transport, and storage, which through contamination can compromise the space vehicle performance. 


*Specialty coating* means a coating that, even though it meets the definition of a primer, topcoat, or self-priming topcoat, has additional performance criteria beyond those of primers, topcoats, and self-priming topcoats for specific applications. These performance criteria may include, but are not limited to, temperature or fire resistance, substrate compatibility, antireflection, temporary protection or marking, sealing, adhesively joining substrates, or enhanced corrosion protection. Individual specialty coatings are defined in appendix A to this subpart and in the CTG for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Operations (EPA 453/R-97-004).


*Spot stripping* means the depainting of an area where it is not technically feasible to use a non-chemical depainting technique. 


*Spray-applied coating operation* means coatings that are applied using a device that creates an atomized mist of coating and deposits the coating on a substrate. For the purposes of this subpart, spray-applied coatings do not include the following materials or activities:


(1) Coatings applied from a hand-held device with a paint cup capacity that is equal to or less than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cubic centimeters) in which no more than 3.0 fluid ounces of coating is applied in a single application (*i.e.,* the total volume of a single coating formulation applied during any one day to any one aerospace vehicle or component). Under this definition, the use of multiple small paint cups and the refilling of a small paint cup to spray apply more than 3.0 fluid ounces of a coating is a spray-applied coating operation. Under this definition, the use of a paint cup liner in a reusable holder or cup that is designed to hold a liner with a capacity of more than 3.0 fluid ounces is a spray-applied coating operation.


(2) Application of coating using powder coating, hand-held non-refillable aerosol containers, or non-atomizing application technology, including but not limited to paint brushes, rollers, flow coating, dip coating, electrodeposition coating, web coating, coil coating, touch-up markers, marking pens, trowels, spatulas, daubers, rags, sponges, mechanically and/or pneumatic-driven syringes, and inkjet machines.


(3) Application of adhesives, sealants, maskants, caulking materials, and inks.


*Spray gun* means a device that atomizes a coating or other material and projects the particulates or other material onto a substrate. 


*Stripper* means a liquid that is applied to an aerospace vehicle or component to remove permanent coatings such as primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings.


*Surface preparation* means the removal of contaminants from the surface of an aerospace vehicle or component, or the activation or reactivation of the surface in preparation for the application of a coating. 


*Temporary total enclosure* means a total enclosure that is constructed for the sole purpose of measuring the emissions from an affected source that are not delivered to an emission control device. A temporary total enclosure must be constructed and ventilated (through stacks suitable for testing) so that it has minimal impact on the performance of the permanent emission capture system. A temporary total enclosure will be assumed to achieve total capture of fugitive emissions if it conforms to the requirements found in § 63.750(g)(4) and if all natural draft openings are at least four duct or hood equivalent diameters away from each exhaust duct or hood. Alternatively, the owner or operator may apply to the Administrator for approval of a temporary enclosure on a case-by-case basis. 


*Topcoat* means a coating that is applied over a primer on an aerospace vehicle or component for appearance, identification, camouflage, or protection. Coatings that are defined as specialty coatings are not included under this definition. 


*Total enclosure* means a permanent structure that is constructed around a gaseous emission source so that all gaseous pollutants emitted from the source are collected and ducted through a control device, such that 100% capture efficiency is achieved. There are no fugitive emissions from a total enclosure. The only openings in a total enclosure are forced makeup air and exhaust ducts and any natural draft openings such as those that allow raw materials to enter and exit the enclosure for processing. All access doors or windows are closed during routine operation of the enclosed source. Brief, occasional openings of such doors or windows to accommodate process equipment adjustments are acceptable, but if such openings are routine or if an access door remains open during the entire operation, the access door must be considered a natural draft opening. The average inward face velocity across the natural draft openings of the enclosure must be calculated including the area of such access doors. The drying oven itself may be part of the total enclosure. An enclosure that meets the requirements found in § 63.750(g)(4) is a permanent total enclosure. 


*Touch-up and repair operation* means that portion of the coating operation that is the incidental application of coating used to cover minor imperfections in the coating finish or to achieve complete coverage. This definition includes out-of-sequence or out-of-cycle coating. 


*Two-stage filter system* means a dry particulate filter system using two layers of filter media to remove particulate. The first stage is designed to remove the bulk of the particulate and a higher efficiency second stage is designed to remove smaller particulate. 


*Type I etchant* means a chemical milling etchant that contains varying amounts of dissolved sulfur and does not contain amines.


*Type II etchant* means a chemical milling etchant that is a strong sodium hydroxide solution containing amines.


*Volatile organic compound (VOC)* means any compound defined as VOC in 40 CFR 51.100. This includes any organic compound other than those determined by the EPA to be an exempt solvent. For purposes of determining compliance with emission limits, VOC will be measured by the approved test methods. Where such a method also inadvertently measures compounds that are exempt solvent, an owner or operator may exclude these exempt solvents when determining compliance with an emission standard. 


*Waterborne (water-reducible) coating* means any coating that contains more than 5 percent water by weight as applied in its volatile fraction.


*Waterwash system* means a control system that utilizes flowing water (i.e., a conventional waterwash system) or a pumpless system to remove particulate emissions from the exhaust air stream in spray coating application or dry media blast depainting operations.


*Nomenclature for determining carbon adsorber efficiency*—The nomenclature defined below is used in § 63.750(g): 


(1) A_k_ = the area of each natural draft opening (k) in a total enclosure, in square meters. 


(2) C_aj_ = the concentration of HAP or VOC in each gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device, in parts per million by volume. 


(3) C_bi_ = the concentration of HAP or VOC in each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in parts per million by volume. 


(4) C_di_ = the concentration of HAP or VOC in each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device from the affected source, in parts per million by volume. 


(5) C_fk_ = the concentration of HAP or VOC in each uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the affected source, in parts per million by volume. 


(6) C_gv_ = the concentration of HAP or VOC in each uncontrolled gas stream entering each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in parts per million by volume. For the purposes of calculating the efficiency of the individual carbon adsorber vessel, C_gv_ may be measured in the carbon adsorption system's common inlet duct prior to the branching of individual inlet ducts to the individual carbon adsorber vessels. 


(7) C_hv_ = the concentration of HAP or VOC in the gas stream exiting each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in parts per million by volume. 


(8) E = the control device efficiency achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction). 


(9) F = the HAP or VOC emission capture efficiency of the HAP or VOC capture system achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction). 


(10) FV = the average inward face velocity across all natural draft openings in a total enclosure, in meters per hour. 


(11) H_v_ = the individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) efficiency achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction). 


(12) H_sys_ = the efficiency of the carbon adsorption system calculated when each carbon adsorber vessel has an individual exhaust stack (expressed as a fraction). 


(13) M_ci_ = the total mass in kilograms of each batch of coating (i) applied, or of each coating applied at an affected coating operation during a 7 to 30-day period, as appropriate, as determined from records at the affected source. This quantity shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or if ingredients are added after the mass of the coating has been determined, appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for them. 


(14) M_r_ = the total mass in kilograms of HAP or VOC recovered for a 7 to 30-day period. 


(15) Q_aj_ = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 in appendix A of part 60 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration. 


(16) Q_bi_ = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration. 


(17) Q_di_ = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device from the affected source in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration. 


(18) Q_fk_ = the volumetric flow rate of each uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the affected source in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration. 


(19) Q_gv_ = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream entering each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration. For purposes of calculating the efficiency of the individual carbon adsorber vessel, the value of Q_gv_ can be assumed to equal the value of Q_hv_ measured for that carbon adsorber vessel. 


(20) Q_hv_ = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream exiting each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration. 


(21) Q_ini_ = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the total enclosure through a forced makeup air duct in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis). 


(22) Q_outj_ = the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (j) exiting the total enclosure through an exhaust duct or hood in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis). 


(23) R = the overall HAP or VOC emission reduction achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a percentage). 


(24) RS_i_ = the total mass in kilograms of HAP or VOC retained in the coating after drying. 


(25) W_oi_ = the weight fraction of VOC in each batch of coating (i) applied, or of each coating applied at an affected coating operation during a 7- to 30-day period, as appropriate, as determined by EPA Method 24 or formulation data. This value shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or if ingredients are added after the weight fraction of HAP or VOC in the coating has been determined, appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for them. 



---

[N] [60 FR 45956, Sept. 1, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 15017, Mar. 27, 1998; 63 FR 46533, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 76945, Dec. 8, 2000; 80 FR 76179, Dec. 7, 2015]




