# § 6201.102   Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) *Prior approval requirement.* Before engaging in any outside employment, whether or not for compensation, an employee, other than a special Government employee, must obtain the written approval of the employee's immediate supervisor and the DAEO. Requests for approval shall be forwarded through normal supervisory channels to the DAEO and shall include the name of the person, group, or organization for whom the work is to be performed; the type of work to be performed; and the proposed hours of work and approximate dates of employment.


(b) *Standard for approval.* Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation (including 5 CFR part 2635). In the case of an employee who wishes to practice a profession involving a fiduciary relationship, as defined in 5 CFR 2636.305(b), approval will be granted only for each individual matter in the course of practicing such profession.


(c) *Definition of employment.* For purposes of this section, “employment” means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes but is not limited to personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee or teacher. It also includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service or civic organization, unless such activities involve the provision of professional services or advice or are for compensation other than reimbursement of expenses.



---

[N] [60 FR 17626, Apr. 7, 1995. Redesignated at 75 FR 55942, Sept. 15, 2010]




