# ยง 1951.263   Graduation of non-Farm Credit programs borrowers.

(a)-(b) [Reserved]


(c) *The thorough review.* Borrowers are required to supply such financial information as the Agency deems necessary to determine whether they are able to graduate to other credit. At a minimum, the financial statements requested from the borrower must include a balance sheet and a statement of income and expenses. Ordinarily, the financial statements will be those normally required at the end of the particular borrower's fiscal year. For borrowers who are not requested to furnish audited financial statements, the balance sheet and statement of income and expenses may be of the borrower's own format if the borrower's financial situation is accurately reflected. The borrower has 60 days for group type loans and 30 days for individual type loans to supply the financial information requested.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Requesting the borrower to graduate.* (1) The Agency will send written notice to borrowers found able to graduate requesting them to graduate. The borrower must seek a loan only in the amount necessary to repay the unpaid balance.


(2) Borrowers must provide evidence of their ability or inability to graduate within 30 days for RH borrowers, and 90 days for group type borrowers, after the date of the request. The Agency may allow additional time for good cause, for example when a borrower expects to receive income in the near future for the payment of accounts which would substantially reduce the amount required for refinancing, or when a borrower is a public body and must issue bonds to accomplish graduation.


(3) If a borrower is unable to graduate the full amount of the loan, the borrower must furnish evidence to the Agency, showing:


(i) The names of other lenders contacted;


(ii) The amount of loan requested by the borrower and the amount, if any, offered by the lenders;


(iii) The rates and terms offered by the lenders or the specific reasons why other credit is not available; and


(iv) The purpose of the loan request.


(4) The difference in interest rates between the Agency and other lenders will not be sufficient reason for failure to graduate if the other credit is available at rates and terms which the borrower can reasonably be expected to pay. An exception is made where there is an interest rate ceiling imposed by Federal law or contained in the note or mortgage.


(5) The Agency will notify the borrower in writing if it determines that the borrower can graduate. The borrower must take positive steps to graduate within 15 days for individual loans and 60 days for group loans from such notice to avoid legal action. The servicing official may grant a longer period where warranted.




