# § 30.60   Confidentiality of Electronic Export Information.

(a) The Electronic Export Information (EEI) collected and accessed by the Census Bureau under 15 CFR Part 30 is confidential, to be used solely for official purposes as authorized by the Secretary of Commerce. The collection of EEI by the Department of Commerce has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The information collected is used by the Census Bureau for statistical purposes. In addition, EEI is used by federal government agencies, such as the Department of State, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) for export control; by other federal government agencies such as the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Bureau of Labor Statistics, and Bureau of Transportation Statistics for statistical purposes; and by other federal agencies as authorized by the Secretary of Commerce or the Census Bureau Director consistent with the agencies' statutory or legal authorities as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section. Absent such authorization, information collected pursuant to this Part shall not be disclosed to anyone by any officer, employee, contractor, agent of the federal government or other parties with access to the EEI other than to the USPPI or the authorized agent of the USPPI. Such disclosure shall be limited to that information provided by each party pursuant to this Part.


(b) *Viewing and using EEI for official purposes.* (1) The EEI may be viewed and used by federal agencies authorized to use export data for official purposes as defined to include, but not limited to:


(i) Improving compliance with U.S. export laws and regulations;


(ii) Detecting and preventing violations of export, census, customs, homeland security, national resource and other laws, regulations and treaties;


(iii) Analysis to assess threats to U.S. and international security such as money laundering, and other potential violations of U.S. and foreign criminal laws;


(iv) Enforcement of U.S. export-related laws and regulations;


(v) Investigation and prosecution of possible violations of U.S. export-related laws and regulations;


(vi) Proof of export for enforcement of laws relating to exemption from or refund, drawback or other return of taxes, duties, fees or other charges;


(vii) Analyzing the impact of proposed and implemented trade agreeements and fulfilling U.S. obligations under such agreements; and


(viii) Preparation of statistics.


(2) The Census Bureau may provide the EEI to the USPPI or authorized agent, for compliance and audit purposes. Such disclosure shall be limited to that information provided to the AES by the USPPI or the authorized agent.


(c) *Supplying EEI for nonofficial purposes.* The official report of the EEI submitted to the U.S. government shall not be disclosed by the USPPI, the authorized agent, or representative of the USPPI for “nonofficial purposes,” either in whole or in part, or in any form including but not limited to electronic transmission, paper printout, or certified reproduction. “Nonofficial purposes” are defined to include but not limited to providing the official EEI:


(1) In support of claims for exemption from Federal or state taxation, except as related to paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section;


(2) To the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for purposes not related to export control or compliance;


(3) To state and local government agencies, and nongovernmental entities or individuals for any purpose; and


(4) To foreign entities or foreign governments for any purpose.


(d) Ocean manifest data can be made public under provision of CBP regulations. For information appearing on the outward manifest, 19 CFR 103.31 allows a shipper (or their authorized employee or official) to submit a certification for confidential treatment of the shipper's name and address.


(e) *Determination by the Secretary of Commerce.* Under 13 U.S.C. 301(g), the EEI collected and accessed by the Census Bureau is exempt from public disclosure unless the Secretary or delegate determines that such exemption would be contrary to the national interest. The Secretary or delegate may make such information available, if he or she determines it is in the national interest, taking such safeguards and precautions to limit dissemination as deemed appropriate under the circumstances. In determining whether it is contrary to the national interest to apply the exemption, the maintenance of confidentiality and national security shall be considered as important elements of national interest. The unauthorized disclosure of confidential EEI granted under a National Interest Determination renders such persons subject to the civil penalties provided for in Subpart H of this part.


(f) *Penalties.* Disclosure of confidential EEI by any officer, employee, contractor, or agent of the federal government, except as provided for in paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section renders such persons subject to the civil penalties.



---

[N] [79 FR 49660, Aug. 22, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 17751, Apr. 24, 2018]




