# ยง 16.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Direct Federal financial assistance, Federal financial assistance provided directly, Direct funding,* or *Directly funded* means financial assistance received by an entity selected by the Government or intermediary (under this part) to carry out a service (e.g., by contract, grant, loan agreement, or cooperative agreement). References to *Federal financial assistance* will be deemed to be references to direct Federal financial assistance, unless the referenced assistance meets the definition of *indirect Federal financial assistance* or *Federal financial assistance provided indirectly.* Except as otherwise provided by USDA regulation, the recipients of sub-grants that receive Federal financial assistance through State-administered programs (*e.g.,* flow-through programs such as the National School Lunch Program authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1751 *et seq.*) are not considered recipients of USDA indirect assistance. These recipients of sub-awards are considered recipients of USDA direct financial assistance.






*Explicitly religious activities* include activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization. Any such activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or services funded under the agency's grant or cooperative agreement, and participation must be voluntary for beneficiaries of the agency grant or cooperative agreement-funded programs and services.


*Federal financial assistance* means assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the form of grants, contracts, loans, loan guarantees, property, cooperative agreements, food commodities, direct appropriations, or other assistance, but does not include a tax credit, deduction, or exemption. Federal financial assistance may be direct or indirect.




*Indirect Federal financial assistance* or *Federal financial assistance provided indirectly* refers to situations where the service provider receives the assistance wholly as a result of a genuine and independent private choice of the beneficiary, not a choice of the Government, and the cost of that service is paid through a voucher, certificate, or other similar means of Government-funded payment. The availability of adequate secular alternatives is a significant factor in determining whether a program affords a genuine and independent private choice.




*Intermediary* means an entity, including a non-governmental organization, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State or local government that accepts USDA direct assistance and distributes that assistance to other organizations that, in turn, provide government-funded services. If an intermediary, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State or local government that is administering a program supported by Federal financial assistance, is given the authority under the contract, grant, or agreement to select non-governmental organizations to provide services funded by the Federal Government, the intermediary must ensure compliance by the recipient of a contract, grant, or agreement with this part and any implementing rules or guidance. If the intermediary is a non-governmental organization, it retains all other rights of a non-governmental organization under the program's statutory and regulatory provisions.


*Religious exercise* has the meaning given to the term in 42 U.S.C. 2000cc-5(7)(A).



---

[N] [85 FR 82132, Dec. 17, 2020], as amended at 89 FR 15707, Mar. 4, 2024]




