# ยง 630.1008   State-level processes and procedures.

(a) *General.* This section consists of State-level processes and procedures for States to implement and sustain their respective work zone safety and mobility policies. State-level processes and procedures, data and information resources, training, and periodic evaluation enable a systematic approach for addressing and managing the safety and mobility impacts of work zones.


(b) *Work zone assessment and management procedures.* States shall develop and implement systematic procedures to assess likely work zone impacts to all highway workers and anticipated road users in project development and to manage safety and mobility impacts occurring during project implementation. The scope of these procedures shall be based on the project characteristics.


(c) *Work zone data.* States shall use field observations, available work zone crash data, available safety surrogate data, available operational information, and available exposure data to monitor and manage work zone impacts for specific projects during implementation and to perform its work zone programmatic reviews. Examples of crash data include fatalities, injuries, and crashes; examples of safety surrogate data include speed differentials, hard braking, and other data from connected and autonomous vehicles; examples of available operational information include speeds, travel times, queue length, and duration; and examples of available exposure data include number of projects, number and length of lane closures, and vehicle-miles traveled through work zones.


(d) *Training.* States shall require that personnel involved in the development, design, implementation, operation, inspection, and enforcement of work-zone-related transportation management and traffic control be trained, appropriate to the job decisions each individual is required to make. States shall require periodic training updates that reflect changing industry practices and State processes and procedures.


(e) *Work zone programmatic review.* In order to assess the effectiveness of work zone safety and mobility processes and procedures, States shall perform a work zone programmatic review every 5 years and share that review with FHWA by the end of the 5-year review period.


(1) The work zone programmatic review shall include a data-driven assessment of the safety and mobility performance of the State's work zones. At a minimum, this review shall include a representative sample of the State's significant work zones over the 5-year period being reviewed. The approach used for selecting the representative projects shall be documented and should be based on factors such as land use (urban and rural locations), roadway type, type of work zone, and extent of the work zone impacts.


(2) Each programmatic review shall include an assessment of the work zone safety and mobility performance occurring since the last review was performed, systematic identification and assessment of the States' work zone management processes and procedures to be improved, action items to be taken to achieve improvement, State divisions or offices responsible for implementing the actions, and estimated timeline for implementation.


(3) States shall use available crash data, available safety surrogate data, available operational data, and the performance measures specified in their work zone policy to conduct the assessment. Section 630.1008(c) provides example performance measures for each data source listed in this section. To ensure assessment of the safety and mobility performance of their work zones on a continuous basis, States shall monitor performance annually.


(4) The work zone programmatic review shall include examination of efforts across State divisions or offices affecting work zone safety and mobility management, including but not limited to: project planning, project design, project implementation, maintenance activities, transportation operations and management, permitting (*e.g.,* utilities, oversize/overweight, lane closures, sidewalk closures), training, and public information and outreach.


(5) Appropriate personnel who represent the project development and implementation stages and the different offices within the State and FHWA should participate in this review. Other non-State stakeholders may also be included in this review, as appropriate.






