# § 1090.910   Reporting for gasoline manufacturers that recertify BOB to gasoline.

A party that recertifies BOB under § 1090.740 must report the information of this section, as applicable.


(a) *Batch reporting.* (1) A party that recertifies a BOB under § 1090.740 with less oxygenate than specified by the BOB manufacturer must report the following for each batch:


(i) The EPA-issued company and facility identifiers for the recertifying party.


(ii) The batch number assigned by the recertifying party.


(iii) The date the batch was recertified.


(iv) The batch volume, as a negative number in gallons. The volume is the amount of oxygenate that the recertifying gasoline manufacturer did not blend with the BOB.


(v) The designation of the batch.


(vi) A sulfur content of 11 ppm.


(vii) A benzene content of 0.68 volume percent.


(viii) The type and content of each oxygenate, as a volume percentage.


(ix) The sulfur deficit for the batch calculated under § 1090.740(b)(1).


(x) The benzene deficit for the batch calculated under § 1090.740(b)(3).


(2) A party that recertifies a BOB under § 1090.740 with more oxygenate than specified by the BOB manufacturer does not need to report the batch.


(b) *Annual sulfur and benzene compliance reporting.* A party that recertifies a BOB under § 1090.740 must include any deficits incurred from recertification in reports under § 1090.905(a) and (b).


(c) *Credit transactions.* A party that recertifies a BOB under § 1090.740 must report any credit transactions under § 1090.905(d).




