# ยง 601.11   Extraordinary Circumstances.

(a) Before applying a CATEX listed in ยง 601.12, the Executive Director shall determine if a project or plan requires additional environmental review or analysis due to the presence of Extraordinary Circumstances. If any of the Extraordinary Circumstances listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (11) of this section are present, the Executive Director shall not apply a CATEX and ensure that the proper Environmental Document (EA or EIS) shall be prepared and made available to the Commission before the Commission takes action on the matter.


(b) Extraordinary Circumstances that negate the application of a CATEX include:


(1) A reasonable likelihood of significant impact on public health or safety.


(2) A reasonable likelihood of significant environmental impacts on sensitive resources unless the impacts have been or will be avoided, minimized, or mitigated to non-significant levels through another process to include, without limitation, Section 106 of the NHPA. Environmentally sensitive resources include without limitation:


(i) Proposed federally listed, threatened or endangered species or their designated critical habitats.


(ii) Properties listed or eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.


(iii) Areas having special designation or recognition based on Federal law or an Executive Order, to include without limitation, National Historic Landmarks, floodplains, wetlands, and National Parks.


(iv) Cultural, scientific or historic resources.


(3) A reasonable likelihood of effects on the environment that are risky, highly uncertain, or unique.


(4) A reasonable likelihood of violating an Executive Order, or Federal, state or local law or requirements imposed for the protection of the environment.


(5) A reasonable likelihood of causing a significant increase in surface transportation congestion, disruption of mass transit, and interference with pedestrian and bicycle movements.


(6) A reasonable likelihood of significantly degrading air quality or violating air quality control standards under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q).


(7) A reasonable likelihood of significantly impacting water quality, public water supply systems, or state or local water quality control standards under the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*) and the Safe Drinking Act (42 U.S.C. 300f).


(8) A reasonable likelihood of a disproportionately high and adverse effect on low income and minority populations.


(9) A reasonable likelihood of degrading existing unsatisfactory environmental conditions.


(10) A reasonable likelihood of establishing a precedent for future action or making a decision in principle about future actions with potentially significant environmental effects.


(11) Any other circumstance that makes the action sufficiently unique in its potential impacts on the human environment that further environmental analysis and review is appropriate.


(c) The Executive Director shall include in his/her EDR, or the documentation of a delegated action, his/her decision to apply a Categorical Exclusion including consideration of possible Extraordinary Circumstances or not apply a Categorical Exclusion because of Extraordinary Circumstances.




