# § 668.142   Special definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Assessment center:* A facility that—


(1) Is located at an eligible institution that provides two-year or four-year degrees or is a postsecondary vocational institution;


(2) Is responsible for gathering and evaluating information about individual students for multiple purposes, including appropriate course placement;


(3) Is independent of the admissions and financial aid processes at the institution at which it is located;


(4) Is staffed by professionally trained personnel;


(5) Uses test administrators to administer tests approved by the Secretary under this subpart; and


(6) Does not have as its primary purpose the administration of ability to benefit tests.


*ATB test irregularity:* An irregularity that results from an ATB test being administered in a manner that does not conform to the established rules for test administration consistent with the provisions of subpart J of part 668 and the test administrator's manual.


*Computer-based test:* A test taken by a student on a computer and scored by a computer.


*General learned abilities:* Cognitive operations, such as deductive reasoning, reading comprehension, or translation from graphic to numerical representation, that may be learned in both school and non-school environments.


*Independent test administrator:* A test administrator who administers tests at a location other than an assessment center and who—


(1) Has no current or prior financial or ownership interest in the institution, its affiliates, or its parent corporation, other than the fees earned for administering approved ATB tests through an agreement with the test publisher or State and has no controlling interest in any other institution;


(2) Is not a current or former employee of or consultant to the institution, its affiliates, or its parent corporation, a person in control of another institution, or a member of the family of any of these individuals;


(3) Is not a current or former member of the board of directors, a current or former employee of or a consultant to a member of the board of directors, chief executive officer, chief financial officer of the institution, its affiliates, or its parent corporation or of any other institution, or a member of the family of any of these individuals; and


(4) Is not a current or former student of the institution.


*Individual with a disability:* A person who has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.


*Non-native speaker of English:* A person whose first language is not English and who is not fluent in English.


*Secondary school level:* As applied to “content,” “curricula,” or “basic verbal and quantitative skills,” the basic knowledge or skills generally learned in the 9th through 12th grades in United States secondary schools.


*Test:* A standardized test, assessment or instrument that has formal protocols on how it is to be administered in order to be valid. These protocols include, for example, the use of parallel, equated forms; testing conditions; time allowed for the test; and standardized scoring. Tests are not limited to traditional paper and pencil (or computer-administered) instruments for which forms are constructed prior to administration to examinees. Tests may also include adaptive instruments that use computerized algorithms for selecting and administering items in real time; however, for such instruments, the size of the item pool and the method of item selection must ensure negligible overlap in items across retests.


*Test administrator:* An individual who is certified by the test publisher (or the State, in the case of an approved State test or assessment) to administer tests approved under this subpart in accordance with the instructions provided by the test publisher or the State, as applicable, which includes protecting the test and the test results from improper disclosure or release, and who is not compensated on the basis of test outcomes.


*Test item:* A question on a test.


*Test publisher:* An individual, organization, or agency that owns a registered copyright of a test, or has been authorized by the copyright holder to represent the copyright holder's interests regarding the test.


