# § 302.8   Continuous releases.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no notification is required for any release of a hazardous substance that is, pursuant to the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section, continuous and stable in quantity and rate.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to notification of continuous releases:


*Continuous.* A continuous release is a release that occurs without interruption or abatement or that is routine, anticipated, and intermittent and incidental to normal operations or treatment processes.


*Normal range.* The normal range of a release is all releases (in pounds or kilograms) of a hazardous substance reported or occurring over any 24-hour period under normal operating conditions during the preceding year. Only releases that are both continuous and stable in quantity and rate may be included in the normal range.


*Routine.* A routine release is a release that occurs during normal operating procedures or processes.


*Stable in quantity and rate.* A release that is stable in quantity and rate is a release that is predictable and regular in amount and rate of emission.


*Statistically significant increase.* A statistically significant increase in a release is an increase in the quantity of the hazardous substance released above the upper bound of the reported normal range of the release.


(c) *Notification.* The following notifications shall be given for any release qualifying for reduced reporting under this section:


(1) Initial telephone notification;


(2) Initial written notification within 30 days of the initial telephone notification;


(3) Follow-up notification within 30 days of the first anniversary date of the initial written notification;


(4) Notification of a change in the composition or source(s) of the release or in the other information submitted in the initial written notification of the release under paragraph (c)(2) of this section or the follow-up notification under paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and


(5) Notification at such times as an increase in the quantity of the hazardous substance being released during any 24-hour period represents a statistically significant increase as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Initial telephone notification.* Prior to making an initial telephone notification of a continuous release, the person in charge of a facility or vessel must establish a sound basis for qualifying the release for reporting under CERCLA section 103(f)(2) by:


(1) Using release data, engineering estimates, knowledge of operating procedures, or best professional judgment to establish the continuity and stability of the release;


(2) Reporting the release to the National Response Center for a period sufficient to establish the continuity and stability of the release; or


(3) When a person in charge of the facility or vessel believes that a basis has been established to qualify the release for reduced reporting under this section, initial notification to the National Response Center shall be made by telephone. The person in charge must identify the notification as an initial continuous release notification report and provide the following information:


(i) The name and location of the facility or vessel; and


(ii) The name(s) and identity(ies) of the hazardous substance(s) being released.


(e) *Initial written notification.* Initial written notification of a continuous release shall be made to the appropriate EPA HQ office. (Note: In addition to the requirements of this part, releases of CERCLA hazardous substances are also subject to the provisions of SARA Title III, also known as the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), section 304, and EPA's implementing regulations codified at 40 CFR part 355, which require initial telephone and written notifications of continuous releases to be submitted to the appropriate State emergency response commission and local emergency planning committee.)




(1) Initial written notification to the appropriate EPA HQ office shall occur within 30 days of the initial telephone notification to the National Response Center, and shall include, for each release for which reduced reporting as a continuous release is claimed, the following information:


(i) The name of the facility or vessel; the location, including the latitude and longitude; the case number assigned by the National Response Center or the Environmental Protection Agency; the Dun and Bradstreet number of the facility, if available; the port of registration of the vessel; the name and telephone number of the person in charge of the facility or vessel.


(ii) The population density within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel, described in terms of the following ranges: 0-50 persons, 51-100 persons, 101-500 persons, 501-1,000 persons, more than 1,000 persons.


(iii) The identity and location of sensitive populations and ecosystems within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel (e.g., elementary schools, hospitals, retirement communities, or wetlands).


(iv) For each hazardous substance release claimed to qualify for reporting under CERCLA section 103(f)(2), the following information must be supplied:


(A) The name/identity of the hazardous substance; the Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number for the substance (if available); and if the substance being released is a mixture, the components of the mixture and their approximate concentrations and quantities, by weight.


(B) The upper and lower bounds of the normal range of the release (in pounds or kilograms) over the previous year.


(C) The source(s) of the release (e.g., valves, pump seals, storage tank vents, stacks). If the release is from a stack, the stack height (in feet or meters).


(D) The frequency of the release and the fraction of the release from each release source and the specific period over which it occurs.


(E) A brief statement describing the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate.


(F) An estimate of the total annual amount that was released in the previous year (in pounds or kilograms).


(G) The environmental medium(a) affected by the release:


(*1*) If surface water, the name of the surface water body;


(*2*) If a stream, the stream order or average flowrate (in cubic feet/second) and designated use;


(*3*) If a lake, the surface area (in acres) and average depth (in feet or meters);


(*4*) If on or under ground, the location of public water supply wells within two miles.


(H) A signed statement that the hazardous substance release(s) described is(are) continuous and stable in quantity and rate under the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section and that all reported information is accurate and current to the best knowledge of the person in charge. 


(f) *Follow-up notification.* Within 30 days of the first anniversary date of the initial written notification, the person in charge of the facility or vessel shall evaluate each hazardous substance release reported to verify and update the information submitted in the initial written notification. The follow-up written notification shall be submitted to the appropriate EPA HQ office. The follow-up notification shall include the following information:


(1) The name of the facility or vessel; the location, including the latitude and longitude; the case number assigned by the National Response Center or the Environmental Protection Agency; the Dun and Bradstreet number of the facility, if available; the port of registration of the vessel; the name and telephone number of the person in charge of the facility or vessel.


(2) The population density within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel, described in terms of the following ranges: 0-50 persons, 51-100 persons, 101-500 persons, 501-1,000 persons, more than 1,000 persons.


(3) The identity and location of sensitive populations and ecosystems within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel (e.g., elementary schools, hospitals, retirement communities, or wetlands).


(4) For each hazardous substance release claimed to qualify for reporting under CERCLA section 103(f)(2), the following information shall be supplied:


(i) The name/identity of the hazardous substance; the Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number for the substance (if available); and if the substance being released is a mixture, the components of the mixture and their approximate concentrations and quantities, by weight.


(ii) The upper and lower bounds of the normal range of the release (in pounds or kilograms) over the previous year.


(iii) The source(s) of the release (e.g., valves, pump seals, storage tank vents, stacks). If the release is from a stack, the stack height (in feet or meters).


(iv) The frequency of the release and the fraction of the release from each release source and the specific period over which it occurs.


(v) A brief statement describing the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate.


(vi) An estimate of the total annual amount that was released in the previous year (in pounds or kilograms).


(vii) The environmental medium(a) affected by the release:


(A) If surface water, the name of the surface water body;


(B) If a stream, the stream order or average flowrate (in cubic feet/second) and designated use;


(C) If a lake, the surface area (in acres) and average depth (in feet or meters);


(D) If on or under ground, the location of public water supply wells within two miles.


(viii) A signed statement that the hazardous substance release(s) is(are) continuous and stable in quantity and rate under the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section and that all reported information is accurate and current to the best knowledge of the person in charge.


(g) *Notification of changes in the release.* If there is a change in the release, notification of the change, not otherwise reported, shall be provided in the following manner:


(1) *Change in source or composition.* If there is any change in the composition or source(s) of the release, the release is a new release and must be qualified for reporting under this section by the submission of initial telephone notification and initial written notification in accordance with paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section as soon as there is a sufficient basis for asserting that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate;


(2) *Change in the normal range.* If there is a change in the release such that the quantity of the release exceeds the upper bound of the reported normal range, the release must be reported as a statistically significant increase in the release. If a change will result in a number of releases that exceed the upper bound of the normal range, the person in charge of a facility or vessel may modify the normal range by:




(i) Reporting at least one statistically significant increase report as required under paragraph (h) of this section and, at the same time, informing the National Response Center of the change in the normal range; and


(ii) Submitting, within 30 days of the telephone notification, written notification to the appropriate EPA Headquarters office describing the new normal range, the reason for the change, and the basis for stating that the release in the increased amount is continuous and stable in quantity and rate under the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section.




(3) *Changes in other reported information.* If there is a change in any information submitted in the initial written notification or the follow-up notification other than a change in the source, composition, or quantity of the release, the person in charge of the facility or vessel shall provide written notification of the change to the appropriate EPA HQ office, within 30 days of determining that the information submitted previously is no longer valid. Notification shall include the reason for the change, and the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable under the changed conditions.




(4) *Certificate of changes.* Notification of changes shall include the case number assigned by the National Response Center or the Environmental Protection Agency and also the signed certification statement required at (e)(1)(iv)(H) of this section.






(h) *Notification of a statistically significant increase in a release.* Notification of a statistically significant increase in a release shall be made to the National Response Center as soon as the person in charge of the facility or vessel has knowledge of the increase. The release must be identified as a statistically significant increase in a continuous release. A determination of whether an increase is a “statistically significant increase” shall be made based upon calculations or estimation procedures that will identify releases that exceed the upper bound of the reported normal range.


(i) *Annual evaluation of releases.* Each hazardous substance release shall be evaluated annually to determine if changes have occurred in the information submitted in the initial written notification, the followup notification, and/or in a previous change notification.


(j) *Use of the SARA Title III (EPCRA) section 313 form.* In lieu of an initial written report or a follow-up report, owners or operators of facilities subject to the requirements of SARA Title III (EPCRA) section 313 may submit to the appropriate EPA HQ office, a copy of the Toxic Release Inventory form submitted under SARA Title III (EPCRA) section 313 the previous July 1, provided that the following information is added:




(1) The population density within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel, described in terms of the following ranges: 0-50 persons, 51-100 persons, 101-500 persons, 501-1,000 persons, more than 1,000 persons.




(2) The identity and location of sensitive populations and ecosystems within a one-mile radius of the facility or vessel (e.g., elementary schools, hospitals, retirement communities, or wetlands).


(3) For each hazardous substance release claimed to qualify for reporting under CERCLA section 103(f)(2), the following information must be supplied:


(i) The upper and lower bounds of the normal range of the release (in pounds or kilograms) over the previous year.


(ii) The frequency of the release and the fraction of the release from each release source and the specific period over which it occurs.


(iii) A brief statement describing the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate.


(iv) A signed statement that the hazardous substance release(s) is(are) continuous and stable in quantity and rate under the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section and that all reported information is accurate and current to the best knowledge of the person in charge.


(k) *Documentation supporting notification.* Where necessary to satisfy the requirements of this section, the person in charge may rely on recent release data, engineering estimates, the operating history of the facility or vessel, or other relevant information to support notification. All supporting documents, materials, and other information shall be kept on file at the facility, or in the case of a vessel, at an office within the United States in either a port of call, a place of regular berthing, or the headquarters of the business operating the vessel. Supporting materials shall be kept on file for a period of one year and shall substantiate the reported normal range of releases, the basis for stating that the release is continuous and stable in quantity and rate, and the other information in the initial written report, the followup report, and the annual evaluations required under paragraphs (e), (f), and (i), respectively. Such information shall be made available to EPA upon request as necessary to enforce the requirements of this section.


(l) *Multiple concurrent releases.* Multiple concurrent releases of the same substance occurring at various locations with respect to contiguous plants or installations upon contiguous grounds that are under common ownership or control may be considered separately or added together in determining whether such releases constitute a continuous release or a statistically significant increase under the definitions in paragraph (b) of this section; whichever approach is elected for purposes of determining whether a release is continuous also must be used to determine a statistically significant increase in the release.




(m) *Penalties for failure to comply.* The reduced reporting requirements provided for under this section shall apply only so long as the person in charge complies fully with all requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. Failure to comply with respect to any release from the facility or vessel shall subject the person in charge to all of the reporting requirements of § 302.6 for each such release, to the penalties under § 302.7, and to any other applicable penalties provided for by law.



---

[N] [55 FR 30185, July 24, 1990, as amended at 67 FR 45357, July 9, 2002; 86 FR 62737, Nov. 12, 2021]




