# § 7.48   Lake Mead National Recreation Area.

(a) *Aircraft, designated airstrips.* (1)(i) The entire water surface of Lakes Mead and Mohave are designated landing areas, except as restricted in § 2.17 of this chapter.


(ii) Aircraft may not be operated under power on those water surface areas designated as special anchorages, including fairways, as defined in 33 CFR 110.127. 


(2) Temple Bar landing strip, located at approximate latitude 36°01′ N., approximate longitude 114°20′ W. 


(3) Pearce Ferry landing strip, located at approximate latitude 30°04′37″ N., approximate longitude 114°02′44″ W.


(4) Echo Bay landing strip located at approximate latitude 36°19′ N., approximate longitude 114°27′ W. 


(b) *Powerless flight.* The use of devices designed to carry persons through the air in powerless flight is allowed except in harbors, swim beaches, developed areas, and in other locations designated as closed to this activity.


(c) *Parking.* Vehicles or boat trailers, or vehicle/boat trailer combinations, may be left unattended for periods up to 7 days, when parked in parking areas adjacent to designated boat launching sites, without written permission obtained in advance from the superintendent. Any vehicle or boat trailer or vehicle/boat trailer combination which is left in parking areas adjacent to designated boat launching sites in excess of 7 days without written permission obtained in advance from the superintendent may be impounded by the superintendent. 


(d) *Fishing.* Unless otherwise designated, fishing in a manner authorized under applicable State law is allowed. 


(e) The Superintendent may exempt motor vessels participating in a regatta that has been authorized by permit issued by the Superintendent from the noise level limitations imposed by § 3.7 of this chapter.


(f) *Personal Watercraft.* (1) A person may launch and operate a personal watercraft in park waters or beach a personal watercraft on park lands, except in the following areas:


(i) In the designated Primitive area known as the Gypsum Beds, which is described as Arizona T31N; R20W Portions of sections 2, 3, 10 and 11; and


(ii) In the designated Primitive area known as the Virgin River, which is described as Nevada T36N; R68E Portions of Sections 25, 26, 34, 35, 36; and


(iii) In the designated Primitive/Semiprimitive area in Black Canyon, from the Willow Beach Harbor to Hoover Dam, prohibited from the first Tuesday following Labor Day weekend through Friday of Memorial Day weekend; and prohibited only on Sundays and Mondays from the Sunday of Memorial Day weekend through the Monday of Labor Day weekend, which is described as Nevada T22S; R65E Portions of Sections 32; T23S; R65E Portions of Sections 5, 8, 17, 20, 21, 28, 29, 34; T23
1/2S; R65E Portions of Sections 34; T23S; R65E Portions of Sections 1, 2, and 12. Arizona T30N; R23W Portions of Sections 3, 10, 15, 22, 27, 34; T29N; R23W Portions of Sections 2, 12, 13; T29N; R22W Portions of Sections 18, 19, 20, 29; and


(iv) In the designated Semiprimitive area known as the Muddy River Confluence with Lake Mead (Overton Wildlife Management Area), which is described as Nevada T16S; R68E Portions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 and 34 and T17; R68E; and


(v) In the designated Semiprimitive area known as Grand Wash Bay, which is described as Arizona T33N; R16W Portions of Sections 16, 17, 21, 22, 27, 28, 29, 33 and 34, and T32
1/2 N; R16W Portions of Sections 32 and 33; and


(vi) In the designated Semiprimitive area known as Bonelli Bay, which is described as Arizona T31N; R20W Portions of Sections 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 29 and 30.


(2) A person may not operate a personal watercraft at a speed in excess of flat wake speed within 200 feet of any beach occupied by bathers, boats at the shoreline, or persons in the water or at the shoreline.


(3) After December 31, 2012, no one may operate a personal watercraft that does not meet the 2006 emission standards set by EPA for the manufacturing of two-stroke engines. A person operating a personal watercraft that meets the EPA 2006 emission standards through the use of direct-injection two-stroke or four-stroke engines, or the equivalent thereof, is not subject to this prohibition and will be allowed to operate as described in this section.


(4) The Superintendent may limit, restrict, or terminate access to the areas designated for PWC use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.



---

[N] [32 FR 15751, Nov. 16, 1967, as amended at 34 FR 1950, Feb. 11, 1969; 34 FR 18857, Nov. 26, 1969; 36 FR 21881, Nov. 17, 1971; 38 FR 5245, Feb. 27, 1973; 49 FR 18450, Apr. 30, 1984; 53 FR 29681, Aug. 8, 1988; 68 FR 17306, Apr. 9, 2003; 72 FR 13706, Mar. 23, 2007; 80 FR 36476, June 25, 2015]




