# § 721.323   Substituted acrylamide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as substituted acrylamide (PMN P-90-1687) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: (i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). Section 721.63 (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), and (a)(5)(iii) apply to manufacturing operations only; § 721.63(a)(5)(ix), (a)(5)(x), and (a)(5)(xi) apply to processing and use operations only. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii) (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The following additional statement shall appear on each label and SDS as required by this paragraph: This substance may cause nervous system effects.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [58 FR 51702, Oct. 4, 1993]




