# § 404.2018   Advance designation of representative payees.

(a) *General.* An individual who:


(1) Is entitled to or an applicant for a benefit and;


(2) Has attained 18 years of age or is an emancipated minor, may designate in advance one or more individuals to possibly serve as a representative payee for the individual if we determine that payment will be made to a representative payee (see § 404.2010(a)). An individual may not designate in advance possible representative payees if we have information that the individual is either-legally incompetent or mentally incapable of managing his or her benefit payments; or physically incapable of managing or directing the management of his or her benefit payments.


(b) *How to designate possible representative payees in advance.* Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may designate in advance their choice(s) for possible representative payees by indicating their decision to designate a representative payee in advance and providing us with the required information. In addition to the required information, an individual may choose to provide us with the relationship of the advance designee(s) to the individual. The information we require before we will consider an advance designee as a possible representative payee is:


(1) The name of the advance designee,


(2) A telephone number of the advance designee, and


(3) The order of priority in which the individual would like us to consider the advance designees, if he or she designates more than one advance designee.


(c) *How to make changes to advance designation.* Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may change their advance designees by informing us of the change and providing the required information (see paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section) to us. Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may withdraw their advance designation by informing us of the withdrawal.


(d) *How we consider advance designation when we select a representative payee.* (1) If we determine that payment will be made to a representative payee, we will review an individual's advance designees in the order listed by the individual and select the first advance designee who meets the criteria for selection. To meet the criteria for selection—


(i) The advance designee must be willing and able to serve as a representative payee,


(ii) Appointment of the advance designee must comply with the requirements in section 205(j)(2) of the Social Security Act, and


(iii) There must be no other good cause (see §§ 404.2020 and 404.2021) to prevent us from selecting the advance designee.


(2) If none of the advance designees meet the criteria for selection, we will use our list of categories of preferred payees (see § 404.2021), along with our other regulations in subpart U of this part, as a guide to select a suitable representative payee.


(e) *How we consider advance designation when we select a subsequent representative payee.* If an individual who currently has a representative payee requires a change of representative payee, we will consider any other designees identified by the individual at a time in which that individual was eligible to make an advanced designation, under paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) *Organizations.* An individual may not designate in advance an organization to serve as his or her possible representative payee.



---

[N] [85 FR 7664, Feb. 11, 2020]






