# ยง 1201.113   Finality of decision.

The initial decision of the judge will become the Board's final decision 35 days after issuance. Initial decisions are not precedential.


(a) *Exceptions.* The initial decision will not become the Board's final decision if within the time limit for filing specified in 1201.114 of this part, any party files a petition for review or, if no petition for review is filed, files a request that the initial decision be vacated for the purpose of accepting a settlement agreement into the record.


(b) *Petition for review denied.* If the Board denies all petitions for review, the initial decision will become final when the Board issues its last decision denying a petition for review.


(c) *Petition for review granted or case reopened.* If the Board grants a petition for review or a cross petition for review, or reopens or dismisses a case, the decision of the Board is final if it disposes of the entire action.


(d) *Extensions.* The Board may extend the time limit for filing a petition for review for good cause shown as specified in ยง 1201.114. If no petition for review is filed within the extended time limit, the initial decision of the judge will become the Board's final decision upon the expiration of the extended time limit.


(e) *Exhaustion.* Administrative remedies are exhausted when a decision becomes final in accordance with this section.


(f) When the Board, by final decision or order, finds there is reason to believe a current Federal employee may have committed a prohibited personnel practice described at 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(8) or 2302(b)(9)(A)(i), (B), (C), or (D), the Board will refer the matter to the Special Counsel to investigate and take appropriate action under 5 U.S.C. 1215.



---

[N] [54 FR 53504, Dec. 29, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 59992, Nov. 6, 1997; 77 FR 62368, Oct. 12, 2012; 78 FR 39545, July 2, 2013; 89 FR 72962, Sept. 9, 2024]




