# ยง 18.13   Alternate methods or procedures.

(a) *General.* The proprietor, on specific approval by the appropriate TTB officer, may use an alternate method or procedure in lieu of a method or procedure specifically prescribed in this part. The appropriate TTB officer may approve an alternate method or procedure, subject to stated conditions, when that officer finds that:


(1) Good cause has been shown for the use of the alternate method or procedure;


(2) The alternate method or procedure is within the purpose of, and consistent with the effect intended by the specifically prescribed method or procedure, and affords equivalent security to the revenue; and


(3) The alternate method or procedure will not be contrary to any provision of law, and will not result in an increase in cost to the Government or hinder the effective administration of this part.


(b) *Application.* A proprietor who desires to employ an alternate method or procedure shall submit a written application to the appropriate TTB officer. The application will specifically describe the proposed alternate method or procedure and set forth the reasons therefor. Alternate methods or procedures may not be employed until the application has been approved by the appropriate TTB officer. Authorization for any alternate method or procedure may be withdrawn whenever in the judgment of the appropriate TTB officer the revenue is jeopardized or the effective administration of this part is hindered by the continuation of the authorization.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-104, 47 FR 23921, June 2, 1982, as amended by T.D. ATF-381, 61 FR 37003, July 16, 1996; T.D. ATF-436, 66 FR 5471, Jan. 19, 2001; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87937, Nov. 6, 2024]




