# § 60.104a   Performance tests.

(a) The owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for each FCCU, FCU, sulfur recovery plant and fuel gas combustion device to demonstrate initial compliance with each applicable emissions limit in § 60.102a and conduct a performance test for each flare to demonstrate initial compliance with the H_2_S concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) according to the requirements of § 60.8. The notification requirements of § 60.8(d) apply to the initial performance test and to subsequent performance tests required by paragraph (b) of this section (or as required by the Administrator), but does not apply to performance tests conducted for the purpose of obtaining supplemental data because of continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks and zero and span adjustments.


(b) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that elects to monitor control device operating parameters according to the requirements in § 60.105a(b), to use bag leak detectors according to the requirements in § 60.105a(c), or to use COMS according to the requirements in § 60.105a(e) shall conduct a PM performance test at least annually (*i.e.*, once per calendar year, with an interval of at least 8 months but no more than 16 months between annual tests) and furnish the Administrator a written report of the results of each test.


(c) In conducting the performance tests required by this subpart (or as requested by the Administrator), the owner or operator shall use the test methods in 40 CFR part 60, Appendices A-1 through A-8 or other methods as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).


(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the PM, NO_X_, SO_2_, and CO emissions limits in § 60.102a(b) for FCCU and FCU using the following methods and procedures:


(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses.


(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.


(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(4) Method 5, 5B, or 5F of appendix A-3 to part 60 for determining PM emissions and associated moisture content from a FCCU or FCU without a wet scrubber subject to the emissions limit in § 63.102a(b)(1). Use Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 to part 60 for determining PM emissions and associated moisture content from a FCCU or FCU with a wet scrubber subject to the emissions limit in § 63.102a(b)(1).


(i) The PM performance test consists of 3 valid test runs; the duration of each test run must be no less than 60 minutes.


(ii) The emissions rate of PM (E_PM_) is computed for each run using Equation 5 of this section:


(iii) The coke burn-off rate (R_c_) is computed for each run using Equation 6 of this section:


(iv) During the performance test, the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from catalyst regenerator (Q_r_) before any emission control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuel is measured using Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60.


(v) For subsequent calculations of coke burn-off rates or exhaust gas flow rates, the volumetric flow rate of Q_r_ is calculated using average exhaust gas concentrations as measured by the monitors required in § 60.105a(b)(2), if applicable, using Equation 7 of this section:


(5) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of SO_2_; the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.


(6) Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of NO_X_ calculated as nitrogen dioxide (NO_2_); the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.


(7) Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of CO. The sampling time for each run must be 60 minutes.


(8) The owner or operator shall adjust PM, NO_X_, SO_2_ and CO pollutant concentrations to 0-percent excess air or 0-percent O_2_ using Equation 8 of this section:


(e) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is controlled by an electrostatic precipitator or wet scrubber and that is subject to control device operating parameter limits in § 60.102a(c) shall establish the limits based on the performance test results according to the following procedures:


(1) Reduce the parameter monitoring data to hourly averages for each test run;


(2) Determine the hourly average operating limit for each required parameter as the average of the three test runs.


(f) The owner or operator of an FCCU or FCU that uses cyclones to comply with the PM per coke burn-off emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) shall establish a site-specific opacity operating limit according to the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Collect COMS data every 10 seconds during the entire period of the PM performance test and reduce the data to 6-minute averages.


(2) Determine and record the hourly average opacity from all the 6-minute averages.


(3) Compute the site-specific limit using Equation 9 of this section:


(g) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempt from the requirement to install and operate a CO CEMS pursuant to § 60.105a(h)(3) and that is subject to control device operating parameter limits in § 60.102a(c) shall establish the limits based on the performance test results using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Reduce the temperature and O_2_ concentrations from the parameter monitoring systems to hourly averages for each test run.


(2) Determine the operating limit for temperature and O_2_ concentrations as the average of the average temperature and O_2_ concentration for the three test runs.


(h) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SO_2_ emissions limits for sulfur recovery plants in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) and (f)(2)(i) and the reduced sulfur compounds and H_2_S emissions limits for sulfur recovery plants in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii), (f)(1)(iii), (f)(2)(ii), and (f)(2)(iii) using the following methods and procedures:


(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses.


(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.


(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.


(4) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 to determine the SO_2_ concentration. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.


(5) Method 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 to determine the reduced sulfur compounds and H_2_S concentrations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.


(i) Each run consists of 16 samples taken over a minimum of 3 hours.


(ii) The owner or operator shall calculate the average H_2_S concentration after correcting for moisture and O_2_ as the arithmetic average of the H_2_S concentration for each sample during the run (ppmv, dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air).


(iii) The owner or operator shall calculate the SO_2_ equivalent for each run after correcting for moisture and O_2_ as the arithmetic average of the SO_2_ equivalent of reduced sulfur compounds for each sample during the run (ppmv, dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air).


(iv) The owner or operator shall use Equation 8 of this section to adjust pollutant concentrations to 0-percent O_2_ or 0- percent excess air.


(6) If oxygen or oxygen-enriched air is used in the Claus burner and either Equation 1 or 2 of this subpart is used to determine the applicable emissions limit, determine the average O_2_ concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, in percent by volume (dry basis), for the performance test using all hourly average O_2_ concentrations determined during the test runs using the procedures in § 60.106a(a)(5) or (6).


(i) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SO_2_ and NO_X_ emissions limits in § 60.102a(g) for a fuel gas combustion device according to the following test methods and procedures:


(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses;


(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate;


(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60;


(4) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 to determine the SO_2_ concentration. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.


(i) The performance test consists of 3 valid test runs; the duration of each test run must be no less than 1 hour.


(ii) If a single fuel gas combustion device having a common source of fuel gas is monitored as allowed under § 60.107a(a)(1)(v), only one performance test is required. That is, performance tests are not required when a new affected fuel gas combustion device is added to a common source of fuel gas that previously demonstrated compliance.


(5) Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of NO_X_ calculated as NO_2_; the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.


(6) For process heaters with a rated heat capacity between 40 and 100 MMBtu/hr that elect to demonstrate continuous compliance with a maximum excess oxygen limit as provided in § 60.107a(c)(6) or (d)(8), the owner or operator shall establish the O_2_ operating limit or O_2_ operating curve based on the performance test results according to the requirements in paragraph (i)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, respectively.


(i) If a single O_2_ operating limit will be used:


(A) Conduct the performance test following the methods provided in paragraphs (i)(1), (2), (3) and (5) of this section when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity. For co-fired process heaters, conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied by both fuel gas and fuel oil and conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied solely by fuel gas.


(B) Each test will consist of three test runs. Calculate the NO_X_ concentration for the performance test as the average of the NO_X_ concentrations from each of the three test runs. If the NO_X_ concentration for the performance test is less than or equal to the numerical value of the applicable NO_X_ emissions limit (regardless of averaging time), then the test is considered to be a valid test.


(C) Determine the average O_2_ concentration for each test run of a valid test.


(D) Calculate the O_2_ operating limit as the average O_2_ concentration of the three test runs from a valid test.


(ii) If an O_2_ operating curve will be used:


(A) Conduct a performance test following the methods provided in paragraphs (i)(1), (2), (3) and (5) of this section at a representative condition for each operating range for which different O_2_ operating limits will be established. Different operating conditions may be defined as different firing rates (e.g., above 50 percent of rated heat capacity and at or below 50 percent of rated heat capacity) and/or, for co-fired process heaters, different fuel mixtures (e.g., primarily gas fired, primarily oil fired, and equally co-fired, *i.e.,* approximately 50 percent of the input heating value is from fuel gas and approximately 50 percent of the input heating value is from fuel oil). Performance tests for different operating ranges may be conducted at different times.


(B) Each test will consist of three test runs. Calculate the NO_X_ concentration for the performance test as the average of the NO_X_ concentrations from each of the three test runs. If the NO_X_ concentration for the performance test is less than or equal to the numerical value of the applicable NO_X_ emissions limit (regardless of averaging time), then the test is considered to be a valid test.


(C) If an operating curve is developed for different firing rates, conduct at least one test when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity and at least one test under turndown conditions (*i.e.,* when the process heater is firing at 50 percent or less of the rated heat capacity). If O_2_ operating limits are developed for co-fired process heaters based only on overall firing rates (and not by fuel mixtures), conduct at least one of the test runs for each test while the process heater is being supplied by both fuel gas and fuel oil and conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied solely by fuel gas.


(D) Determine the average O_2_ concentration for each test run of a valid test.


(E) Calculate the O_2_ operating limit for each operating range as the average O_2_ concentration of the three test runs from a valid test conducted at the representative conditions for that given operating range.


(F) Identify the firing rates for which the different operating limits apply. If only two operating limits are established based on firing rates, the O_2_ operating limits established when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity must apply when the process heater is firing above 50 percent of the rated heat capacity and the O_2_ operating limits established for turndown conditions must apply when the process heater is firing at 50 percent or less of the rated heat capacity.


(G) Operating limits associated with each interval will be valid for 2 years or until another operating limit is established for that interval based on a more recent performance test specific for that interval, whichever occurs first. Owners and operators must use the operating limits determined for a given interval based on the most recent performance test conducted for that interval.


(7) The owner or operator of a process heater complying with a NO_X_ limit in terms of lb/MMBtu as provided in § 60.102a(g)(2)(i)(B), (g)(2)(ii)(B), (g)(2)(iii)(B) or (g)(2)(iv)(B) or a process heater with a rated heat capacity between 40 and 100 MMBtu/hr that elects to demonstrate continuous compliance with a maximum excess O_2_ limit, as provided in § 60.107a(c)(6) or (d)(8), shall determine heat input to the process heater in MMBtu/hr during each performance test run by measuring fuel gas flow rate, fuel oil flow rate (as applicable) and heating value content according to the methods provided in § 60.107a(d)(5), (d)(6), and (d)(4) or (d)(7), respectively.


(8) The owner or operator shall use Equation 8 of this section to adjust pollutant concentrations to 0-percent O_2_ or 0- percent excess air.


(j) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the applicable H_2_S emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(1) for a fuel gas combustion device or the concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) for a flare according to the following test methods and procedures:


(1)—(3) [Reserved] 


(4) EPA Method 11, 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or EPA Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for determining the H_2_S concentration for affected facilities using an H_2_S monitor as specified in § 60.107a(a)(2). The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60. The owner or operator may demonstrate compliance based on the mixture used in the fuel gas combustion device or flare or for each individual fuel gas stream used in the fuel gas combustion device or flare.


(i) For Method 11 of appendix A-5 to part 60, the sampling time and sample volume must be at least 10 minutes and 0.010 dscm (0.35 dscf). Two samples of equal sampling times must be taken at about 1-hour intervals. The arithmetic average of these two samples constitutes a run. For most fuel gases, sampling times exceeding 20 minutes may result in depletion of the collection solution, although fuel gases containing low concentrations of H_2_S may necessitate sampling for longer periods of time.


(ii) For Method 15 of appendix A-5 to part 60, at least three injects over a 1-hour period constitutes a run.


(iii) For Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60, a 1-hour sample constitutes a run. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.


(iv) If monitoring is conducted at a single point in a common source of fuel gas as allowed under § 60.107a(a)(2)(iv), only one performance test is required. That is, performance tests are not required when a new affected fuel gas combustion device or flare is added to a common source of fuel gas that previously demonstrated compliance.



---

[N] [73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56470, Sep. 12, 2012; 80 FR 75231, Dec. 1, 2015]




