# § 221.5   Headquarters organization.

(a) *Postmaster General*—(1) *Appointment.* The postmaster general (PMG), the chief executive officer of the Postal Service, is appointed by and can be removed by a majority of the governors in office.


(2) *Responsibilities.* The postmaster general is responsible for the overall operation of the Postal Service. The postmaster general determines appeals from the actions of staff and corporate officers, except in cases where he or she has delegated authority to make a decision to a subordinate; such subordinate may also determine appeals within the authority delegated.


(3) *Extent of powers.* The postmaster general, as directed by the Board of Governors, exercises the powers of the Postal Service to the extent that such exercise does not conflict with power reserved to the Board by law. The postmaster general is authorized to direct any officer, employee, or agent of the Postal Service to exercise such of the postmaster general's powers as the postmaster general deems appropriate.


(b) *Deputy Postmaster General.* The deputy postmaster general is appointed and can be removed by the postmaster general and the governors in office. The deputy postmaster general reports directly to the postmaster general.


(c) *Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President.* The chief operating officer and executive vice president is appointed by the postmaster general and directs all processing, distribution, and customer service functions.


(d) *Officers in charge of Headquarters organizational units.* The officers in charge of Headquarters organizational units are appointed by the postmaster general. They report directly to the postmaster general, the deputy postmaster general, an executive vice president, a senior vice president, or another officer, as the postmaster general may direct.


(e) *Responsibilities.* The corporate officers head the organizational units into which Headquarters and the field are divided. They are responsible for the following:


(1) Program planning, direction, and review.


(2) Establishment of policies, procedures, and standards.


(3) Operational determinations not delegated to district officials.




