# ยง 800.61   Prohibited grain handling practices.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purpose of this section, dockage and foreign material in grain shall be:


(1) Defined for export elevators at export port locations as set forth in 7 CFR part 810 and as dust removed from grain and collected in a bin/container and as dust settling on floors, equipment, and other areas, commonly referred to as dust sweepings; and


(2) Defined for other than export elevators as set forth in 7 CFR part 810.


(b) *Prohibited practices.* Except as permitted in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, no person shall:


(1) Recombine or add dockage or foreign material to any grain, or


(2) Blend different kinds of grain except when such blending will result in grain being designated as Mixed grain in accordance with subpart E of the Official United States Standards for Grain.


(3) Add water to grain for purposes other than milling, malting, or similar processing operations.


(c) *Exemption.* (1) The Administrator may grant exemptions from paragraph (b) of this section for grain shipments sent directly to a domestic end-user or processor. Requests for exemptions shall be submitted by grain handlers to the Service through the domestic end-users or processors or their representatives.


(2) Grain sold under an exemption shall be consumed or processed into a product(s) by the purchaser and not resold into the grain market.


(3) Products or byproducts from grain sold under an exemption shall not be blended with or added to grain in commercial channels, except for vegetable oil which may be used as a dust suppressant in accordance with (d)(4) of this section.


(d) *Exceptions.* Paragraph (b) shall not be construed as prohibiting the following grain handling practices. Compliance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section does not excuse compliance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws.


(1) *Blending.* Grain of the same kind, as defined by the Official United States Standards for Grain, may be blended to adjust quality. Broken corn or broken kernels may be recombined or added to whole grain of the same kind provided that no foreign material or dockage has been added to the broken corn or broken kernels.


(2) *Insect and fungi control.* Grain may be treated to control insects and fungi. Elevators, other grain handlers, and their agents are responsible for the proper use and applications of insecticides and fungicides. Sections 800.88 and 800.96 include additional requirements for grain that is officially inspected and weighed.


(3) *Marketing dockage and foreign material.* Dockage and foreign material may be marketed separately.


(4) *Dust suppressants.* Grain may be treated with an additive, other than water, to suppress dust during handling. Elevators, other grain handlers, and their agents are responsible for the proper use and application of dust suppressants. Sections 800.88 and 800.96 include additional requirements for grain that is officially inspected and weighed.


(5) *Identification.* Confetti or similar material may be added to grain for identification purposes. Elevators, other grain handlers, and their agents are responsible for the proper use and application of such materials. Sections 800.88 and 800.96 include additional requirements for grain that is officially inspected or weighed.


(6) *Export loading facilities.* Between May 1, 1987, and December 31, 1987, export elevators at export port locations may recombine dockage and foreign material, but not dust, with grain provided such recombination occurs during the loading of a vessel with the intended purpose of ensuring uniformity of dockage and foreign material in the cargo.



---

[N] [52 FR 24437, June 30, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 52077, Oct. 14, 1994]




