# § 560.533   Brokering sales of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices.

(a) *General license for brokering sales by U.S. persons.* United States persons are authorized to provide brokerage services on behalf of U.S. persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation by U.S. persons of agricultural commodities, medicine, and medical devices, provided that the sale and exportation or reexportation is authorized, as applicable, by a one-year specific license issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of § 560.530 or by one of the general licenses set forth in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of § 560.530.


(b) *Specific licensing for brokering sales by non-U.S. persons of agricultural commodities.* Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to permit U.S. persons to provide brokerage services on behalf of non-U.S., non-Iranian persons for the sale and exportation or reexportation of agricultural commodities to the Government of Iran, entities in Iran, or individuals in Iran. Specific licenses issued pursuant to this section will authorize the brokering only of sales that are to purchasers permitted pursuant to § 560.530.


(c) *No debits or credits to Iranian accounts on the books of U.S. depository institutions.* Payment for any brokerage fee earned pursuant to this section may not involve debits or credits to Iranian accounts, as defined in § 560.320.


(d) *Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.* Attention is drawn to the recordkeeping, retention, and reporting requirements of §§ 501.601 and 501.602 of this chapter.



---

[N] [77 FR 64666, Oct. 22, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 18995, Apr. 7, 2014]




