# ยง 366.5   Allocation of costs for non-power goods and services.

(a) *Commission review.* In the case of non-power goods or administrative or management services provided by an associate company organized specifically for the purpose of providing such goods or services to any public utility in the same holding company system, at the election of that holding company system or a state commission having jurisdiction over the public utility, the Commission shall review and authorize the allocation of the costs for such goods or services to the extent relevant to that associate company. Such election to have the Commission review and authorize cost allocations shall remain in effect until further Commission order.


(b) *Exemptions.* Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to any holding company system whose public utility operations are confined substantially to a single state. For purposes of this section, a holding company system will be deemed to have its public utility operations confined substantially to a single state if the holding company system derives no more than 13 percent of its public utility revenues from outside a single state. A holding company system or state commission may, pursuant to this subsection, seek a Commission determination that a holding company's public utility operations are confined substantially to a single state by filing a petition for declaratory order pursuant to ยง 385.207(a) of this chapter. Any holding company system or state commission seeking such a determination shall bear the burden of demonstrating that such determination is warranted.


(c) *Other classes of transactions.* Either upon petition for declaratory order or upon its own motion, the Commission may exclude from the scope of Commission review and authorization under paragraph (a) of this section any class of transactions that the Commission finds is not relevant to the jurisdictional rates of a public utility. Any holding company system or state commission seeking to obtain such a determination under this subsection shall file a petition for declaratory order pursuant to ยง 385.207(a) of this chapter. Any holding company system or state commission seeking such an exemption shall bear the burden of demonstrating that such an exemption is warranted.


(d) Nothing in paragraphs (a)-(c) of this section shall affect the authority of the Commission under the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791 *et seq.*), the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717 *et seq.*), or other applicable law, including the authority of the Commission with respect to rates, charges, classifications, rules, regulations, practices, contracts, facilities, and services under the Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act, and with respect to access to books and records under the Federal Power Act and Natural Gas Act. 




