# § 431.447   Department of Energy recognition of nationally recognized certification programs.

(a) *Petition.* For a certification program to be classified by the Department of Energy as being nationally recognized in the United States (“nationally recognized”), the organization operating the program must submit a petition to the Department requesting such classification, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and § 431.448. The petition must demonstrate that the program meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Evaluation criteria.* For a certification program to be classified by the Department as nationally recognized, it must meet the following criteria:


(1) It must have satisfactory standards and procedures for conducting and administering a certification system, including periodic follow up activities to assure that basic models of small electric motors continue to conform to the efficiency levels for which they were certified, and for granting a certificate of conformity.


(2) It must be independent of small electric motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers or vendors. It cannot be affiliated with, have financial ties with, be controlled by, or be under common control with any such entity.


(3) It must be qualified to operate a certification system in a highly competent manner.


(4) It must be expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies in IEEE 112-2017 Test Method A, IEEE 112-2017 Test Method B, IEEE 114-2010, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1B, CSA C390-10, or CSA C747-09 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.443) or similar procedures and methodologies for determining the energy efficiency of small electric motors. It must have satisfactory criteria and procedures for the selection and sampling of electric motors tested for energy efficiency.


(c) *Petition format.* Each petition requesting classification as a nationally recognized certification program must contain a narrative statement as to why the program meets the criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section, must be signed on behalf of the organization operating the program by an authorized representative, and must be accompanied by documentation that supports the narrative statement. The following provides additional guidance as to the specific criteria:


(1) *Standards and procedures.* A copy of the standards and procedures for operating a certification system and for granting a certificate of conformity should accompany the petition.


(2) *Independent status.* The petitioning organization should identify and describe any relationship, direct or indirect, that it or the certification program has with an electric motor manufacturer, importer, distributor, private labeler, vendor, trade association or other such entity, as well as any other relationship it believes might appear to create a conflict of interest for the certification program in operating a certification system for determining the compliance of small electric motors with the applicable energy efficiency standards. It should explain why it believes such relationship would not compromise its independence in operating a certification program.


(3) *Qualifications to operate a certification system.* Experience in operating a certification system should be discussed and substantiated by supporting documents. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in the application of guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 65, General requirements for bodies operating product certification systems, ISO/IEC Guide 27, Guidelines for corrective action to be taken by a certification body in the event of either misapplication of its mark of conformity to a product, or products which bear the mark of the certification body being found to subject persons or property to risk, and ISO/IEC Guide 28, General rules for a model third-party certification system for products, as well as experience in overseeing compliance with the guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, General requirements for the competence of calibration and testing laboratories.


(4) *Expertise in small electric motor test procedures.* The petition should set forth the program's experience, as applicable, with the test procedures and methodologies in, IEEE 112-2017 Test Method A, IEEE 112-2017 Test Method B, IEEE 114-2010, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1B, CSA C390-10, and CSA C747-09 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.443) and with similar procedures and methodologies. This part of the petition should include items such as, but not limited to, a description of prior projects and qualifications of staff members. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in applying guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories to energy efficiency testing for electric motors.


(5) The ISO/IEC Guides referenced in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section are not incorporated by reference, but are for information and guidance only. International Organization for Standardization (ISO), 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, CP 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland/International Electrotechnical Commission, 3, rue de Varembé, P.O. Box 131, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.


(d) *Disposition.* The Department will evaluate the petition in accordance with § 431.448, and will determine whether the applicant meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section for classification as a nationally recognized certification program.



---

[N] [77 FR 26639, May 4, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 25, Jan. 4, 2021]




