# § 223.3   What are the meanings of the other terms used in sections 23A and 23B and this part?

For purposes of this part:


(a) *Aggregate amount of covered transactions* means the amount of the covered transaction about to be engaged in added to the current amount of all outstanding covered transactions.


(b) *Appropriate Federal banking agency* with respect to a member bank or other depository institution has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


(c) “*Bank holding company*” has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.




(d) *Capital stock and surplus* means the sum of:


(1) A member bank's tier 1 and tier 2 capital under the capital rule of the appropriate Federal banking agency, based on the member bank's most recent consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(3);


(2) The balance of a member bank's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable, not included in its tier 2 capital under the capital rule of the appropriate Federal banking agency, based on the member bank's most recent consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(3); and


(3) The amount of any investment by a member bank in a financial subsidiary that counts as a covered transaction and is required to be deducted from the member bank's capital for regulatory capital purposes.




(4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section, for a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter), capital stock and surplus equals tier 1 capital (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter and calculated in accordance with § 217.12(b) of this chapter) plus allowances for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as applicable.




(e) *Carrying value* with respect to a security means (unless otherwise provided) the value of the security on the financial statements of the member bank, determined in accordance with GAAP.


(f) *Company* means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, business trust, association, or similar organization and, unless specifically excluded, includes a member bank and a depository institution.


(g) *Control*—(1) *In general.* “*Control*” by a company or shareholder over another company means that:


(i) The company or shareholder, directly or indirectly, or acting through one or more other persons, owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other company;


(ii) The company or shareholder controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners (or individuals exercising similar functions) of the other company; or


(iii) The Board determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the company or shareholder, directly or indirectly, exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other company.


(2) *Ownership or control of shares as fiduciary.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this regulation, no company will be deemed to control another company by virtue of its ownership or control of shares in a fiduciary capacity, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of § 223.2 or if the company owning or controlling the shares is a business trust.


(3) *Ownership or control of securities by subsidiary.* A company controls securities, assets, or other ownership interests owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by any subsidiary (including a subsidiary depository institution) of the company.


(4) *Ownership or control of convertible instruments.* A company or shareholder that owns or controls instruments (including options or warrants) that are convertible or exercisable, at the option of the holder or owner, into securities, controls the securities, unless the company or shareholder presents information to the Board that demonstrates, to the Board's satisfaction, that the company or shareholder should not be deemed to control the securities.


(5) *Ownership or control of nonvoting securities.* A company or shareholder that owns or controls 25 percent or more of the equity capital of another company controls the other company, unless the company or shareholder presents information to the Board that demonstrates, to the Board's satisfaction, that the company or shareholder does not control the other company.


(h) *Covered transaction* with respect to an affiliate means:


(1) An extension of credit to the affiliate;


(2) A purchase of, or an investment in, a security issued by the affiliate;


(3) A purchase of an asset from the affiliate, including an asset subject to recourse or an agreement to repurchase, except such purchases of real and personal property as may be specifically exempted by the Board by order or regulation;


(4) The acceptance of a security issued by the affiliate as collateral for an extension of credit to any person or company; and


(5) The issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit, including an endorsement or standby letter of credit, on behalf of the affiliate, a confirmation of a letter of credit issued by the affiliate, and a cross-affiliate netting arrangement.


(i) *Credit transaction* with an affiliate means:


(1) An extension of credit to the affiliate;


(2) An issuance of a guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit, including an endorsement or standby letter of credit, on behalf of the affiliate and a confirmation of a letter of credit issued by the affiliate; and


(3) A cross-affiliate netting arrangement.


(j) *Cross-affiliate netting arrangement* means an arrangement among a member bank, one or more affiliates of the member bank, and one or more nonaffiliates of the member bank in which:


(1) A nonaffiliate is permitted to deduct any obligations of an affiliate of the member bank to the nonaffiliate when settling the nonaffiliate's obligations to the member bank; or 


(2) The member bank is permitted or required to add any obligations of its affiliate to a nonaffiliate when determining the member bank's obligations to the nonaffiliate.


(k) “*Depository institution*” means, unless otherwise noted, an insured depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)), but does not include any branch of a foreign bank. For purposes of this definition, an operating subsidiary of a depository institution is treated as part of the depository institution.


(l) “*Derivative transaction*” means any derivative contract listed in sections III.E.1.a. through d. of appendix A to 12 CFR part 225 and any similar derivative contract, including a credit derivative contract.


(m) “*Eligible affiliated mutual fund securities*” has the meaning specified in paragraph (c)(2) of § 223.24.


(n) “*Equity capital*” means:


(1) With respect to a corporation, preferred stock, common stock, capital surplus, retained earnings, and accumulated other comprehensive income, less treasury stock, plus any other account that constitutes equity of the corporation; and


(2) With respect to a partnership, limited liability company, or other company, equity accounts similar to those described in paragraph (n)(1) of this section.


(o) “*Extension of credit*” to an affiliate means the making or renewal of a loan, the granting of a line of credit, or the extending of credit in any manner whatsoever, including on an intraday basis, to an affiliate. An extension of credit to an affiliate includes, without limitation:


(1) An advance to an affiliate by means of an overdraft, cash item, or otherwise;


(2) A sale of Federal funds to an affiliate;


(3) A lease that is the functional equivalent of an extension of credit to an affiliate;


(4) An acquisition by purchase, discount, exchange, or otherwise of a note or other obligation, including commercial paper or other debt securities, of an affiliate;


(5) Any increase in the amount of, extension of the maturity of, or adjustment to the interest rate term or other material term of, an extension of credit to an affiliate; and


(6) Any other similar transaction as a result of which an affiliate becomes obligated to pay money (or its equivalent).


(p) “*Financial subsidiary*”


(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (p)(2) of this section, the term “*financial subsidiary*” means any subsidiary of a member bank that:


(i) Engages, directly or indirectly, in any activity that national banks are not permitted to engage in directly or that is conducted under terms and conditions that differ from those that govern the conduct of such activity by national banks; and


(ii) Is not a subsidiary that a national bank is specifically authorized to own or control by the express terms of a Federal statute (other than 12 U.S.C. 24a), and not by implication or interpretation.


(2) *Exceptions.* “*Financial subsidiary*” does not include:


(i) A subsidiary of a member bank that is considered a financial subsidiary under paragraph (p)(1) of this section solely because the subsidiary engages in the sale of insurance as agent or broker in a manner that is not permitted for national banks; and


(ii) A subsidiary of a State bank (other than a subsidiary described in section 46(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831w(a))) that is considered a financial subsidiary under paragraph (p)(1) of this section solely because the subsidiary engages in one or more of the following activities:


(A) An activity that the State bank may engage in directly under applicable Federal and State law and that is conducted under the same terms and conditions that govern the conduct of the activity by the State bank; and


(B) An activity that the subsidiary was authorized by applicable Federal and State law to engage in prior to December 12, 2002, and that was lawfully engaged in by the subsidiary on that date.


(3) *Subsidiaries of financial subsidiaries.* If a company is a financial subsidiary under paragraphs (p)(1) and (p)(2) of this section, any subsidiary of such a company is also a financial subsidiary.


(q) “*Foreign bank*” and an “*agency,*” “*branch,*” or “*commercial lending company*” of a foreign bank have the same meanings as in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).


(r) “*GAAP*” means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.


(s) “*General purpose credit card*” has the meaning specified in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of § 223.16.


(t) *In contemplation.* A transaction between a member bank and a nonaffiliate is presumed to be “*in contemplation*” of the nonaffiliate becoming an affiliate of the member bank if the member bank enters into the transaction with the nonaffiliate after the execution of, or commencement of negotiations designed to result in, an agreement under the terms of which the nonaffiliate would become an affiliate.


(u) “*Intraday extension of credit*” has the meaning specified in paragraph (l)(2) of § 223.42.


(v) “*Low-quality asset*” means:


(1) An asset (including a security) classified as “substandard,” “doubtful,” or “loss,” or treated as “special mention” or “other transfer risk problems,” either in the most recent report of examination or inspection of an affiliate prepared by either a Federal or State supervisory agency or in any internal classification system used by the member bank or the affiliate (including an asset that receives a rating that is substantially equivalent to “classified” or “special mention” in the internal system of the member bank or affiliate);


(2) An asset in a nonaccrual status;


(3) An asset on which principal or interest payments are more than thirty days past due;


(4) An asset whose terms have been renegotiated or compromised due to the deteriorating financial condition of the obligor; and


(5) An asset acquired through foreclosure, repossession, or otherwise in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted, if the asset has not yet been reviewed in an examination or inspection.


(w) “*Member bank*” means any national bank, State bank, banking association, or trust company that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. For purposes of this definition, an operating subsidiary of a member bank is treated as part of the member bank.


(x) “*Municipal securities*” has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29)).


(y) “*Nonaffiliate*” with respect to a member bank means any person that is not an affiliate of the member bank.


(z) “*Obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States or its agencies*” includes those obligations listed in 12 CFR 201.108(b) and any additional obligations as determined by the Board. The term does not include Federal Housing Administration or Veterans Administration loans.


(aa) “*Operating subsidiary*” with respect to a member bank or other depository institution means any subsidiary of the member bank or depository institution other than a subsidiary described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of § 223.2.


(bb) “*Person*” means an individual, company, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, unincorporated organization, or any other form of entity.


(cc) “*Principal underwriter*” has the meaning specified in paragraph (c)(1) of § 223.53.


(dd) “*Purchase of an asset*” by a member bank from an affiliate means the acquisition by a member bank of an asset from an affiliate in exchange for cash or any other consideration, including an assumption of liabilities. The merger of an affiliate into a member bank is a purchase of assets by the member bank from an affiliate if the member bank assumes any liabilities of the affiliate or pays any other form of consideration in the transaction.


(ee) *Riskless principal.* A company is “*acting exclusively as a riskless principal*” if, after receiving an order to buy (or sell) a security from a customer, the company purchases (or sells) the security in the secondary market for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.


(ff) “*Securities*” means stocks, bonds, debentures, notes, or similar obligations (including commercial paper).


(gg) “*Securities affiliate*” with respect to a member bank means:


(1) An affiliate of the member bank that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker or dealer; or


(2) Any other securities broker or dealer affiliate of a member bank that is approved by the Board.


(hh) “*State bank*” has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).


(ii) “*Subsidiary*” with respect to a specified company means a company that is controlled by the specified company.


(jj) “*Voting securities*” has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.


(kk) “*Well capitalized*” has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2 and, in the case of any holding company that is not a bank holding company, “*well capitalized*” means that the holding company has and maintains at least the capital levels required for a bank holding company to be well capitalized under 12 CFR 225.2.


(ll) “*Well managed*” has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.





---

[N] [67 FR 76604, Dec. 12, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 4244, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 61798, Nov. 13, 2019]




