# ยง 106.270   Security measures for delivery of stores and industrial supplies.

(a) *General.* The OCS facility owner or operator must ensure that security measures relating to the delivery of stores or industrial supplies to the OCS facility are implemented to:


(1) Check stores or industrial supplies for package integrity;


(2) Prevent stores or industrial supplies from being accepted without inspection;


(3) Deter tampering; and


(4) Prevent stores and industrial supplies from being accepted unless ordered. For any vessels that routinely use an OCS facility, an OCS facility owner or operator may establish and implement standing arrangements between the OCS facility, its suppliers, and any vessel delivering stores or industrial supplies regarding notification and the timing of deliveries and their documentation.


(b) *MARSEC Level 1.* At MARSEC Level 1, the OCS facility owner or operator must ensure the implementation of measures to:


(1) Inspect stores or industrial supplies before being accepted; and


(2) Check that stores or industrial supplies match the order prior to being brought on board.


(c) *MARSEC Level 2.* In addition to the security measures required for MARSEC Level 1 in this section, at MARSEC Level 2, the OCS facility owner or operator must also ensure the implementation of additional security measures, as specified for MARSEC Level 2 in the approved Facility Security Plan (FSP). These additional security measures may include:


(1) Intensifying inspection of the stores or industrial supplies during delivery; or


(2) Checking stores or industrial supplies prior to receiving them on board.


(d) *MARSEC Level 3.* In addition to the security measures for MARSEC Level 1 and MARSEC Level 2, at MARSEC Level 3, the OCS facility owner or operator must ensure the implementation of additional security measures, as specified for MARSEC Level 3 in the approved FSP. These additional security measures may include:


(1) Checking all OCS facility stores or industrial supplies more extensively;


(2) Restricting or suspending delivery of stores or industrial supplies; or


(3) Refusing to accept stores or industrial supplies on board.




