# § 1065.660   THC, NMHC, NMNEHC, CH

(a) *THC determination and initial THC/CH*_4_*contamination corrections.* (1) If we require you to determine THC emissions, calculate _x__THC[THC-FID]cor_ using the initial THC contamination concentration _x__THC[THC-FID]init_ from § 1065.520 as follows:


*Example:*

(2) For the NMHC determination described in paragraph (b) of this section, correct _x__THC[THC-FID]_ for initial THC contamination using Eq. 1065.660-1. You may correct _x__THC[NMC-FID]_ for initial contamination of the CH_4_ sample train using Eq. 1065.660-1, substituting in CH_4_ concentrations for THC.


(3) For the NMNEHC determination described in paragraph (c) of this section, correct _x__THC[THC-FID]_ for initial THC contamination using Eq. 1065.660-1. You may correct _x__THC[NMC-FID]_ for initial contamination of the CH_4_ sample train using Eq. 1065.660-1, substituting in CH_4_ concentrations for THC.


(4) For the CH_4_ determination described in paragraph (d) of this section, you may correct _x__THC[NMC-FID]_ for initial THC contamination of the CH_4_ sample train using Eq. 1065.660-1, substituting in CH_4_ concentrations for THC.


(5) You may calculate THC as the sum of NMHC and CH_4_ if you determine CH_4_ with an FTIR as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and NMHC with an FTIR using the additive method from paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(6) You may calculate THC as the sum of NMNEHC, C_2_H_6_, and CH_4_ if you determine CH_4_ with an FTIR as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, C_2_H_6_ with an FTIR as described in paragraph (e) of this section, and NMNEHC with an FTIR using the additive method from paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(b) *NMHC determination.* Use one of the following to determine NMHC concentration, _x__NMHC_:


(1) If you do not measure CH_4_, you may omit the calculation of NMHC concentrations and calculate the mass of NMHC as described in § 1065.650(c)(5).


(2) For an NMC, calculate _x__NMHC_ using the NMC's penetration fractions, response factors, and/or combined penetration fractions and response factors as described in § 1065.365, the THC FID's CH_4_ response factor, *RF*_CH4[THC-FID],_ from § 1065.360, the initial THC contamination and dry-to-wet corrected THC concentration, _x__THC[THC-FID]cor,_ as determined in paragraph (a) of this section, and the dry-to-wet corrected CH_4_ concentration, _x__THC[NMC-FID]cor,_ optionally corrected for initial THC contamination as determined in paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) Use the following equation for an NMC configured as described in § 1065.365(d):


Eq. 1065.660-2


*Example:*

(ii) Use the following equation for penetration fractions determined using an NMC configuration as outlined in § 1065.365(e):


*Example:*

(iii) Use the following equation for an NMC configured as described in § 1065.365(f):


*Example:*

(3) For a GC-FID or FTIR, calculate _x__NMHC_ using the THC analyzer's CH_4_ response factor, *RF*_CH4[THC-FID],_ from § 1065.360, and the initial THC contamination and dry-to-wet corrected THC concentration, _x__THC[THC-FID]cor,_ as determined in paragraph (a) of this section as follows:


*Example:*

_x__THC[THC-FID]cor_ = 145.6 µmol/mol


*RF*_CH4[THC-FID]_ = 0.970


_x__CH4_ = 18.9 µmol/mol


_x__NMHC_ = 145.6—0.970 · 18.9


_x__NMHC_ = 127.3 µmol/mol


(4) For an FTIR, calculate _x__NMHC_ by summing the hydrocarbon species listed in § 1065.266(c) as follows:


*Example:*

(c) *NMNEHC determination.* Use one of the following methods to determine NMNEHC concentration, _x__NMNEHC_:


(1) Calculate _x__NMNEHC_ based on the test fuel's ethane content as follows:


(i) If the content of your test fuel contains less than 0.010 mol/mol of ethane, you may omit the calculation of NMNEHC concentration and calculate the mass of NMNEHC as described in § 1065.650(c)(6)(i).


(ii) If the content of your fuel test contains at least 0.010 mol/mol of C_2_H_6_, you may omit the calculation of NMNEHC concentration and calculate the mass of NMNEHC as described in § 1065.650(c)(6)(ii).


(2) For a GC-FID, NMC FID, or FTIR, calculate _x__NMNEHC_ using the THC analyzer's CH_4_ response factor, *RF*_CH4[THC-FID],_ and C_2_H_6_ response factor, *RF*_C2H6[THC-FID],_ from § 1065.360, the initial contamination and dry-to-wet corrected THC concentration, _x__THC[THC-FID]cor,_ as determined in paragraph (a) of this section, the dry-to-wet corrected CH_4_ concentration, _x__CH4,_ as determined in paragraph (d) of this section, and the dry-to-wet corrected C_2_H_6_ concentration, _x__C2H6,_ as determined in paragraph (e) of this section as follows:


*Example:*

(3) For an FTIR, calculate *x*_NMNEHC_ by summing the hydrocarbon species listed in § 1065.266(c) as follows:


*Example:*

(d) *CH*_4_ determination. Use one of the following methods to determine methane (CH_4_) concentration, _x__CH4_:


(1) For an NMC, calculate *x*_CH4_ using the NMC's penetration fractions, response factors, and/or combined penetration fractions and response factors as described in § 1065.365, the THC FID's CH_4_ response factor, *RF*_CH4[THC-FID],_ from § 1065.360, the initial THC contamination and dry-to-wet corrected THC concentration, _x__THC[THC-FID]cor,_ as determined in paragraph (a) of this section, and the dry-to-wet corrected CH_4_ concentration, _x__THC[NMC-FID]cor,_ optionally corrected for initial THC contamination as determined in paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) Use the following equation for an NMC configured as described in § 1065.365(d):


*Example:*

(ii) Use the following equation for an NMC configured as described in § 1065.365(e):


*Example:*

(iii) Use the following equation for an NMC configured as described in § 1065.365(f):


*Example:*

(2) For a GC-FID or FTIR, *x*_CH4_ is the actual dry-to-wet corrected CH_4_ concentration as measured by the analyzer.


(e) *C*_2_H_6_ determination. For a GC-FID or FTIR, _x__C2H6_ is the C_1_-equivalent, dry-to-wet corrected C_2_H_6_ concentration as measured by the analyzer.



---

[N] [89 FR 29819, Apr. 22, 2024]






