# ยง 246.29   Waivers of program requirements.

(a) *Required conditions.* The Secretary may waive or modify any qualified administrative requirement for one or more State agencies during an emergency period or supply chain disruption. Waivers or modifications may be issued following a State agency request or at the discretion of the Secretary. To be considered, a waiver or modification issued under this Section must meet the following requirements:


(1) The qualified administrative requirement cannot be implemented during any part of the emergency period or supply chain disruption.


(2) The waiver or modification is necessary to serve participants and does not substantially weaken the nutritional quality of supplemental foods.


(3) The waiver or modification would not result in material impairment of any statutory or regulatory rights of participants or potential participants as set forth at 7 CFR 246.8 or 7 CFR parts 15, 15a and 15b.


(4) The waiver or modification would not create a barrier to participation.


(5) The waiver or modification would not create additional eligibility requirements for participation.


(6) The waiver or modification would comply with 7 CFR 246.13(b).


(7) The waiver or modification must offer substitution options with similar nutritional quality, that most closely provide the maximum monthly allowance of supplemental foods, and that do not create new supplemental food categories as set forth in 7 CFR 246.10(e)(12) Table 4.


(8) A State agency that requests a waiver or modification meets additional requirements for the request and approval as determined necessary by FNS.


(b) *Timeframes for waiver request and use.* (1) Waiver starts. A waiver or modification may be granted any time during an emergency period or supply chain disruption.


(2) Waiver duration.


(i) A waiver or modification established during an emergency period may be available for the emergency period and up to 60 days after the end of the emergency period.


(ii) A waiver or modification established during a supply chain disruption may be available for:


(A) a period of up to 45 days from the date of waiver issuance and renewed with at least 15 days' notice provided by the Secretary; and


(B) no more than 60 days after the supply chain disruption declaration ceases to exist.


(c) *State agency waiver requests.* State agencies shall submit requests for a modification or waiver for USDA approval. Requests shall include but not necessarily be limited to:


(1) The qualified administrative requirement the State agency is requesting to modify or waive (including the statutory or regulatory citation) and an explanation for why it cannot be met;


(2) Justification for why the waiver is necessary to continue WIC services;


(3) An explanation that the waiver meets the conditions set forth in 7 CFR 246.29(a);


(4) The emergency period or supply chain disruption under which the request is being made;


(5) The period for which the flexibility is being requested.



---

[N] [88 FR 86563, Dec. 14, 2023]








