# § 31.3504-1   Designation of agent by application.

(a) *In general.* In the event wages as defined in chapter 21 or 24 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code), or compensation as defined in chapter 22 of the Code, of an employee or group of employees, employed by one or more employers, is paid by a fiduciary, agent, or other person (“agent”), or if that agent has the control, receipt, custody, or disposal of (collectively “pays”) wages or compensation, the Internal Revenue Service may, subject to the terms and conditions as it deems proper, authorize that agent to perform the acts required of the employer or employers under those provisions of the Code and the regulations that apply, for purposes of the taxes imposed by the chapter or chapters, with respect to wages or compensation paid by the agent. If the agent is authorized by the Internal Revenue Service to perform such acts, all provisions of law (including penalties) and of the regulations applicable to an employer with respect to such acts shall be applicable to the agent. However, each employer for whom the agent acts shall remain subject to all provisions of law (including penalties) and of the regulations applicable to an employer with respect to such acts. Any application to authorize an agent to perform such acts, signed by the agent and the employer, shall be made on the form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service and shall be filed with the Internal Revenue Service as prescribed in the instructions to the form and other applicable guidance.


(b) *Special rule for home care service recipients.* (1) *In general.* In the event an agent is authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to perform the acts required of an employer under chapters 21 or 24 on behalf of one or more home care service recipients, as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Internal Revenue Service may authorize that agent to perform the acts as are required of employers for purposes of the tax imposed by chapter 23 of the Code with respect to wages paid by the agent for home care services, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, rendered to the home care service recipient. If the agent is authorized by the Internal Revenue Service to perform such acts, all provisions of law (including penalties) and of the regulations applicable to an employer in respect of such acts shall be applicable to the agent. However, each employer for whom the agent acts shall remain subject to all provisions of law (including penalties) and of the regulations applicable to an employer with respect to such acts.


(2) *Home care services.* For purposes of this section, the term *home care services* includes health care and personal attendant care services rendered to the home care service recipient.


(3) *Home care service recipient.* For purposes of this section, the term *home care service recipient* means any individual who receives home care services, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, while enrolled, and for the remainder of the calendar year after ceasing to be enrolled, in a program administered by a Federal, state, or local government agency that provides Federal, state, or local government funds, to pay, in whole or in part, for home care services for that individual.


(c) *Effective/applicability dates.* An authorization under paragraph (a) in effect prior to December 12, 2013 continues to be in effect after that date. Paragraph (b) of this section applies to wages paid on or after January 1, 2014. However, pursuant to section 7805(b), taxpayers may rely on paragraph (b) of this section for all taxable years for which a valid designation is in effect under paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 9649, 78 FR 75474, Dec. 12, 2013]




