# ยง 121.5   Exemptions for VS select agents and toxins.

(a) Diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer a VS select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for diagnosis or verification will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:


(1) Unless directed otherwise by the Administrator, within 7 calendar days after identification of the select agent or toxin, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with ยง 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process;


(2) The agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported;


(3) Unless otherwise directed by the Administrator, the clinical or diagnostic specimens collected from a patient infected with a select agent are transferred in accordance with ยง 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process within 7 calendar days after delivery of patient care by heath care professionals has concluded; and


(4) The identification of the agent or toxin is reported to APHIS or CDC, the specimen provider, and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law by telephone, facsimile, or email. This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 to APHIS or CDC within 7 calendar days after identification.




(b) Diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer a VS select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:


(1) Unless directed otherwise by the Administrator, within 90 calendar days of receipt, the agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with ยง 121.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process;


(2) The agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported; and


(3) The identification of the agent or toxin, and its derivative, is reported to APHIS or CDC. To report the identification of a select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 days of receipt of the agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for 3 years.


(c) Diagnostic reagents and vaccines that are, bear, or contain VS select agents or toxins that are produced at USDA diagnostic facilities will be exempt from the requirements of this part.


(d) Unless the Administrator by order determines that additional regulation is necessary to protect animal health or animal products, products that are, bear, or contain VS select agents or toxins will be exempt from the requirements of this part if the products have been cleared, approved, licensed, or registered pursuant to:


(1) The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*);


(2) Section 351 of Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262);


(3) The Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159); or


(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 131 *et seq.*).


(e) The Administrator may exempt from the requirements of this part an experimental product that is, bears, or contains a VS select agent or toxin if such product is being used in an investigation authorized by any Federal law and the Administrator determines that additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect animal health or animal products. To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit APHIS/CDC Form 5. A written decision granting or denying the exemption will be issued. The applicant must notify APHIS when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.


(f) In addition to the exemptions provided in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, the Administrator may grant a specific exemption upon a showing of good cause and upon his or her determination that such exemption is consistent with protecting animal health or animal products. An individual or entity may request in writing an exemption from the requirements of this part. If granted, such exemptions are valid for a maximum of 3 years; thereafter, an individual or entity must request a new exemption. If a request for exemption is denied, an individual or entity may request reconsideration in writing to the Administrator. The request for reconsideration must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the individual or entity relies to show that the exemption was wrongfully denied. The Administrator will grant or deny the request for reconsideration as promptly as circumstances allow and will state, in writing, the reasons for the decision.



---

[N] [70 FR 13284, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 61331, Oct. 16, 2008; 77 FR 61078, Oct. 5, 2012; 79 FR 26831, May 12, 2014; 82 FR 6208, Jan. 19, 2017]




