# ยง 180.182   Endosulfan; tolerances for residues.

(a)(1) *General.* Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide endosulfan, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin 3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of endosulfan, in or on the commodity.


(2) A tolerance is established for the combined residues of the insecticide endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2, 4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2, 4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide in or on the commodity in the following table:


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved] 


(c) Tolerances with regional registrations. (1) Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in ยง 180.1(l), are established for residues of the insecticide endosulfan, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph, when endosulfan is used in the state of Florida. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin 3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of endosulfan, in or on the commodity.


(2) Tolerances with regional registrations. Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in ยง 180.1(l), are established for residues of the insecticide endosulfan, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph, when endosulfan is used in the United States (except Florida). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin 3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of endosulfan, in or on the commodity.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved] 



---

[N] [65 FR 33696, May 24, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 54433, Sept. 15, 2006; 76 FR 56653, Sept. 14, 2011; 78 FR 8409, Feb. 6, 2013]






