# § 721.10579   Carbon black derived from the pyrolysis of rubber tire shreds (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbon black derived from the pyrolysis of rubber tire shreds (PMN P-10-367) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k)(Manufacture of the PMN substance using only the process described in PMN; manufacturing, processing, or use of the PMN substance in compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) for carbon black of 3.5 mg/m
3; and manufacture of the PMN substance to meet the NIOSH recommended time weighted average (TWA) for polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) in carbon black of 0.1 mg/m
3); and (q).


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 61148, Oct. 5, 2012]




