# ยง 2.213   What role does the decision-maker have in the appeal process?

(a) The decision-maker is responsible for:


(1) Compiling the administrative record;


(2) Sending the administrative record to the reviewing official within 20 days of the decision-maker's receipt of the Notice of Appeal; and


(3) Making available a copy of the administrative record for review by interested parties. When the decision-maker transmits the administrative record to the reviewing official, the decision-maker shall transmit to the interested parties a copy of the table of contents of the administrative record. Interested parties may view the administrative record at the office of the decision-maker. Interested parties may request copies of all or part of the administrative record. Where reproduction and transmission of the administrative record imposes costs on BIA exceeding $50, BIA may charge the requestor for those costs. BIA shall not incur such costs without the requestor's approval. The decision-maker shall respond to requests for documents in the administrative record within 30 days of receipt of the request, either by providing the requested documents or identifying a date by which the documents shall be provided. The decision-maker shall redact the documents provided to the requestor as required by law (*e.g.,* the Privacy Act). The decision-maker may withhold information in the administrative record, invoking privileges available in civil litigation; such withholding being subject to judicial review. Provision of documents in the administrative record to an interested party under this part is not governed by the Freedom of Information Act. Failure of a decision-maker to respond to a request for documents under this section may be appealed as provided in subpart F of this part.


(b) If a decision-maker believes that a compacting or contracting Tribe possesses Federal records that are relevant to the analysis of the appeal, the decision-maker may request that the Tribe produce the documents. Within two weeks of receiving the decision-maker's request, the Tribe shall either provide the requested documents to the decision-maker or explain why it is not providing the documents. This section does not apply to Tribal records. See 25 U.S.C. 5329(b).


(c) The decision-maker may file a response to the statement of reasons.






