# § 170.4   Acronyms and definitions.

(a) *Acronyms.* Unless otherwise noted, the following acronyms and their terms are for the purposes of this part.


(b) *Definitions.* Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.


*Access Control (AC)* means the process of granting or denying specific requests to obtain and use information and related information processing services; and/or entry to specific physical facilities (*e.g.,* Federal buildings, military establishments, or border crossing entrances), as defined in FIPS PUB 201-3 Jan2002 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Accreditation* means a status pursuant to which a CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem member (person or organization), having met all criteria for the specific role they perform including required ISO/IEC accreditations, may act in that role as set forth in § 170.8 for the Accreditation Body and § 170.9 for C3PAOs. (CMMC-custom term)


*Accreditation Body* is defined in § 170.8 and means the one organization DoD contracts with to be responsible for authorizing and accrediting members of the CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem, as required. The Accreditation Body must be approved by DoD. At any given point in time, there will be only one Accreditation Body for the DoD CMMC Program. (CMMC-custom term)


*Advanced Persistent Threat (APT)* means an adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources that allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors (*e.g.,* cyber, physical, and deception). These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the information technology infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period-of-time, adapts to defenders' efforts to resist it, and is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives, as is defined in NIST SP 800-39 Mar2011 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Affirming Official* means the senior level representative from within each Organization Seeking Assessment (OSA) who is responsible for ensuring the OSA's compliance with the CMMC Program requirements and has the authority to affirm the OSA's continuing compliance with the specified security requirements for their respective organizations. (CMMC-custom term)


*Assessment* means the testing or evaluation of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for an information system or organization, as defined in §§ 170.15 through 170.18. (CMMC-custom term)


(i) *Level 1 self-assessment* is the term for the activity performed by an OSA to evaluate its own information system when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self).


(ii) *Level 2 self-assessment* is the term for the activity performed by an OSA to evaluate its own information system when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self).


(iii) *Level 2 certification assessment* is the term for the activity performed by a C3PAO to evaluate the information system of an OSC when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO).


(iv) *Level 3 certification assessment* is the term for the activity performed by the DCMA DIBCAC to evaluate the information system of an OSC when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC).


(v) *POA&M closeout self-assessment* is the term for the activity performed by an OSA to evaluate only the NOT MET requirements that were identified with POA&M during the initial assessment, when seeking a CMMC Status of Final Level 2 (Self).


(vi) *POA&M closeout certification assessment* is the term for the activity performed by a C3PAO or DCMA DIBCAC to evaluate only the NOT MET requirements that were identified with POA&M during the initial assessment, when seeking a CMMC Status of Final Level 2 (C3PAO) or Final Level 3 (DIBCAC) respectively.


*Assessment Findings Report* means the final written assessment results by the third-party or government assessment team. The Assessment Findings Report is submitted to the OSC and to the DoD via CMMC eMASS. (CMMC-custom term)


*Assessment objective* means a set of determination statements that, taken together, expresses the desired outcome for the assessment of a security requirement. Successful implementation of the corresponding CMMC security requirement requires meeting all applicable assessment objectives defined in NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) or NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2). (CMMC-custom term)


*Assessment Team* means participants in the Level 2 certification assessment (CMMC Certified Assessors and CMMC Certified Professionals) or the Level 3 certification assessment (DCMA DIBCAC assessors). This does not include the OSC participants preparing for or participating in the assessment. (CMMC-custom term)


*Asset* means an item of value to stakeholders. An asset may be tangible (*e.g.,* a physical item such as hardware, firmware, computing platform, network device, or other technology component) or intangible (*e.g.,* humans, data, information, software, capability, function, service, trademark, copyright, patent, intellectual property, image, or reputation). The value of an asset is determined by stakeholders in consideration of loss concerns across the entire system life cycle. Such concerns include but are not limited to business or mission concerns, as defined in NIST SP 800-160 V2R1 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Asset Categories* means a grouping of assets that process, store or transmit information of similar designation, or provide security protection to those assets. (CMMC-custom term)


*Authentication* is defined in FIPS PUB 200 Mar2006 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Authorized* means an interim status during which a CMMC Ecosystem member (person or organization), having met all criteria for the specific role they perform other than the required ISO/IEC accreditations, may act in that role for a specified time as set forth in § 170.8 for the Accreditation Body and § 170.9 for C3PAOs. (CMMC-custom term)


*Capability* means a combination of mutually reinforcing controls implemented by technical means, physical means, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security or privacy purpose, as defined in NIST SP 800-37 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Cloud Service Provider (CSP)* means an external company that provides cloud services based on cloud computing. Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (*e.g.,* networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. This definition is based on the definition for cloud computing in NIST SP 800-145 Sept2011. (CMMC-custom term)


*CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem* means the people and organizations described in subpart C of this part. This term is sometimes shortened to CMMC Ecosystem. (CMMC-custom term)


*CMMC Assessment Scope* means the set of all assets in the OSA's environment that will be assessed against CMMC security requirements. (CMMC-custom term)


*CMMC Assessor and Instructor Certification Organization (CAICO)* is defined in § 170.10 and means the organization responsible for training, testing, authorizing, certifying, and recertifying CMMC certified assessors, certified instructors, and certified professionals. (CMMC-custom term)


*CMMC Instantiation of eMASS* means a CMMC instance of the Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS), a government owned and operated system. (CMMC-custom term)


*CMMC Security Requirements* means the 15 Level 1 requirements listed in the 48 CFR 52.204-21(b)(1), the 110 Level 2 requirements from NIST SP 800-171 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), and the 24 Level 3 requirements selected from NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*CMMC Status* is the result of meeting or exceeding the minimum required score for the corresponding assessment. The CMMC Status of an OSA information system is officially stored in SPRS and additionally presented on a Certificate of CMMC Status, if the assessment was conducted by a C3PAO or DCMA DIBCAC. The potential CMMC Statuses are outlined in the paragraphs that follow. (CMMC-custom term)


(i) *Final Level 1 (Self)* is defined in § 170.15(a)(1) and (c)(1). (CMMC-custom term)


(ii) *Conditional Level 2 (Self)* is defined in § 170.16(a)(1)(ii). (CMMC-custom term)


(iii) *Final Level 2 (Self)* is defined in § 170.16(a)(1)(iii). (CMMC-custom term)


(iv) *Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO)* is defined in § 170.17(a)(1)(ii). (CMMC-custom term)


(v) *Final Level 2 (C3PAO)* is defined in § 170.17(a)(1)(iii). (CMMC-custom term)


(vi) *Conditional Level 3 (DIBCAC)* is defined in § 170.18(a)(1)(ii). (CMMC-custom term)


(vii) *Final Level 3 (DIBCAC)* is defined in § 170.18(a)(1)(iii). (CMMC-custom term)


*CMMC Status Date* means the date that the CMMC Status results are submitted to SPRS or the CMMC instantiation of eMASS, as appropriate. The date of the Conditional CMMC Status will remain as the CMMC Status Date after a successful POA&M closeout. A new date is not set for a Final that follows a Conditional. (CMMC-custom term)


*CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organization (C3PAO)* means an organization that has been authorized or accredited by the Accreditation Body to conduct Level 2 certification assessments and has the roles and responsibilities identified in § 170.9. (CMMC-custom term)


*Contractor* is defined in 48 CFR 3.502-1.


*Contractor Risk Managed Assets* are defined in table 3 to § 170.19(c)(1). (CMMC-custom term)


*Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)* is defined in 32 CFR 2002.4(h).


*Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) Assets* means assets that can process, store, or transmit CUI. (CMMC-custom term)


*DCMA DIBCAC High Assessment* means an assessment that is conducted by Government personnel in accordance with NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 and leveraging specific guidance in the DoD Assessment Methodology that:


(i) Consists of:


(A) A review of a contractor's Basic Assessment;


(B) A thorough document review;


(C) Verification, examination, and demonstration of a contractor's system security plan to validate that NIST SP 800-171 R2 security requirements have been implemented as described in the contractor's system security plan; and


(D) Discussions with the contractor to obtain additional information or clarification, as needed; and


(ii) Results in a confidence level of “High” in the resulting score. (Source: 48 CFR 252.204-7020).


*Defense Industrial Base (DIB)* is defined in 32 CFR 236.2.


*DoD Assessment Methodology (DoDAM)* documents a standard methodology that enables a strategic assessment of a contractor's implementation of NIST SP 800-171 R2, a requirement for compliance with 48 CFR 252.204-7012. (Source: DoDAM Version 1.2.1)


*Enduring Exception* means a special circumstance or system where remediation and full compliance with CMMC *s*ecurity *r*equirements is not feasible. Examples include systems required to replicate the configuration of 'fielded' systems, medical devices, test equipment, OT, and IoT. No operational plan of action is required but the circumstance must be documented within a system security plan. Specialized Assets and GFE may be enduring exceptions. (CMMC-custom term)


*Enterprise* means an organization with a defined mission/goal and a defined boundary, using information systems to execute that mission, and with responsibility for managing its own risks and performance. An enterprise may consist of all or some of the following business aspects: acquisition, program management, financial management (*e.g.,* budgets), human resources, security, and information systems, information and mission management, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*External Service Provider (ESP)* means external people, technology, or facilities that an organization utilizes for provision and management of IT and/or cybersecurity services on behalf of the organization. In the CMMC Program, CUI or Security Protection Data (*e.g.,* log data, configuration data), must be processed, stored, or transmitted on the ESP assets to be considered an ESP. (CMMC-custom term)


*Federal Contract Information (FCI)* is defined in 48 CFR 4.1901.


*Government Furnished Equipment (GFE)* has the same meaning as “government-furnished property” as defined in 48 CFR 45.101.


*Industrial Control Systems (ICS)* means a general term that encompasses several types of control systems, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, distributed control systems (DCS), and other control system configurations that are often found in the industrial sectors and critical infrastructures, such as Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC). An ICS consists of combinations of control components (*e.g.,* electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic) that act together to achieve an industrial objective (*e.g.,* manufacturing, transportation of matter or energy), as defined in NIST SP 800-82r3 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Information System (IS)* is defined in NIST SP 800-171 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Internet of Things (IoT)* means the network of devices that contain the hardware, software, firmware, and actuators which allow the devices to connect, interact, and freely exchange data and information, as defined in NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Operational plan of action* as used in security requirement CA.L2-3.12.2, means the formal artifact which identifies temporary vulnerabilities and temporary deficiencies (*e.g.,* necessary information system updates, patches, or reconfiguration as threats evolve) in implementation of requirements and documents how they will be mitigated, corrected, or eliminated. The OSA defines the format (*e.g.,* document, spreadsheet, database) and specific content of its operational plan of action. An operational plan of action does not identify a timeline for remediation and is not the same as a POA&M, which is associated with an assessment for remediation of deficiencies that must be completed within 180 days. (CMMC-custom term)


*Operational Technology (OT)* means programmable systems or devices that interact with the physical environment (or manage devices that interact with the physical environment). These systems or devices detect or cause a direct change through the monitoring or control of devices, processes, and events. Examples include industrial control systems, building management systems, fire control systems, and physical access control mechanisms, as defined in NIST SP 800-160 V2R1 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Organization-defined* means as determined by the OSA except as defined in the case of Organization-Defined Parameter (ODP). (CMMC-custom term)


*Organization-Defined Parameters (ODPs)* means selected enhanced security requirements contain selection and assignment operations to give organizations flexibility in defining variable parts of those requirements, as defined in NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Note 1 to ODPs:* The organization defining the parameters is the DoD.


*Organization Seeking Assessment (OSA)* means the entity seeking to undergo a self-assessment or certification assessment for a given information system for the purposes of achieving and maintaining any CMMC Status. The term OSA includes all Organizations Seeking Certification (OSCs). (CMMC-custom term)


*Organization Seeking Certification (OSC)* means the entity seeking to undergo a certification assessment for a given information system for the purposes of achieving and maintaining the CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) or Level 3 (DIBCAC). An OSC is also an OSA. (CMMC-custom term)


*Out-of-Scope Assets* means assets that cannot process, store, or transmit CUI because they are physically or logically separated from information systems that do process, store, or transmit CUI, or are inherently unable to do so; except for assets that provide security protection for a CUI asset (see the definition for *Security Protection Assets*). (CMMC-custom term)


*Periodically* means occurring at a regular interval as determined by the OSA that may not exceed one year. (CMMC-custom term)


*Personally Identifiable Information* means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M)* means a document that identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the milestones, as defined in NIST SP 800-115 Sept2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Prime Contractor* is defined in 48 CFR 3.502-1.


*Process, store, or transmit* means data can be used by an asset (*e.g.,* accessed, entered, edited, generated, manipulated, or printed); data is inactive or at rest on an asset (*e.g.,* located on electronic media, in system component memory, or in physical format such as paper documents); or data is being transferred from one asset to another asset (*e.g.,* data in transit using physical or digital transport methods). (CMMC-custom term)


*Restricted Information Systems* means systems (and associated IT components comprising the system) that are configured based on government requirements (*e.g.,* connected to something that was required to support a functional requirement) and are used to support a contract (*e.g.,* fielded systems, obsolete systems, and product deliverable replicas). (CMMC-custom term)


*Risk* means a measure of the extent to which an entity is threatened by a potential circumstance or event, and is typically a function of:


(i) The adverse impacts that would arise if the circumstance or event occurs; and


(ii) The likelihood of occurrence, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Risk Assessment* means the process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of a system. Risk Assessment is part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis, as defined in NIST SP 800-39 Mar2011 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Security Protection Assets (SPA)* means assets providing security functions or capabilities for the OSA's CMMC Assessment Scope. (CMMC-custom term)


*Security Protection Data (SPD)* means data stored or processed by Security Protection Assets (SPA) that are used to protect an OSC's assessed environment. SPD is security relevant information and includes but is not limited to: configuration data required to operate an SPA, log files generated by or ingested by an SPA, data related to the configuration or vulnerability status of in-scope assets, and passwords that grant access to the in-scope environment. (CMMC-custom term)


*Specialized Assets* means types of assets considered specialized assets for CMMC: Government Furnished Equipment, Internet of Things (IoT) or Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), Operational Technology (OT), Restricted Information Systems, and Test Equipment. (CMMC-custom term)


*Subcontractor* is defined in 48 CFR 3.502-1.


*Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)* means a generic name for a computerized system that is capable of gathering and processing data and applying operational controls over long distances. Typical uses include power transmission and distribution and pipeline systems. SCADA was designed for the unique communication challenges (*e.g.,* delays, data integrity) posed by the various media that must be used, such as phone lines, microwave, and satellite. Usually shared rather than dedicated, as defined in NIST SP 800-82r3 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*System Security Plan (SSP)* means the formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The system security plan describes the system components that are included within the system, the environment in which the system operates, how the security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).


*Temporary deficiency* means a condition where remediation of a discovered deficiency is feasible, and a known fix is available or is in process. The deficiency must be documented in an operational plan of action. A temporary deficiency is not based on an 'in progress' initial implementation of a CMMC security requirement but arises after implementation. A temporary deficiency may apply during the initial implementation of a security requirement if, during roll-out, specific issues with a very limited subset of equipment is discovered that must be separately addressed. There is no standard duration for which a temporary deficiency may be active. For example, FIPS-validated cryptography that requires a patch and the patched version is no longer the validated version may be a temporary deficiency. (CMMC-custom term)


*Test Equipment* means hardware and/or associated IT components used in the testing of products, system components, and contract deliverables. (CMMC-custom term)


*User* means an individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access a system, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).






