# ยง 228.108   Surface use requirements.

(a) *General.* The operator shall conduct operations on a leasehold on National Forest System lands in a manner that minimizes effects on surface resources, prevents unnecessary or unreasonable surface resource disturbance, and that is in compliance with the other requirements of this section. 


(b) *Notice of operations.* The operator must notify the authorized Forest officer 48 hours prior to commencing operations or resuming operations following their temporary cessation (ยง 228.111). 


(c) *Access facilities.* The operator shall construct and maintain access facilities to assure adequate drainage and to minimize or prevent damage to surface resources. 


(d) *Cultural and historical resources.* The operator shall report findings of cultural and historical resources to the authorized Forest officer immediately and, except as otherwise authorized in an approved surface use plan of operations, protect such resources. 


(e) *Fire prevention and control.* To the extent practicable, the operator shall take measures to prevent uncontrolled fires on the area of operation and to suppress uncontrolled fires resulting from the operations. 


(f) *Fisheries, wildlife and plant habitat.* The operator shall comply with the requirements of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*) and its implementing regulations (50 CFR chapter IV), and, except as otherwise provided in an approved surface use plan of operations, conduct operations in such a manner as to maintain and protect fisheries, wildlife, and plant habitat. 


(g) *Reclamation.* (1) Unless otherwise provided in an approved surface use plan of operations, the operator shall conduct reclamation concurrently with other operations. 


(2) Within 1 year of completion of operations on a portion of the area of operation, the operator must reclaim that portion, unless a different period of time is approved in writing by the authorized Forest officer. 


(3) The operator must: 


(i) Control soil erosion and landslides; 


(ii) Control water runoff; 


(iii) Remove, or control, solid wastes, toxic substances, and hazardous substances; 


(iv) Reshape and revegetate disturbed areas; 


(v) Remove structures, improvements, facilities and equipment, unless otherwise authorized; and 


(vi) Take such other reclamation measures as specified in the approved surface use plan of operations. 


(h) *Safety measures.* (1) The operator must maintain structures, facilities, improvements, and equipment located on the area of operation in a safe and neat manner and in accordance with an approved surface use plan of operations. 


(2) The operator must take appropriate measures in accordance with applicable Federal and State laws and regulations to protect the public from hazardous sites or conditions resulting from the operations. Such measures may include, but are not limited to, posting signs, building fences, or otherwise identifying the hazardous site or condition. 


(i) *Wastes.* The operator must either remove garbage, refuse, and sewage from National Forest System lands or treat and dispose of that material in such a manner as to minimize or prevent adverse impacts on surface resources. The operator shall treat or dispose of produced water, drilling fluid, and other waste generated by the operations in such a manner as to minimize or prevent adverse impacts on surface resources. 


(j) *Watershed protection.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in the approved surface use plan of operations, the operator shall not conduct operations in areas subject to mass soil movement, riparian areas and wetlands. 


(2) The operator shall take measures to minimize or prevent erosion and sediment production. Such measures include, but are not limited to, siting structures, facilities, and other improvements to avoid steep slopes and excessive clearing of land. 




