# ยง 3415.7   Use of funds; changes.

(a) *Delegation of fiscal responsibility.* The grantee may not in whole or in part delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.


(b) *Change in project plans.* (1) The permissible changes by the grantee, principal investigator(s), or other key project personnel in the approved grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the principal investigator(s) is uncertain whether a particular change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, for a final determination.


(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes. Normally, no requests for such changes that are outside the scope of the original approved project will be approved.


(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes.


(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant.


(c) *Changes in project period.* The project period determined pursuant to ยง 3415.5(b) may be extended by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the appropriate awarding official determines may be necessary to complete, or fulfill the purposes of, an approved project. Any extension of time shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the appropriate awarding official, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant.


(d) *Changes in approved budget.* The terms and conditions of a grant will prescribe the circumstances under which written approval must be requested and obtained from the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to instituting changes in an approved budget.




