# ยง 417.568   Adequate financial records, statistical data, and cost finding.

(a) *Maintenance of records.* (1) An HMO or CMP must maintain sufficient financial records and statistical data for proper determination of costs payable by CMS for covered services the HMO or CMP furnished to its Medicare enrollees either directly or under arrangements with others. These include accurate and sufficient detail of incurred costs and enrollment data.


(2) Unless otherwise provided for in this subpart, the HMO or CMP must follow standardized definitions and accounting, statistics, and reporting practices that are widely accepted in the health care industry.


(b) *Provision of data.* (1) The HMO or CMP must provide adequate cost and statistical data, based on its financial and statistical records, that can be verified by qualified auditors.


(2) The cost data must be based on an approved method of cost finding and, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, on the accrual method of accounting.


(3) For governmental institutions that use a cash basis of accounting, cost data developed on this basis is acceptable. However, only depreciation on capital assets, rather than the expenditure for the capital asset, is allowable.


(c) *Provider services furnished directly by the HMO or CMP.* If the HMO or CMP furnishes provider services directly, the provider is subject to the cost-finding and cost-reporting requirements set forth in parts 412 and 413 of this chapter. The provider must use an approved cost-finding method described in ยง 413.24 of this chapter to determine the actual cost of these covered services.


(d) *Supplier services furnished directly by the HMO or CMP.* If the HMO or CMP furnishes Part B physician and supplier services directly, it must furnish statistics that indicate the frequency and type of service provided, in the form and detail prescribed by CMS.


(e) *Part B physician and supplier services furnished through arrangement.* If the HMO or CMP furnishes Part B physician and supplier services under arrangements with others, it must furnish to CMS statistical, financial, and other information with respect to those services in the form and detail prescribed by CMS.



---

[N] [50 FR 1346, Jan. 10, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 38082, July 15, 1993; 60 FR 46231, Sept. 6, 1995]




