# § 868.74   Divided-lot certificates.

(a) *General.* When commodities are offered for inspection and are certificated as a single lot, the applicant may exchange the inspection certificate for two or more divided-lot certificates.


(b) *Application.* Requests for divided-lot certificates shall be made—


(1) In writing;


(2) By the applicant who made the initial request;


(3) To the office that issued the outstanding certificate;


(4) Within 5 business days of the outstanding certificate date; and


(5) Before the identity of the commodity has been lost.


(c) *Quantity restrictions.* Divided-lot certificates shall not show an aggregate quantity different than the total quantity shown on the superseded certificate.


(d) *Surrender of certificate.* The certificate that will be superseded shall—


(1) Be in the custody of the cooperator or the Service;


(2) Be marked “Void,” and


(3) Show the identification of the divided-lot certificates.


(e) *Certification requirements.* The same information and statements, including permissive statements, that were shown on the superseded certificate shall be shown on each divided-lot certificate. Divided-lot certificates shall show—


(1) A statement indicating the commodity was inspected as an undivided lot;


(2) The terms “Divided-Lot Original,” and the copies shall show “Divided-Lot Copy;”


(3) The same serial number with numbered suffix (for example, 1764-1, 1764-2, 1764-3, and so forth); and


(4) The quantity specified by the request.


(f) *Issuance and distribution.* Divided-lot certificates shall be issued no later than the close of business on the next business day after the request and be distributed according to § 868.70(b).


(g) *Limitations.* After divided-lot certificates have been issued, further dividing or combining is prohibited except with the approval of the Service.



---

[N] [53 FR 3722, Feb. 9, 1988. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 16364, Mar. 30, 1995]




