# § 303.187   Approval for an insured state branch of a foreign bank to conduct activities not permissible for federal branches.

(a) Filing procedures—(1) *Where to file.* An application by an insured state branch seeking approval to conduct activities not permissible for a federal branch, as required by § 347.212(a) of this chapter, shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate FDIC office.


(2) *Content of filing.* A complete letter application shall include the following information:


(i) A brief description of the activity, including the manner in which it will be conducted and an estimate of the expected dollar volume associated with the activity; 


(ii) An analysis of the impact of the proposed activity on the condition of the United States operations of the foreign bank in general and of the branch in particular, including a copy of the feasibility study, management plan, financial projections, business plan, or similar document concerning the conduct of the activity; 


(iii) A resolution by the applicant's board of directors, or evidence of approval by senior management if a resolution is not required pursuant to the applicant's organizational documents, authorizing the filing of the application; 


(iv) A statement by the applicant of whether it is in compliance with sections 347.209 and 347.210 of this chapter;


(v) A statement by the applicant that it has complied with all requirements of the Board of Governors concerning applications to conduct the activity in question and the status of each such application, including a copy of the Board of Governors' disposition of such application, if applicable; and 


(vi) A statement of why the activity will pose no significant risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. 


(3) *Board of Governors application.* If the application to the Board of Governors contains the information required by paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant may submit a copy to the FDIC in lieu of a separate letter application. 


(4) *Additional information.* The FDIC may request additional information to complete processing.


(b) Divestiture or cessation—(1) *Where to file.* Divestiture plans necessitated by a change in law or other authority, as required by § 347.212(e) of this chapter, shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate FDIC office.


(2) *Content of filing.* A complete letter application shall include the following information:


(i) A detailed description of the manner in which the applicant proposes to divest itself of or cease the activity in question; and 


(ii) A projected timetable describing how long the divestiture or cessation is expected to take. 


(3) *Additional information.* The FDIC may request additional information to complete processing. 



---

[N] [67 FR 79247, Dec. 27, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 17559, Apr. 6, 2005; 71 FR 20526, Apr. 21, 2006]




