# § 515.567   Public performances, clinics, workshops, athletic and other competitions, and exhibitions.

(a) *General license for amateur and semi-professional international sports federation competitions.* The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to participation in athletic competitions in Cuba by amateur or semi-professional athletes or athletic teams, or organization of such competitions, are authorized, provided that:


(1) The athletic competition in Cuba is held under the auspices of the international sports federation for the relevant sport;


(2) The U.S. participants in the athletic competition are selected by the U.S. federation for the relevant sport; and


(3) The competition is open for attendance, and in relevant situations, participation, by the Cuban public.




(b) *Public performances, clinics, workshops, other athletic or non-athletic competitions, and exhibitions.* Specific licenses, including for multiple trips to Cuba over an extended period of time, may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are directly incident to participation in or organization of a public performance, clinic, workshop, athletic competition not covered by paragraph (a) of this section, non-athletic competition, or exhibition in Cuba by participants in or organizers of such activities, provided that the event is open for attendance, and in relevant situations, participation, by the Cuban public.


(c) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.


(d) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.


(e) *Certain travel-related transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.



---

[N] [80 FR 2298, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 4585, Jan. 27, 2016; 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]




