# § 520.1286   Lotilaner.

(a) *Specifications.* Each chewable tablet contains:


(1) For use in dogs: 56.25, 112.5, 225, 450, or 900 milligrams (mg) lotilaner; or


(2) For use in cats: 12 or 48 mg lotilaner.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 058198 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* Administer orally once a month at the recommended minimum dosage of 9 mg/lb (20 mg/kg).


(ii) *Indications for use.* Kills adult fleas, and for the treatment and prevention of flea infestations (*Ctenocephalides felis*), and the treatment and control of tick infestations (*Amblyomma americanum* (lone star tick), *Dermacentor variabilis* (American dog tick), *Ixodes scapularis* (black-legged tick), and *Rhipicephalus sanguineus* (brown dog tick)) for 1 month in dogs and puppies 8 weeks of age or older and weighing 4.4 pounds or greater.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Cats*—(i) *Amount.* Administer orally once a month at the recommended minimum dosage of 2.7 mg/lb (6 mg/kg).


(ii) *Indications for use.* Kills adult fleas, and for the treatment and prevention of flea infestations (*Ctenocephalides felis*) for 1 month in cats and kittens 8 weeks of age and older, and weighing 2.0 pounds or greater; and for the treatment and control of *Ixodes scapularis* (black-legged tick) for 1 month in cats and kittens 6 months of age and older, and weighing 2.0 pounds or greater.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [85 FR 18119, Apr. 1, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 61685, Nov. 8, 2021]




