# § 1.424-1   Definitions and special rules applicable to statutory options.

(a) *Substitutions and assumptions of options*—(1) *In general.* (i) This paragraph (a) provides rules under which an *eligible corporation* (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) may, by reason of a *corporate transaction* (as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), substitute a new statutory option (new option) for an outstanding statutory option (old option) or assume an old option without such substitution or assumption being considered a modification of the old option. For the definition of *modification,* see paragraph (e) of this section.


(ii) For purposes of §§ 1.421-1 through 1.424-1, the phrase “substituting or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which section 424 applies,” “substituting or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which § 1.424-1(a) applies,” and similar phrases means a substitution of a new option for an old option or an assumption of an old option that meets the requirements of this paragraph (a). For a substitution or assumption to qualify under this paragraph (a), the substitution or assumption must meet all of the requirements described in paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section.


(2) *Eligible corporation.* For purposes of this paragraph (a), the term *eligible corporation* means a corporation that is the employer of the optionee or a related corporation of such corporation. For purposes of this paragraph (a), the determination of whether a corporation is the employer of the optionee or a related corporation of such corporation is based upon all of the relevant facts and circumstances existing immediately after the corporate transaction. See § 1.421-1(h) for rules concerning the employment relationship.


(3) *Corporate transaction.* For purposes of this paragraph (a), the term *corporate transaction* includes—


(i) A corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization, or liquidation;


(ii) A distribution (excluding an ordinary dividend or a stock split or stock dividend described in § 1.424-1(e)(4)(v)) or change in the terms or number of outstanding shares of such corporation; and


(iii) Such other corporate events prescribed by the Commissioner in published guidance.


(4) *By reason of.* (i) For a change in an option or issuance of a new option to qualify as a substitution or assumption under this paragraph (a), the change must be made by an *eligible corporation* (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) and occur by reason of a *corporate transaction* (as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section).


(ii) Generally, a change in an option or issuance of a new option is considered to be by reason of a corporate transaction, unless the relevant facts and circumstances demonstrate that such change or issuance is made for reasons unrelated to such corporate transaction. For example, a change in an option or issuance of a new option will be considered to be made for reasons unrelated to a corporate transaction if there is an unreasonable delay between the corporate transaction and such change in the option or issuance of a new option, or if the corporate transaction serves no substantial corporate business purpose independent of the change in options. Similarly, a change in the number or price of shares purchasable under an option merely to reflect market fluctuations in the price of the stock purchasable under an option is not by reason of a corporate transaction.


(iii) A change in an option or issuance of a new option is by reason of a distribution or change in the terms or number of the outstanding shares of a corporation (as described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section) only if the option as changed, or the new option issued, is an option on the same stock as under the old option (or if such class of stock is eliminated in the change in capital structure, on other stock of the same corporation).


(5) *Other requirements.* For a change in an option or issuance of a new option to qualify as a substitution or assumption under this paragraph (a), all of the requirements described in this paragraph (a)(5) must be met.


(i) In the case of an issuance of a new option (or a portion thereof) in exchange for an old option (or portion thereof), the optionee's rights under the old option (or portion thereof) must be canceled, and the optionee must lose all rights under the old option (or portion thereof). There cannot be a substitution of a new option for an old option within the meaning of this paragraph (a) if the optionee may exercise both the old option and the new option. It is not necessary to have a complete substitution of a new option for the old option. However, any portion of such option which is not substituted or assumed in a transaction to which this paragraph (a) applies is an outstanding option to purchase stock or, to the extent paragraph (e) of this section applies, a modified option.


(ii) The excess of the aggregate fair market value of the shares subject to the new or assumed option immediately after the change in the option or issuance of a new option over the aggregate option price of such shares must not exceed the excess of the aggregate fair market value of all shares subject to the old option (or portion thereof) immediately before the change in the option or issuance of a new option over the aggregate option price of such shares.


(iii) On a share by share comparison, the ratio of the option price to the fair market value of the shares subject to the option immediately after the change in the option or issuance of a new option must not be more favorable to the optionee than the ratio of the option price to the fair market value of the stock subject to the old option (or portion thereof) immediately before the change in the option or issuance of a new option. The number of shares subject to the new or assumed option may be adjusted to compensate for any change in the aggregate spread between the aggregate option price and the aggregate fair market value of the shares subject to the option immediately after the change in the option or issuance of the new option as compared to the aggregate spread between the option price and the aggregate fair market value of the shares subject to the option immediately before the change in the option or issuance of the new option.


(iv) The new or assumed option must contain all terms of the old option, except to the extent such terms are rendered inoperative by reason of the corporate transaction.


(v) The new option or assumed option must not give the optionee additional benefits that the optionee did not have under the old option.


(6) *Obligation to substitute or assume not necessary.* For a change in the option or issuance of a new option to meet the requirements of this paragraph (a), it is not necessary to show that the corporation changing an option or issuing a new option is under any obligation to do so. In fact, this paragraph (a) may apply even when the option that is being replaced or assumed expressly provides that it will terminate upon the occurrence of certain corporate transactions. However, this paragraph (a) cannot be applied to revive a statutory option which, for reasons not related to the corporate transaction, expires before it can properly be replaced or assumed under this paragraph (a).


(7) *Issuance of stock without meeting the requirements of this paragraph (a).* A change in the terms of an option resulting in a modification of such option occurs if an optionee's new employer (or a related corporation of the new employer) issues its stock (or stock of a related corporation) upon exercise of such option without satisfying all of the requirements described in paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section.


(8) *Date of grant.* For purposes of applying the rules of this paragraph (a), a substitution or assumption is considered to occur on the date that the optionee would, but for this paragraph (a), be considered to have been granted the option that the eligible corporation is substituting or assuming. A substitution or an assumption that occurs by reason of a corporate transaction may occur before or after the corporate transaction.


(9) Any reasonable methods may be used to determine the fair market value of the stock subject to the option immediately before the assumption or substitution and the fair market value of the stock subject to the option immediately after the assumption or substitution. Such methods include the valuation methods described in § 20.2031-2 of this chapter (the Estate Tax Regulations). In the case of stock listed on a stock exchange, the fair market value may be based on the last sale before and the first sale after the assumption or substitution if such sales clearly reflect the fair market value of the stock, or may be based upon an average selling price during a longer period, such as the day or week before, and the day or week after, the assumption or substitution. If the stocks are not listed, or if they are newly issued, it will be reasonable to base the determination on experience over even longer periods. In the case of a merger, consolidation, or other reorganization which is arrived at by arm's-length negotiations, the fair market value of the stocks subject to the option before and after the assumption or substitution may be based upon the values assigned to the stock for purposes of the reorganization. For example, if in the case of a merger the parties treat each share of the merged company as being equal in value to a share of the surviving company, it will be reasonable to assume that the stocks are of equal value so that the substituted option may permit the employee to purchase at the same price one share of the surviving company for each share he could have purchased of the merged company. 


(10) *Examples.* The principles of this paragraph (a) are illustrated by the following examples:


(b) *Acquisition of new stock.* (1) Section 424(b) provides that the rules provided by sections 421 through 424 which are applicable with respect to stock transferred to an individual upon his exercise of an option, shall likewise be applicable with respect to stock acquired by a distribution or an exchange to which section 305, 354, 355, 356, or 1036 (or so much of section 1031 as relates to section 1036) applies. Stock so acquired shall, for purposes of sections 421 through 424, be considered as having been transferred to the individual upon his exercise of the option. A similar rule shall be applied in the case of a series of such acquisitions. With respect to such acquisitions, section 424(b) does not make inapplicable any of the provisions of section 305, 354, 355, 356, or 1036 (or so much of section 1031 as relates to section 1036). 


(2) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:


(c) *Disposition of stock.* (1) For purposes of sections 421 through 424, the term “disposition of stock” includes a sale, exchange, gift, or any transfer of legal title, but does not include— 


(i) A transfer from a decedent to his estate or a transfer by bequest or inheritance; or 


(ii) An exchange to which is applicable section 354, 355, 356, or 1036 (or so much of section 1031 as relates to section 1036); or 


(iii) A mere pledge or hypothecation. However, a disposition of the stock pursuant to a pledge or hypothecation is a disposition by the individual, even though the making of the pledge or hypothecation is not such a disposition. 


(iv) A transfer between spouses or incident to divorce (described in section 1041(a)). The special tax treatment of § 1.421-2(a) with respect to the transferred stock applies to the transferee. However, see § 1.421-1(b)(2) for the treatment of the transfer of a statutory option incident to divorce.


(2) A share of stock acquired by an individual pursuant to the exercise of a statutory option is not considered disposed of by the individual if such share is taken in the name of the individual and another person jointly with right of survivorship, or is subsequently transferred into such joint ownership, or is retransferred from such joint ownership to the sole ownership of the individual. However, any termination of such joint ownership (other than a termination effected by the death of a joint owner) is a disposition of such share, except to the extent the individual reacquires ownership of the share. For example, if such individual and his joint owner transfer such share to another person, the individual has made a disposition of such share. Likewise, if a share of stock held in the joint names of such individual and another person is transferred to the name of such other person, there is a disposition of such share by the individual. If an individual exercises a statutory option and a share of stock is transferred to another or is transferred to such individual in his name as trustee for another, the individual has made a disposition of such share. However, a termination of joint ownership resulting from the death of one of the owners is not a disposition of such share. For determination of basis in the hands of the survivor where joint ownership is terminated by the death of one of the owners, see section 1014 or section 1022, if applicable.


(3) If an optionee exercises an incentive stock option with statutory option stock and the applicable holding period requirements (under § 1.422-1(a) or § 1.423-1(a)) with respect to such statutory option stock are not met before such transfer, then sections 354, 355, 356, or 1036 (or so much of 1031 as relates to 1036) do not apply to determine whether there is a disposition of those shares. Therefore, there is a disposition of the statutory option stock, and the special tax treatment of § 1.421-2(a) does not apply to such stock.


(4) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:


(d) *Attribution of stock ownership.* To determine the amount of stock owned by an individual for purposes of applying the percentage limitations relating to certain stockholders described in §§ 1.422-2(f) and 1.423-2(d), shares of the employer corporation or of a related corporation that are owned (directly or indirectly) by or for the individual's brothers and sisters (whether by the whole or half blood), spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants, are considered to be owned by the individual. Also, for such purposes, if a domestic or foreign corporation, partnership, estate, or trust owns (directly or indirectly) shares of the employer corporation or of a related corporation, the shares are considered to be owned proportionately by or for the stockholders, partners, or beneficiaries of the corporation, partnership, estate, or trust. The extent to which stock held by the optionee as a trustee of a voting trust is considered owned by the optionee is determined under all of the facts and circumstances.


(e) *Modification, extension, or renewal of option.* (1) This paragraph (e) provides rules for determining whether a share of stock transferred to an individual upon the individual's exercise of an option after the terms of the option have been changed is transferred pursuant to the exercise of a statutory option.


(2) Any modification, extension, or renewal of the terms of an option to purchase shares is considered the granting of a new option. The new option may or may not be a statutory option. To determine the date of grant of the new option for purposes of section 422 or 423, see § 1.421-1(c).


(3) If section 423(c) applies to an option then, in case of a modification, extension, or renewal of an option, the highest of the following values shall be considered to be the fair market value of the stock at the time of the granting of such option for purposes of applying the rules of sections 423(b)(6)— 


(i) The fair market value on the date of the original granting of the option, 


(ii) The fair market value on the date of the making of such modification, extension, or renewal, or 


(iii) The fair market value at the time of the making of any intervening modification, extension, or renewal. 


(4)(i) For purposes of §§ 1.421-1 through 1.424-1 the term *modification* means any change in the terms of the option (or change in the terms of the plan pursuant to which the option was granted or in the terms of any other agreement governing the arrangement) that gives the optionee additional benefits under the option regardless of whether the optionee in fact benefits from the change in terms. In contrast, for example, a change in the terms of the option shortening the period during which the option is exercisable is not a modification. However, a change providing an extension of the period during which an option may be exercised (such as after termination of employment) or a change providing an alternative to the exercise of the option (such as a stock appreciation right) is a modification regardless of whether the optionee in fact benefits from such extension or alternative right. Similarly, a change providing an additional benefit upon exercise of the option (such as the payment of a cash bonus) or a change providing more favorable terms for payment for the stock purchased under the option (such as the right to tender previously acquired stock) is a modification.


(ii) If an option is not immediately exercisable in full, a change in the terms of the option to accelerate the time at which the option (or any portion thereof) may be exercised is not a modification for purposes of this section. Additionally, no modification occurs if a provision accelerating the time when an option may first be exercised is removed prior to the year in which it would otherwise be triggered. For example, if an acceleration provision is timely removed to avoid exceeding the $100,000 limitation described in § 1.422-4, a modification of the option does not occur.


(iii) A change to an option which provides, either by its terms or in substance, that the optionee may receive an additional benefit under the option at the future discretion of the grantor, is a modification at the time that the option is changed to provide such discretion. In addition, the exercise of discretion to provide an additional benefit is a modification of the option. However, it is not a modification for the grantor to exercise discretion specifically reserved under an option with respect to the payment of a cash bonus at the time of exercise, the availability of a loan at exercise, the right to tender previously acquired stock for the stock purchasable under the option, or the payment of employment taxes and/or required withholding taxes resulting from the exercise of a statutory option. An option is not modified merely because an optionee is offered a change in the terms of an option if the change to the option is not made. An offer to change the terms of an option that remains open less than 30 days is not a modification of the option. However, if an offer to change the terms of an option remains outstanding for 30 days or more, there is a modification of the option as of the date the offer to change the option is made.


(iv) A change in the terms of the stock purchasable under the option that increases the value of the stock is a modification of such option, except to the extent that a new option is substituted for such option by reason of the change in the terms of the stock in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.


(v) If an option is amended solely to increase the number of shares subject to the option, the increase is not considered a modification of the option but is treated as the grant of a new option for the additional shares. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if the exercise price and number of shares subject to an option are proportionally adjusted to reflect a stock split (including a reverse stock split) or stock dividend, and the only effect of the stock split or stock dividend is to increase (or decrease) on a pro rata basis the number of shares owned by each shareholder of the class of stock subject to the option, then the option is not modified if it is proportionally adjusted to reflect the stock split or stock dividend and the aggregate exercise price of the option is not less than the aggregate exercise price before the stock split or stock dividend.


(vi) Any change in the terms of an option made in an attempt to qualify the option as a statutory option grants additional benefits to the optionee and is, therefore, a modification. However, if the terms of an option are changed to provide that the optionee cannot transfer the option except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution in order to meet the requirements of section 422(b)(5) or 423(b)(9) such change is not a modicication.


(vii) An extension of an option refers to the granting by the corporation to the optionee of an additional period of time within which to exercise the option beyond the time originally prescribed. A renewal of an option is the granting by the corporation of the same rights or privileges contained in the original option on the same terms and conditions. The rules of this paragraph apply as well to successive modifications, extensions, and renewals.


(viii) Any inadvertent change to the terms of an option (or change in the terms of the plan pursuant to which the option was granted or in the terms of any other agreement governing the arrangement) that is treated as a modification under this paragraph (e) is not considered a modification of the option to the extent the change in the terms of the option is removed by the earlier of the date the option is exercised or the last day of the calendar year during which such change occurred. Thus, for example, if the terms of an option are inadvertently changed on March 1 to extend the exercise period and the change is removed on November, then if the option is not exercised prior to November 1, the option is not considered modified under this paragraph (e).


(5) A statutory option may, as a result of a modification, extension, or renewal, thereafter cease to be a statutory option, or any option may, by modification, extension, or renewal, thereafter become a statutory option. 


(6) [Reserved]


(7) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples: 


(f) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1.421-1 through 1.424-1:


(1) *Parent corporation.* The term *parent corporation*, or *parent*, means any corporation (other than the employer corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the employer corporation if, at the time of the granting of the option, each of the corporations other than the employer corporation owns stock possessing 50 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.


(2) *Subsidiary corporation.* The term *subsidiary corporation*, or *subsidiary*, means any corporation (other than the employer corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the employer corporation if, at the time of the granting of the option, each of the corporations other than the last corporation in an unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.


(g) *Effective/applicability date*—(1) *In general.* Except for § 1.424-1(a)(10) *Example 9* (iii), the regulations under this section are effective on August 3, 2004. Section 1.424-1(a)(10) *Example 9* (iii) is effective on November 17, 2009. Section 1.424-1(a)(10) *Example 9* (iii) applies to statutory options granted on or after January 1, 2010. 


(2) *Reliance and transition period.* For statutory options granted on or before June 9, 2003, taxpayers may rely on the 1984 proposed regulations LR-279-81 (49 FR 4504), the 2003 proposed regulations REG-122917-02 (68 FR 34344), or this section until the earlier of January 1, 2006, or the first regularly scheduled stockholders meeting of the granting corporation occurring 6 months after August 3, 2004. For statutory options granted after June 9, 2003, and before the earlier of January 1, 2006, or the first regularly scheduled stockholders meeting of the granting corporation occurring at least 6 months after August 3, 2004, taxpayers may rely on either REG-122917-02 or this section. Taxpayers may not rely on LR-279-81 or REG-122917-02 after December 31, 2005. Reliance on LR-279-81, REG-122917-02, or this section must be in its entirety, and all statutory options granted during the reliance period must be treated consistently.


(3) *Application of section 1022.* The provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section relating to section 1022 are effective on and after January 19, 2017.



---

[N] [T.D. 6887, 31 FR 8808, June 24, 1966, as amended by T.D. 9144, 69 FR 46419, Aug. 3, 2004; 69 FR 61310, 61311, Oct. 18, 2004; 69 FR 70551, Dec. 7, 2004; T.D. 9471, 74 FR 59087, Nov. 17, 2009; T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6238, Jan. 19, 2017]




