# § 12.607   Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement as rating as Able Seafarer-Engine.

(a) To qualify for an STCW endorsement as an Able Seafarer-Engine, an applicant must—


(1) Be not less than 18 years of age;


(2) Meet the requirements for certification as a Ratings Forming Part of an Engineering Watch (RFPEW);


(3) While qualified as an RFPEW, have seagoing service in the engine department of—


(i) Not less than 12 months; or


(ii) Not less than 6 months and have completed approved training; and


(4) Provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence specified in Table A-III/5 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see § 12.103 of this part).


(b) Seafarers holding a rating endorsement as QMED, Junior Engineer, Electrician or Electrician/Refrigerating Engineer, Pump Technician or Pump Technician/Machinist, Refrigerating Engineer, or Machinist before January 1, 2017, will be eligible for this endorsement upon showing evidence of holding an endorsement as an RFPEW.


(c) The Coast Guard may exempt an applicant from meeting any individual knowledge, understanding, and proficiency required in Section A-III/5 of the STCW Code. These exemptions must be approved by the Coast Guard based upon vessel type. Under these circumstances, the endorsement may include a corresponding limitation.


(d) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, seafarers with the following national rating endorsements will be eligible for this endorsement upon completion of requirements designated in this section:



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77975, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2018-0874, 84 FR 30882, June 28, 2019; USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93104, Nov. 25, 2024]




