# ยง 201.522   Suspension of registration of brokers, dealers, or other Exchange Act-registered entities: Issuance and review of order.

(a) *Basis for issuance.* An order suspending a registration, pending final determination as to whether the registration shall be revoked shall be issued only if the Commission finds that the suspension is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 


(b) *Content, scope and form of order.* Each order suspending a registration shall: 


(1) Describe the basis for its issuance, including the alleged or threatened violations and the harm that is likely to result without the issuance of an order; 


(2) Describe in reasonable detail, and not by reference to the order instituting proceedings or any other document, the act or acts the respondent is to take or refrain from taking; and 


(3) Be indorsed with the date and hour of issuance. 


(c) *Effective upon service.* An order suspending a registration is effective upon service upon the respondent. 


(d) *Service: how made.* Service of an order suspending a registration shall be made pursuant to ยง 201.141(a). The person who serves the order shall promptly file a declaration of service identifying the person served, the method of service, the date of service, the address to which service was made and the person who made service; provided, however, failure to file such a declaration shall have no effect on the validity of the service. 


(e) *Commission review.* At any time after the respondent has been served with an order suspending a registration, the respondent may apply to the Commission or the hearing officer to have the order set aside, limited, or suspended. The application shall set forth with specificity the facts that support the request. 




