# § 63.1579   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in 40 CFR 63.2, the General Provisions of this part (§§ 63.1 through 63.15), and in this section as listed. If the same term is defined in subpart A of this part and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section for purposes of this subpart.


*Boiler* means any enclosed combustion device that extracts useful energy in the form of steam and is not an incinerator. 


*Catalytic cracking unit* means a refinery process unit in which petroleum derivatives are continuously charged; hydrocarbon molecules in the presence of a catalyst suspended in a fluidized bed are fractured into smaller molecules, or react with a contact material suspended in a fluidized bed to improve feedstock quality for additional processing; and the catalyst or contact material is continuously regenerated by burning off coke and other deposits. The unit includes, but is not limited to, the riser, reactor, regenerator, air blowers, spent catalyst or contact material stripper, catalyst or contact material recovery equipment, and regenerator equipment for controlling air pollutant emissions and equipment used for heat recovery. 


*Catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator* means one or more regenerators (multiple regenerators) which comprise that portion of the catalytic cracking unit in which coke burn-off and catalyst or contact material regeneration occurs and includes the regenerator combustion air blower(s). 


*Catalytic reforming unit* means a refinery process unit that reforms or changes the chemical structure of naphtha into higher octane aromatics through the use of a metal catalyst and chemical reactions that include dehydrogenation, isomerization, and hydrogenolysis. The catalytic reforming unit includes the reactor, regenerator (if separate), separators, catalyst isolation and transport vessels (e.g., lock and lift hoppers), recirculation equipment, scrubbers, and other ancillary equipment. 


*Catalytic reforming unit regenerator* means one or more regenerators which comprise that portion of the catalytic reforming unit and ancillary equipment in which the following regeneration steps typically are performed: depressurization, purge, coke burn-off, catalyst rejuvenation with a chloride (or other halogenated) compound(s), and a final purge. The catalytic reforming unit catalyst regeneration process can be done either as a semi-regenerative, cyclic, or continuous regeneration process. 


*Coke burn-off* means the coke removed from the surface of the catalytic cracking unit catalyst or the catalytic reforming unit catalyst by combustion in the catalyst regenerator. The rate of coke burn-off is calculated using Equation 2 in § 63.1564. 


*Combustion device* means an individual unit of equipment such as a flare, incinerator, process heater, or boiler used for the destruction of organic HAP or VOC. 


*Combustion zone* means the space in an enclosed combustion device (e.g., vapor incinerator, boiler, furnace, or process heater) occupied by the organic HAP and any supplemental fuel while burning. The combustion zone includes any flame that is visible or luminous as well as that space outside the flame envelope in which the organic HAP continues to be oxidized to form the combustion products. 


*Contact material* means any substance formulated to remove metals, sulfur, nitrogen, or any other contaminants from petroleum derivatives. 


*Continuous regeneration reforming* means a catalytic reforming process characterized by continuous flow of catalyst material through a reactor where it mixes with feedstock, and a portion of the catalyst is continuously removed and sent to a special regenerator where it is regenerated and continuously recycled back to the reactor. 


*Control device* means any equipment used for recovering, removing, or oxidizing HAP in either gaseous or solid form. Such equipment includes, but is not limited to, condensers, scrubbers, electrostatic precipitators, incinerators, flares, boilers, and process heaters. 


*Cyclic regeneration reforming* means a catalytic reforming process characterized by continual batch regeneration of catalyst in situ in any one of several reactors (e.g., 4 or 5 separate reactors) that can be isolated from and returned to the reforming operation while maintaining continuous reforming process operations (i.e., feedstock continues flowing through the remaining reactors without change in feed rate or product octane). 


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Emission limitation* means any emission limit, opacity limit, operating limit, or visible emission limit. 


*Flame zone* means the portion of a combustion chamber of a boiler or process heater occupied by the flame envelope created by the primary fuel. 


*Flow indicator* means a device that indicates whether gas is flowing, or whether the valve position would allow gas to flow, in or through a line. 


*Fuel gas system* means the offsite and onsite piping and control system that gathers gaseous streams generated by the source, may blend them with sources of gas, if available, and transports the blended gaseous fuel at suitable pressures for use as fuel in heaters, furnaces, boilers, incinerators, gas turbines, and other combustion devices located within or outside of the refinery. The fuel is piped directly to each individual combustion device, and the system typically operates at pressures over atmospheric. The gaseous streams can contain a mixture of methane, light hydrocarbons, hydrogen, and other miscellaneous species. 


*HCl* means for the purposes of this subpart, gaseous emissions of hydrogen chloride that serve as a surrogate measure for total emissions of hydrogen chloride and chlorine as measured by Method 26 or 26A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method. 


*Hot standby* means periods when the catalytic cracking unit is not receiving fresh or recycled feed oil but the catalytic cracking unit is maintained at elevated temperatures, typically using torch oil in the catalyst regenerator and recirculating catalyst, to prevent a complete shutdown and cold restart of the catalytic cracking unit.


*Incinerator* means an enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds, with or without heat recovery. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat waste gas to combustion temperatures. An incinerator may use a catalytic combustion process where a substance is introduced into an exhaust stream to burn or oxidize contaminants while the substances itself remains intact, or a thermal process which uses elevated temperatures as a primary means to burn or oxidize contaminants. 


*Internal scrubbing system* means a wet scrubbing, wet injection, or caustic injection control device that treats (in-situ) the catalytic reforming unit recirculating coke burn exhaust gases for acid (HCl) control during reforming catalyst regeneration upstream of the atmospheric coke burn vent.


*Ni* means, for the purposes of this subpart, particulate emissions of nickel that serve as a surrogate measure for total emissions of metal HAP, including but not limited to: antimony, arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, lead, manganese, nickel, and selenium as measured by Method 29 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or by an approved alternative method. 


*Nonmethane TOC* means, for the purposes of this subpart, emissions of total organic compounds, excluding methane, that serve as a surrogate measure of the total emissions of organic HAP compounds including, but not limited to, acetaldehyde, benzene, hexane, phenol, toluene, and xylenes and nonHAP VOC as measured by Method 25 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, by the combination of Methods 18 and 25A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, or by an approved alternative method.


*Oxidation control system* means an emission control system which reduces emissions from sulfur recovery units by converting these emissions to sulfur dioxide. 


*PM* means, for the purposes of this subpart, emissions of particulate matter that serve as a surrogate measure of the total emissions of particulate matter and metal HAP contained in the particulate matter, including but not limited to: Antimony, arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, lead, manganese, nickel, and selenium as measured by Methods 5, 5B or 5F in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter or by an approved alternative method.


*Process heater* means an enclosed combustion device that primarily transfers heat liberated by burning fuel directly to process streams or to heat transfer liquids other than water. 


*Process vent* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a gas stream that is continuously or periodically discharged during normal operation of a catalytic cracking unit, catalytic reforming unit, or sulfur recovery unit, including gas streams that are discharged directly to the atmosphere, gas streams that are routed to a control device prior to discharge to the atmosphere, or gas streams that are diverted through a product recovery device line prior to control or discharge to the atmosphere. 


*Reduced sulfur compounds* means hydrogen sulfide, carbonyl sulfide, and carbon disulfide. 


*Reduction control system* means an emission control system which reduces emissions from sulfur recovery units by converting these emissions to hydrogen sulfide. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Semi-regenerative reforming* means a catalytic reforming process characterized by shutdown of the entire reforming unit (e.g., which may employ three to four separate reactors) at specified intervals or at the owner's or operator's convenience for in situ catalyst regeneration. 


*Sulfur recovery unit* means a process unit that recovers elemental sulfur from gases that contain reduced sulfur compounds and other pollutants, usually by a vapor-phase catalytic reaction of sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide. This definition does not include a unit where the modified reaction is carried out in a water solution which contains a metal ion capable of oxidizing the sulfide ion to sulfur, e.g., the LO-CAT II process. 


*TOC* means, for the purposes of this subpart, emissions of total organic compounds that serve as a surrogate measure of the total emissions of organic HAP compounds including, but not limited to, acetaldehyde, benzene, hexane, phenol, toluene, and xylenes and nonHAP VOC as measured by Method 25A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or by an approved alternative method.


*TRS* means, for the purposes of this subpart, emissions of total reduced sulfur compounds, expressed as an equivalent sulfur dioxide concentration, that serve as a surrogate measure of the total emissions of sulfide HAP carbonyl sulfide and carbon disulfide as measured by Method 15 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or by an approved alternative method. 


*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the CAA. 



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 6942, Feb. 9, 2005; 80 FR 75279, Dec. 1, 2015]





