# ยง 15.23   Definitions.

(a) *Active duty.* Full-time duty in the NOAA Corps.


(b) *Authorized person.* Any agent or attorney of any state having in effect a plan approved under part D of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651-664), who has the duty or authority to seek recovery of any amounts owed as child or child and spousal support (including, when authorized under the state plan, any official of a political subdivision); and the court that has authority to issue an order against a member for the support and maintenance of a child or any agent of such court.


(c) *Child support.* Periodic payments for the support and maintenance of a child or children, subject to and in accordance with state or local law. This includes but is not limited to, payments to provide for health, education, recreation, and clothing or to meet other specific needs of such a child or children.


(d) *Designated official.* The official who is designated to receive notices of failure to make payments from an authorized person (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section). For the Department of Commerce this official is the Assistant General Counsel for Administration.


(e) *Notice.* A court order, letter, or similar documentation issued by an authorized person providing notification that a member has failed to make periodic support payments under a support order.


(f) *Spousal support.* Periodic payments for the support and maintenance of a spouse or former spouse, in accordance with state and local law. It includes, but is not limited to, separate maintenance, alimony while litigation continues, and maintenance. Spousal support does not include any payment for transfer of property or its value by an individual to his or her spouse or former spouse in compliance with any community property settlement, equitable distribution of property, or other division of property between spouses or former spouses.


(g) *Support order.* Any order for the support of any person issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by administrative procedures established under state law that affords substantial due process and is subject to judicial review. A court of competent jurisdiction includes: (1) Indian tribal courts within any state, territory, or possession of the United States and the District of Columbia; and (2) a court in any foreign country with which the United States has entered into an agreement that requires the United States to honor the notice.




