# ยง 802.51   Acquisitions of voting securities of a foreign issuer.

(a) *By U.S. persons.* (1) The acquisition of voting securities of a foreign issuer by a U.S. person shall be exempt from the requirements of the act unless the issuer (including all entities controlled by the issuer) either: holds assets located in the United States (other than investment assets, voting or nonvoting securities of another person, and assets included pursuant to ยง 801.40(d)(2) of this chapter) having an aggregate total value of over $50 million (as adjusted); or made aggregate sales in or into the United States of over $50 million (as adjusted) in its most recent fiscal year.


(2) If interests in multiple foreign issuers are being acquired from the same acquired person, the assets located in the United States and sales in or into the United States of all the issuers must be aggregated to determine whether either $50 million (as adjusted) limitation is exceeded.


(b) *By foreign persons.* (1) The acquisition of voting securities of a foreign issuer by a foreign person shall be exempt from the requirements of the act unless the acquisition will confer control of the issuer and the issuer (including all entities controlled by the issuer) either: holds assets located in the United States (other than investment assets, voting or nonvoting securities of another person, and assets included pursuant to ยง 801.40(d)(2) of this chapter) having an aggregate total value of over $50 million (as adjusted); or made aggregate sales in or into the United States of over $50 million (as adjusted) in its most recent fiscal year.


(2) If controlling interests in multiple foreign issuers are being acquired from the same acquired person, the assets located in the United States and sales in or into the United States of all the issuers must be aggregated to determine whether either $50 million (as adjusted) limitation is exceeded.


(c) Where a foreign issuer whose securities are being acquired exceeds the threshold in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the acquisition nevertheless shall be exempt where: 


(1) Both acquiring and acquired persons are foreign; 


(2) The aggregate sales of the acquiring and acquired persons in or into the United States are less than $110 million (as adjusted) in their respective most recent fiscal years;


(3) The aggregate total assets of the acquiring and acquired persons located in the United States (other than investment assets, voting or nonvoting securities of another person, and assets included pursuant to ยง 801.40(d)(2) of this chapter) are less than $110 million (as adjusted); and 


(4) The transaction does not meet the criteria of Section 7A(a)(2)(A).



---

[N] [67 FR 11904, Mar. 18, 2002; 67 FR 13716, Mar. 26, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 4996, Jan. 31, 2005]




