# ยง 800.162   Certification of grade; special requirements.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each official certificate for grade shall show:


(1) The grade and factor information required by the Official U.S. Standards for Grain;


(2) The test weight of the grain, if applicable;


(3) The moisture content of the grain;


(4) The results for each official factor for which a determination was made;


(5) The results for each official factor that determined the grade when the grain is graded other that U.S. No. 1;


(6) Any other factor information considered necessary to describe the grain; and


(7) Any additional factor results requested by the applicant for official factors defined in the Official U.S. Standards for Grain.


(b) *Cargo shipments.* Each official certificate for grade representing a cargo shipment shall show, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the results of all official grade factors defined in the Official United States Standards for Grain for the type of grain being inspected.


(c) Test weight for canola and soybeans. Official canola inspection certificates will show, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the official test weight per bushel only upon request by the applicant. Official soybean inspection certificates will show, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the official test weight per bushel unless the applicant requests that test weight not be determined. Upon request, soybean test weight results will not be determined and/or reported on the official certificate.


(d) *Aflatoxin test for corn.* Official corn export certificates shall show, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the official aflatoxin test results if required under ยง 800.15(b).



---

[N] [50 FR 45396, Oct. 31, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 24437, June 30, 1987; 57 FR 2439, Jan. 22, 1992; 57 FR 3273, Jan. 29, 1992; 57 FR 56439, Nov. 30, 1992; 71 FR 52405, Sept. 6, 2006]




