# § 721.11090   Bicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-1-methanesulfonic acid, 7,7-dimethyl-2-oxo-, compd. with N,N-diethylethanamine (1:1).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as bicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-1-methanesulfonic acid, 7,7-dimethyl-2-oxo-, compd. with N,N-diethylethanamine (1:1) (PMN P-17-218. CAS No. 67019-84-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(6)(particulate), (a)(6)(v), (vi), (b)(concentration set 1.0%), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(i), (corrosivity), (sensitization), (g)(1)(iii), (iv), (ix), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q), (y)(1) and (2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 49050, Sept. 18, 2019]




