# Appendix A to Part 1310—Financial Stability Oversight Council Guidance for Nonbank Financial Company Determinations




Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) 
1 authorizes the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the Council) to determine that a nonbank financial company will be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve Board) and be subject to prudential standards, in accordance with Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act, if either (1) the Council determines that material financial distress at the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability, or (2) the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act lists the considerations that the Council must take into account in making a determination. This guidance supplements the Council's rule regarding nonbank financial company determinations.
2

Section II of this appendix outlines a two-stage process that the Council generally expects to follow when determining whether to subject a nonbank financial company to Federal Reserve Board supervision and prudential standards.
3 Section III sets forth the process the Council expects to follow in conducting reevaluations of its previous determinations.


Under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Council may evaluate a nonbank financial company 
4 for an entity-specific determination. This section describes the process the Council expects to follow in general for those reviews.


As described in detail below, the Council expects generally to follow a two-stage process of evaluation and analysis when evaluating a nonbank financial company under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. During the first stage of the process (Stage 1), a nonbank financial company identified for review will be notified as provided below and subject to a preliminary analysis, based on quantitative and qualitative information available to the Council primarily through public and regulatory sources. During Stage 1, the Council will permit, but not require, the company to submit relevant information. The Council will also consult with the company's primary financial regulatory agency 
5 or home country supervisor, as appropriate. This approach will enable the Council to fulfill its statutory obligation to rely whenever possible on information available through the Office of Financial Research (the OFR), Council member agencies, or the nonbank financial company's primary financial regulatory agency before requiring the submission of reports from any nonbank financial company.
6

Following Stage 1, any nonbank financial company that is selected for additional review will receive notice that it is being considered for a proposed determination that the company will be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and be subject to prudential standards under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (a Proposed Determination) and that the company will be subject to in-depth evaluation during the second stage of review (Stage 2). Stage 2 will also involve the evaluation of additional information collected directly from the nonbank financial company. At the end of Stage 2, the Council may consider whether to make a Proposed Determination with respect to the nonbank financial company. If the Council makes a Proposed Determination, the nonbank financial company may request a hearing in accordance with section 113(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act and § 1310.21(c) of the Council's rule regarding nonbank financial company determinations.
7 After making a Proposed Determination and holding any written or oral hearing if requested, the Council may vote to make a final determination (a Final Determination).


Stage 1 involves a preliminary analysis of nonbank financial companies to assess the risks they could pose to U.S. financial stability. In light of the preliminary nature of a review in Stage 1, the Council expects that not all companies reviewed in Stage 1 will proceed to Stage 2 or a Final Determination.


The Council may evaluate one or more individual nonbank financial companies for an entity-specific determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Council's staff-level committees are responsible for monitoring and analyzing financial markets, financial companies, the financial system, and issues related to financial stability. These committees monitor a broad range of asset classes, institutions, and activities, as described in the Council's Analytic Framework for Financial Stability Risk Identification, Assessment, and Response (the Analytic Framework), and as reflected in the Council's annual reports. In assessing potential risks, these committees consider the vulnerabilities, types of metrics, and transmission channels described in the Analytic Framework. These committees, in the course of their duties, will monitor each sector of the financial system at least annually and will report to the Deputies Committee 
8 regarding potential risks to U.S. financial stability that they identify. With respect to these monitoring and reporting activities, the Council's Systemic Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring and reporting on each financial sector, including information on identified firms and activities that may pose risks that merit further review, unless another Council committee or working group provides such updates to the Deputies Committee on a particular sector. The updates to the Deputies Committee will use applicable metrics as described in the Analytic Framework. The Deputies Committee is responsible for directing, coordinating, and overseeing the work of the Systemic Risk Committee and all of the Council's other staff-level committees and working groups in accordance with this guidance. If an identified risk relates to one or more financial companies that may merit review in the context of a potential determination under section 113, the Council may review those companies in Stage 1. Alternatively, the Deputies Committee may direct a staff-level committee or working group to further assess the identified risks, including consideration of whether the risks could be addressed by a designation under section 113 or by use of a different Council authority, such as recommendations to existing regulators. The Deputies Committee may also direct the Council's Nonbank Financial Companies Designations Committee (the Nonbank Designations Committee) 
9 to conduct an initial analysis of the companies based on the risk-assessment approach described in the Analytic Framework. The purpose of such an analysis by the Nonbank Designations Committee would be to further inform the determination regarding whether one or more companies should be reviewed in Stage 1, if needed. Following any such analysis by the Nonbank Designations Committee, the Council may review one or more companies in Stage 1. Any Council committee's identification, reporting, direction, analysis, or recommendation described in this paragraph will be made in accordance with such committee's bylaws or charter.


When evaluating the potential risks associated with a nonbank financial company, the Council may consider the company and its subsidiaries separately or together. This approach enables the Council to consider potential risks arising across the entire organization, while retaining the ability to make a determination regarding either the parent or any individual nonbank financial company subsidiary (or neither), depending on which entity the Council determines could pose a threat to financial stability.


The Council will provide a notice to any nonbank financial company under review in Stage 1 no later than 60 days before the Council votes on whether to evaluate the company in Stage 2. In Stage 1, the Council will consider available public and regulatory information. In order to reduce the burdens of review on the company, the Council will not require the company to submit information during Stage 1; however, a company under review in Stage 1 may submit to the Council any information relevant to the Council's evaluation and may, upon request, meet with staff of Council members and member agencies who are leading the Council's analysis. The Council may request a page-limited summary of the company's submissions. In addition, staff representing the Council will, upon request, provide the company with a list of the primary public sources of information being considered during the Stage 1 analysis, so that the company has an opportunity to understand the information the Council may rely upon during Stage 1. In addition, during discussions in Stage 1 with the company, the Council intends for representatives of the Council to indicate to the company potential risks that have been identified in the analysis. However, any potential risks identified at this stage are preliminary and may continue to develop until the Council makes a Final Determination. Through this engagement, the Council seeks to provide the company under review an opportunity to understand the focus of the Council's analysis, which may enable the company to act to mitigate any risks to financial stability and thereby potentially avoid becoming subject to a Council determination.


The Council will also consider in Stage 1 information available from relevant existing regulators of the company. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Council is required to consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, for each nonbank financial company or subsidiary of a nonbank financial company that is being considered for a determination before the Council makes any Final Determination with respect to such company.
10 For any company under review in Stage 1 that is regulated by a primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor, the Council will notify the regulator or supervisor that the company is under review no later than the time the company is notified. The Council will also consult with the primary financial regulatory agency, if any, of each significant subsidiary of the nonbank financial company, to the extent the Council deems appropriate in Stage 1. The Council will actively solicit the regulator's views regarding risks at the company and potential mitigants or aggravating factors. In order to enable the regulator to provide relevant information, the Council will share its preliminary views regarding potential risks at the company, if any and to the extent practicable, and request that the regulator provide information regarding those specific risks, including the extent to which the risks are adequately mitigated by factors such as existing regulation or the company's business practices. During the determination process, the Council will encourage the regulator to address any risks to U.S. financial stability using the regulator's existing authorities; if the Council believes regulators' or the company's actions have adequately addressed the potential risks to U.S. financial stability the Council has identified, the Council may discontinue its consideration of the company for a potential determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.


Based on the preliminary evaluation in Stage 1, the Council, on a nondelegable basis, may vote to commence a more detailed analysis of the company by advancing the company to Stage 2, or it may decide not to evaluate the company further. If the Council votes not to advance a company that has been reviewed in Stage 1 to Stage 2, the Council will notify the company in writing of the Council's decision. The notice will clarify that a decision not to advance the company from Stage 1 to Stage 2 at that time does not preclude the Council from reinitiating review of the company in Stage 1.


Stage 2 involves an in-depth evaluation of a nonbank financial company that the Council has determined merits additional review.


In Stage 2, the Council will review a nonbank financial company using information collected directly from the company, through the OFR, as well as public and regulatory information. The review will focus on whether material financial distress 
11 at the nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the activities of the company, could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. The Analytic Framework describes the Council's approach to evaluating potential risks to U.S. financial stability, including in the context of a review under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.


A nonbank financial company to be evaluated in Stage 2 will receive a notice (a Notice of Consideration) that the company is under consideration for a Proposed Determination. The Council also will submit to the company a request that the company provide information that the Council deems relevant to the Council's evaluation, and the nonbank financial company will be provided an opportunity to submit written materials to the Council.
12 This information will generally be collected by the OFR.
13 Before requiring the submission of reports from any nonbank financial company that is regulated by a Council member agency or a primary financial regulatory agency, the Council, acting through the OFR, will coordinate with such agencies and will, whenever possible, rely on information available from the OFR or such agencies. Council members and their agencies and staffs will maintain the confidentiality of such information in accordance with applicable law. During Stage 2, the company may also submit any other information that it deems relevant to the Council's evaluation. Information that may be considered by the Council includes details regarding the company's financial activities, legal structure, liabilities, counterparty exposures, resolvability, and existing regulatory oversight. Information requests likely will involve both qualitative and quantitative information. Information relevant to the Council's analysis may include confidential business information such as detailed information regarding financial assets, terms of funding arrangements, counterparty exposure or position data, strategic plans, and interaffiliate transactions.


The Council will make staff representing Council members available to meet with the representatives of any company that enters Stage 2, to explain the evaluation process and the framework for the Council's analysis. In addition, the Council expects that its Deputies Committee will grant a request to meet with a company in Stage 2 to allow the company to present any information or arguments it deems relevant to the Council's evaluation. If the analysis in Stage 1 has identified specific aspects of the company's operations or activities as the primary focus for the evaluation, staff will notify the company of those specific aspects, although the areas of analytic focus may change based on the ongoing analysis.


During Stage 2 the Council will also seek to continue its consultation with the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor in a timely manner before the Council makes a Proposed or Final Determination with respect to the company. The Council will continue to encourage the regulator during the determination process to address any risks to U.S. financial stability using the regulator's existing authorities; as noted above, if the Council believes regulators' or the company's actions adequately address the potential risks to U.S. financial stability the Council has identified, the Council would expect to discontinue its consideration of the company for a potential determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act.


Before making a Proposed Determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council will notify the company when the Council believes that the evidentiary record regarding the company is complete.
14 The Council will notify any nonbank financial company in Stage 2 if the company ceases to be considered for a determination. Any nonbank financial company that ceases to be considered at any time in the Council's determination process may be considered for a potential determination in the future at the Council's discretion, consistent with the processes described above.


Based on the analysis performed in Stage 2, a nonbank financial company may be considered for a Proposed Determination. A Proposed Determination requires a vote, on a nondelegable basis, of two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving, including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson of the Council.
15 Following a Proposed Determination, the Council will issue a written notice of the Proposed Determination to the nonbank financial company, which will include an explanation of the basis of the Proposed Determination.
16 Promptly after the Council votes to make a Proposed Determination regarding a company, the Council will provide the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor with the nonpublic written explanation of the basis of the Council's Proposed Determination (subject to appropriate protections for confidential information).


A nonbank financial company that is subject to a Proposed Determination may request a nonpublic hearing to contest the Proposed Determination in accordance with section 113(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act and § 1310.21(c) of the Council's rule regarding nonbank financial company determinations.
17 If the nonbank financial company requests a hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1310.21(c), the Council will set a time and place for such hearing. The Council has published hearing procedures on its website.
18 In light of the statutory timeframe for conducting a hearing, and the fact that the purpose of the hearing is to benefit the company, if a company requests that the Council waive the statutory deadline for conducting the hearing, the Council may do so in appropriate circumstances.


After making a Proposed Determination and holding any requested written or oral hearing, the Council, on a nondelegable basis, may, by a vote of not fewer than two-thirds of the voting members of the Council then serving (including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson of the Council), make a Final Determination that the company will be subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board and prudential standards. If the Council makes a Final Determination, it will provide the company with a written notice of the Council's Final Determination, including an explanation of the basis for the Council's decision.
19 The Council will also provide the company's primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor with the nonpublic written explanation of the basis of the Council's Final Determination (subject to appropriate protections for confidential information). The Council expects that its explanation of the basis for any Final Determination will highlight the key risks that led to the determination and include guidance regarding the factors that were important in the Council's determination. When practicable and consistent with the purposes of the determination process, the Council will provide a nonbank financial company with notice of a Final Determination at least one business day before publicly announcing the determination pursuant to § 1310.21(d)(3), § 1310.21(e)(3), or § 1310.22(d)(3) of the Council's rule.
20 In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, a nonbank financial company that is subject to a Final Determination may bring an action in U.S. district court for an order requiring that the determination be rescinded.
21

The Council does not intend to publicly announce the name of any nonbank financial company that is under evaluation prior to a Final Determination with respect to such company. However, if a company that is under review in Stage 1 or Stage 2 publicly announces the status of its review by the Council, the Council intends, upon the request of a third party, to confirm the status of the company's review. In addition, the Council will publicly release the explanation of the Council's basis for any Final Determination or rescission of a determination, following such an action by the Council. The Council is subject to statutory and regulatory requirements to maintain the confidentiality of certain information submitted to it by a nonbank financial company or its regulators.
22 In light of these confidentiality obligations, such confidential information will be redacted from the materials that the Council makes publicly available, although the Council does not expect to restrict a company's ability to disclose such information.


After the Council makes a Final Determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council intends to encourage the company or its regulators to take steps to mitigate the potential risks identified in the Council's written explanation of the basis for its Final Determination. Except in cases where new material risks arise over time, if the potential risks identified in writing by the Council at the time of the Final Determination and in subsequent reevaluations have been adequately addressed, generally the Council would expect to rescind its determination regarding the company.


For any nonbank financial company that is subject to a Final Determination, the Council is required to reevaluate the determination at least annually, and to rescind the determination if the Council determines that the company no longer meets the statutory standards for a determination.
23 The Council may also consider a request from a company for a reevaluation before the next required annual reevaluation, in the case of an extraordinary change that materially affects the Council's analysis.


The Council will apply the same standards of review in its annual reevaluations as the standards for an initial determination regarding a nonbank financial company: either material financial distress at the company, or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or the mix of the company's activities, could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. If the Council determines that the company does not meet either of those standards, the Council will rescind its determination.


The Council's annual reevaluations will generally assess whether any material changes since the previous reevaluation and since the Final Determination justify a rescission of the determination. The Council expects that its reevaluation process will focus on whether any material changes that have taken effect—including changes at the company, changes in its markets or its regulation, changes in the impact of relevant factors, or otherwise—result in the company no longer meeting the standards for a determination. In light of the frequent reevaluations, the Council's analyses will generally focus on material changes since the Council's previous review, but the ultimate question the Council will seek to assess is whether changes in the aggregate since the Council's Final Determination regarding the company have caused the company to cease meeting either of the statutory standards for a determination.


During the Council's annual reevaluation of a determination regarding a nonbank financial company, the Council will provide the company with an opportunity to meet with representatives of the Council to discuss the scope and process for the review and to present information regarding any change that may be relevant to the threat the company could pose to financial stability. In addition, during an annual reevaluation, the company may submit any written information to the Council the company deems relevant to the Council's analysis. During annual reevaluations, a company is encouraged to submit information regarding any changes related to the company's risk profile that mitigate the potential risks previously identified by the Council. Such changes could include updates regarding company restructurings, regulatory developments, market changes, or other factors. If the company or its regulators have taken steps to address the potential risks previously identified by the Council, the Council will assess whether the risks have been adequately mitigated to merit a rescission of the determination regarding the company. If the company explains in detail and in a timely manner potential changes it could make to its business to address the potential risks previously identified by the Council, representatives of the Council will endeavor to provide their feedback on the extent to which those changes may address the potential risks.


If a company contests the Council's determination during the Council's annual reevaluation, the Council will vote on whether to rescind the determination and provide the company, its primary financial regulatory agency or home country supervisor, and the primary financial regulatory agency of its significant subsidiaries with a notice explaining the primary basis for any decision not to rescind the determination. If the Council does not rescind the determination, the written notice provided to the company will address the most material factors raised by the company in its submissions to the Council contesting the determination during the annual reevaluation. The written notice from the Council will also explain why the Council did not find that the company no longer met the standard for a determination under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act. In general, due to the sensitive, company-specific nature of its analyses in annual reevaluations, the Council generally would not publicly release the written findings that it provides to the company, although the Council does not expect to restrict a company's ability to disclose such information.


Finally, the Council will provide each nonbank financial company subject to a Council determination an opportunity for an oral hearing before the Council once every five years at which the company can contest the determination.





---

[N] [88 FR 80127, Nov. 17, 2023]




