# § 301.45-1   Definitions.

Terms used in the singular form in this subpart shall be construed as the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this subpart, shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (APHIS). 


*Associated equipment.* Articles associated and moved with mobile homes and recreational vehicles, such as, but not limited to, awnings, tents, outdoor furniture, trailer blocks, and trailer skirts. 


*Bark.* The tough outer covering of the woody stems of trees, shrubs, and other woody plants as distinguished from the cambium and inner wood.


*Bark products.* Products containing pieces of bark including bark chips, bark nuggets, bark mulch, and bark compost.


*Certificate.* A Plant Protection and Quarantine-approved form, stamp, or document issued and signed by an inspector, or by a qualified certified applicator or by any other person operating in accordance with a compliance agreement, affirming that a specified regulated article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with this subpart.


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between APHIS and a person engaged in growing, handling, or moving regulated articles, in which the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart.


*Effectively diminishing.* An eradication program is considered to be effectively diminishing the gypsy moth population of an area if the results of two successive annual Federal or State delimiting trapping surveys of the area conducted in accordance with Section II, “Survey Procedures—Gypsy Moth,” of the Gypsy Moth Treatment Manual show that the average number of gypsy moths caught per trap in the second delimiting survey (when comparable geographical areas and trapping densities are used) is: (1) Less than 10, and (2) less than the average number of gypsy moths caught per trap in the first survey. 


*Eradication program.* A program that uses pesticide application, biological controls, or other methods with the goal of eliminating gypsy moth from a particular area. 


*General infestation.* (1) The detection of gypsy moth egg masses through visual inspection by an inspector during a 10-minute walk through the area; however, it does not include the presence of gypsy moth egg masses which are found as a result of hitchhiking on transitory means of conveyance; or 


(2) The detection of gypsy moth through multiple catches of adult gypsy moths at multiple trapping locations in the area over a period of 2 or more consecutive years, if the Administrator determines, after consulting with the State plant regulatory official, that gypsy moth is established in the area. 




*Gypsy moth.* The live insect known as the gypsy moth, *Lymantria dispar* (Linnaeus), in any life stage (egg, larva, pupa, adult). 


*Inspector.* Any employee of APHIS, a State government, or any other person, authorized by the Administrator in accordance with law to enforce the provisions of the quarantine and regulations in this subpart. A person operating under a compliance agreement is not an inspector.


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State. 


*Limited permit.* A document in which an inspector or a person operating under a compliance agreement affirms that the regulated article identified on the document is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.45-5 only to the specified destination and only in accordance with the specified conditions.


*Mobile home.* Any vehicle, other than a recreational vehicle, designed to serve, when parked, as a dwelling or place of business. 


*Move (movement, moved).* Shipped, offered for shipment to a common carrier, received for transportation or transported by a common carrier, or carried, transported, moved, or allowed to be moved by any means. “Movement” and “moved” shall be construed in accordance with this definition. 


*OHA document.* The self-inspection checklist portion of USDA-APHIS Program Aid Number 2065, “Don't Move Gypsy Moth,” completed and signed by the owner of an outdoor household article (OHA) affirming that the owner has inspected the OHA for life stages of gypsy moth in accordance with the procedures in the program aid.


*Outdoor household articles.* Articles associated with a household that have been kept outside the home such as awnings, barbecue grills, bicycles, boats, dog houses, firewood, garden tools, hauling trailers, outdoor furniture and toys, recreational vehicles and associated equipment, and tents. 


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, or other organized group. 


*Qualified certified applicator.* Any individualcertified pursuant to the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136i) as a certified commercial applicator in a category allowing use of the restricted use pesticides Spray N Kill (EPA Registration No. 8730-30), Ficam W (EPA Registration No. 45639-1), and acephate (Orthene ®); who has attended and completed a workshop approved by the Administrator on the identification and treatment of gypsy moth life stages on outdoor household articles and mobile homes; and who has entered into a compliance agreement in accordance with § 301.45-6 for the purpose of inspecting, treating, and issuing certificates for the movement of outdoor household articles and mobile homes. 
1

*Quarantine area.* Any State, or portion thereof, listed as a generally infested area in accordance with § 301.45-2 or temporarily designated as a generally infested area in accordance with § 301.45-2(c).




*Recreational vehicles.* Highway vehicles, including pickup truck campers, one-piece motor homes, and travel trailers, designed to serve as temporary places of dwelling. 


*Regulated articles.* (1) Trees without roots (e.g., Christmas trees), trees with roots, and shrubs with roots and persistent woody stems, unless they are greenhouse grown throughout the year. 


(2) Logs, pulpwood, and bark and bark products.


(3) Mobile homes and associated equipment. 


(4) Any other products, articles, or means of conveyance, of any character whatsoever, when it is determined by an inspector that any life stage of gypsy moth is in proximity to such articles and the articles present a high risk of artificial spread of gypsy moth infestation and the person in possession thereof has been so notified. 


*State.* Any State, Territory, or District of the United States including Puerto Rico. 


*Treatment manual.* The provisions currently contained in the Gypsy Moth Program Manual. 
2

*Under the direction of.* Monitoring treatments to assure compliance with the requirements in this subpart.


*Under the direct supervision of a qualified certified applicator.* An inspection or treatment is considered to be applied under the direct supervision of a qualified certified applicator if the inspection or treatment is performed by a person acting under the instructions of a qualified certified applicator who is available if and when needed, even though such qualified certified applicator is not physically present at the time and place the inspection or treatment occurred.



---

[N] [58 FR 39423, July 23, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67608, Dec. 30, 1994; 67 FR 8464, Feb. 25, 2002; 70 FR 33268, June 7, 2005; 71 FR 40878, July 19, 2006; 72 FR 70764, Dec. 13, 2007; 78 FR 24666, Apr. 26, 2013; 87 FR 80005, Dec. 29, 2022]




