# ยง 617.7000   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following terms apply: 


*Adjustable rate loan* means a loan where the interest rate payable over the term of the loan may change. This includes adjustable rate, variable rate, or other similarly designated loans.


*Adverse credit decision* means a credit decision where a qualified lender: 


(1) Decides not to make a loan to an applicant; 


(2) Approves a loan in an amount less than the applicant requested; or 


(3) Denies an application for restructuring. 


*Applicant* means any person who completes and executes a loan application from a qualified lender.


*Application for restructuring* means a written request from a borrower to restructure a distressed loan. The request must be submitted on the appropriate forms prescribed by the qualified lender and accompanied by sufficient financial information and repayment projections, where appropriate, as required by the qualified lender to support a sound credit decision.


*Distressed loan* means a loan that the borrower does not have the financial capacity to pay according to its terms, as determined by the qualified lender, and exhibits one or more of the following characteristics:


(1) The borrower is demonstrating adverse financial and repayment trends. 


(2) The loan is delinquent or past due under the terms of the loan contract. 


(3) One or both of the factors listed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section, together with inadequate collateralization, present a high probability of loss to the qualified lender. 


*Effective interest rate* means a measure of the cost of credit, expressed as an annual percentage rate, that shows the effect of the following costs, if any, on the interest rate on a loan charged by a qualified lender to a borrower:


(1) The amount of any stock or participation certificates that a borrower is required to buy to obtain the loan; and


(2) Any loan origination charges paid by a borrower to a qualified lender to obtain the loan.


*Foreclosure proceeding* means:


(1) A foreclosure or similar legal proceeding to enforce a lien on property, whether real or personal, that secures a non-interest-earning asset or distressed loan; or


(2) The seizing of and realizing on non-real property collateral, other than collateral subject to a statutory lien arising under titles I and II of the Act, to effect collection of a nonaccrual or distressed loan. 


*Independent evaluator* means an individual who is a qualified evaluator and who satisfies the standards of ยง 614.4260, subpart F of this chapter, and the standards set by the qualified lender for the type of property to be evaluated. The independent evaluator may not be an employee or agent of a qualified lender or have a relationship with the lender or any of its officers or directors in contravention of part 612 of this chapter. 


*Interest rate* means the stated contract rate of interest.


*Loan* means an extension of credit made to a farmer, rancher, or producer or harvester of aquatic products, for any agricultural or aquatic purpose and other credit needs of the borrower, including financing for basic processing and marketing that directly relates to the borrower's operations and those of other eligible farmers, ranchers, and producers or harvesters of aquatic products. 


*Loan application* means a complete oral or written request for an extension of credit made in accordance with a qualified lender's procedures for the type of credit requested. An application is complete when the qualified lender receives all the information normally obtained and used in evaluating applications for credit. This information may include credit reports, supporting information for the credit requested, and reports by governmental agencies or other persons necessary to guarantee, insure, or provide security for the credit or collateral.


*Qualified lender* means:


(1) A System institution, except a bank for cooperatives, that makes loans as defined in this section; and 


(2) Each bank, institution, corporation, company, credit union, and association described in section 1.7(b)(1)(B) of the Act (commonly referred to as an other financing institution), but only with respect to loans discounted or pledged under section 1.7(b)(1). 


*Restructure and restructuring of a loan* means a reamortization, renewal, deferral of principal or interest, monetary concessions, or the taking of any other action to modify the terms of, or forbear on, a loan. 



---

[N] [69 FR 10907, 10908, Mar. 9, 2004, as amended at 69 FR 16459, Mar. 30, 2004]




