# § 3570.267   Applications.

(a) *Filing period.* The Agency will publish an annual notice in the _Federal Register_ stating the filing period, where to file, and all other applicable information necessary to submit a complete application.




(b) *Application requirements.* To file an application, an organization must provide their Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) in accordance with 2 CFR part 25. Instructions for obtaining the UEI are available at *https://sam.gov/.* To file a complete application the following information must be submitted:




(1) “Application for Federal Assistance (For Non-Construction)


(2) “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs.”


(3) “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transaction.”


(4) “Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative 1—For Grantees Other Than Individuals.”


(5) “Certification Regarding Debarment.”


(6) Attachment regarding assistance provided to Agency Employees as required by RD Instruction 1900-D (1900.153(a)), as applicable.


(7) “Equal Opportunity Agreement.”


(8) “Assurance Agreement.”


(9) Indirect Cost Rate Agreement (if applicable, Applicant must include approved cost agreement rate schedule).


(10) Statement of Compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.


(11) “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities” (include only if grant exceeds $100,000).


(c) *Supporting information.* All applications shall be accompanied by the following supporting information:


(1) For Nonprofit Corporations,


(i) Certified copies of current organizational documents including Certificate of Incorporation, bylaws, and Certificate of Good Standing,


(ii) Evidence of tax exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service if applying as a Technical Assistance Provider, and


(iii) Evidence of Community Ties to a Rural Area if a Nonprofit Corporation applying as an Ultimate Recipient.


(2) For applicants applying as a Technical Assistance Provider, a narrative of their experience in providing services similar to those proposed. The narrative will provide a brief description of successfully completed Projects including the need that was identified and objectives accomplished.


(3) Latest financial information to show the Applicant's financial capacity to carry out proposed work. A current Audit is preferred; however, Applicants may submit a balance sheet and an income Statement in lieu of an Audit report.


(4) Documentation of cash matching funds, if applicable.


(5) List of proposed services to be provided.


(6) For Applicants applying as Technical Assistance Providers who have not identified the Ultimate Recipients, a narrative explaining how they will select Ultimate Recipients to be assisted with grant funds.


(7) Estimated breakdown of costs (direct and indirect) including those to be funded by Grantee as well as matching funds and other sources. Sufficient detail will be provided to permit the Agency to determine if the costs are allowed, reasonable, and applicable.


(8) Evidence that a Financial Management System used to track Project costs is in place or proposed.


(9) Documentation relevant to scoring criteria including, but not limited to:


(i) List of Ultimate Recipients to be served and the county, State or States where assistance will be provided. Identify Ultimate Recipients by name, or other characteristics such as size, income, location, and provide MHI and population data.


(ii) Description of type of Technical Assistance and/or training to be provided and the tasks to be contracted.


(iii) Description of how the Project will be evaluated, clearly stated goals, and the method proposed to measure results.


(iv) Documentation of the need for the proposed service. Provide detailed explanation of how the proposed service differs from other similar services being provided in same area.


(v) Personnel on staff or to be contracted to provide services and their experience with similar Projects.


(vi) Statement indicating the number of months it will take to complete the Project or service, and


(vii) Documentation on cost effectiveness of Project. Provide the cost per Ultimate Recipient to be served or the proposed cost of personnel to provide assistance.





---

[N] [81 FR 1866, Jan. 14, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]














