# § 2.16   Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.

(a) The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation:


(1) *Related to Farm Service Agency.* (i) Formulate policies and administer programs authorized by the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1282 *et seq.*). 


(ii) Formulate policies and administer programs authorized by the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1441 *et seq.*). 


(iii) Coordinate and prevent duplication of aerial photographic work of the Department, including: 


(A) Clearing photography projects; 


(B) Assigning symbols for new aerial photography, maintaining symbol records, and furnishing symbol books; 


(C) Recording departmental aerial photography flow and coordinating the issuance of aerial photography status maps of latest coverage; 


(D) Promoting interchange of technical information and techniques to develop lower costs and better quality; 


(E) Representing the Department on committees, task forces, work groups, and other similar groups concerned with aerial photography acquisition and reproduction, and serving as liaison with other governmental agencies on aerial photography but excluding mapping; 


(F) Providing a Chairperson for the Photography Sales Committee of the Department; 


(G) Coordinating development, preparation, and issuance of specifications for aerial photography for the Department; 


(H) Coordinating and performing procurement, inspection, and application of specifications for USDA aerial photography; 


(I) Providing for liaison with EROS Data Center to support USDA programs and research with satellite imagery reproductions; and 


(J) Maintaining library and files of USDA aerial film and retrieving and supplying reproductions on request. 


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) Administer the Emergency Conservation Program under the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 2201 *et seq.*). 


(vi) Conduct fiscal, accounting and claims functions relating to Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) programs for which the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation has been delegated authority.


(vii) Conduct assigned activities under the Strategic and Critical Materials Stockpiling Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 98 *et seq.*). 


(viii) Supervise and direct Farm Service Agency State and county offices and delegate functions to be performed by Farm Service Agency State and county committees. 


(ix) Administer the dairy indemnity program under the Act of August 13, 1968, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4551 *et seq.*). 


(x) Administer procurement, processing, handling, distribution, disposition, transportation, payment, and related services with respect to surplus removal and supply operations which are carried out under section 210 of the Agricultural Act of 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1859), the Act of August 19, 1958, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1431 note), and section 709 of the Food and Agricultural Act of 1965, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), except as delegated in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and to the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services in § 2.19, and assist the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services and the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs in the procurement, handling, payment, and related services under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935, as amended (7 U.S.C. 612c), the Act of June 28, 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 713c), the National School Lunch Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1751, *et seq.*), section 8 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1777), section 311 of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3030a), section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973, as amended (7 U.S.C. 612c note), and section 1114 of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 1431e). 


(xi) Administer the Organic Certification Cost Share Programs authorized under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1524(b)(4)(C)(ii), and under the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act, as amended by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 6523). [Reserved]


(xii) Administer the Agricultural Foreign Investment Disclosure Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.*), except those functions delegated in § 2.21(a)(8)(xi). 


(xiii) Administer energy management activities as assigned. 


(xiv) Conduct producer referenda of commodity promotion programs under the Beef Research and Information Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*), and the Agricultural Promotion Programs Act of 1990, as amended (7 U.S.C. 6001 *et seq.*). 


(xv) Conduct field operations of diversion programs for fresh fruits and vegetables under section 32 of the Act of August 29, 1935. 


(xvi) [Reserved]


(xvii) Collect, summarize, and publish data on the production, distribution, and stocks of sugar.


(xviii) Formulate and carry out the Conservation Reserve Program, including the implementation of technical assistance, under the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3831 *et seq.*), and the functions of the Grassland Reserve Program transferred to the Conservation Reserve Program.


(xix) Carry out functions relating to highly erodible land and wetland conservation under sections 1211-1213 and 1221-1223 of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3811-3813 and 3821-3823). 


(xx)-(xxii) [Reserved] 


(xxiii) Formulate and administer regulations regarding program ineligibility resulting from convictions under Federal or State law of planting, cultivating, growing, producing, harvesting, or storing a controlled substance, as required under section 1764 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (21 U.S.C. 881a). 


(xxiv) [Reserved]


(xxv) Administer all programs of the Commodity Credit Corporation that provide assistance with respect to the production of agricultural commodities or the income of producers, including disaster assistance and the domestic marketing of such commodities, except as may otherwise be reserved by the Secretary of Agriculture, and similar programs (including commodity quality development programs) consigned by statute to the Secretary of Agriculture unless otherwise delegated.


(xxvi) Administer the following provisions of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 with respect to functions otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation:


(A) The equitable relief provisions of section 1613 (7 U.S.C. 7996).


(B) The tracking of benefits under section 1614 (7 U.S.C. 7997).


(xxvii) Formulate and carry out the Grassroots Source Water Protection Program authorized by the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-2).




(xxviii)i-(xxxi) [Reserved]


(xxxii) Implement the authority in section 1241 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3841) to accept and use voluntary contributions of non-Federal funds in support of natural resources conservation programs under subtitle D of title XII of that Act with respect to authorities delegated to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.


(xxxiii) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).


(xxxiv) Administer the following provisions of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, Public Law 110-246:


(A) [Reserved]


(B) Section 1609 relating to the tracking of benefits.


(C)-(D) [Reserved]


(E) Section 1621 relating to direct reimbursement payments to geographically disadvantaged farmers or ranchers.


(F)-(G) [Reserved]


(H) Section 14212 relating to the closure or relocation of county or field offices of the Farm Service Agency.


(I) Section 15353(a) relating to information reporting for Commodity Credit Corporation transactions.


(xxxv) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).


(xxxvi) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79, as amended:


(A) Sections 1401-1410 relating to a margin protection program for dairy producers (7 U.S.C. 9051-9060), and section 1431 relating to a dairy product donation program (7 U.S.C. 9071).


(B) Section 1612 relating to the tracking of benefits (7 U.S.C. 9095).


(C) Section 12314 relating to the Pima Agriculture Cotton Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 2101 note).


(D) Section 12315 relating to the Agriculture Wool Apparel Manufacturers Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 7101 note).


(xxxvii) Administer the funds made available to the Office of the Secretary under Title I of Subdivision B, Further Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2018, Public Law 115-123.


(xxxviii) Determine the agricultural commodities acquired under price support programs which are available for export.


(xxxix) Administer the following provisions of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, Public Law 116-334:


(A) Section 5413 relating to reporting on farm loans (7 U.S.C. 2008x).


(B) Section 12304 relating to the National Beginning Farmer and Rancher Coordinator (7 U.S.C. 6934a).


(C) Section 12612 relating to a national agriculture imagery program (7 U.S.C. 2204j).


(D) Section 12615 relating to the eligibility for farm operators on heirs' property to obtain a farm loan number (7 U.S.C. 2266b).






(2) *Related to farm credit.* (i) Administer the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 *et seq.*), except for the authority contained in the following sections: 


(A) [Reserved] 


(B) Section 306 (7 U.S.C. 1926), relating to all programs in that section; 


(C) Section 306A (7 U.S.C. 1926a) and section 306B (7 U.S.C. 1926b), relating to the emergency community water assistance grant programs, and section 306D (7 U.S.C. 1926d), relating to water systems for rural Alaskan Native Villages;


(D) Section 306C (7 U.S.C. 1926c) to administer the water and waste facility loans and grants to alleviate health risks; 


(E) Sections 309 (7 U.S.C. 1929) and 309A (7 U.S.C. 1929a), regarding assets and programs related to rural development; 


(F) Section 310A (7 U.S.C. 1931), relating to watershed and resource conservation and development loans; 


(G) Section 310B (7 U.S.C. 1932), regarding various Rural Development programs; 

(H) Section 310C (7 U.S.C. 1933), relating to housing program interest rates;


(I) Section 310G (7 U.S.C. 1936a), relating to the use of rural development loans and grants for other purposes, and section 353A (7 U.S.C. 2001a), relating to the servicing of community facilities loans;


(J) Section 364 (7 U.S.C. 2006f) and section 365 (7 U.S.C. 2008);


(K) Administrative provisions of subtitle D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act related to Rural Utilities Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Housing Service activities. 


(L) Section 375 (7 U.S.C. 2008j), relating to the National Sheep Industry Improvement Center.


(M) Sections 379 (7 U.S.C. 2008n) through 379G (7 U.S.C. 2008u) and subtitles E through I (7 U.S.C. 2009-2009dd-7) relating to rural development programs and activities.


(ii) Collect, service, and liquidate loans made or insured by the Farm Service Agency, or its predecessor agencies. 


(iii) Administer the Rural Rehabilitation Corporation Trust Liquidation Act (40 U.S.C. 440 *et seq.*), and trust, liquidation, and other agreements entered into pursuant thereto. 


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) Administer Farmers Home Administration or any successor agency assets conveyed in trust under the Participation Sales Act of 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1717). 


(vi) Administer the Emergency Loan and Guarantee Programs under sections 232, 234, 237, and 253 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 (Pub. L. No. 91-606), the Disaster Relief Act of 1969 (Pub. L. No. 91-79), Pub. L. No. 92-385, approved August 16, 1972, and the Emergency Livestock Credit Act of 1974 (Pub. L. No. 93-357), as amended. 


(vii) Administer loans to homestead or desertland entrymen and purchasers of land in reclamation projects or to an entryman under the desertland law (7 U.S.C. 1006a and 1006b). 


(viii) [Reserved]


(ix) Service, collect, settle, and liquidate: 


(A) Deferred land purchase obligations of individuals under the Wheeler-Case Act of August 11, 1939, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590y), and under the item, “Water Conservation and Utilization projects” in the Department of the Interior Appropriation Act, 1940 (53 Stat. 719), as amended; 


(B) Puerto Rican Hurricane Relief loans under the Act of July 11, 1956 (70 Stat. 525); and 


(C) Loans made in conformance with section 4 of the Southeast Hurricane Disaster Relief Act of 1965 (79 Stat. 1301). 


(x) Administer loans to Indian tribes, tribal corporations, and purchasers of highly fractionated land (25 U.S.C. 488-492).


(xi) Administer the State Agricultural Loan Mediation Program under title 5 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101 *et seq.*)


(xii) Administer financial assistance programs relating to Economic Opportunity Loans to Cooperatives under part A of title III and part D of title I and the necessarily related functions in title VI of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2763-2768, 2841-2855, 2942, 2943(b), 2961), delegated by the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity to the Secretary of Agriculture by documents dated October 23, 1964 (29 FR 14764), and June 17, 1968 (33 FR 9850), respectively.


(xiii) Exercise all authority and discretion vested in the Secretary by section 331(c) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended by section 2 of the Farmers Home Administration Improvement Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-248 (7 U.S.C. 1981(c)), including the following:


(A) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the Department of Justice for the conduct of litigation, and refer such actions to the Department of Justice through the General Counsel;


(B) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the General Counsel, for the conduct of litigation and refer such actions; and


(C) Enter into contracts with private sector attorneys for the conduct of litigation, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, after determining that the attorneys will provide competent and cost effective representation for the Farm Service Agency.


(xiv) Administer programs for Apple Loans and Emergency Loans for Seed Producers under sections 203(f) and 253, respectively, of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note, Pub. L. 106-224).


(xv) Administer evaluations of direct and guaranteed loan programs under section 5301 of the Farm security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1922 note). 


(3) *Related to natural resources conservation.* (i) Provide national leadership in the conservation, development and productive use of the Nation's soil, water, and related resources. Such leadership encompasses soil, water, plant, and wildlife conservation; small watershed protection and flood prevention; and resource conservation and development. Integrated in these programs are erosion control, sediment reduction, pollution abatement, land use planning, multiple use, improvement of water quality, and several surveying and monitoring activities related to environmental improvement. All are designed to assure:


(A) Quality in the natural resource base for sustained use;


(B) Quality in the environment to provide attractive, convenient, and satisfying places to live, work, and play; and


(C) Quality in the standard of living based on community improvement and adequate income.


(ii) Provide national leadership in and evaluate and coordinate land use policy, and administer the Farmland Protection Policy Act (7 U.S.C. 4201 *et seq.*), including the Farms for the Future Program authorized by sections 1465-1470 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4201 note), except as otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics in § 2.21(a)(1)(lxii).


(iii) Administer the basic program of soil and water conservation under Public Law 74-46, and related laws (16 U.S.C. 590a-f, q, q-1; 42 U.S.C. 3271-3274; 7 U.S.C. 2201), including:


(A) Technical and financial assistance to land users in carrying out locally adapted soil and water conservation programs primarily through soil and water conservation districts in the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and Federally recognized Native American tribes, but also to communities, watershed groups, Federal and State agencies, and other cooperators. This authority includes such assistance as:


(*1*) Comprehensive planning assistance in nonmetropolitan districts;


(*2*) Assistance in the field of income-producing recreation on rural non-Federal lands;


(*3*) Forestry assistance, as part of total technical assistance to private land owners and land users when such services are an integral part of land management and such services are not available from a State agency; and forestry services in connection with windbreaks and shelter belts to prevent wind and water erosion of lands;


(*4*) Assistance in developing programs relating to natural beauty; and


(*5*) Assistance to other USDA agencies in connection with the administration of their programs, as follows:


(*i*) To the Farm Service Agency in the development and technical servicing of certain programs, such as the Agricultural Conservation Program and other such similar conservation programs;


(*ii*) To the Rural Housing Service in connection with their loan and land disposition programs;


(B) Soil Surveys, including:


(*1*) Providing leadership for the Federal part of the National Cooperative Soil Survey which includes conducting and publishing soil surveys;


(*2*) Conducting soil surveys for resource planning and development; and


(*3*) Performing the cartographic services essential to carrying out the functions of the Natural Resources Conservation Service, including furnishing photographs, mosaics, and maps;


(C) Conducting and coordinating snow surveys and making water supply forecasts pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. IV of 1940 (5 U.S.C. App.);


(D) Operating plant materials centers for the assembly and testing of plant species in conservation programs, including the use, administration, and disposition of lands under the administration of the Natural Resources Conservation Service for such purposes under title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010-1011); and


(E) Providing leadership in the inventorying and monitoring of soil, water, land, and related resources of the Nation.


(iv) Administer the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Programs, including:


(A) The eleven authorized watershed projects authorized under the Flood Control Act of 1944 (Pub. L. 78-534);


(B) The emergency flood control work under 33 U.S.C. 701b-1;


(C) The Cooperative River Basin Surveys and Investigations Programs under 16 U.S.C. 1006;


(D) The pilot watershed projects under 16 U.S.C. 590 a-f and 16 U.S.C. 1001-1009;


(E) The Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Program under 16 U.S.C. 1001-1010, including rehabilitation of water resource structural measures constructed under certain Department of Agriculture programs under 16 U.S.C. 1012, except for responsibilities assigned to the Under Secretary for Rural Development.


(F) The joint investigations and surveys with the Department of the Army under 16 U.S.C. 1009; and


(G) The Emergency Conservation Program and the Emergency Watershed Protection Program under sections 401-405 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978, 16 U.S.C. 2201-2205.


(v) Administer the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Program for Rural Lands and other responsibilities assigned under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1201 *et seq.*), except those responsibilities assigned to the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment.


(vi) Administer the Resource Conservation and Development Program under 16 U.S.C. 590 a-f; 7 U.S.C. 1010-1011; and 16 U.S.C. 3451-3461, except for responsibilities assigned to the Under Secretary for Rural Development.


(vii) Responsibility for entering into long-term contracts for carrying out conservation and environmental measures in watershed areas.


(viii) Provide national leadership for and administer the Soil and Water Resources Conservation Act of 1977 (16 U.S.C. 2001 *et seq.*).


(ix) Administer the Rural Clean Water Program and other responsibilities assigned under section 35 of the Clean Water Act of 1977 (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*).


(x) Monitor actions and progress of USDA in complying with Executive Order 11988, Flood Plain Management, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 117, and Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 121, regarding management of floodplains and protection of wetlands; monitor USDA efforts on protection of important agricultural, forest and rangelands; and provide staff assistance to the USDA Natural Resources and Environment Committee.


(xi) Administer the search and rescue operations authorized under 7 U.S.C. 2273.


(xii) Administer section 202(c) of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act, 43 U.S.C. 1592(c), including:


(A) Identify salt source areas and determine the salt load resulting from irrigation and watershed management practices;


(B) Conduct salinity control studies of irrigated salt source areas;


(C) Provide technical and financial assistance in the implementation of salinity control projects including the development of salinity control plans, technical services for application, and certification of practice applications;


(D) Develop plans for implementing measures that will reduce the salt load of the Colorado River;


(E) Develop and implement long-term monitoring and evaluation plans to measure and report progress and accomplishments in achieving program objectives; and


(F) Enter into and administer contracts with program participants and waive cost-sharing requirements when such cost-sharing requirements would result in a failure to proceed with needed on-farm measures.


(xiii) Except as otherwise delegated, administer natural resources conservation authorities, including authorities related to programs of the Commodity Credit Corporation that provide assistance with respect to natural resources conservation, under Title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (the Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 3801 *et seq.*), including the following:


(A) Technical assistance related to the conservation of highly erodible lands and wetlands pursuant to sections 1211-1224 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3811-3824).


(B) Technical assistance related to the Conservation Reserve Program authorized by sections 1231-1235 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3831-3835).


(C) The Wetlands Reserve Program and the Emergency Wetlands Reserve Program authorized by sections 1237-1237F of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3837-3837f) prior to February 7, 2014, the transition authority under section 2703 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, and the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Relief from the Major, Widespread Flooding in the Midwest Act (Pub. L. 103-75).


(D) The Conservation Security Program authorized by sections 1238-1238C of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3838-3838c) and the Conservation Stewardship Program authorized by sections 1240I-1240L-1 (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-21—3839aa-25).


(E) The Farmland Protection Program authorized by sections 1238H-1238I of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3838h-3838i) prior to February 7, 2014, and the transition authority under section 2704 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(F) The Farm Viability Program authorized by section 1238J of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3838j) prior to February 7, 2014, and the transition authority under section 2704 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(G) The Environmental Quality Incentives Program authorized by sections 1240-1240H of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-3839aa-8), the Agricultural Water Enhancement Program authorized by section 1240H of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3839aa-9) prior to February 7, 2014, and section 2706 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(H) The conservation of private grazing lands authorized by section 1240M of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb).


(I) The Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program authorized by section 1240N of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-1) prior to February 7, 2014 and Section 2707 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(J) The program for soil erosion and sedimentation control in the Great Lakes basin authorized by section 1240P of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-3) prior to February 7, 2014, and section 2708 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(K) The Chesapeake Bay Watershed Program authorized by section 1240Q of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-4) prior to February 7, 2014, and section 2709 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(L) The delivery of technical assistance under section 1242 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3842), including the approval of persons or entities outside of USDA to provide technical services.


(M) The authority for partnerships and cooperation provided by section 1243 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3843) prior to February 7, 2014, and section 2710 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(N) The incentives for certain farmers and ranchers and Indian tribes and the protection of certain proprietary information related to natural resources conservation programs as provided by section 1244 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3844).


(O) The Agriculture Conservation Experienced Services Program authorized by section 1252 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3851).


(P) The authority under sections 1261-1262 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3861-3862) to establish and utilize State Technical Committees.


(Q) The Grassland Reserve Program under sections 1238N-1238Q of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3838n-3838q) prior to February 7, 2014, and section 2705 of the Agricultural Act of 2014.


(R) The authority in section 1241 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3841) to accept and use voluntary contributions of non-Federal funds in support of natural resources conservation programs under subtitle D of title XII of the Act with respect to authorities delegated to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.


(S) The Agricultural Conservation Easement Program authorized by sections 1265-1265D of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3865-3865d).


(T) The Regional Conservation Partnership Program authorized by sections 1271-1271F of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3871-3871f).


(U) The Voluntary Public Access and Habitat Incentive Program authorized by section 1240R of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-5).


(V) A wetlands mitigation banking program authorized by section 1222(k) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 3822(k)).


(xiv) Approve and transmit to the Congress comprehensive river basin reports.


(xv) Provide representation on the Water Resources Council and river basin commissions created by 42 U.S.C. 1962, and on river basin interagency committees.


(xvii) Administer the Water Bank Program under the Water Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301 *et seq.*).


(xviii) Enter into cooperative agreements, which may provide for the acquisition of goods or services, including personal services, as authorized by Public Law 106-387 (7 U.S.C. 6962a).


(xix) Coordinate USDA input and assistance to the Department of Commerce and other Federal agencies consistent with section 307 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1456), and coordinate USDA review of qualifying state and local government coastal management plans or programs prepared under such Act and submitted to the Secretary of Commerce, consistent with section 306(a) and (c) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1455(a) and (c)).


(xx) Administer the Healthy Forests Reserve Program authorized by sections 501-508, Title V of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6571-6578).


(xxi) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).


(xxii) In coordination with the Director, Office of Advocacy and Outreach, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).


(xxiii) Authorize employees of the Natural Resources Conservation Service to carry and use firearms for personal protection while conducting field work in remote locations in the performance of their official duties (7 U.S.C. 2274a).


(xxiv) Conduct activities that assist the Chief Economist in developing guidelines regarding the development of environmental services markets.


(xxv) Administer the Terminal Lakes assistance program authorized by section 2507 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb-6).


(xxvi) Administer the state and private forest landscape-scale restoration program (16 U.S.C. 2109a).


(xxvii) Administer the following provisions of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 116-334):


(A) Section 1704 (7 U.S.C. 1308-3a), authorizing waivers of the adjusted gross income limitation.


(B) In consultation with the Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Section 2707 (16 U.S.C. 1531 note), relating to wildlife management.


(C) In coordination with the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, Section 2408 (7 U.S.C. 8351 note), relating to the Feral Swine Eradication and Control Pilot Program.


(D) Section 8628, relating to the purchase of Natural Resources Conservation Service property in Riverside County, California.


(E) Section 12302, relating to the Office of Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production.


(4) *Related to risk management.* (i) Exercise general supervision of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.


(ii) Appoint such officers and employees as may be necessary for the transaction of the business of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and the Risk Management Agency.


(iii) Conduct pilot programs involving revenue insurance, risk management savings accounts, or the use of futures markets to manage risk and support farm income.


(iv) Provide education in management of the financial risks inherent in the production and marketing of agricultural commodities.


(v) Conduct a study and issue a report on the efficacy and accuracy of the application of pack factors regarding the measurement of farm-stored production for purposes of providing policies or plans of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 *et seq.*).


(vi) Carry out functions relating to highly erodible land and wetland conservation under sections 1211-1213 and 1221-1223 of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3811-3813 and 3821-3823).


(vii) Prepare cropland reports as required by section 11014(c) of the Agricultural Act of 2013, Public Law 113-79.


(viii) Assist the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics with implementing section 10016 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 regarding locally or regionally produced agricultural food products (7 U.S.C. 2204h).


(ix) Administer the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501, *et seq.*), except for sections 524(a)(1)(B), (a)(3), and (b) (7 U.S.C. 1524(a)(1)(B), (a)(3), (b)) and 531 (7 U.S.C. 1531).


(x) Coordinate between agencies of the Department on the type and format of data received under the noninsured crop disaster assistance program as authorized by Sec. 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, (Pub. L. 104-127, as amended) (7 U.S.C. 7333).


(5) *Related to committee management.* Establish and reestablish regional, state, and local advisory committees for activities under his or her authority. This authority may not be redelegated. 


(6) *Related to defense and emergency preparedness.* 

(i) Administer responsibilities and functions assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195 *et seq.*), concerning agricultural production; food processing, storage, and distribution; distribution of farm equipment and fertilizer; rehabilitation and use of food, agricultural, and related agribusiness facilities; CCC resources; and farm credit and financial assistance.


(ii) Administer functions delegated by the President to the Secretary under Executive Order 13603, “National Defense Resources Preparedness” (3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 225), and Executive Order 12742, “National Security Industrial Responsiveness” (3 CFR, 1991 Comp., p. 309), including administration of an Agriculture Priorities and Allocations System.


(7) *Related to environmental response.* With respect to land and facilities under his or her authority, exercise the functions delegated to the Secretary by Executive Order 12580, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193, under the following provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“the Act”), as amended: 


(i) Sections 104 (a), (b), and (c)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604 (a), (b), and (c)(4)), with respect to removal and remedial actions in the event of release or threatened release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant into the environment; 


(ii) Sections 104(e)-(h) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(e)-(h)), with respect to information gathering and access requests and orders; compliance with Federal health and safety standards and wage and labor standards applicable to covered work; and emergency procurement powers; 


(iii) Section 104(i)(11) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(i)(11)), with respect to the reduction of exposure to significant risk to human health; 


(iv) Section 104(j) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(j)), with respect to the acquisition of real property and interests in real property required to conduct a remedial action; 


(v) The first two sentences of section 105(d) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(d)), with respect to petition for preliminary assessment of a release or threatened release; 


(vi) Section 105(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(f)), with respect to consideration of the availability of qualified minority firms in awarding contracts, but excluding that portion of section 105(f) pertaining to the annual report to Congress; 


(vii) Section 109 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9609), with respect to the assessment of civil penalties for violations of section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), and the granting of awards to individuals providing information; 


(viii) Section 111(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9611(f)), with respect to the designation of officials who may obligate money in the Hazardous Substances Superfund; 


(ix) Section 113(k) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9613(k)), with respect to establishing an administrative record upon which to base the selection of a response action and identifying and notifying potentially responsible parties; 


(x) Section 116(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9616(a)), with respect to preliminary assessment and site inspection of facilities; 


(xi) Sections 117(a) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9617(a) and (c)), with respect to public participation in the preparation of any plan for remedial action and explanation of variances from the final remedial action plan for any remedial action or enforcement action, including any settlement or consent decree entered into; 


(xii) Section 119 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9119), with respect to indemnifying response action contractors; 


(xiii) Section 121 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9621), with respect to cleanup standards; and 


(xiv) Section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), with respect to settlements, but excluding section 122(b)(1) of the Act.


(8) *Related to compliance with environmental laws.* With respect to facilities and activities under his or her authority, to exercise the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to section 1-102 related to compliance with applicable pollution control standards and section 1-601 of Executive Order 12088, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 243, to enter into an inter-agency agreement with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an administrative consent order or a consent judgment in an appropriate State, interstate, or local agency, containing a plan and schedule to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable pollution control standards established pursuant to the following: 


(i) Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as further amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments, and the Federal Facility Compliance Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.*); 


(ii) Federal Water Pollution Prevention and Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*); 


(iii) Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f *et seq.*); 


(iv) Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*); 


(v) Noise Control Act of 1972, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4901 *et seq.*); 


(vi) Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*); 


(vii) Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 136 *et seq.*); and 


(viii) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 9601 *et seq.*). 


(9) *Related to hazardous materials management.* (i) Serve on the USDA Hazardous Materials Policy Council. 


(ii) Recommend actions and policies that enable USDA agencies under his or her authority to comply with the intent, purposes, and standards of environmental laws for pollution prevention, control, and abatement. 


(iii) Consult with the United States Environmental Protection Agency and other appropriate Federal agencies in developing pollution prevention, control, and abatement policies and programs relating to agencies under his or her authority. 


(iv) Recommend actions and policies of the loan and grant programs under his or her authority concerning compliance with the Asset Conservation, Lender Liability, and Deposit Insurance Protection Act of 1996, Subtitle E of Public Law No. 104-208. 


(10) Carry out prize competition authorities in section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) related to functions otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation, except for authorities delegated to the Chief Financial Officer in § 2.28(a)(29) and authorities reserved to the Secretary in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(11) Administer a Century Farms Program as authorized by section 12508 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 2266a).




(12) Establish programs with any bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), or with other agencies within USDA, in support of the Service First initiative for the purpose of promoting customer service and efficiency, including delegating to employees of DOI and other USDA agencies the authorities of the agencies in the Farm Production and Conservation mission area necessary to carry out projects on behalf of USDA (43 U.S.C. 1703).




(13) Enter into cooperative agreements with Federal agencies, State and local governments, and any other organization or individual to improve the coordination and effectiveness of Federal programs, services, and actions affecting rural areas (7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)(4)).




(b) The following authorities are reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture: 


(1) *Related to farm service.* (i) Appointment of Farm Service Agency State committeemen. 


(ii) Final approval of regulations relating to the selection and exercise of the functions of committees promulgated under section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)). 


(iii) Final approval of allocations orders issued by the Department pursuant to authorities delegated by the President to the Secretary under Executive Order 13603, “National Defense Resources Preparedness” (3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 225).


(2) *Related to natural resources conservation.* Designation of new project areas in which the resource conservation and development program assistance will be provided.


(3) *Related to risk management.* (i) Appointment of those members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation who are not already otherwise employed by the Department of Agriculture, and as authorized in 7 U.S.C. 1505(a) designating an Under Secretary of Agriculture to be a member of the Board in addition to the Under Secretary responsible for the Federal crop insurance program who is a Board member pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1505(a).


(ii) Appointment of the Administrator of the Risk Management Agency who also shall serve as the Manager of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.


(4) Approval of prize competitions that may result in the award of more than $1,000,000 in cash prizes under section 24(m)(4)(B) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719(m)(4)(B)).



---

[N] [60 FR 56393, Nov. 8, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 25775, May 23, 1996; 61 FR 37552, July 18, 1996; 62 FR 1031, Jan. 8, 1997; 62 FR 19900, Apr. 24, 1997; 62 FR 40253, July 28, 1997; 65 FR 12427, Mar. 9, 2000; 68 FR 27435, May 20, 2003; 71 FR 35491, June 21, 2006; 71 FR 51421, Aug. 30, 2006; 74 FR 3401, Jan. 21, 2009; 75 FR 43368, July 23, 2010; 78 FR 40937, July 9, 2013; 79 FR 44106, July 30, 2014; 80 FR 58336, Sept. 29, 2015; 83 FR 22179, May 14, 2018; 83 FR 61311, Nov. 29. 2018; 85 FR 65504, Oct. 15, 2020; 87 FR 44267, July 26, 2022; 89 FR 80074, Oct. 2, 2024]




