# § 414.1318   Subgroups.

(a) *Eligibility and special status*—(1) *General.* Except as provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and subject to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, for a MIPS payment year, determinations of meeting the low-volume threshold criteria and special status for a subgroup is determined at the group level in accordance with §§ 414.1305 and 414.1310.


(2) *Exclusions.* An individual eligible clinician or group that elects to participate in MIPS as a MIPS eligible clinician in accordance with § 414.1310(b)(1)(iii)(A) or (b)(2) is not eligible to participate in a subgroup.


(3) *Single subgroup per eligible clinician.* An individual eligible clinician (as represented by a TIN-NPI combination) may register for no more than one subgroup within a group's TIN.


(4) *Subgroup determination period.* CMS will apply the low-volume threshold criteria for a subgroup as described under paragraph (a)(1) of this section using information from the initial 12-month segment of the applicable MIPS determination period.


(b) *Final score.* Except as provided under § 414.1317(b) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each MIPS eligible clinician in the subgroup receives a final score based on the subgroup's combined performance.


(1) CMS will not assign a final score for a subgroup that registers and does not submit data as a subgroup for the applicable performance period.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Subgroup reporting requirements.* For individual eligible clinicians to participate in MIPS as a subgroup, all of the following requirements must be met:


(1) Individual eligible clinicians that elect to participate in MIPS as a subgroup must aggregate their quality and improvement activities performance data across the subgroup's identifier.


(2) Individual eligible clinicians that elect to participate in MIPS as a subgroup will have their performance assessed at the subgroup level across all the MIPS performance categories based on an MVP in accordance with § 414.1365. Subgroups that are MVP Participants must adhere to an election process described in § 414.1365(b).



---

[N] [86 FR 65671, Nov. 19, 2021; as amended at 87 FR 70227, Nov. 18, 2022]




