# ยง 217.85   Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

(a) The Navy must submit a Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan to NMFS for approval at least 90 days before the start of construction and abide by the Plan if approved.


(b) The Navy must deploy PSOs as indicated in its approved Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan.


(c) Monitoring must be conducted by qualified, NMFS-approved PSOs, in accordance with the following conditions:


(1) PSOs must be independent of the activity contractor (for example, employed by a subcontractor) and have no other assigned tasks during monitoring periods;


(2) At least one PSO must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization;


(3) Other PSOs may substitute other relevant experience, education (degree in biological science or related field), or training for prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization;


(4) Where a team of three or more PSOs are required, a lead PSO or monitoring coordinator must be designated. The lead PSO must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization; and


(5) PSOs must be approved by NMFS prior to beginning any activity subject to these regulations.


(d) PSOs must be trained in marine mammal identification and behaviors.


(e) The Navy must monitor the Level B harassment zones (areas where SPLs are equal to or exceed the 160 dB root-mean-squared (rms) threshold for impact driving and the 120 dB rms threshold during vibratory pile driving) to the maximum extent practicable and the shutdown zones.


(f) The Navy must coordinate with the Center for Whale Research, Orca network, and NMFS to avoid noise exposure of southern resident killer whales. The Navy must shut down in-water activities when southern resident killer whales are observed or reported within or approaching any harassment zone.


(g) The Navy must submit a draft monitoring report to NMFS within 90 calendar days of the completion of each construction year. A draft comprehensive 5-year summary report must also be submitted to NMFS within 90 days of the end of the project. The reports must detail the monitoring protocol and summarize the data recorded during monitoring. Final annual reports and the final comprehensive report must be prepared and submitted within 30 days following resolution of any NMFS comments on the draft report. If no comments are received from NMFS within 30 days of receipt of the draft report, the report must be considered final. If comments are received, a final report addressing NMFS comments must be submitted within 30 days after receipt of comments. The reports must contain the informational elements described at minimum below including:


(1) Dates and times (begin and end) of all marine mammal monitoring;


(2) Construction activities occurring during each daily observation period, including how many and what type of piles were driven or removed, by what method (*i.e.,* impact or vibratory), the total duration of driving time for each pile (vibratory driving), and number of strikes for each pile (impact driving);


(3) Environmental conditions during monitoring periods (at beginning and end of PSO shift and whenever conditions change significantly), Beaufort sea state, and any other relevant weather conditions including cloud cover, fog, sun glare, and overall visibility to the horizon, and estimated observable distance (if less than the harassment zone distance);


(4) Upon observation of a marine mammal, the following information should be collected:


(i) PSO who sighted the animal, observer location, and activity at time of sighting:


(ii) Time of sighting;


(iii) Identification of the animal (*e.g.,* genus/species, lowest possible taxonomic level, or unidentified), PSO confidence in identification, and the composition of the group if there is a mix of species;


(iv) Distances and bearings of each marine mammal observed in relation to the pile being driven for each sighting (if pile driving was occurring at time of sighting);


(v) Estimated number of animals (min/max/best);


(vi) Estimated number of animals by cohort (adults, juveniles, neonates, group composition, *etc.*);


(vii) Animal's closest point of approach and estimated time spent within the harassment zone;


(viii) Description of any marine mammal behavioral observations (*e.g.,* observed behaviors such as feeding or traveling), including an assessment of behavioral responses to the activity (*e.g.,* no response or changes in behavioral state such as ceasing feeding, changing direction, flushing, or breaching);


(ix) Detailed information about any implementation of any mitigation (*e.g.,* shutdowns and delays), a description of specific actions that ensued, and resulting changes in the behavior of the animal, if any; and


(x) All PSO datasheets and/or raw sightings data.


(h) In the event that personnel involved in the construction activities discover an injured or dead marine mammal, the Navy must report the incident to NMFS Office of Protected Resources (OPR), and to the West Coast Regional Stranding Coordinator, as soon as feasible. If the death or injury was caused by the specified activity, the Navy must immediately cease the specified activities until NMFS OPR is able to review the circumstances of the incident and determine what, if any, additional measures are appropriate to ensure compliance with the terms of this rule and the LOA issued under ยง  216.106 of this chapter and ยง 217.86. The Navy must not resume their activities until notified by NMFS. The report must include the following information:


(1) Time, date, and location (latitude/longitude) of the first discovery (and updated location information if known and applicable);


(2) Species identification (if known) or description of the animal(s) involved;


(3) Condition of the animal(s) (including carcass condition if the animal is dead);


(4) Observed behaviors of the animal(s), if alive;


(5) If available, photographs or video footage of the animal(s); and


(6) General circumstances under which the animal was discovered.






