# ยง 99.20   How will the waste emissions threshold for each WEC applicable facility be determined?

The methane waste emissions threshold for each applicable industry segment within a WEC applicable facility for the reporting year will be calculated as described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable. The methane waste emissions threshold for each WEC applicable facility will be determined as described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(a) For each offshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment or onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment that sends natural gas to sale at a WEC applicable facility, the facility waste emissions threshold will be calculated using equation B-1 of this section.


(b) For each offshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment or onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment that has no natural gas sent to sale at a WEC applicable facility, the facility waste emissions threshold will be calculated using equation B-2 of this section.


(c) For each onshore natural gas processing industry segment, liquefied natural gas storage industry segment, the liquefied natural gas import and export equipment industry segment, or the onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segment at a WEC applicable facility, the facility waste emissions threshold will be calculated using equation B-3 of this section.


(d) For each onshore natural gas transmission compression industry segment, underground natural gas storage industry segment, or onshore natural gas transmission pipeline industry segment at a WEC applicable facility, the facility waste emissions threshold will be calculated using equation B-4 of this section.


(e) For each WEC applicable facility that operates in a single industry segment, the methane waste emissions threshold shall be equal to the value calculated in equation B-1, equation B-2, equation B-3, or equation B-4 of this section, as applicable. For each WEC applicable facility that operates in two or more industry segments, the facility waste emissions threshold will be calculated using equation B-5 of this section.


