# § 60.5365b   Am I subject to this subpart?

You are subject to the applicable provisions of this subpart if you are the owner or operator of one or more of the onshore affected facilities listed in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, that is located within the Crude Oil and Natural Gas source category, as defined in § 60.5430b, for which you commence construction, modification, or reconstruction after December 6, 2022. Facilities located inside and including the Local Distribution Company (LDC) custody transfer station are not subject to this subpart.


(a) Each well affected facility, which is a single well drilled for the purpose of producing oil or natural gas.


(1) In addition to § 60.14, a “modification” of an existing well occurs when:


(i) An existing well is hydraulically fractured, or


(ii) An existing well is hydraulically refractured.


(2) For the purposes of a well affected facility, a liquids unloading event is not considered to be a modification.


(3) Except as provided in § 60.5365b(e)(3)(ii)(C) and (i)(3)(ii), any action described by paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, by itself, does not affect the modification status of process unit equipment, centrifugal or reciprocating compressors, pumps, or process controllers.


(b) Each centrifugal compressor affected facility, which is a single centrifugal compressor. A centrifugal compressor located at a well site is not an affected facility under this subpart. A centrifugal compressor located at a centralized production facility is an affected facility under this subpart.


(c) Each reciprocating compressor affected facility, which is a single reciprocating compressor. A reciprocating compressor located at a well site is not an affected facility under this subpart. A reciprocating compressor located at a centralized production facility is an affected facility under this subpart.


(d) Each process controller affected facility, which is the collection of natural gas-driven process controllers at a well site, centralized production facility, onshore natural gas processing plant, or a compressor station. Natural gas-driven process controllers that function as emergency shutdown devices and process controllers that are not driven by natural gas are not included in the affected facility.


(1) For the purposes of § 60.5390b, in addition to the definition in § 60.14, a modification occurs when the number of natural gas-driven process controllers in the affected facility is increased by one or more.


(2) For the purposes of § 60.5390b, owners and operators may choose to apply reconstruction as defined in § 60.15(b) based on the fixed capital cost of the new process controllers in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, or the definition of reconstruction based on the number of natural gas-driven process controllers in the affected facility in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section. Owners and operators may choose which definition of reconstruction to apply and whether to comply with paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section; they do not need to apply both. If owners and operators choose to comply with paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section they may demonstrate compliance with § 60.15(b)(1) by showing that more than 50 percent of the number of natural gas-driven process controllers in the affected facility is replaced. That is, if an owner or operator meets the definition of reconstruction through the “number of controllers” criterion in (d)(2)(ii) of this section, they will have shown that the “fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable entirely new facility,” as required in § 60.15(b)(1). Therefore, an owner or operator may comply with the remaining provisions of § 60.15 that reference “fixed capital cost” through an initial showing that the number of natural gas-driven process controllers replaced exceeds 50 percent. For purposes of paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii), “commenced” means that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of natural gas-driven process controller replacement or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of natural gas-driven process controller replacement.


(i) If the owner or operator applies the definition of reconstruction in § 60.15(b)(1), reconstruction occurs when the fixed capital cost of the new process controllers exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to replace all the natural gas-driven process controllers in the affected facility. The “fixed capital cost of the new process controllers” includes the fixed capital cost of all natural gas-driven process controllers which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 24-month rolling period following December 6, 2022.


(ii) If the owner or operator applies the definition of reconstruction based on the percentage of natural gas-driven process controllers replaced, reconstruction occurs when greater than 50 percent of the natural gas-driven process controllers at a site are replaced. The percentage includes all natural gas-driven process controllers which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of natural gas-driven process controller replacement which are commenced within any 24-month rolling period following December 6, 2022. If an owner or operator determines reconstruction based on the percentage of natural gas-driven process controllers that are replaced, the owner or operator must also comply with § 60.15(a).


(e) Each storage vessel affected facility, which is a tank battery that has the potential for emissions as specified in either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. A tank battery with the potential for emissions below both of the thresholds specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section is not a storage vessel affected facility provided the owner/operator keeps records of the potential for emissions calculation for the life of the storage vessel or until such time the tank battery becomes a storage vessel affected facility because the potential for emissions meets or exceeds either threshold specified in either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(1)(i) Potential for VOC emissions equal to or greater than 6 tons per year (tpy) as determined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(ii) Potential for methane emissions equal to or greater than 20 tpy as determined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(2) The potential for VOC and methane emissions must be calculated as the cumulative emissions from all storage vessels within the tank battery as specified by the applicable requirements in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. The determination may take into account requirements under a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or Tribal authority.


(i) For purposes of determining the applicability of a storage vessel tank battery as an affected facility, a legally and practicably enforceable limit must include the elements provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) A quantitative production limit and quantitative operational limit(s) for the equipment, or quantitative operational limits for the equipment;


(B) An averaging time period for the production limit in (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section, if a production-based limit is used, that is equal to or less than 30 days;


(C) Established parametric limits for the production and/or operational limit(s) in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section, and where a control device is used to achieve an operational limit, an initial compliance demonstration (*i.e.,* performance test) for the control device that establishes the parametric limits;


(D) Ongoing monitoring of the parametric limits in (e)(2)(i)(C) of this section that demonstrates continuous compliance with the production and/or operational limit(s) in (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section;


(E) Recordkeeping by the owner or operator that demonstrates continuous compliance with the limit(s) in (e)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section; and


(F) Periodic reporting that demonstrates continuous compliance.


(ii) For each tank battery located at a well site or centralized production facility, you must determine the potential for VOC and methane emissions within 30 days after startup of production, or within 30 days after an action specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section. The potential for VOC and methane emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology that accounts for flashing, working, and breathing losses, based on the maximum average daily throughput to the tank battery determined for a 30-day period of production.


(iii) For each tank battery not located at a well site or centralized production facility, including each tank battery located at a compressor station or onshore natural gas processing plant, you must determine the potential for VOC and methane emissions prior to startup of the compressor station, onshore natural gas processing plant, or other facility within 30 days after an action specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, using either method described in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) Determine the potential for VOC and methane emissions using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology that accounts for flashing, working and breathing losses and based on the throughput to the tank battery established in a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under a Federal, state, local, or Tribal authority; or


(B) Determine the potential for VOC and methane emissions using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology that accounts for flashing, working and breathing losses and based on projected maximum average daily throughput. Maximum average daily throughput is determined using a generally accepted engineering model (*e.g.,* volumetric condensate rates from the tank battery based on the maximum gas throughput capacity of each producing facility) to project the maximum average daily throughput for the tank battery.


(3) For the purposes of § 60.5395b, the following definitions of “reconstruction” and “modification” apply for determining when an existing tank battery becomes a storage vessel affected facility under this subpart.


(i) “Reconstruction” of a tank battery occurs when the potential for VOC or methane emissions to meet or exceed either of the thresholds specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section and—


(A) At least half of the storage vessels are replaced in the existing tank battery that consists of more than one storage vessel; or


(B) The provisions of § 60.15 are met for the existing tank battery.


(ii) “Modification” of a tank battery occurs when any of the actions in paragraphs (e)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section occurs and the potential for VOC or methane emissions meet or exceed either of the thresholds specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(A) A storage vessel is added to an existing tank battery;


(B) One or more storage vessels are replaced such that the cumulative storage capacity of the existing tank battery increases;


(C) For tank batteries at well sites or centralized production facilities, an existing tank battery receives additional crude oil, condensate, intermediate hydrocarbons, or produced water throughput from actions, including but not limited to, the addition of operations or a production well, or changes to operations or a production well (including hydraulic fracturing or refracturing of the well).


(D) For tank batteries not located at a well site or centralized production facility, including each tank battery at compressor stations or onshore natural gas processing plants, an existing tank battery receives additional fluids which cumulatively exceed the throughput used in the most recent (*i.e.,* prior to an action in paragraphs (e)(3)(ii)(A), (B) or (D) of this section) determination of the potential for VOC or methane emissions.


(4) A storage vessel affected facility that subsequently has its potential for VOC emissions decrease to less than 6 tpy shall remain an affected facility under this subpart.


(5) For storage vessels not subject to a legally and practicably enforceable limit in an operating permit or other requirement established under Federal, state, local, or Tribal authority, any vapor from the storage vessel that is recovered and routed to a process through a vapor recovery unit designed and operated as specified in this section is not required to be included in the determination of potential for VOC or methane emissions for purposes of determining affected facility status, provided you comply with the requirements of paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) You meet the cover requirements specified in § 60.5411b(b).


(ii) You meet the closed vent system requirements specified in § 60.5411b(a)(2) through (4) and (c).


(iii) You must maintain records that document compliance with paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(iv) In the event of removal of apparatus that recovers and routes vapor to a process, or operation that is inconsistent with the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section, you must determine the storage vessel's potential for VOC emissions according to this section within 30 days of such removal or operation.


(6) The requirements of this paragraph (e)(6) apply to each storage vessel affected facility immediately upon startup, startup of production, or return to service. A storage vessel affected facility or portion of a storage vessel affected facility that is reconnected to the original source of liquids remains a storage vessel affected facility subject to the same requirements that applied before being removed from service. Any storage vessel that is used to replace a storage vessel affected facility, or portion of a storage vessel affected facility, or used to expand a storage vessel affected facility assumes the affected facility status of the storage vessel affected facility being replaced or expanded.


(7) A storage vessel with a capacity greater than 100,000 gallons used to recycle water that has been passed through two stage separation is not a storage vessel affected facility.


(f) Each process unit equipment affected facility, which is the group of all equipment within a process unit at an onshore natural gas processing plant is an affected facility.


(1) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement that is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.


(2) Equipment associated with a compressor station, dehydration unit, sweetening unit, underground storage vessel, field gas gathering system, or liquefied natural gas unit is covered by §§ 60.5400b, 60.5401b, 60.5402b, 60.5421b, and 60.5422b if it is located at an onshore natural gas processing plant. Equipment not located at the onshore natural gas processing plant site is exempt from the provisions of §§ 60.5400b, 60.5401b, 60.5402b, 60.5421b, and 60.5422b.


(g) Each sweetening unit affected facility as defined by paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas produced from either onshore or offshore wells is an affected facility; and


(2) Each sweetening unit that processes natural gas followed by a sulfur recovery unit is an affected facility.


(3) Facilities that have a design capacity less than 2 long tons per day (LT/D) of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in the acid gas (expressed as sulfur) are required to comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in § 60.5423b(e) but are not required to comply with §§ 60.5405b through 60.5407b and §§ 60.5410b(i) and 60.5415b(k).


(4) Sweetening facilities producing acid gas that is completely re-injected into oil-or-gas-bearing geologic strata or that is otherwise not released to the atmosphere are not subject to §§ 60.5405b through 60.5407b, 60.5410b(i), 60.5415b(k), and 60.5423b.


(h) Each pump affected facility, which is the collection of natural gas-driven pumps at a well site, centralized production facility, onshore natural gas processing plant, or a compressor station. Pumps that are not driven by natural gas are not included in the pump affected facility.


(1) For the purposes of § 60.5393b, in addition to the definition in § 60.14, a modification occurs when the number of natural gas-driven pumps in the affected facility is increased by one or more.


(2) For the purposes of § 60.5393b, owners and operators may choose to apply reconstruction as defined in § 60.15(b) based on the fixed capital cost of the new pumps in accordance with paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section, or the definition of reconstruction based on the number of natural gas-driven pumps in the affected facility in accordance with paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section. Owners and operators may choose which definition of reconstruction to apply and whether to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section; they do not need to apply both. If owners and operators choose to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section they may demonstrate compliance with § 60.15(b)(1) by showing that more than 50 percent of the number of natural gas-driven pumps is replaced. That is, if an owner or operator meets the definition of reconstruction through the “number of pumps” criterion in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section, they will have shown that the “fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable entirely new facility,” as required in § 60.15(b)(1). Therefore, an owner or operator may comply with the remaining provisions of § 60.15 that reference “fixed capital cost” through an initial showing that the number of natural gas-driven pumps replaced exceeds 50 percent. For purposes of paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, “commenced” means that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of component replacement or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of natural gas-driven pump replacement.


(i) If the owner or operator applies the definition of reconstruction in § 60.15, reconstruction occurs when the fixed capital cost of the new pumps exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to replace all the natural gas-driven pumps in the affected facility. The “fixed capital cost of the new pumps” includes the fixed capital cost of all natural gas-driven pumps which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 24-month rolling period following December 6, 2022.


(ii) If the owner or operator applies the definition of reconstruction based on the percentage of natural gas-driven pumps replaced, reconstruction occurs when greater than 50 percent of the natural gas-driven pumps in the affected facility are replaced. The percentage includes all natural gas-driven pumps which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 24-month rolling period following December 6, 2022. If an owner or operator determines reconstruction based on the percentage of natural gas-driven pumps that are replaced, the owner or operator must comply with § 60.15(a).


(3) A natural gas-driven pump that is in operation less than 90 days per calendar year is not part of an affected facility under this subpart. For the purposes of this section, any period of operation during a calendar day counts toward the 90-calendar day threshold.


(i) Each fugitive emissions components affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site, centralized production facility, or a compressor station.


(1) For purposes of § 60.5397b and § 60.5398b, a “modification” to a well site occurs when:


(i) A new well is drilled at an existing well site;


(ii) A well at an existing well site is hydraulically fractured; or


(iii) A well at an existing well site is hydraulically refractured.


(2) For purposes of § 60.5397b and § 60.5398b, a “modification” to centralized production facility occurs when:


(i) Any of the actions in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section occurs at an existing centralized production facility;


(ii) A well sending production to an existing centralized production facility is modified, as defined in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section; or


(iii) A well site subject to the requirements of § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b removes all major production and processing equipment, such that it becomes a wellhead only well site and sends production to an existing centralized production facility.


(3) For purposes of §§ 60.5397b and 60.5398b, a “modification” to a compressor station occurs when:


(i) An additional compressor is installed at a compressor station; or


(ii) One or more compressors at a compressor station is replaced by one or more compressors of greater total horsepower than the compressor(s) being replaced. When one or more compressors is replaced by one or more compressors of an equal or smaller total horsepower than the compressor(s) being replaced, installation of the replacement compressor(s) does not trigger a modification of the compressor station for purposes of §§ 60.5397b and 60.5398b.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62888, Aug. 1, 2024]






