# § 641.565   What policies govern the provision of wages and benefits to participants?

(a) *Wages.* (1)(i) Grantees and sub-recipients must pay participants the highest applicable required wage for time spent in orientation, training, and community service assignments.


(ii) SCSEP participants may be paid the highest applicable required wage while receiving WIOA career services.


(2) The highest applicable required wage is either the minimum wage applicable under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; the State or local minimum wage for the most nearly comparable covered employment; or the prevailing rate of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer.


(3) Grantees and sub-recipients must make any adjustments to minimum wage rates payable to participants as may be required by Federal, State, or local statute during the grant term.


(b) *Benefits*—(1) *Required benefits.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, grantees and sub-recipients must ensure that participants receive such benefits as are required by law.


(i) Grantees and sub-recipients must provide benefits uniformly to all participants within a project or subproject, unless the Department agrees to waive this provision due to a determination that such a waiver is in the best interests of applicants, participants, and project administration.


(ii) Grantees and sub-recipients must offer participants the opportunity to receive physical examinations annually.


(A) Physical examinations are a benefit, and not an eligibility criterion. The examining physician must provide, to the participant only, a written report of the results of the examination.


(B) Participants may choose not to accept the physical examination. In that case, the grantee or sub-recipient must document this refusal, through a signed statement, within 60 workdays after commencement of the community service assignment. Each year thereafter, grantees and sub-recipients must offer the physical examination and document the offer and any participant's refusal.


(C) Grantees and sub-recipients may use SCSEP funds to pay the costs of physical examinations.


(iii) When participants are not covered by the State workers' compensation law, the grantee or sub-recipient must provide participants with workers' compensation benefits equal to those provided by law for covered employment. OAA § 504(b).


(iv) If required by State law, grantees/sub-recipients must provide unemployment compensation coverage for participants.


(v) Grantees and sub-recipients must provide compensation for scheduled work hours during which a host agency's business is closed for a Federal holiday, which may be paid or in the form of rescheduled work time.


(vi) Grantees and sub-recipients must provide necessary sick leave that is not part of an accumulated sick leave program, which may be paid or in the form of rescheduled work time.


(2) *Prohibited wage and benefits costs.* (i) Participants may not carry over allowable benefits from one Program Year to the next;


(ii) Grantees and sub-recipients may not provide payment or otherwise compensate participants for unused benefits such as sick leave or holidays;


(iii) Grantees and sub-recipients may not use SCSEP funds to cover costs associated with the following participant benefits:


(A) Retirement. Grantees and sub-recipients may not use SCSEP funds to provide contributions into a retirement system or plan, or to pay the cost of pension benefits for program participants.


(B) Annual leave.


(C) Accumulated sick leave.


(D) Bonuses. (OAA § 502(c)(6)(A)(i)).



---

[N] [75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]




