# § 292.24   Determination of compliance and noncompliance.

(a) *Compliance.* Landowners may request a determination by the Forest Service as to whether an existing or a proposed use or development complies with the relevant standards set out in this subpart.


(1) Requests for a determination of compliance must be made in writing to the Ranger and include the following information:


(i) The current land category to which the land is assigned (§ 292.23);


(ii) The use of development that exists or that is proposed for the property;


(iii) A statement as to whether a change in the land category assignment will be necessary to accommodate the proposed use or development;


(iv) The timeframe for implementing the proposed use or development; and


(v) A statement as to how the proposed use or development satisfies the relevant standards of § 292.23 of this subpart.


(2) The Ranger shall review the request and notify the landowner in writing within 45 days whether the existing or proposed use or development is in compliance with § 292.23 of this subpart. The Ranger may extend the time for making a compliance determination by 30 days if additional information is needed.


(b) *Noncompliance.* (1) In the event that the Forest Service determines that an existing or proposed use of development is not in compliance with the standards of § 292.23 of this subpart, the Ranger shall give the landowner written notice of the manner and nature of noncompliance. To the extent practicable, the notice will include suggestions for achieving compliance. The notice also must include a statement that the violation of a standard or standards and the failure to cure such violation may result in the initiation of condemnation proceedings by the Secretary.


(2) The Forest Service may initiate a noncompliance determination on its own without having first received a landowner request.


(c) *Written petition.* The landowner may file a written petition with the Forest Supervisor for a review of a decision of compliance or noncompliance. The Forest Supervisor shall render a decision within 30 days of the receipt of the petition. A decision by the Forest Supervisor constitutes the final administrative determination by the Department of Agriculture. Petitions of decisions on lands within the Rapid River Wild and Scenic River Corridor should be addressed to the Forest Supervisor, Nez Perce National Forest, Route 2, P.O. Box 475, Grangeville, Idaho 83450. All other petitions should be addressed to the Forest Supervisor, Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, P.O. Box 907, Baker City, Oregon 97814.




