# § 63.8595   How do I conduct performance tests and establish operating limits?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you.


(b) Before conducting the performance test, you must install and calibrate all monitoring equipment.


(c) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in § 63.7 and under the specific conditions in Table 4 to this subpart. Stacks to be tested at sanitaryware manufacturing facilities shall be limited to products of combustion (POC) stacks and not include cooling stacks.


(d) Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to you based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(e) You must conduct at least three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must last at least 1 hour.


(f) You must use the data gathered during the performance test and the equations in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section to determine compliance with the emission limitations.


(1) To determine compliance with the production-based particulate matter (PM) and mercury (Hg) emission limits for ceramic tile roller kilns and sanitaryware tunnel kilns in Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate your mass emissions per unit of production for each test run using Equation 1:


(2) To determine compliance with the PM emission limits for ceramic tile glaze lines with glaze spraying and sanitaryware glaze spray booths in Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate your mass emissions per unit of first-fire glaze sprayed (dry weight basis) for each test run using Equation 2:


(3) To determine compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limits for tunnel and roller kilns, ceramic tile spray dryers, and floor tile press dryers in Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate the sum of the 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD) toxic equivalents (TEQs) for each test run using Equation 3:


(4) To determine compliance with the health-based standard for acid gas HAP for clay ceramics manufacturing facilities in Table 1 to this subpart, you must:


(i) Calculate the HCl-equivalent emissions for HF and HCl for each tunnel or roller kiln at your facility using Equation 4:


(ii) If you have multiple tunnel or roller kilns at your facility, sum the HCl-equivalent values for all tunnel or roller kilns at the facility using Equation 5:


(iii) Compare this value to the health-based standard in Table 1 to this subpart.


(g) You must establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you as specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section and in Table 4 to this subpart.


(1)(i) If you do not have an APCD installed on your tunnel or roller kiln, you must calculate the maximum potential HCl-equivalent emissions for HF and HCl for each tunnel or roller kiln at your facility using Equation 6:


(ii) If you have multiple tunnel or roller kilns at your facility, sum the maximum potential HCl-equivalent values for all tunnel or roller kilns at the facility using Equation 7:


(iii) If you have a single tunnel or roller kiln at your facility and the total facility maximum potential HCl-equivalent emissions (E_max total_) are greater than the HCl-equivalent limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must determine the maximum process rate for the kiln using Equation 8 that would ensure the total facility maximum potential HCl-equivalent emissions remain at or below the HCl-equivalent limit. The maximum process rate would become your operating limit for process rate and must be included in your OM&M plan.


(iv) If you have multiple tunnel or roller kilns at your facility and the total facility maximum potential HCl-equivalent emissions (E_max total_) are greater than the HCl-equivalent limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must determine the combination of maximum process rates that would ensure that total facility maximum potential HCl-equivalent remains at or below the HCl-equivalent limit. The maximum process rates would become your operating limits for process rate and must be included in your OM&M plan.


(2) [Reserved]


(h)(1) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of § 63.8555 for PM or mercury, if you have more than one existing source in any subcategories located at your facility, you may demonstrate compliance by emissions averaging, if your averaged emissions are no higher than the applicable emission limit, according to the procedures in this section. You may not include new or reconstructed sources in an emissions average.


(2) For a group of two or more existing sources in the same subcategory that each vent to a separate stack, you may average PM or mercury emissions among existing units to demonstrate compliance with the limits in Table 1 to this subpart as specified in paragraph (h)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, if you satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (h)(3) and (4) of this section.


(i) You may average across existing sources in the same kiln type and size category (*e.g.,* roller or tunnel kilns, large or small kilns) and the same subcategory (*e.g.,* sanitaryware manual or spray machine or robot glaze application) where applicable;


(ii) You may not include a unit in the emissions average if the unit shares a common stack with units in other subcategories;


(iii) You may not include spray dryers or press dryers in the emissions average; and


(iv) You may not average between different types of pollutants.


(3) The averaged emissions rate from the existing sources participating in the emissions averaging option must not exceed the limits in Table 1 to this subpart at all times the affected units are subject to numeric emission limits following the compliance date specified in § 63.8545.


(4)(i) You must demonstrate initial compliance using the maximum process rate and the results of the initial performance tests.


(ii) You must use Equation 9 of this section to demonstrate that the PM or mercury emissions from all existing units participating in the emissions averaging option for that pollutant do not exceed the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart.


(5) You must develop and submit upon request to the applicable Administrator for review and approval, an implementation plan for emissions averaging according to the following procedures and requirements in paragraphs (h)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) If requested, you must submit the implementation plan no later than 180 days before the date that the facility intends to demonstrate compliance using the emissions averaging option.


(ii) You must include the information contained in paragraphs (h)(5)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section in your implementation plan for all emission sources included in an emissions average:


(A) The identification of all existing sources in the averaging group, including for each either the applicable HAP emissions level or the control technology installed and the date on which you are requesting emissions averaging to commence;


(B) The specific control technology or pollution prevention measure to be used for each source in the averaging group and the date of its installation or application. If the pollution prevention measure reduces or eliminates emissions from multiple sources, the owner or operator must identify each source;


(C) The test plan for the measurement of emissions in accordance with the requirements in this section; and


(D) The operating parameters to be monitored for each control system or device consistent with § 63.8555 and Table 2 to this subpart, and a description of how the operating limits will be determined.


(iii) If submitted upon request, the Administrator shall review and approve or disapprove the plan according to the following criteria:


(A) Whether the content of the plan includes all of the information specified in paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section; and


(B) Whether the plan presents sufficient information to determine that compliance will be achieved and maintained.


(iv) The applicable Administrator shall not approve an emissions averaging implementation plan containing any of the following provisions:


(A) Any averaging between emissions of differing pollutants or between differing sources; or


(B) The inclusion of any emission source other than an existing unit in the same subcategories.


(i) For each affected source that is subject to the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is equipped with an APCD that is not addressed in Table 2 to this subpart or that is using process changes as a means of meeting the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in § 63.8(f) and paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Submit a request for approval of alternative monitoring procedures to the Administrator no later than the notification of intent to conduct a performance test. The request must contain the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) A description of the alternative APCD or process changes.


(ii) The type of monitoring device or procedure that will be used.


(iii) The operating parameters that will be monitored.


(iv) The frequency that the operating parameter values will be determined and recorded to establish continuous compliance with the operating limits.


(2) Establish site-specific operating limits during the performance test based on the information included in the approved alternative monitoring procedures request and, as applicable, as specified in Table 4 to this subpart.



---

[N] [80 FR 65543, Oct. 26, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 58606, Nov. 1, 2019]




