# § 27.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.27, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 27, Importation of Distilled Spirits, and Beer.


*Beer.* Beer, ale porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages (including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing one-half of 1 percent or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor.


*Bonded premises—distilled spirits plant.* The premises of a distilled spirits plant, or part thereof, on which distilled spirits operations defined in 26 U.S.C. 5002 are authorized to be conducted. This term includes premises described in the preceding sentence even if the distilled spirits plant proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 19.151(d) of this chapter, has not provided a bond for the premises.


*Bonded wine cellar.* Premises established under part 24 of this chapter.


*Brewery.* The land and buildings described in the brewer's notice, TTB Form 5130.10, where beer is to be produced and packaged.


*Bulk container.* When used in the context of distilled spirits, the term “bulk container” means any container having a capacity larger than one wine gallon. When used in the context of wine, the term “bulk container” means any container having a capacity larger than 60 liters. When used in the context of beer, the term “bulk container” means any container having a capacity larger than one barrel of 31 gallons.


*Bulk distilled spirits.* The term “bulk distilled spirits” means distilled spirits in a container having a capacity in excess of 1 gallon.


*CFR.* The Code of Federal Regulations.


*Class 8 Customs bonded warehouse.* A class 8 customs bonded warehouse established under the provisions of the customs regulations (19 CFR chapter I).

*Customs officer.* An officer of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or any agent or other person authorized by law to perform the duties of such an officer.


*Distilled spirits or spirits.* That substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine, and all mixtures or dilutions thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced, including alcohol, whisky, brandy, gin, rum, and vodka, but not including wine as defined in this subpart.


*Distilled spirits plant.* An establishment qualified under the provisions of part 19 of this chapter for the production, storage, or processing of spirits, or for authorized combinations of such operations.


*Effective tax rate.* The net tax rate after reduction for any credit allowable under 26 U.S.C. 5010 for wine and flavor content at which the tax imposed on distilled spirits by 26 U.S.C. 5001 is paid or determined.


*Eligible flavor.* A flavor which:


(1) Is of a type that is eligible for drawback of tax under 26 U.S.C. 5114,


(2) Was not manufactured on the premises of a distilled spirits plant, and


(3) Was not subjected to distillation on distilled spirits plant premises such that the flavor does not remain in the finished product.


*Eligible wine.* Wine on which tax would be imposed by paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of 26 U.S.C. 5041(b) but for its removal to distilled spirits plant premises and which has not been subject to distillation at a distilled spirits plant after receipt in bond. 

For purposes of this definition, the phrase “receipt in bond” applies to wine on which tax has not been determined or paid that is received by the proprietor of a distilled spirits plant, even if the proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 19.151(d) of this chapter, is not required to provide a bond for the premises where the wine is received.


*Gallon or wine gallon.* The liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches. For purposes of this definition, the phrase “receipt in bond” applies to wine on which tax has not been determined or paid that is received by the proprietor of a distilled spirits plant, even if the proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 19.151(d) of this chapter, is not required to provide a bond for the premises where the wine is received.


*Hard cider.* A wine that meets the eligibility requirements set forth in § 24.331 for the hard cider tax rate set forth in § 24.270.


*Importer.* Any person who imports distilled spirits, wines, or beer into the United States.


*IRC registry number.* The number assigned by TTB to each distilled spirits plant, bonded wine cellar, taxpaid wine bottling house, bonded wine warehouse, or brewery upon approval of an application made pursuant to Internal Revenue Code of 1986 requirements (26 U.S.C. 5171, 5351-5353, or 5401).


*Kind.* As applied to spirits, kind shall mean class and type as prescribed in 27 CFR part 5. As applied to wines, kind shall mean the classes and types of wines as prescribed in 27 CFR part 4.


*Liquor bottle.* A bottle made of glass or earthenware, or of other suitable material approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which has been designed or is intended for use as a container for distilled spirits for sale for beverage purposes and which has been determined by the appropriate TTB officer to adequately protect the revenue.


*Natural wine.* The product of the juice or must of sound, ripe grapes or other sound, ripe fruit (including berries) made with any proper cellar treatment and containing not more than 21 percent by weight (21 degrees Brix dealcoholized wine) of total solids. For purposes of this definition, “proper cellar treatment” means a production practice or procedure authorized for natural wine by part 24 of this chapter, or, in the case of natural wine produced and imported subject to an international agreement or treaty, those practices and procedures acceptable to the United States under that agreement or treaty.


*Person.* An individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, an association, a company, or a corporation.


*Proof.* The ethyl alcohol content of a liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, stated as twice the percent of ethyl alcohol by volume.


*Proof gallon.* A gallon of liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit which contains 50 percent by volume of ethyl alcohol having a specific gravity of 0.7939 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity, or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*Proof liter.* A liter of liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit which contains 50 percent by volume of ethyl alcohol having a specific gravity of 0.7939 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*United States.* “United States” includes only the States and the District of Columbia.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.


*Wine.* (a) Still wine, including vermouth or other aperitif wine, artificial or imitation wines or compounds sold as still wines, champagne or sparkling wine, and artificially carbonated wine, and (b) flavored or sweetened fortified or unfortified wines, by whatever name sold or offered for sale, containing not over 24 percent alcohol by volume.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-48, 43 FR 13552, Mar. 31, 1978]


