# ยง 4284.1002   Organization of subpart.

The information in this subpart is organized into seven main topics:


(a) *General information.* Sections 4284.1001 through 4284.1019 discuss the purpose of the program, definitions, exception authority, conflict of interest, and compliance with other laws and regulations.


(b) *Eligibility information.* Sections 4284.1020 through 4284.1029 discuss the eligibility requirements for the program. These sections include information on applicant eligibility, project eligibility, and the use of funds. See ยง 4284.1022 for information about the award amounts, Period of Performance, and Matching Funds requirements.


(c) *Application requirements information.* Sections 4284.1030 through 4284.1039 discuss the requirements for submitting an application. These sections include information on what forms and other information are required for a complete application as well as the format of the application, the application deadline, and how to submit the application.


(d) *Application processing information.* Sections 4284.1040 through 4284.1049 discuss how the Agency will process applications. These sections include information on how applications will be reviewed for eligibility, how applications will be evaluated for merit, and how an applicant can withdraw an application from consideration.


(e) *Award information.* Sections 4284.1050 through 4284.1059 discuss how the Agency will make awards. These sections include information about how applications will be selected for funding, how applicants will be notified whether their applications have been selected for funding, how applicants can resolve disputes regarding funding selections, and the requirements for an applicant to accept an award and be approved as a Recipient of an award.


(f) *Post-award information.* Sections 4284.1060 through 4284.1061 discuss the reporting requirements for Recipients after an award is approved as well as monitoring procedures that the Agency will use.


(g) *Other.* (1) Sections 4284.1062 through 4284.1099 are reserved.


(2) Section 4284.1100 includes the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number for reporting and recordkeeping requirements under this subpart.






