# § 109-1.100-51   Definitions and acronyms.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this chapter, the terms *personal property* and *property* are synonymous. In addition, the following definitions apply:


*Accountable Personal Property* includes nonexpendable personal property whose expected useful life is two years or longer and whose acquisition value, as determined by the agency, warrants tracking in the agency's property records, including capitalized and sensitive personal property. 41 CFR 102-35.20.


*Administratively controlled items* means personal property controlled at the discretion of individual DOE offices, but for which there is no DOE requirement to maintain formal records.


*Cannibalization* means to remove serviceable parts from one item of equipment in order to install them on another item of equipment (48 CFR Subpart 45.101).


*Capitalized Personal Property* includes property that is entered on the agency's general ledger records as a major investment or asset. An agency must determine its capitalization thresholds as discussed in Financial Accounting Standard Advisory Board (FASAB) Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards No. 6, 41 CFR 102-35.20; DOE Financial Management Handbook.


*Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)* means the Unclassified information that is controlled within DOE because its release could cause damage. CUI within DOE encompasses Official Use Only (OUO) and Unclassified Nuclear Information (UCNI). OUO includes information such as Personally Identifiable Information, Export Controlled Information, proprietary information, and other information not covered by other DOE directives. CUI is governed by Executive Order 13556 and is a developing Government-wide policy, Controlled Unclassified Information, which will mandate uniform standards for the control of unclassified information within the Government.


*Designated contractors* means those on-site DOE contractors to which the DOE-PMR is made applicable when included as a contractual requirement. The contractors to which these regulations may be made applicable include management and operating (M&O) contractors, environmental management, and other major prime contractors located at DOE sites.


*Direct operations* means operations conducted by DOE personnel.


*Disposal* means the process of reutilizing, transferring, donating, selling, abandoning, destroying, or other disposition of Government-owned personal property.


*Dual-Use List* means nuclear-related material, equipment, and related technology as described in the Nuclear Suppliers Group Dual-Use List as published in International Atomic Energy Agency Information Circular (INFCIRC) 254 Part 2 and as implemented by the Department of Commerce in the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 774).


*Equipment* means a tangible asset that is functionally complete for its intended purpose, durable, nonexpendable, and needed for the performance of a contract. Equipment is not intended for sale, and does not ordinarily lose its identity or become a component part of another article when put into use (48 CFR Subpart 45.101).


*Especially designed or prepared property* means equipment and material designed or prepared especially for use in the nuclear fuel cycle and described in the Nuclear Suppliers Group Trigger List as published in International Atomic Energy Agency INFCIRC 254 Part 1 and as implemented by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR part 110.


*Excess Property* means property that is no longer required to carry out the Department of Energy's needs, but for purposes of this regulation, such property has not been reported to the General Services Administration as excess property under 41 CFR 102-36.35.


*Export controlled information* means unclassified U.S. Government information under DOE cognizance that, if proposed for export by the private sector, would require a U.S. Department of Commerce or U.S. Department of State validated license, or a DOE authorization for export, and which, if given uncontrolled release, could reasonably be expected to adversely affect U.S. national security or nuclear nonproliferation objectives.


*Export controlled property* means property the export of which is subject to licensing by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or authorized by the U.S. Department of Energy.


*Hazardous personal property* means property that is deemed a hazardous material, chemical substance or mixture, or hazardous waste under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (HMTA) (49 U.S.C. 5101), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. 6901-6981), or the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 2601-2609). 41 CFR 102-36.40.


*High risk personal property* means property that, because of its potential impact on public health and safety, the environment, national security interests, or proliferation concerns, must be controlled, and disposed of in other than the routine manner. The categories of high risk property are automatic data processing equipment, especially designed or prepared property, export controlled information, export controlled property, hazardous property, nuclear weapon components or weapon-like components, proliferation sensitive property, radioactive property, special nuclear material, and unclassified controlled nuclear information.


*Information Technology.* (i) With respect to an executive agency means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency, if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency that requires the use—


(A) Of that equipment; or


(B) Of that equipment to a significant extent in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product;


(ii) Includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources; but


(iii) Does not include any equipment acquired by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract. 40 U.S.C. 11101.


*Munitions List Items (MLIs)* are commodities (usually defense articles/defense services) listed in the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (22 CFR part 121), published by the U.S. Department of State. 41 CFR 102-36.40.


*Nuclear weapon component or weapon-like component* means parts of whole war reserve nuclear weapon systems, joint test assemblies, trainers, or test devices, including associated testing, maintenance, and handling equipment; or items that simulate such parts.


*Organizational Property Management Officers* means establish and administer personal property management programs within their organizations consistent with applicable laws, regulations, practices, and standards.


*Personal property* means any property, except real property. For purposes of this part, the term excludes records of the Federal Government, and naval vessels of the following categories: Battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines. 102-36.40.


*Program Secretarial Officer* (PSO) Assistant Secretaries/Program Element Heads.


*Proliferation-sensitive property* means nuclear-related or dual-use equipment, material, or technology as described in the Nuclear Suppliers Group Trigger List and Dual-Use List, or equipment, material or technology used in the research, design, development, testing, or production of nuclear or other weapons.


*Property Administrator* means an authorized representative of the contracting officer appointed in accordance with agency procedures, responsible for administering the contract requirements and obligations relating to Government property in the possession of a contractor FAR 45-101.


*Property management* means the system of acquiring, maintaining, using and disposing of the personal property of an organization or entity. 102-35.20.


*Radioactive property* means any item or material that is contaminated with radioactivity and which emits ionizing radiation in excess of background radiation as measured by appropriate instrumentation.


*Sensitive Personal Property* includes all items, regardless of value, that require special control and accountability due to unusual rates of loss, theft or misuse, or due to national security or export control considerations. Such property includes weapons, ammunition, explosives, information technology equipment with memory capability, cameras, and communications equipment. These classifications do not preclude agencies from specifying additional personal property classifications to effectively manage their programs. 41 CFR 102-35.20.


*Spare equipment/property* means items held as replacement spares for equipment in current use in DOE program.


*Special nuclear material* means plutonium, uranium 233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or 235, any other materials which the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, determines to be special nuclear material, or any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing, but does not include source material.


*Trigger List* means nuclear material, equipment, and related technology as described in International Atomic Energy Agency in INFCIRC 254, Part 1 and as implemented by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR part 110.


*Unclassified controlled nuclear information* means U.S. Government information pertaining to atomic energy defense activities as defined in section 148 of the Atomic Energy Act. Such information can relate to aspects of nuclear weapons design, development, testing, physical security, production, or utilization facilities. 10 CFR part 1017.


(b) *Acronyms.* As used in this chapter, the following acronyms apply:


