# § 4262.11   PBGC action on applications.

(a) *In general.* Within 120 days after the date an initial, revised, or supplemented application for special financial assistance is properly and timely filed, PBGC will—


(1) Approve the application and notify the plan sponsor of the payment of special financial assistance in accordance with § 4262.12; or


(2) Deny the application because—


(i) The application is incomplete, and notify the plan sponsor of the missing information; or


(ii) An assumption is unreasonable, a proposed change in assumption is individually unreasonable, or the proposed changed assumptions are unreasonable in the aggregate, and notify the plan sponsor of the reasons for the determination; or


(iii) The plan is not an eligible multiemployer plan, and notify the plan sponsor of the reasons the plan fails to be eligible for special financial assistance; or


(3) Fail to act on the application, in which case the application is deemed approved, and notify the plan sponsor of the payment of special financial assistance in accordance with § 4262.12.


(b) *Incomplete application.* PBGC will consider an application incomplete under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section unless the application accurately includes the information required to be filed under this part and the special financial assistance instructions on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov,* including any additional information that PBGC requires under § 4262.6(d).


(c) *Application base data.* For an eligible plan other than a plan described in § 4262.4(g)—


(1) A plan's base data are—


(i) The plan's SFA measurement date as defined under § 4262.2;


(ii) The plan's participant census data as required to be used under § 4262.4(d); and


(iii) The plan's non-SFA interest rate and SFA interest rate as determined under § 4262.4(e)(1) and (2).


(2) A plan's base data are fixed by the date the eligible plan's initial application for special financial assistance is filed and must be used for any revised application for the plan. If the plan was not eligible for special financial assistance on such date, the plan's base data will be fixed by the date the plan files a revised application and demonstrates eligibility for special financial assistance.


(d) *Withdrawn applications.* (1) A plan's application for special financial assistance may be withdrawn at any time before PBGC denies or approves the application.


(2) Any withdrawal of a plan's application must be by written notice to PBGC submitted by any person authorized to submit an application for the plan and in accordance with the special financial assistance instructions on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(3) An application submitted for a plan after the withdrawal of an application is a revised application.


(e) *Denied applications.* If PBGC denies a plan's application, an application submitted for a plan after the denial is a revised application. Any revised application must address the reasons cited by PBGC for the denial.


(f) *Revised applications.* A plan's revised application is processed in the same way as an initial application and must comply with the requirements in this part for an initial application except that it must use the base data required in paragraph (c) of this section for the initial application.


(g) *Final agency action.* PBGC's decision on an application for special financial assistance under this section is a final agency action under § 4003.22(b) of this chapter for purposes of judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701 *et seq.*).






