# ยง 73.5   Exemptions for HHS select agents and toxins.

(a) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer a HHS select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for diagnosis or verification will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:


(1) Unless directed otherwise by the HHS Secretary, within seven calendar days after identification of the select agent or toxin (except for Botulinum neurotoxin and/or *Staphylococcal* enterotoxin (Subtypes A-E)), or within 30 calendar days after identification of Botulinum neurotoxin and/or *Staphylococcal* enterotoxin (Subtypes A-E), the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with ยง 73.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process,


(2) The select agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the select agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and any theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported, and


(3) Unless otherwise directed by the HHS Secretary, the clinical or diagnostic specimens collected from a patient infected with a select agent are transferred in accordance with ยง 73.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process within seven calendar days after delivery of patient care by health care professionals has concluded, and


(4) The identification of the agent or toxin is reported to CDC or APHIS, the specimen provider, and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law by telephone, facsimile, or email. This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 to APHIS or CDC within seven calendar days after identification.


(i) The identification of any of the following HHS select agents or toxins must be immediately reported by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail: *Bacillus cereus* Biovar *anthracis,*, Botulinum neurotoxins, Botulinum neurotoxin producing species of *Clostridium*, Ebola viruses, *Francisella tularensis,* Marburg virus, Variola major virus (Smallpox virus), Variola minor (Alastrim), or Yersinia pestis. This report must be followed by submission of APHIS/CDC Form 4 within seven calendar days after identification.


(ii) For all other HHS select agents or toxins, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within seven calendar days after identification.


(iii) Less stringent reporting may be required based on extraordinary circumstances, such as a widespread outbreak.


(iv) A copy of APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be maintained for three years.


(b) Clinical or diagnostic laboratories and other entities that possess, use, or transfer a HHS select agent or toxin that is contained in a specimen presented for proficiency testing will be exempt from the requirements of this part for such agent or toxin contained in the specimen, provided that:


(1) Unless directed otherwise by the HHS Secretary, within 90 calendar days of receipt, the select agent or toxin is transferred in accordance with ยง 73.16 or destroyed on-site by a recognized sterilization or inactivation process,


(2) The select agent or toxin is secured against theft, loss, or release during the period between identification of the select agent or toxin and transfer or destruction of such agent or toxin, and the theft, loss, or release of such agent or toxin is reported, and


(3) The identification of the select agent or toxin, and its derivative, is reported to CDC or APHIS and to other appropriate authorities when required by Federal, State, or local law. To report the identification of a select agent or toxin, APHIS/CDC Form 4 must be submitted within 90 calendar days of receipt of the select agent or toxin. A copy of the completed form must be maintained for three years.


(c) Unless the HHS Secretary issues an order making specific provisions of this part applicable to protect public health and safety, products that are, bear, or contain listed select agents or toxins that are cleared, approved, licensed, or registered under any of the following laws, are exempt from the provisions of this part insofar as their use meets the requirements of such laws:


(1) The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*),


(2) Section 351 of the Public Health Service Act pertaining to biological products (42 U.S.C. 262),


(3) The Act commonly known as the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151-159), or


(4) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 *et seq.*).


(d) The HHS Secretary may exempt from the requirements of this part an investigational product that is, bears, or contains a select agent or toxin, when such product is being used in an investigation authorized under any Federal Act and additional regulation under this part is not necessary to protect public health and safety.


(1) To apply for an exemption, an individual or entity must submit a completed APHIS/CDC Form 5.


(2) The HHS Secretary shall make a determination regarding the application within 14 calendar days after receipt, provided the application meets all of the requirements of this section and the application establishes that the investigation has been authorized under the cited Act. A written decision granting or denying the request will be issued.


(3) The applicant must notify CDC or APHIS when an authorization for an investigation no longer exists. This exemption automatically terminates when such authorization is no longer in effect.


(e) The HHS Secretary may temporarily exempt an individual or entity from the requirements of this part based on a determination that the exemption is necessary to provide for the timely participation of the individual or entity in response to a domestic or foreign public health emergency. With respect to the emergency involved, the exemption may not exceed 30 calendar days, except that one extension of an additional 30 calendar days may be granted.



---

[N] [70 FR 13316, Mar. 18, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 61366, Oct. 16, 2008; 77 FR 61112, Oct. 5, 2012; 82 FR 6292, Jan. 19, 2017]




