# § 98.247   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the recordkeeping requirements in § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable.


(a) If you comply with the CEMS measurement methodology in § 98.243(b), then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37, records of the procedures used to develop estimates of the fraction of total emissions attributable to petrochemical processing and combustion of petrochemical process off-gas as required in § 98.246(b), and records of any annual average HHV calculations.


(b) If you comply with the mass balance methodology in § 98.243(c), then you must retain records of the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Results of feedstock or product composition determinations conducted in accordance with § 98.243(c)(4).


(2) Start and end times for time periods when off-specification product is produced, if you comply with the alternative methodology in § 98.243(c)(4) for determining carbon content of product.


(3) As part of the monitoring plan required under § 98.3(g)(5), record the estimated accuracy of measurement devices and the technical basis for these estimates.


(4) The dates and results (*e.g.,* percent calibration error) of the calibrations of each measurement device.


(c) If you comply with the combustion methodology in § 98.243(d), then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the applicable Tier Calculation Methodologies in § 98.37. If you comply with § 98.243(d)(2), you must also keep records of the annual average flow calculations.


(d) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (30) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (d)(1) through (30) of this section.


(1) Indicate whether the feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation X-1 of § 98.243).


(2) Indicate whether you used the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) (Equation X-1).


(3) Volume of gaseous feedstock introduced per month (scf) (Equation X-1).


(4) Mass of gaseous feedstock introduced per month (kg) (Equation X-1).


(5) Average carbon content of the gaseous feedstock per month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (Equation X-1).


(6) Molecular weight of gaseous feedstock per month (kg per kg-mole) (Equation X-1).


(7) Indicate whether the gaseous product is measured as mass or volume (Equation X-1).


(8) Volume of gaseous product produced per month (scf) (Equation X-1).


(9) Mass of gaseous product produced per month (kg) (Equation X-1).


(10) Average carbon content of gaseous product (including streams containing CO_2_ recovered for sale or use in another process) per month (kg C per kg of product) (Equation X-1).


(11) Molecular weight of gaseous product per month (kg per kg-mole) (Equation X-1).


(12) Molar volume conversion factor of product (scf per kg-mole) (Equation X-1).


(13) Indicate whether feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation X-2 of § 98.243).


(14) Indicate whether you used the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) (Equation X-2).


(15) Volume of liquid feedstock introduced per month (gallons) (Equation X-2).


(16) Mass of liquid feedstock introduced per month (kg) (Equation X-2).


(17) Average carbon content of liquid feedstock per month (kg C per gallon) (Equation X-2).


(18) Average carbon content of liquid feedstock per month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (Equation X-2).


(19) Indicate whether product is measured as mass or volume per month (Equation X-2).


(20) Volume of liquid product produced per month (gallons) (Equation X-2).


(21) Mass of liquid product produced per month (kg) (Equation X-2).


(22) Average carbon content of liquid product per month, including organic liquid wastes (kg C per gallon) (Equation X-2).


(23) Average carbon content of liquid product, including organic liquid wastes (kg C per kg of product) (Equation X-2).


(24) Indicate whether you used the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) (Equation X-3 of § 98.243).


(25) Mass of solid feedstock introduced per month (kg) (Equation X-3).


(26) Average carbon content of solid feedstock per month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (Equation X-3).


(27) Mass of solid product produced per month (kg) (Equation X-3).


(28) Average carbon content of solid product per month (kg C per kg of product) (Equation X-3).


(29) Records required in § 98.257(b)(1) through (8) of this section for each flare that burns ethylene process off-gas.


(30) Records required in § 98.37 for each stationary fuel combustion unit (or group of stationary sources with a common pipe) that burns ethylene process off-gas, except flares.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79160, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71962, Nov. 29, 2013; 79 FR 63794, Oct. 24, 2014; 81 FR 89261, Dec. 9, 2016]




