# § 184.1754   Sodium diacetate.

(a) Sodium diacetate (C_4_H_7_O_4_Na·xH_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 126-96-5) is a molecular compound of acetic acid, sodium acetate, and water of hydration. The technical grade is prepared synthetically by reacting sodium carbonate with acetic acid. Special grades are produced by reacting anhydrous sodium acetate and acetic acid.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 284, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) The ingredient is used as an antimicrobial agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(2) of this chapter; flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; and pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter.


(d) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, 0.4 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.1 percent for fats and oils as defined in § 170.3(n)(12) of this chapter, meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter and soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; 0.25 percent for gravies and sauces as defined in § 170.3(n)(24) of this chapter; and 0.05 percent for snack foods as defined in § 170.3(n)(37) of this chapter and soups and soup mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(40) of this chapter.


(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [47 FR 27815, June 25, 1982]




