# ยง 764.254   Rates and terms.

(a) *Rates.* (1) The interest rate is the Agency's Direct Operating Loan rate, available in each Agency office.


(2) The limited resource Operating Loan interest rate is available to applicants who are unable to develop a feasible plan at regular interest rates.


(3) The interest rate charged will be the lower rate in effect at the time of loan approval or loan closing.


(4) The Agency's Direct ML-OL interest rate on an ML to a beginning farmer or veteran farmer is available in each Agency office. The interest rate will be the lower of the regular direct OL interest rate in effect at the time of loan approval or loan closing, or 5 percent.




















(b) *Terms.* (1) The Agency schedules repayment of OL loans made for annual farm operating and family living expenses when planned income is projected to be available.


(i) The term of the loan may not exceed 24 months from the date of the note, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.




(ii) The term of the loan may exceed 24 months in unusual situations such as establishing a new enterprise, developing a farm, purchasing feed while crops are being established, marketing plans, or recovery from a disaster or economic reverse. In no event will the term of the loan exceed 7 years from the date of the note. Crops and livestock produced for sale will not be considered adequate security for such loans.


(2) The standard repayment term of all other OLs must be equal to the useful life of the security or 7 years, whichever is less. Repayment terms less than the standard term must be requested by the applicant in writing. In no event will the term of the loan exceed 7 years from the date of the note. Repayment schedules may include equal installments, or unequal or balloon installments if needed to establish a new enterprise, develop a farm, recover from a disaster or economic reversal, or reasonably increase cash flow margin to increase working capital reserves and savings, including reasonable savings for retirement and education. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, repayment schedules must be designed to ensure the loan is fully secured for the life of the loan. Loans with balloon installments:


(i) Must be secured by an amount projected at the time of loan closing to be at least equal to the direct loan balance outstanding at the time the balloon installment comes due, which may exceed the additional security requirements of ยง 764.103(c) of this chapter. Total loan security in excess of the requirements of this provision (paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section) will only be taken when it is not practicable to separate the security. Crops, livestock other than breeding stock, or livestock products produced are not adequate collateral for such loans.


(ii) Are only authorized when the applicant can project the ability to refinance or restructure the remaining debt at the time the balloon payment comes due based on the expected financial condition of the operation, the depreciated value of the collateral, and the principal balance on the loan.


(iii) Are not authorized when loan funds are used for real estate repairs or improvements.


(3) The first installment of an OL, for purposes other than annual farm operating and family living expenses, will be an interest-only installment scheduled 12 months from the date of loan closing. An alternative repayment agreement that schedules the first installment sooner than 12 months from the date of closing, or in an amount greater than interest-only, may be provided upon written request from the applicant, or if the Agency determines it necessary to ensure the loan is fully secured for the life of the loan.


(4) The minimum scheduled installments for the first 3 years of an OL, for purposes other than annual farm operating and family living expenses, must be the interest accrued on the principal balance. Interest-only installments may be permitted for additional years, if determined necessary by the Agency, to establish a new enterprise where production income is delayed, to develop a farm, or to recover from a disaster or economic reversal.



---

[N] [72 FR 63298, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 78694, Dec. 31, 2014; 86 FR 43392, Aug. 9, 2021; 89 FR 65040, Aug. 8, 2024]










