# § 17.1205   Definitions.

For purposes of sections §§ 17.1200 through 17.1230:


*Acute suicidal crisis* means an individual was determined to be at imminent risk of self-harm by a trained crisis responder or health care provider.


*Crisis residential care* means emergent suicide care provided in a residential facility other than a hospital (that is not a personal residence) that provides 24-hour medical supervision.


*Crisis stabilization care* means, with respect to an individual in acute suicidal crisis, care that ensures, to the extent practicable, immediate safety and reduces: the severity of distress; the need for urgent care; or the likelihood that the severity of distress or need for urgent care will increase during the transfer of that individual from a facility at which the individual has received care for that acute suicidal crisis.


*Emergent suicide care* means crisis stabilization care provided to an individual eligible under § 17.1210 pursuant to a recommendation from the Veterans Crisis Line or when such individual has presented at a VA or non-VA facility in an acute suicidal crisis.


*Health care provider* means a VA or non-VA provider who is licensed to practice health care by a State and who is performing within the scope of their practice as defined by a State or VA practice standard.


*Health-plan contract* has the same meaning as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1725(f)(2).


*Inpatient care* means care received by an individual during their admission to a hospital.


*Non-VA facility* means a facility that meets the definition in 38 U.S.C. 1701(4).


*Outpatient care* means care received by an individual that is not described within the definition of “inpatient care” under this section to include telehealth, and without the provision of room or board.


*Provide, provided, or provision* means furnished directly by VA, paid for by VA, or reimbursed by VA.


*Trained crisis responder* means an individual who responds to emergency situations in the ordinary course of their employment and therefore can be presumed to possess adequate training in crisis intervention.


*VA facility* means a facility that meets the definition in 38 U.S.C. 1701(3).


*Veterans Crisis Line* means the hotline under 38 U.S.C. 1720F(h).






