# § 1308.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, unless otherwise provided: 


(a) The term *Act* means the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, 92 Stat. 2383-91. 


(b) The term *Board* means the TVA Board of Contract Appeals. 


(c) The term *claim* means a written demand by a Contractor, in compliance with this paragraph, for a decision by a Contracting Officer under a disputes clause. A claim must: 


(1) State the amount of monetary relief, or the kind of nonmonetary relief, sought, and identify the contract provision relied upon; 


(2) Include sufficient supporting data to permit the Contracting Officer to decide the claim, or provide appropriate reference to previously submitted data; 


(3) If monetary relief totalling more than $50,000 is involved, include a signed certification by the Contractor that the claim is made in good faith, that the supporting data are accurate and complete to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, and that the amount requested accurately reflects the contract adjustment for which the Contractor believes TVA is liable; 


(4) Be signed by the Contractor, or on its behalf if the Contractor is other than an individual. If signed on a Contractor's behalf, the claim must include evidence of the authority of the individual so signing it, and of the individual signing any certification required by this paragraph, unless such authority appears in the contract or contract file. 


(d) The term *contract* means an agreement in writing entered into by TVA for: 


(1) The procurement of property, other than real property in being; 


(2) The procurement of nonpersonal services; 


(3) The procurement of construction, alteration, repair or maintenance of real property; or 


(4) The disposal of personal property. The term “contract” does not include any TVA contract for the sale of fertilizer or electric power, or any TVA contract related to the conduct or operation of the electric power system. 


(e) The term *Contracting Officer* means TVA's Director of Purchasing, or duly authorized representative acting within the limits of the representative's authority. The TVA Purchasing Agent who administers a contract for TVA is designated as the duly authorized representative of the Director of Purchasing to act as Contracting Officer for all purposes in the administration of the contract (including, without limitation, decision of claims under the disputes clause). Such a designation continues until it is revoked or modified by written notice to the Contractor and the Purchasing Agent from TVA's Director of Purchasing. 


(f) The term *Contractor* means a party to a TVA contract which contains a disputes clause. The term “Contractor” does not include TVA. 


(g) The term *disputes clause* means a clause in a TVA contract requiring that a contract dispute be resolved through a TVA-conducted administrative process. It does not include, for example, arbitration provisions, or provisions specifying an independent third party to decide certain kinds of matters or special mechanisms to establish prices or price adjustments in contracts. 


(h) The term *Hearing Officer* means a member of the Board who has been designated to hear and determine a particular matter pending before the Board. 


(i) The term *TVA* means the Tennessee Valley Authority. 


(j) A term defined as in a contract subject to this part shall have the meaning given it in the contract. 




