# § 176.210   Award term—Recovery Act transactions listed in Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards and Recipient Responsibilities for Informing Subrecipients.

The award term described in this section shall be used by agencies to clarify recipient responsibilities regarding tracking and documenting Recovery Act expenditures:


(a) To maximize the transparency and accountability of funds authorized under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act) as required by Congress and in accordance with 2 CFR 215.21 “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements” and OMB Circular A-102 Common Rules provisions, recipients agree to maintain records that identify adequately the source and application of Recovery Act funds. OMB Circular A-102 is available at *http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a102/a102.html.*

(b) For recipients covered by the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 and OMB Circular A-133, “Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,” recipients agree to separately identify the expenditures for Federal awards under the Recovery Act on the Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards (SEFA) and the Data Collection Form (SF-SAC) required by OMB Circular A-133. OMB Circular A-133 is available at *http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a133/a133.html.* This shall be accomplished by identifying expenditures for Federal awards made under the Recovery Act separately on the SEFA, and as separate rows under Item 9 of Part III on the SF-SAC by CFDA number, and inclusion of the prefix “ARRA-” in identifying the name of the Federal program on the SEFA and as the first characters in Item 9d of Part III on the SF-SAC.


(c) Recipients agree to separately identify to each subrecipient, and document at the time of subaward and at the time of disbursement of funds, the Federal award number, CFDA number, and amount of Recovery Act funds. When a recipient awards Recovery Act funds for an existing program, the information furnished to subrecipients shall distinguish the subawards of incremental Recovery Act funds from regular subawards under the existing program.


(d) Recipients agree to require their subrecipients to include on their SEFA information to specifically identify Recovery Act funding similar to the requirements for the recipient SEFA described above. This information is needed to allow the recipient to properly monitor subrecipient expenditure of ARRA funds as well as oversight by the Federal awarding agencies, Offices of Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office.




