# § 63.504   Additional requirements for performance testing.

(a) Performance testing shall be conducted in accordance with § 63.7(a)(1), (a)(3), (d), (e)(1) and (2), (e)(4), (g), and (h), with the exceptions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section and the additions specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Sections 63.484 through 63.501 also contain specific testing requirements. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), conduct subsequent performance tests no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.




(1) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, performance tests shall be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions achievable during one of the time periods described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, without causing any of the situations described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section to occur. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.




(i) The 6-month period that ends 2 months before the Notification of Compliance Status is due, according to § 63.506(e)(5); or the 6-month period that begins 3 months before the performance test and ends 3 months after the performance test. 


(ii) Causing damage to equipment; necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand. 


(iii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator must conduct performance tests under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.






(2) References in § 63.7(g) to the Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.9(h) shall refer to the requirements in § 63.506(e)(5). 


(3) Because the site-specific test plans in § 63.7(c)(3) are not required, § 63.7(h)(4)(ii) is not applicable. 


(4) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intent to conduct a performance test at least 30 days before the performance test is scheduled, to allow the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present during the test. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement. 


(5) Performance tests shall be performed no later than 150 days after the compliance dates specified in this subpart (i.e., in time for the results to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status), rather than according to the time periods in § 63.7(a)(2). 


(b) Data shall be reduced in accordance with the EPA approved methods specified in the applicable subpart or, if other test methods are used, the data and methods shall be validated according to the protocol in Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A. 


(c) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, if an owner or operator of an affected source uses a flare to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP or TOC concentration. If a compliance demonstration has been conducted previously for a flare, using the techniques specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, that compliance demonstration may be used to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph if either no deliberate process changes have been made since the compliance demonstration, or the results of the compliance demonstration reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.




(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4); 


(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted, using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6); and 


(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8), as appropriate.


(4) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section no longer apply and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.

 



---

[N] [65 FR 38073, June 19, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 22592, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43256, May 16, 2024]




