# § 395.3   Maximum driving time for property-carrying vehicles.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in § 395.1, no motor carrier shall permit or require any driver used by it to drive a property-carrying commercial motor vehicle, nor shall any such driver drive a property-carrying commercial motor vehicle, regardless of the number of motor carriers using the driver's services, unless the driver complies with the following requirements:


(1) *Start of work shift.* A driver may not drive without first taking 10 consecutive hours off duty;


(2) *14-hour period.* A driver may not drive after a period of 14 consecutive hours after coming on-duty following 10 consecutive hours off-duty.


(3) *Driving time and interruptions of driving periods*—(i) *Driving time.* A driver may drive a total of 11 hours during the period specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(ii) *Interruption of driving time.* Except for drivers who qualify for either of the short-haul exceptions in § 395.1(e)(1) or (2), driving is not permitted if more than 8 hours of driving time have passed without at least a consecutive 30-minute interruption in driving status. A consecutive 30-minute interruption of driving status may be satisfied either by off-duty, sleeper berth or on-duty not driving time or by a combination of off-duty, sleeper berth and on-duty not driving time.


(b) No motor carrier shall permit or require a driver of a property-carrying commercial motor vehicle to drive, nor shall any driver drive a property-carrying commercial motor vehicle, regardless of the number of motor carriers using the driver's services, for any period after—


(1) Having been on duty 60 hours in any period of 7 consecutive days if the employing motor carrier does not operate commercial motor vehicles every day of the week; or


(2) Having been on duty 70 hours in any period of 8 consecutive days if the employing motor carrier operates commercial motor vehicles every day of the week.


(c)(1) Any period of 7 consecutive days may end with the beginning of an off-duty period of 34 or more consecutive hours.


(2) Any period of 8 consecutive days may end with the beginning of an off-duty period of 34 or more consecutive hours.



---

[N] [76 FR 81188, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 58485, Sept. 24, 2013; 78 FR 64181, Oct. 28, 2013; 84 FR 48081, Sept. 12, 2019; 85 FR 33452, June 1, 2020]




