# § 165.923   Regulated Navigation Area, Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, Romeoville, IL.

(a) *Regulated navigation area and regulations.* (1) The following is a regulated navigation area (RNA): All waters of the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, Romeoville, IL located between mile marker 295.5 and mile marker 297.2.


(2)(i) The general regulations contained in § 165.13 apply.


(ii) Vessels that comply with the following restrictions are permitted to transit the RNA:


(A) Vessels must be greater than 20 feet in length.


(B) Vessels must not be a personal or human powered watercraft (*i.e.,* jet skis, waver runners, kayaks, row boats, etc.).


(C) Vessels engaged in commercial service, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(5), may not pass (meet or overtake) in the RNA and must make a SECURITÉ call when approaching the RNA to announce intentions and work out passing arrangements.


(D) Commercial tows transiting the RNA must use wire rope or appropriate alternatives to ensure electrical connectivity between all segments of the tow.


(E) All vessels are prohibited from loitering in the RNA.


(F) Vessels may enter the RNA for the sole purpose of transiting to the other side and must maintain headway throughout the transit. All vessels and persons are prohibited from dredging, laying cable, dragging, fishing, conducting salvage operations, or any other activity, which could disturb the bottom of the RNA.


(G) Except for law enforcement and emergency response personnel, all personnel on vessels transiting the RNA should remain inside the cabin, or as inboard as practicable. If personnel must be on open decks, they must wear a Coast Guard approved personal flotation device.


(H) Vessels may not moor or lay up on the right or left descending banks of the RNA.


(I) Towboats may not make or break tows if any portion of the towboat or tow is located in the RNA.


(J) Persons onboard any vessel transiting the RNA in accordance with this rule or otherwise are advised they do so at their own risk.


(K) All vessels transiting the RNA are required to transit at a no wake speed but still maintain bare steerageway.


(L)(*1*) All vessels are prohibited from transiting the restricted navigation area with any non-potable water on board if they intend to release that water in any form within, or on the other side of the restricted navigation area. Non-potable water includes, but is not limited to, any water taken on board to control or maintain trim, draft, stability, or stresses of the vessel. Likewise, it includes any water taken on board due to free communication between the hull of the vessel and exterior water. Potable water is water treated and stored aboard the vessel that is suitable for human consumption.


(*2*) Vessels with non-potable water on board are permitted to transit the restricted navigation area if they have taken steps to prevent the release, in any form, of that water in or on the other side of the restricted navigation area. Alternatively, vessels with non-potable water on board are permitted to transit the restricted navigation area if they have plans to dispose of the water in a biologically sound manner.


(*3*) Vessels with non-potable water aboard that intend to discharge on the other side of the restricted navigation area must contact the Coast Guard's Ninth District Commander or his or her designated representatives prior to transit and obtain permission to transit and discharge. Examples of discharges that may be approved include plans to dispose of the water in a biologically sound manner or demonstrate through testing that the non-potable water does not contain potential live Silver or Asian carp, viable eggs, or gametes.


(*4*) In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.23, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this safety zone by vessels with non-potable water on board is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard's Ninth District Commander, his or her designated representatives, or an on-scene representative.


(*5*) The Captain of the Port, Lake Michigan, may further designate an “on-scene” representative. The Captain of the Port, Lake Michigan, or the on-scene representative may be contacted via VHF-FM radio Channel 16 or through the Coast Guard Lake Michigan Command Center at (414) 747-7182.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


*Designated representative* means the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan and Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Unit Chicago.


*On-scene representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port, Lake Michigan, to act on his or her behalf. The on-scene representative of the Captain of the Port, Lake Michigan, will be aboard a Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, or other designated vessel or will be onshore and will communicate with vessels via VHF-FM radio or loudhailer.


*Vessel* means every description of watercraft of other artificial contrivance used, or capable or being used, as a means of transportation on water. This definition includes, but is not limited to, barges.


(c) *Compliance.* All persons and vessels must comply with this section and any additional instructions or orders of the Coast Guard's Ninth District Commander or his or her designated representatives. Any person on board any vessel transiting this RNA in accordance with this rule or otherwise does so at his or her own risk.


(d) *Waiver.* For any vessel, the Coast Guard's Ninth District Commander or his or her designated representatives may waive any of the requirements of this section, upon finding that operational conditions or other circumstances are such that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purposes of vessel and mariner safety.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-1095, 83 FR 34045, July 19, 2018]




