# § 162.130   Connecting waters from Lake Huron to Lake Erie; general rules.

(a) *Purpose.* The regulations in §§ 162.130 through 162.140 prescribe rules for vessel operation in U.S. waters connecting Lake Huron to Lake Erie (including the River Rouge) to prevent collisions and groundings, to protect waterway improvements, and to protect these waters from environmental harm resulting from collisions and groundings.


(b) *Applicability.* (1) Unless otherwise specified, the rules in §§ 162.130 through 162.140 apply to all U.S. vessels and all other vessels in U.S. waters.


(2) The speed rules in § 162.138 apply to vessels 20 meters or more in length.


(3) The communication rules in § 162.132, the traffic rules in § 162.134, except for § 162.134(c)(2), and the anchorage rules in § 162.136 apply to the following vessels:


(i) Vessels of 20 meters or more in length;


(ii) Commercial vessels more than 8 meters in length engaged in towing another vessel astern, alongside, or by pushing ahead; and


(iii) Each dredge and floating plant.


(4) The traffic rules contained in § 162.134(c)(2) apply to the following vessels:


(i) Sailing vessels of 20 meters or more in length;


(ii) Power driven vessels of 55 meters or more in length;


(iii) Vessels engaged in towing another vessel astern, alongside or by pushing ahead; and


(iv) Each dredge and floating plant.


(c) *Definitions.* As used in §§ 162.130 through 162.140:


*Captain of the Port* means the United States Coast Guard Captain of the Port of Detroit, Michigan.


*Detroit River* means the connecting waters from Windmill Point Light to the lakeward limits of the improved navigation channels at the head of Lake Erie.


*District Commander* means Commander, Ninth Coast Guard District, Cleveland, Ohio.


*Master* means the master or operator, the person designated by the master or operator to navigate the vessel, or, on a vessel not requiring persons holding licenses or merchant mariner credential officer endorsements, the person in command of the vessel.


*River Rouge* means the waters of the Short Cut Canal and the River Rouge from Detroit Edison Cell Light 1 to the head of navigation.


*St. Clair River* means the connecting waters from the lakeward limit of the improved navigation channel at the lower end of Lake Huron to St. Clair Flats Canal Light 2.


*SARNIA TRAFFIC* means the Canadian Coast Guard traffic center at Sarnia Ontario.


(d) *Laws and regulations not affected.* The regulations in §§ 162.130 through 162.140 do not relieve the owners or operators of vessels from complying with any other laws or regulations relating to navigation on the Great Lakes and their connecting or tributary waters.


(e) *Delegations.* The District Commander, in coordination with appropriate Canadian officials, may make local arrangements that do not conflict with these regulations in the interest of safety of operations, to facilitate traffic movement and anchorage, to avoid disputes as to jurisdiction and to take necessary action to render assistance in emergencies. This authority may be redelegated.



---

[N] [CGD 78-151, 49 FR 18301, Apr. 30, 1984; 49 FR 26722, June 29, 1984, as amended by CGD 85-060, 51 FR 17016, May 8, 1986; CGD 93-024, 58 FR 59365, Nov. 9, 1993; USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11213, Mar. 16, 2009]




