# ยง 220.1   Authority, purpose, and scope.

(a) *Authority and purpose.* Regulation T (this part) is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board) pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Act) (15 U.S.C.78a *et seq.*). Its principal purpose is to regulate extensions of credit by brokers and dealers; it also covers related transactions within the Board's authority under the Act. It imposes, among other obligations, initial margin requirements and payment rules on certain securities transactions.


(b) *Scope.* (1) This part provides a margin account and four special purpose accounts in which to record all financial relations between a customer and a creditor. Any transaction not specifically permitted in a special purpose account shall be recorded in a margin account.


(2) This part does not preclude any exchange, national securities association, or creditor from imposing additional requirements or taking action for its own protection.


(3) This part does not apply to:


(i) Financial relations between a customer and a creditor to the extent that they comply with a portfolio margining system under rules approved or amended by the SEC;


(ii) Credit extended by a creditor based on a good faith determination that the borrower is an exempted borrower;


(iii) Financial relations between a customer and a broker or dealer registered only under section 15C of the Act; and


(iv) Financial relations between a foreign branch of a creditor and a foreign person involving foreign securities.



---

[N] [Reg. T, 63 FR 2820, Jan. 16, 1998]




