# ยง 1222.40   Establishment and membership.

(a) *Establishment of the Board.* There is hereby established a Paper and Packaging Board to administer the terms and provisions of this Order. The Board shall be composed of manufacturers and importers of paper and paper-based packaging that manufacture or import 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging during a marketing year. Seats on the Board shall be apportioned as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section based on the geographical distribution of the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured in the United States and the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging imported to the United States.


(b) *Composition of Board.* The 2020 Board shall be composed of 10 members. The 2021 Board shall be composed of 9 members. The 2022 Board and each subsequent Board shall be composed of 8 members. The Boards shall be established as follows:


(1) *Manufacturers.* For the 2020 Board, 9 members shall be manufacturers. For the 2021 Board, 8 members shall be manufacturers, and for the 2022 Board and each subsequent Board, 7 members shall be manufacturers, from the following two regions:


(i) Five members shall be from the South for the 2020 Board, five members shall be from the South for the 2021 Board, and four members shall be from the South for the 2022 Board and each subsequent Board. The South shall consist of the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia; and


(ii) Four members shall be from all other parts of the United States for the 2020 Board, and three members shall be from all other parts of the United States for the 2021 Board and each subsequent Board. All other parts of the United States consist of those states not listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) *Importers.* One member shall be an importer.


(c) At least once in every five-year period, but not more frequently than once in every three-year period, the Board will review the geographical distribution of the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured within the United States and the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging imported to the United States. The review will be conducted using the Board's annual assessment receipts and, if available, other reliable reports from the industry. If warranted, the Board will recommend to the Secretary that the membership or size of the Board be adjusted to reflect changes in geographical distribution of the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured in the United States and the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging imported to the United States. Any changes in Board composition shall be implemented by the Secretary through rulemaking.



---

[N] [78 FR 56820, Sept. 16, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 80209, Dec. 24, 2015; 84 FR 31462, July 2, 2019]




