# § 121.413   Initial, transition and recurrent training and checking requirements: Check pilots and check flight engineers.

(a) No certificate holder may use a person nor may any person serve as a check pilot or check flight engineer unless—


(1) That person has satisfactorily completed initial or transition check pilot or check flight engineer training, as applicable; and


(2) Within the preceding 24 calendar months, that person satisfactorily conducts a check or supervises operating experience under the observation of an FAA inspector or an aircrew designated examiner employed by the operator. The observation check may be accomplished in part or in full in an airplane and in an FSTD.


(b) The observation check required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section is considered to have been completed in the month required if completed in the calendar month before, or the calendar month after, the month in which it is due.


(c) The initial ground training for check pilots or check flight engineers must include the following, as applicable:


(1) Check pilot or check flight engineer duties, functions, and responsibilities.


(2) The applicable Code of Federal Regulations and the certificate holder's policies and procedures.


(3) The appropriate methods, procedures, and techniques for conducting the required checks.


(4) Proper evaluation of student performance, including the detection of—


(i) Improper and insufficient training; and


(ii) Personal characteristics of an applicant that could adversely affect safety.


(5) The appropriate corrective action in the case of unsatisfactory checks.


(6) The approved methods, procedures, and limitations for performing the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures in the airplane.


(7) For check pilots or check flight engineers who conduct training or checking in an FSTD, the following subjects specific to the device(s) for the airplane type:


(i) Proper operation of the controls and systems;


(ii) Proper operation of environmental and fault panels;


(iii) Data and motion limitations of simulation; and


(iv) The minimum airplane simulator equipment required by this part or part 60 of this chapter for each maneuver and procedure completed in an FSTD.


(d) The transition ground training for check pilots or check flight engineers must include the following:


(1) The approved methods, procedures, and limitations for performing the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures applicable to the airplane to which the check pilot or check flight engineer is transitioning.


(2) For check pilots or check flight engineers who conduct training or checking in an FSTD, the following subjects specific to the device(s) for the airplane type to which the check pilot or check flight engineer is transitioning:


(i) Proper operation of the controls and systems;


(ii) Proper operation of environmental and fault panels;


(iii) Data and motion limitations of simulation; and


(iv) The minimum airplane simulator equipment required by this part or part 60 of this chapter for each maneuver and procedure completed in an FSTD.


(e) The initial and transition flight training for check pilots (airplane) and check flight engineers (airplane) must include the following:


(1) The safety measures for emergency situations that are likely to develop during a check.


(2) The potential results of improper, untimely, or non-execution of safety measures during a check.


(3) For check pilots (airplane)—


(i) Training and practice in conducting flight checks from the left and right pilot seats in the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures to ensure competence to conduct the pilot flight checks required by this part; and


(ii) The safety measures to be taken from either pilot seat for emergency situations that are likely to develop during a check.


(4) For check flight engineers (airplane), training to ensure competence to perform assigned duties.


(f) The requirements of paragraph (e) of this section may be accomplished in full or in part inflight and in an FSTD, as appropriate.


(g) The initial and transition flight training for check pilots or check flight engineers who conduct training or checking in an FSTD must include the following:


(1) Training and practice in conducting flight checks in the required normal, abnormal, and emergency procedures to ensure competence to conduct the flight checks required by this part. This training and practice must be accomplished in an FSTD.


(2) Training in the operation of FSTDs to ensure competence to conduct the flight checks required by this part.


(h) Recurrent ground training for check pilots or check flight engineers who conduct training or checking in an FSTD must be completed every 12 calendar months and must include the subjects required in paragraph (c)(7) of this section.



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2019-0360; Amdt. No. 121-392, 89 FR 51426, June 18, 2024]






