# § 1800.21   Processing of requests for records.

(a) *In general.* Requests meeting the requirements of §§ 1800.11 through 1800.13 shall be accepted as formal requests and processed under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and these regulations. Pursuant to the Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996, upon receipt, NACIC shall within twenty (20) days record each request, acknowledge receipt to the requester in writing, and thereafter effect the necessary taskings to the NACIC components reasonably believed to hold responsive records.


(b) *Database of “officially released information.”* As an alternative to extensive tasking and as an accommodation to many requesters, NACIC maintains a database of “officially released information” which contains copies of documents released by NACIC. Searches of this database can be accomplished expeditiously. Moreover, requests that are specific and well-focused will often incur minimal, if any, costs. Requesters interested in this means of access should so indicate in their correspondence. Consistent with the mandate of the Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996, on-line electronic access to these records is available to the public. Detailed information regarding such access is available from the point of contact specified in § 1800.3.


(c) *Effect of certain exemptions.* In processing a request, NACIC shall decline to confirm or deny the existence or nonexistence of any responsive records whenever the fact of their existence or nonexistence is itself classified under Executive Order 12958 and may jeopardize intelligence sources or methods protected pursuant to section 103(c)(6) of the National Security Act of 1947. In such circumstances, NACIC, in the form of a final written response, shall so inform the requester and advise of his or her right to an administrative appeal.


(d) *Time for response.* Pursuant to the Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996, NACIC will utilize every effort to determine within the statutory guideline of twenty (20) days after receipt of an initial request whether to comply with such a request. However, should the volume of requests require that NACIC seek additional time from a requester pursuant to § 1800.33, NACIC will inform the requester in writing and further advise of his or her right to file an administrative appeal of any adverse determination.




