# ยง 2.254   Exemptions.

(a) *Criminal law enforcement records exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).* Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) the following systems of records are exempted from all of the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a and the regulations in this subpart except paragraphs (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), (11), and (12), and (i) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and the portions of the regulations in this subpart implementing these paragraphs:


(1) INTERIOR/FWS-20, Investigative Case File System.


(2) INTERIOR/BIA-18, Law Enforcement Services System.


(3) INTERIOR/NPS-19, Law Enforcement Statistical Reporting System.


(4) INTERIOR/OIG-02, Investigative Records.


(5) INTERIOR/DOI-10, DOI Law Enforcement Records Management System (LE RMS).




(6) INTERIOR/DOI-50, Insider Threat Program.


(b) *Classified records exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).* Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), the following systems of records have been exempted from paragraphs (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and the provisions of the regulations in this subpart implementing these paragraphs:


(1) INTERIOR/DOI-50, Insider Threat Program.


(2) INTERIOR/DOI-45, Personnel Security Program Files.


(3) INTERIOR/OIG-02, Investigative Records.


(4) INTERIOR/DOI-10, DOI Law Enforcement Records Management System (LE RMS).




(c) *Law enforcement records exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).* Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the following systems of records are exempted from paragraphs (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and the provisions of the regulations in this subpart implementing these paragraphs:


(1) INTERIOR/OIG-2, Investigative Records.


(2) INTERIOR/FWS-21, Permits System.


(3) INTERIOR/BLM-18, Criminal Case Investigation System.


(4) INTERIOR/BLM-19, Civil Trespass Case Investigations.


(5) INTERIOR/BLM-20, Employee Conduct Investigations.


(6)-(7) [Reserved]


(8) INTERIOR/NPS-17, Employee Financial Irregularities.


(9) INTERIOR/Reclamation-37, Trespass Cases.


(10) INTERIOR/SOL-1, Litigation, Appeal and Case Files System, to the extent that it consists of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.


(11) INTERIOR/FWS-19, Endangered Species Licenses System.


(12) INTERIOR/FWS-20, Investigative Case File System.


(13) INTERIOR/BIA-24, Timber Cutting and Trespass Claims Files.


(14) INTERIOR/DOI-11, Debarment and Suspension Program.


(15) INTERIOR/DOI-10, DOI Law Enforcement Records Management System (LE RMS).




(16) INTERIOR/DOI-50, Insider Threat Program.


(17) INTERIOR/DOI-24, Indian Arts and Crafts Board.


(18) INTERIOR/BSEE-01, Investigations Case Management System (CMS).


(19) INTERIOR/DOI-46, Physical Security Access Files.


(20) INTERIOR/DOI-45, Personnel Security Program Files.


(d) *Records maintained in connection with providing protective services exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3).* Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3), the following systems of records have been exempted from paragraphs (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and the provisions of the regulations in this subpart implementing these paragraphs:


(1) INTERIOR/DOI-46, Physical Security Access Files.


(2) INTERIOR/DOI-45, Personnel Security Program Files.


(3) INTERIOR/OIG-02, Investigative Records.


(4) INTERIOR/DOI-10, DOI Law Enforcement Records Management System (LE RMS).




(e) *Investigatory records exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).* Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), the following systems of records have been exempted from paragraphs (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a and the provisions of the regulations in this subpart implementing these paragraphs:


(1) [Reserved]


(2) INTERIOR/GS-9, National Research Council Grants Program.


(3) INTERIOR/OS-68, Committee Management Files.


(4) INTERIOR/DOI-11, Debarment and Suspension Program.


(5) INTERIOR/DOI-46, Physical Security Access Files.


(6) INTERIOR/DOI-50, Insider Threat Program.


(7) INTERIOR/DOI-45, Personnel Security Program Files.


(8) INTERIOR/OIG-02, Investigative Records.


(9) INTERIOR/DOI-10, DOI Law Enforcement Records Management System (LE RMS).




(f) *Records maintained on testing and examination material exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).* Pursuant to U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), the following systems of records have been exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f) and the provisions of the regulations in this subpart implementing these paragraphs.


(1) INTERIOR/DOI-45, Personnel Security Program Files.


(2) INTERIOR/DOI-10, DOI Law Enforcement Records Management System (LE RMS).



---

[N] [86 FR 49928, Sept. 7, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 8428, Feb. 15, 2022; 88 FR 10480, Feb. 21, 2023; 89 FR 2148, Jan. 12, 2024; 89 FR 63830, Aug. 6, 2024]




