# ยง 81.54   Review of disapproval.

(a) *Programs disapproved as unauthorized.* (1) Where the Secretary disapproves a program request on the grounds that the new program is not authorized, as defined in ยง 81.53(d) or (e), the GSE may, within 30 days of the date of receipt of the decision on disapproval, request an opportunity to review and supplement the administrative record for the decision, in accordance with paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section. 


(2) *Supplementing in writing.* A GSE supplementing the record in writing must submit written materials within 30 days after the date of receipt of the decision on disapproval, but no later than the date of a meeting, if requested, under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. 


(3) *Meeting.* Within 10 days of the date of receipt of the decision of disapproval, the GSE may request a meeting. If the request for the meeting is timely, the Secretary shall arrange such a meeting, which shall be conducted by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee within 10 working days after receipt of the request. The GSE may be represented by counsel and may submit relevant written materials to supplement the record. 


(4) *Determination.* The Secretary shall: 


(i) In writing and within 10 days after submission of any materials under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or the conclusion of any meeting under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, whichever is later, withdraw, modify, or affirm the program disapproval; and 


(ii) Provide the GSE with that decision. 


(b) *Programs disapproved under public interest determination.* When a program request is disapproved because the Secretary determines that the program is not in the public interest or the Director makes the determination in 12 U.S.C. 4542(b)(2)(B), the Secretary shall provide the GSE with notice of, and opportunity for, a hearing on the record regarding such disapproval. A request for a hearing must be submitted by a GSE within 30 days of the Secretary's submission of a report under ยง 81.53(g) disapproving a program request or the provision of the notice under this paragraph (b), whichever is later. The procedures for such hearings are provided in subpart G of this part. 




