# ยง 1.9005-1   Election relating to the determination of gross income from the property for taxable years beginning prior to 1961 in the case of clay and quartzite used in making refractory products.

(a) *In general.* Section 2 of the Act of September 26, 1961 (Pub. L. 87-321, 75 Stat. 683), provides that certain taxpayers may elect to apply the provisions of such section to all taxable years beginning before January 1, 1961, with respect to which the election is effective. Section 2 of the Act prescribes special rules for the application of section 613(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (and corresponding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939) in the case of quartzite and clay used by the mine owner or operator in the production of refractory products.


(b) *Election.* The election to apply the provisions of section 2 of the Act may be made only in the case of quartzite and clay used in the production of products generally recognized as refractory products by the refractories industry. Examples of such products are clay firebrick, silica brick, and refractory bonding mortars. The election may be made only by a taxpayer who both mined the clay or quartzite and used it in the production of refractory products. The election must be made in accordance with ยง 1.9005-4 on or before February 14, 1962, and the election shall become irrevocable on that date.


(c) *Years to which the election is applicable.* If the election described in paragraph (b) of this section is made by the taxpayer, the provisions of section 2 of the Act shall be effective on and after January 1, 1951, for all taxable years beginning before January 1, 1961, in respect of which the:


(1) Assessment of a deficiency,


(2) Refund or credit of an overpayment, or


(3) Commencement of a suit for recovery of a refund under section 7405 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,



---

[N] [T.D. 6583, 26 FR 12078, Dec. 16, 1961]




