# § 332.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* This part governs the treatment of nonpublic personal information about consumers by the financial institutions listed in paragraph (b) of this section. This part: 


(1) Requires a financial institution to provide notice to customers about its privacy policies and practices; 


(2) Describes the conditions under which a financial institution may disclose nonpublic personal information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties; and 


(3) Provides a method for consumers to prevent a financial institution from disclosing that information to most nonaffiliated third parties by “opting out” of that disclosure, subject to the exceptions in §§ 332.13, 332.14, and 332.15. 


(b) *Scope.* (1) This part applies only to nonpublic personal information about individuals who obtain financial products or services primarily for personal, family, or household purposes from the institutions listed below. This part does not apply to information about companies or about individuals who obtain financial products or services for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes. This part applies to the United States offices of entities for which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has primary federal supervisory authority. They are referred to in this part as “you.” These are: banks insured by the FDIC (other than members of the Federal Reserve System), insured state branches of foreign banks, and certain subsidiaries of such entities. 


(2) Nothing in this part modifies, limits, or supersedes the standards governing individually identifiable health information promulgated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of sections 262 and 264 of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-1320d-8). 




