# ยง 720.41   Definitions.

*Court.* Any judicial body in the United States with jurisdiction to impose criminal sanctions on a Department of the Navy member, employee, or family member.


*Employee.* A civilian employed by the Department of the Navy or a component service, including an individual paid from non-appropriated funds, who is a citizen or national of the United States.


*Family member.* A spouse, natural or adopted child, or other lawful dependent of a Department of the Navy employee or member accompanying the Department of the Navy member or employee assigned to duty outside the United States.


*Felony.* A criminal offense that is punishable by incarceration for more than one year, regardless of the sentence that is imposed for commission of that offense.


*Member.* An individual on active duty in the Navy, Naval Reserve, Marine Corps, or Marine Corps Reserve.


*Request for return.* Any request or order received from a court, or from federal, state or local authorities concerning a court order, for the return to the United States of members, employees, or family members, for any reason listed in ยง 720.42.


*Respondent.* A member, employee, or family member whose return to the United States has been requested, or with respect to whom other assistance has been requested under this instruction.


*Responsible official.* Officials designated in this instruction to act on a request to return, or take other action affecting, members, employees or family members to the United States under this instruction.


*United States.* The 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.




