# ยง 414.67   Incentive payments for services furnished in Health Professional Shortage Areas.

(a) *Health Professional Shortage Area (HPSA) physician bonus program.* A HPSA physician incentive payment will be made subject to the following:


(1) HPSA bonuses are payable for services furnished by physicians as defined in section 1861(r) of the Act in areas designated as of December 31 of the prior year as geographic primary medical care HPSAs as defined in section 332(a)(1)(A) of the Public Health Service Act.


(2) HPSA bonuses are payable for services furnished by psychiatrists in areas designated as of December 31 of the prior year as geographic mental health HPSAs if the services are not already eligible for the bonus based on being in a geographic primary care HPSA.


(3) Physicians eligible for the HPSA physician bonus are entitled to a 10 percent incentive payment above the amount paid for their professional services under the physician fee schedule.


(4) Physicians furnishing services in areas that are designated as geographic HPSAs prior to the beginning of the year but not included on the published list of zip codes for which automated HPSA bonus payments are made must use the AQ modifier to receive the HPSA physician bonus payment.


(b) *HPSA surgical incentive payment program.* A HPSA surgical incentive payment will be made subject to the following:


(1) A major surgical procedure as defined in ยง 414.2 of this part is furnished by a general surgeon on or after January 1, 2011 and before January 1, 2016 in an area recognized for the HPSA physician bonus program under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(2) Payment will be made on a quarterly basis in an amount equal to 10 percent of the Part B payment amount for major surgical procedures furnished as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in addition to the amount the physician would otherwise be paid.


(3) Physicians furnishing services in areas that are designated as geographic HPSAs eligible for the HPSA physician bonus program under paragraph (a)(1) of this section prior to the beginning of the year but not included on the published list of zip codes for which automated HPSA surgical incentive payments are made should report HCPCS modifier -AQ to receive the HPSA surgical incentive payment.


(4) The payment described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is made to the surgeon or, where the surgeon has reassigned his or her benefits to a critical access hospital (CAH) paid under the optional method, to the CAH based on an institutional claim.



---

[N] [75 FR 73617, Nov. 29, 2010]




