# § 360.13   Employee plans—Conditions of eligibility.

(a) *Definition of plan.* Employee thrift, savings, vacation, 401(k), and similar plans are contributory plans established by the employer for the exclusive and irrevocable benefit of its employees or their beneficiaries. Each plan must afford employees the means of making regular savings from their wages through payroll deductions and provide for employer contributions to be added to these savings.


(b) *Definition of terms used in this section.* (1) The term *assets* means all the employees' contributions and assets purchased with them and the employer's contributions and assets purchased with them, as well as accretions, such as dividends on stock, the increment in value on bonds and all other income; but, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the right to demand and receive all assets credited to the account of an employee shall not be construed to require the distribution of assets in kind when it would not be possible or practicable to make such a distribution; for example, Series I bonds may not be reissued in unauthorized denominations.


(2) The word *beneficiary* means:


(i) The person or persons, if any, designated by the employee in accordance with the terms of the plan to receive the benefits of the plan upon the employee's death; or


(ii) The estate of the employee.


(c) *Conditions of eligibility.* An employee plan must conform to the following rules in order to be eligible for the special limitation provided in § 360.10.


(1) *Crediting of assets.* All assets of a plan must be credited to the individual accounts of participating employees and may be distributed only to them or their beneficiaries, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) *Purchase of bonds.* Bonds may be purchased only with assets credited to the accounts of participating employees and only if the amount taken from any account at any time for that purpose is equal to the purchase price of a $50 bond or bonds in an authorized denomination or denominations, and shares in the bonds are credited to the accounts of the individuals from which the purchase price was derived, in amounts corresponding with their shares. For example, if $100 credited to the account of John Jones is commingled with funds credited to the accounts of other employees to make a total of $5,000 with which a Series I bond in the denomination of $5,000 (face amount) is purchased in December 1998 and registered in the name and title of the trustee, the plan must provide, in effect, that John Jones' account be credited to show that he is the owner of a Series I bond in the denomination of $100 (face amount) bearing an issue date of December 1, 1998.


(3) *Irrevocable right of withdrawal.* Each participating employee has an irrevocable right to request and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the employee's account (or their value, if the employee prefers) without regard to any conditions other than the loss or suspension of the privilege of participating further in the plan. A plan may limit or modify such right in any manner required for qualification of the plan under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 401).


(4) *Rights of beneficiary.* Upon the death of an employee, his or her beneficiary shall have the absolute and unconditional right to demand and receive from the trustee all assets credited to the account of the employee or their value, if he or she so prefers.


(5) *Reissue or payment upon distribution.* (i) When settlement is made with an employee or his or her beneficiary with respect to any bond registered in the name and title of the plan trustee in which the employee has a share, the bond must be paid or reissued to the extent of the share.


(ii) If an employee or the beneficiary is to receive distribution in kind, bonds bearing the same issue dates as those credited to the employee's account will be reissued in the name of the employee or the employee's beneficiary to the extent entitled, in authorized denominations, in any authorized form of registration, upon the request and certification of the trustee.


(d) *Application for special limitation.* A trustee of an employee plan who desires to purchase bonds under the special limitation should submit to the designated Federal Reserve Bank or Branch a copy of:


(1) The plan;


(2) Any instructions issued under the plan that concern Series I bonds; and


(3) The trust agreement, in order to establish the plan's eligibility.


(e) *Vacation plans.* Savings bonds may be purchased under certain vacation plans. Questions concerning the eligibility of these plans to purchase bonds in excess of the general limitation should be addressed to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328.




