# ยง 900.69   Filing; service; extensions of time; effective date of filing; and computation of time.

(a) *Filing; number of copies.* Except as provided otherwise herein, all documents or papers required or authorized in this subpart to be filed with the hearing clerk shall be filed in quadruplicate: *Provided,* That, if there are more than two parties to the proceeding, a sufficient number of additional copies shall be filed so as to provide for service upon all the parties to the proceeding. Any document or paper, required or authorized in this subpart to be filed with the hearing clerk, shall, during the course of an oral hearing, be filed with the judge.


(b) *Service; proof of service.* Copies of all such papers shall be served upon the parties by the hearing clerk, by the judge, or by some other employee of the Department or by a United States Marshal or his deputy. Service shall be made either (1) by delivering a copy of the document or paper to the individual to be served or to a member of the partnership to be served or to the president, secretary, or other executive officer or any director of the corporation, organization, or association to be served, or to the attorney or agent of record of such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association; or (2) by leaving a copy of the document or paper at the principal office or place of business of such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association, or of his or its attorney or agent of record; or (3) by registering and mailing a copy of the document or paper, addressed to such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association, or to his or its attorney or agent of record, at his or its last known principal office, place of business, or residence. Proof of service hereunder shall be made by the affidavit of the person who actually made the service. The affidavit contemplated herein shall be filed with the hearing clerk, and the fact of filing thereof shall be noted on the docket of the proceeding.


(c) *Extensions of time.* The time for the filing of any documents or papers required or authorized in this subpart to be filed may be extended upon (1) a written stipulation between the parties, or (2) upon the request of a party, by the judge before the transmittal of the record to the Secretary, or by the Secretary at any other time if, in the judgment of the Secretary or the judge, as the case may be, there is good reason for the extension.


(d) *Effective date of filing.* Any document or paper required or authorized in this subpart to be filed shall be deemed to be filed at the time it is received by the Hearing Clerk. 


(e) *Computation of time.* Each day, including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays, shall be included in computing the time allowed for filing any document or paper: *Provided,* That when the time for filing a document or paper expires on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal public holiday, the time allowed for filing the document or paper shall be extended to include the following business day. 



---

[N] [25 FR 5907, June 28, 1960, as amended at 67 FR 10830, Mar. 11, 2002]




