# § 61.161   Definitions.

The terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 61.02, or in this section as follows:


*Arsenic-containing glass type* means any glass that is distinguished from other glass solely by the weight percent of arsenic added as a raw material and by the weight percent of arsenic in the glass produced. Any two or more glasses that have the same weight percent of arsenic in the raw materials as well as in the glass produced shall be considered to belong to one arsenic-containing glass type, without regard to the recipe used or any other characteristics of the glass or the method of production.


*By-pass the control device* means to operate the glass melting furnace without operating the control device to which that furnace's emissions are directed routinely.


*Commercial arsenic* means any form of arsenic that is produced by extraction from any arsenic-containing substance and is intended for sale or for intentional use in a manufacturing process. Arsenic that is a naturally occurring trace constituent of another substance is not considered “commercial arsenic.”


*Cullet* means waste glass recycled to a glass melting furnace.


*Glass melting furnace* means a unit comprising a refractory vessel in which raw materials are charged, melted at high temperature, refined, and conditioned to produce molten glass. The unit includes foundations, superstructure and retaining walls, raw material charger systems, heat exchangers, melter cooling system, exhaust system, refractory brick work, fuel supply and electrical boosting equipment, integral control systems and instrumentation, and appendages for conditioning and distributing molten glass to forming apparatuses. The forming apparatuses, including the float bath used in flat glass manufacturing, are not considered part of the glass melting furnace.


*Glass produced* means the glass pulled from the glass melting furnace.


*Inorganic arsenic* means the oxides and other noncarbon compounds of the element arsenic included in particulate matter, vapors, and aerosols.


*Malfunction* means any sudden failure of air pollution control equipment or process equipment or of a process to operate in a normal or usual manner so that emissions of arsenic are increased.


*Pot furnace* means a glass melting furnace that contains one or more refractory vessels in which glass is melted by indirect heating. The openings of the vessels are in the outside wall of the furnace and are covered with refractory stoppers during melting.


*Rebricking* means cold replacement of damaged or worn refractory parts of the glass melting furnace. Rebricking includes replacement of the refractories comprising the bottom, sidewalls, or roof of the melting vessel; replacement of refractory work in the heat exchanger; and replacement of refractory portions of the glass conditioning and distribution system.


*Shutdown* means the cessation of operation of an affected source for any purpose.


*Theoretical arsenic emissions factor* means the amount of inorganic arsenic, expressed in grams per kilogram of glass produced, as determined based on a material balance.


*Uncontrolled total arsenic emissions* means the total inorganic arsenic in the glass melting furnace exhaust gas preceding any add-on emission control device.



---

[N] [51 FR 28025, Aug. 4, 1986; 51 FR 35355, Oct. 3, 1986]




