# § 1.833-1   Medical loss ratio under section 833(c)(5).

(a) *In general.* Section 833(a)(2) and (3) do not apply to an organization unless the organization's medical loss ratio (MLR) for a taxable year is at least 85 percent. Paragraph (b) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of section 833(c)(5) and this section. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for computing an organization's MLR under section 833(c)(5). Paragraph (d) of this section addresses the treatment under section 833 of an organization that has an MLR of less than 85 percent. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the effective/applicability date.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of section 833(c)(5) and this section.


(1) *Activities that improve health care quality.* The term *activities that improve health care quality* has the same meaning as that term has in section 300gg-18 of title 42, United States Code and the regulations issued under that section (see 45 CFR 158.150).


(2) *Reimbursement for clinical services.* The term *reimbursement for clinical services* has the same meaning as that term has in section 300gg-18 of title 42, United States Code and the regulations issued under that section (see 45 CFR 158.140).


(3) *Total premium revenue.* The term *total premium revenue* means the total amount of premium revenue (excluding federal and state taxes and licensing or regulatory fees and after accounting for payments or receipts for risk adjustment, risk corridors, and reinsurance under sections 1341, 1342, and 1343 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148 (124 Stat. 119 (2010)) (42 U.S.C. 18061, 18062, and 18063)) as those terms are used for purposes of section 300gg 18(b) of title 42, United States Code and the regulations issued under that section (see 45 CFR part 158).


(c) *Computation of MLR under section 833(c)(5)*—(1) *In general.* Starting with the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2015, and for all succeeding taxable years, an organization's MLR with respect to a taxable year is the ratio, expressed as a percentage, of the MLR numerator, as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, to the MLR denominator, as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) *MLR numerator.* The numerator of an organization's MLR is the total premium revenue expended on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality provided to enrollees under its policies for the taxable year, computed using a three-year period in the same manner as those expenses are computed for the plan year for purposes of section 300gg-18(b) of title 42, United States Code and regulations issued under that section (see 45 CFR part 158).


(ii) *MLR denominator.* The denominator of an organization's MLR is the organization's total premium revenue for the taxable year, computed using a three-year period in the same manner as the total premium revenue is computed for the plan year for purposes of section 300gg-18(b) of title 42, United States Code and regulations issued under that section (see 45 CFR part 158).


(2) *Transition rules.* The transition rules in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section apply solely for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2013, and the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2014.


(i) *First taxable year beginning after December 31, 2013.* For the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2013, the numerator of an organization's MLR is the total premium revenue expended on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality provided to enrollees under its policies for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2013, and the denominator of an organization's MLR is the organization's total premium revenue for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2013.


(ii) *First taxable year beginning after December 31, 2014.* For the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2014, the numerator of an organization's MLR is the sum of the total premium revenue expended on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality provided to enrollees under its policies for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2013, and for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2014, and the denominator of an organization's MLR is the sum of the organization's total premium revenue for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2013, and for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2014.


(d) *Failure to qualify under section 833(c)(5)*—(1) *In general.* If, for any taxable year, an organization's MLR is less than 85 percent, then beginning in that taxable year and for each subsequent taxable year for which the organization's MLR remains less than 85 percent, paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(i) *Special deduction.* The organization is not allowed the special deduction set forth in section 833(b).


(ii) *Premiums earned.* The organization must take into account 80 percent, rather than 100 percent, of its unearned premiums under section 832(b)(4) as it applies to other non-life insurance companies.


(2) *No material change.* An organization's loss of eligibility for the treatment provided by sections 833(a)(2) and (3) solely by reason of section 833(c)(5) will not be treated as a material change in the operations of such organization or in its structure for purposes of section 833(c)(2)(C).


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2016. However, taxpayers may rely on this section for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2009.



---

[N] [T.D. 9772, 81 FR 40520, June 22, 2016]




