# § 721.5740   Phenol, 4,4′-methylenebis (2,6-dimethyl-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as Phenol, 4,4′-methylenebis (2,6-dimethyl- (PMNs P-88-864, P-90-211, and P-94-921; CAS No. 5384-21-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The label and SDS as required by this paragraph shall also include the following statements: This substance may cause blood effects. This substance may cause chronic effects.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (g), (l), and (q).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 33306, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 63 FR 45956, Aug. 28, 1998]




