# § 4003.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* This part sets forth the rules governing the issuance of all initial determinations by PBGC on cases pending before it involving the matters set forth in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section and the procedures for requesting and obtaining administrative review by PBGC of those determinations. Subpart A contains general provisions. Subpart B sets forth rules governing the issuance of all initial determinations of PBGC on matters covered by this part. Subpart C establishes procedures governing the reconsideration by PBGC of initial determinations relating to the matters set forth in paragraph (d). Subpart D establishes procedures governing administrative appeals from initial determinations relating to the matters set forth in paragraph (e). 


(b) *Scope.* This part applies to the initial determinations made by PBGC that are listed in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(c) *Matters not covered by this part.* Nothing in this part limits—


(1) The authority of PBGC to review, either upon request or on its own initiative, a determination to which this part does not apply when, in its discretion, PBGC determines that it would be appropriate to do so, or 


(2) The procedure that PBGC may utilize in reviewing any determination to which this part does not apply. 


(d) *Determinations subject to reconsideration.* Any person aggrieved by an initial determination of PBGC listed in this paragraph (d) may request reconsideration, subject to the terms of this part.


(1) Determinations with respect to premiums, interest and late payment penalties pursuant to section 4007 of ERISA;


(2) Determinations with respect to voluntary terminations under section 4041 of ERISA, including any of the following:


(i) A determination that a notice requirement or a certification requirement under section 4041 of ERISA has not been met;


(ii) A determination that the requirements for demonstrating distress under section 4041(c)(2)(B) of ERISA have not been met;


(iii) A determination with respect to the sufficiency of plan assets for benefit liabilities or for guaranteed benefits; and


(iv) A determination with respect to a plan terminating under section 4041(b) of ERISA or with respect to the distribution of residual assets under section 4044(d) of ERISA; and


(3) Determinations with respect to penalties under section 4071 of ERISA.


(e) *Determinations subject to appeal.* Any person aggrieved by an initial determination of PBGC listed in this paragraph (e) may file an appeal, subject to the terms of this part.


(1) Determinations that a plan is or is not covered under section 4021 of ERISA;


(2) Determinations of a participant's or beneficiary's benefit entitlement and the amount of benefit payable under a covered plan under sections 4022, 4022B, and 4044 of ERISA (other than a determination described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section);


(3) Determinations that a domestic relations order is or is not a qualified domestic relations order under section 206(d)(3) of ERISA and section 414(p) of the Code;


(4) Determinations of the amount of money subject to recapture pursuant to section 4045 of ERISA;


(5) Determinations of the amount of liability under sections 4062(b)(1), 4063, or 4064 of ERISA; and


(6) Determinations with respect to benefits payable by PBGC under section 4050 of ERISA and part 4050 of this chapter.



---

[N] [61 FR 34012, July 1, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 38120, July 3, 2008; 77 FR 22489, Apr. 16, 2012; 82 FR 60818, Dec. 22, 2017; 85 FR 10283, 10284, Feb. 24, 2020]




