# § 2.236   Requests for notification of existence of records: Action on.

(a) *Decisions on request.* (1) Individuals inquiring to determine whether a system of records contains records pertaining to them shall be promptly advised whether the system contains records pertaining to them unless (i) the records were compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding or (ii) the system of records is one which has been excepted from the notification provisions of the Privacy Act by rulemaking (§ 2.79).


(2) If the records were compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding or the system of records is one which has been excepted from the notification provisions of the Privacy Act by rulemaking, the individuals will be promptly notified that they are not entitled to notification of whether the system contains records pertaining to them.


(b) *Authority to deny requests.* A decision to deny a request for notification of the existence of records shall be made by the system manager responsible for the system of records concerning which inquiry has been made and shall be concurred in by the bureau Privacy Act officer for the bureau which maintains the system, provided, however that the head of a bureau may, in writing, require (1) that the decision be made by the bureau Privacy Act officer and/or (2) that the bureau head's own concurrence in the decision be obtained.


(c) *Form of decision.* (1) No particular form is required for a decision informing individuals whether a system of records contains records pertaining to them.


(2) A decision declining to inform an individual whether or not a system of records contains records pertaining to him or her shall be in writing and shall:


(i) State the basis for denial of the request.


(ii) Advise the individual that an appeal of the declination may be made to the Assistant Secretary—Policy, Budget and Administration pursuant to § 2.65 by writing to the Privacy Act Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary—Policy, Budget and Administration, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240.


(iii) State that the appeal must be received by the foregoing official within twenty (20) working days of the date of the decision.


(3) If the decision declining a request for notification of the existence of records involves Department employee records which fall under the jurisdiction of the Office of Personnel Management, the individual shall be informed in a written response which shall:


(i) State the reasons for the denial.


(ii) Include the name, position title, and address of the official responsible for the denial.


(iii) Advise the individual that an appeal of the declination may be made only to the Assistant Director for Workforce Information, Personnel Systems Oversight Group, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20415.


(4) Copies of decisions declining a request for notification of the existence of records made pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section shall be provided to the Departmental and Bureau Privacy Act Officers.



---

[N] [48 FR 56584, Dec. 22, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 3749, Feb. 9, 1988]




