# § 124.509   What are non-8(a) business activity targets?

(a) *General.* (1) To ensure that Participants do not develop an unreasonable reliance on 8(a) awards, and to ease their transition into the competitive marketplace after graduating from the 8(a) BD program, Participants must make good faith efforts to obtain business outside the 8(a) BD program. Work performed by an 8(a) Participant for any Federal department or agency other than through an 8(a) contract, including work performed on orders under the General Services Administration Multiple Award Schedule program, and work performed as a subcontractor, including work performed as a subcontractor to another 8(a) Participant on an 8(a) contract, qualifies as work performed outside the 8(a) BD program.


(2) During both the developmental and transitional stages of the 8(a) BD program, a Participant must make good faith efforts, including following a reasonable marketing strategy, to attain the targeted dollar levels of non-8(a) revenue established in its business plan. It must attempt to use the 8(a) BD program as a resource to strengthen the firm for economic viability when program benefits are no longer available.


(b) *Required non-8(a) business activity targets during transitional stage*—(1) *General.* During the transitional stage of the 8(a) BD program, a Participant must achieve certain targets of non-8(a) contract revenue (i.e., revenue from other than sole source or competitive 8(a) contracts). These targets are called non-8(a) business activity targets and are expressed as a percentage of total revenue. The targets call for an increase in non-8(a) revenue over time.


(2) *Non-8(a) business activity targets*—(i) During their transitional stage of program participation, Participants must meet the following non-8(a) business activity targets each year:


(ii) Any Participant that extended its program term pursuant to § 124.2(b) of this chapter must meet the business activity target for year 5 or meet the applicable requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of this section in order to preserve its eligibility for sole source 8(a) contracts during the extended program period. The applicable business activity target for the extended program period will be the same as that for year 5 of the transitional stage (*i.e.,* 50% non-8(a) revenue).


(3) *Compliance with non-8(a) business activity targets.* SBA will measure the Participant's compliance with the applicable non-8(a) business activity target at the end of each program year in the transitional stage by comparing the Participant's non-8(a) revenue to its total revenue during the program year just completed. Thus, at the end of the first year in the transitional stage of program participation, SBA will compare the Participant's non-8(a) revenue to its total revenue during that first year. If appropriate, SBA will require remedial measures during the subsequent program year. Thus, for example, non-compliance with the required non-8(a) business activity target in year one of the transitional stage would cause SBA to initiate remedial measures under paragraph (d) of this section for year two in the transitional stage.


(4) *Certification of compliance.* A Participant must certify as part of its offer that it complies with the applicable non-8(a) business activity target or with the measures imposed by SBA under paragraph (d) of this section before it can receive any 8(a) contract during the transitional stage of the 8(a) BD program.


(c) *Reporting and verification of business activity.* (1) As part of its annual review after being admitted to the 8(a) BD program, a Participant must provide to SBA within 30 days from the end of its program year:


(i) Annual financial statements with a breakdown of 8(a) and non-8(a) revenue in accord with § 124.602; and


(ii) An estimate of 8(a) and non-8(a) revenue derived during the program year, which may be obtained from monthly, quarterly or semi-annual interim financial statements or otherwise.


(2) At the end of each year of participation in the transitional stage, the BOS assigned to work with the Participant will review the Participant's total revenues to determine whether the non-8(a) revenues have met the applicable target. In determining compliance, SBA will compare all 8(a) revenues received during the year, including those from options and modifications, to all non-8(a) revenues received during the year.


(d) *Consequences of not meeting competitive business mix targets.* (1) Beginning at the end of the first year in the transitional stage (the fifth year of participation in the 8(a) BD program), any firm that does not meet its applicable competitive business mix target for the just completed program year must demonstrate to SBA the specific efforts it made during that year to obtain non-8(a) revenue.


(i) SBA will determine whether the Participant made good faith efforts to attain the targeted non-8(a) revenues during the just completed program year. A Participant may establish that it made good faith efforts by demonstrating to SBA that:


(A) It submitted offers for one or more non-8(a) procurements which, if awarded to the Participant during its just completed program year, would have given the Participant sufficient revenues to achieve the applicable non-8(a) business activity target during that same program year. In such a case, the Participant must provide copies of offers submitted in response to solicitations and documentary evidence of its projected revenues under these missed contract opportunities; or


(B) Individual extenuating circumstances adversely impacted its efforts to obtain non-8(a) revenues, including but not limited to a reduction in government funding, continuing resolutions and budget uncertainties, increased competition driving prices down, or having one or more prime contractors award less work to the Participant than originally contemplated. Where available, supporting information and documentation must be included to show how such extenuating circumstances specifically prevented the Participant from attaining its targeted non-8(a) revenues during the just completed program year.


(ii) In determining the projected revenue SBA should consider in determining whether one or more unsuccessful offers submitted by the Participant would have given the Participant sufficient revenues to achieve the applicable non-8(a) business activity target under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section, SBA will consider only the base year of the procurement at issue and not the projected full value of the procurement. SBA will not consider projected revenue under a particular non-8(a) contract where SBA determines the Participant submitted its offer without possessing reasonable prospects of success. In making this determination, SBA will consider all relevant factors, including, but not limited to:


(A) The magnitude of the contract relative to that of the Participant's previous contracts: and


(B) The past performance and experience of a joint venture partner and/or a subcontractor.


(iii) The Participant bears the burden of establishing that it made good faith efforts to meet its non-8(a) business activity target. SBA's determination as to whether a Participant made good faith efforts is final and no appeal may be taken with respect to that decision.


(2) If SBA determines that an 8(a) Participant has failed to meet its applicable competitive business mix target during any program year in the transitional stage of program participation, SBA will increase its monitoring of the Participant's contracting activity during the ensuing program year.


(3) As a condition of eligibility for new 8(a) sole source contracts, SBA may require a Participant that fails to achieve the non-8(a) business activity targets to take one or more specific actions. These include requiring the Participant to obtain management assistance, technical assistance, and/or counseling from an SBA resource partner or otherwise, and/or attend seminars relating to management assistance, business development, financing, marketing, accounting, or proposal preparation. Where any such condition is imposed, SBA will not accept a sole source requirement offered to the 8(a) BD program on behalf of the Participant until the Participant demonstrates to SBA that the condition has been met.


(4) If SBA determines that a Participant has not made good faith efforts to meet its applicable non-8(a) business activity target, the Participant will be ineligible for sole source 8(a) contracts in the current program year. SBA will notify the Participant in writing that the Participant will not be eligible for further 8(a) sole source contract awards until it has demonstrated to SBA that it has complied with its non-8(a) business activity requirements as described in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. In order for a Participant to come into compliance with the non-8(a) business activity target and be eligible for further 8(a) sole source contracts, it may:


(i) Wait until the end of the current program year and demonstrate to SBA as part of the normal annual review process that it has met the revised non-8(a) business activity target; or


(ii) At its option, submit information regarding its non-8(a) revenue to SBA quarterly throughout the current program year in an attempt to come into compliance before the end of the current program year. If the Participant satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, SBA will reinstate the Participant's ability to get sole source 8(a) contracts prior to its annual review.


(A) To qualify for reinstatement during the first six months of the current program year (*i.e.,* at either the first or second quarterly review), the Participant must demonstrate that it has received non-8(a) revenue and new non-8(a) contract awards that are equal to or greater than the dollar amount by which it failed to meet its non-8(a) business activity target for the just completed program year. For this purpose, SBA will not count options on existing non-8(a) contracts in determining whether a Participant has received new non-8(a) contract awards.


(B) To qualify for reinstatement during the last six months of the current program year (*i.e.,* at either the nine-month or one year review), the Participant must demonstrate that it has achieved its non-8(a) business activity target as of that point in the current program year.


(5) In determining whether a Participant has achieved its required non-8(a) business activity target at the end of any program year in the transitional stage, or whether a Participant that failed to meet the target for the previous program year has achieved the required level of non-8(a) business at its nine-month review, SBA will measure 8(a) support by adding the base year value of all 8(a) contracts awarded during the applicable program year to the value of all options and modifications executed during that year.


(6) SBA may initiate proceedings to terminate a Participant from the 8(a) BD program where the firm makes no good faith efforts to obtain non-8(a) revenues.


(e) *Waiver of sole source prohibition.* (1) Despite a finding by SBA that a Participant did not make good faith efforts to meet its non-8(a) business activity target, SBA may waive the requirement prohibiting a Participant from receiving further sole source 8(a) contracts where a denial of a sole source contract would cause severe economic hardship on the Participant so that the Participant's survival may be jeopardized, or where extenuating circumstances beyond the Participant's control caused the Participant not to meet its non-8(a) business activity target.


(2) SBA may waive the requirement prohibiting a Participant from receiving further sole source 8(a) contracts when the Participant does not meet its non-8(a) business activity target where the head of a procuring activity represents to SBA that award of a sole source 8(a) contract to the Participant is needed to achieve significant interests of the Government.


(3) The decision to grant or deny a request for a waiver is at SBA's discretion, and no appeal may be taken with respect to that decision.


(4) A waiver generally applies to a specific sole source opportunity. If SBA grants a waiver with respect to a specific procurement, the firm will be able to self-market its capabilities to the applicable procuring activity with respect to that procurement. If the Participant seeks an additional sole source opportunity, it must request a waiver with respect to that specific opportunity. Where, however, a Participant can demonstrate that the same extenuating circumstances beyond its control affect its ability to receive specific multiple 8(a) contracts, one waiver can apply to those multiple contract opportunities.



---

[N] [63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45754, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8261, Feb. 11, 2011; 85 FR 66189, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2533, Jan. 13, 2021; 86 FR 38538, July 22, 2021; 88 FR 26208, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024]




