# § 848.102   Definitions.

In this subpart—


*Authorized agency official* means—


(1) For the executive branch agencies, the head of an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105;


(2) For the legislative branch, the Secretary of the Senate, the Clerk of the House of Representatives, or the head of any other legislative branch agency;


(3) For the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts;


(4) For the Postal Service, the Postmaster General;


(5) For any other independent establishment that is an entity of the Federal Government, the head of the establishment; or


(6) An official who is authorized to act for an official named in paragraphs (1)-(5) in the matter concerned.


*Composite retirement annuity* means the annuity computed when a phased retiree attains full retirement status.


*Director* means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.


*Full retirement status* means that a phased retiree has ceased employment and is entitled, upon application, to a composite retirement annuity.


*Full-time* means—


(1) An officially established recurring basic workweek consisting of 40 hours within the employee's administrative workweek (as established under § 610.111 of this chapter or similar authority); or


(2) An officially established recurring basic work requirement of 80 hours per biweekly pay period (as established for employees with a flexible or compressed work schedule under 5 U.S.C. chapter 61, subchapter II, or similar authority).


*Phased employment* means the less-than-full-time employment of a phased retiree.


*Phased retiree* means a retirement-eligible employee who—


(1) With the concurrence of an authorized agency official, enters phased retirement status; and


(2) Has not entered full retirement status;


*Phased retirement annuity* means the annuity payable under 5 U.S.C. 8412a before full retirement.


*Phased retirement percentage* means the percentage which, when added to the working percentage for a phased retiree, produces a sum of 100 percent.


*Phased retirement period* means the period beginning on the date on which an individual becomes entitled to receive a phased retirement annuity and ending on the date on which the individual dies or separates from phased employment.


*Phased retirement status* means that a phased retiree is concurrently employed in phased employment and eligible to receive a phased retirement annuity.


*Working percentage* has the meaning given that term in § 848.202(a).




