# § 7.85   Big Thicket National Preserve.

(a) *Hunting.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, hunting is permitted in accordance with § 2.2 of this chapter. 


(1) Hunting is permitted only during designated seasons, as defined for game animals or birds by the State of Texas. During other periods of the year, no hunting is permitted. 


(2) During applicable open seasons, only the following may be hunted: 


(i) Game animals, rabbits, and feral or wild hogs. 


(ii) Game birds and migratory game birds. 


(3) The use of dogs or calling devices for hunting game animals or fur-bearing animals is prohibited. 


(4) The use or construction of stands, blinds or other structures for use in hunting or for other purposes is prohibited. 


(b) *Trapping.* Trapping, for fur-bearing animals only, is permitted in accordance with § 2.2 of this chapter. 


(c) *Hunting and Trapping Permits.* In addition to applicable State licenses or permits, a permit from the Superintendent is required for hunting or trapping on Preserve lands. Permits will be available, free of charge, at Preserve headquarters and can be obtained in person or by mail. 


(d) *Firearms, Traps, and Other Weapons.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, § 2.4 of this chapter shall be applicable to Preserve lands. 


(1) During open hunting or trapping seasons, the possession and use of firearms or other devices capable of destroying animal life is permitted in accordance with § 2.4 of this chapter. 


(2) The possession of firearms or other weapons at night, from one hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise is prohibited. 



---

[N] [45 FR 46072, July 9, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 30296, June 30, 1983]




