# § 330.400   Regulation of certain garbage.

(a) *Certain interstate movements and imports*—(1) *Interstate movements of garbage from Hawaii and U.S. territories and possessions to other States.* Hawaii, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau are hereby quarantined, and the movement of garbage therefrom to any other State is hereby prohibited except as provided in this subpart in order to prevent the introduction and spread of exotic plant pests and diseases.


(2) *Imports of garbage.* In order to protect against the introduction of exotic animal and plant pests and diseases, the importation of garbage from all foreign countries except Canada is prohibited except as provided in § 330.401(b).


(b) *Definitions*—*Agricultural waste.* Byproducts generated by the rearing of animals and the production and harvest of crops or trees. Animal waste, a large component of agricultural waste, includes waste (*e.g.*, feed waste, bedding and litter, and feedlot and paddock runoff) from livestock, dairy, and other animal-related agricultural and farming practices.


*Approved facility.* A facility approved by the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, upon his determination that it has equipment and uses procedures that are adequate to prevent the dissemination of plant pests and livestock or poultry diseases, and that it is certified by an appropriate Government official as currently complying with the applicable laws for environmental protection.


*Approved sewage system.* A sewage system approved by the Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, upon his determination that the system is designed and operated in such a way as to preclude the discharge of sewage effluents onto land surfaces or into lagoons or other stationary waters, and otherwise is adequate to prevent the dissemination of plant pests and livestock or poultry diseases, and that is certified by an appropriate Government official as currently complying with the applicable laws for environmental protection.


*Carrier.* The principal operator of a means of conveyance.


*Garbage.* All waste material that is derived in whole or in part from fruits, vegetables, meats, or other plant or animal (including poultry) material, and other refuse of any character whatsoever that has been associated with any such material.


*Incineration.* To reduce garbage to ash by burning.


*Interstate.* From one State into or through any other State.


*Sterilization.* Cooking garbage at an internal temperature of 212 °F for 30 minutes.


*Stores.* The food, supplies, and other provisions carried for the day-to-day operation of a conveyance and the care and feeding of its operators.


*Yard waste.* Solid waste composed predominantly of grass clippings, leaves, twigs, branches, and other garden refuse.




