# § 301.6231(a)(2)-1   Persons whose tax liability is determined indirectly by partnership items.

(a) *Spouse filing joint return with individual holding a separate interest*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a), a spouse who files a joint return with an individual holding a separate interest in the partnership shall be treated as a partner for purposes of subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code. Thus, the spouse who files a joint return with a partner will be permitted to participate in administrative and judicial proceedings.


(2) *Counting rules.* A spouse who files a joint return with an individual holding a separate interest in the partnership shall not be counted as a partner for purposes of applying section 6223(b) (relating to special rules for partnerships with more than 100 partners) and section 6231(a)(1)(B) (relating to the exception for small partnerships).


(3) *Notice rules*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, for purposes of subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code, a spouse who files a joint return with an individual holding a separate interest in the partnership shall be treated as receiving any notice received by the individual holding the separate interest. 


(ii) *Spouse identified on partnership return or by statement.* Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to a spouse who files a joint return with an individual holding a separate interest in the partnership if that spouse— 


(A) Is identified on the partnership return; or 


(B) Is identified as a partner entitled to notice as provided in § 301.6223(c)-1(b). 


(4) *Conversion of partnership items*—(i) *Individual holding a separate interest.* A spouse who files a joint return with an individual holding a separate interest in the partnership shall cease to be treated as a partner in the partnership under paragraph (a)(1) of this section upon the conversion of the partnership items of the individual holding the separate interest in the partnership to nonpartnership items pursuant to section 6231(b). If each spouse holds a separate interest in the partnership, the previous sentence shall be applied separately with respect to each partnership interest. 


(ii) *Spouse who files a joint return with an individual holding a separate interest in the partnership.* A spouse who files a joint return with an individual holding a separate interest in the partnership shall cease to be treated as a partner in the partnership under paragraph (a)(1) of this section upon the occurrence of an event that would convert the partnership items of the spouse to nonpartnership items if the spouse were the owner of a separate interest. 


(iii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (a)(4) of this section: 


(5) *Cross-reference.* See § 301.6231(a)(12)-1 for special rules relating to spouses holding a joint interest in a partnership. 


(b) *Shareholder of C corporation.* A shareholder of a C corporation (as defined in section 1361(a)(2)) is not a partner in a partnership merely because the C corporation is a partner in that partnership. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6231(a)(2)-1T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50557, Oct. 4, 2001]




