# § 165.789   Safety Zone; Christiansted Harbor, St. Croix, USVI.

(a) *Regulated area.* (1) A moving safety zone is established on the waters around liquefied gas carriers entering Christiansted Harbor in an area one-half mile around each vessel, beginning one mile north of the Christiansted Harbor Lighted Buoy #1, in approximate position 17°46′48″ N, 064°41′48″ W, and continuing until the vessel is moored at the Virgin Island Water and Power Authority (WAPA) dock in approximate position 17°45′06″ N, 064°42′50″ W. All coordinates are North American Datum 1983.


(2) The waters around liquefied gas carriers in a 50-yard radius around each vessel when moored at the WAPA dock.


(3) A moving safety zone is established on the waters around liquefied gas carriers departing Christiansted Harbor in an area one-half mile around each vessel beginning at the WAPA dock in approximate position 17°45′06″ N, 064°42′50″ W when the vessel gets underway, and continuing until the stern passes the Christiansted Harbor Lighted Buoy #1, in approximate position 17°45′48″ N, 064°41′48″ W.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) No person or vessel may enter, transit, or remain in the safety zone unless authorized by the Captain of the Port San Juan, Puerto Rico, or a designated Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer. Those operating in the safety zone with the Captain of the Port's authorization must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the Captain of the Port or a designated representative.


(2) Vessels encountering emergencies, which require transit through the safety zones, should contact the Coast Guard patrol craft or Duty Officer on VHF Channel 16. In the event of an emergency, the Coast Guard patrol craft may authorize a vessel to transit through the safety zones with a Coast Guard designated escort.


(3) The Captain of the Port and the Duty Officer at Sector San Juan, Puerto Rico, can be contacted at telephone number 787-289-2041. The Coast Guard Patrol Commander enforcing the safety zones can be contacted on VHF-FM channels 16 and 22A.


(4) Coast Guard Sector San Juan will, when necessary and practicable, notify the maritime community of periods during which the safety zone will be in effect by providing advance notice of scheduled arrivals and departure of cruise ships via a Marine Broadcast Notice to Mariners.


(5) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of on-scene patrol personnel. On-scene patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, or petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard. Coast Guard Auxiliary and local or state officials may be present to inform vessel operators of the requirements of this section, and other applicable laws.



---

[N] [USCG-2020-0307, 86 FR 18448, Apr. 9, 2021]






