# § 63.4967   What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?

(a) *General.* You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), and (f) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section according to paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) of this section.


(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation in 1 hour.


(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation.


(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.


(4) You must maintain the CPMS at all times in accordance with § 63.4900(b) and have readily available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.


(5) Before September 12, 2019, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled coating operation is operating, except during monitoring malfunctions, repairs to correct the monitor malfunctions, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, if applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). On and after September 12, 2019, you must operate the CPMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times in accordance with § 63.4900(b).


(6) You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, repairs to correct the monitor malfunctions, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.


(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CPMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Any period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations is a deviation from the monitoring requirements.


(b) *Capture system bypass line.* You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.


(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) *Flow control position indicator.* Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.


(ii) *Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.* Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position, and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.


(iii) *Valve closure monitoring.* Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (nondiverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.


(iv) *Automatic shutdown system.* Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coating operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shut down the coating operation.


(2) If any bypass line is opened, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 63.4920.


(c) *Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.* If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:


(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the gas stream immediately before the catalyst bed, and if you are establishing operating limits according to § 63.4966(b)(1) and (2), also install a gas temperature monitor in the gas stream immediately after the catalyst bed.


(3) For each gas temperature monitoring device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.


(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.


(ii) Use a temperature sensor with an accuracy of at least 5 degrees Fahrenheit or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.


(iii) Perform an initial calibration according to the manufacturer's requirements.


(iv) Before using the sensor for the first time or upon relocation or replacement of the sensor, perform a validation check by comparing the sensor output to a calibrated temperature measurement device or by comparing the sensor output to a simulated temperature.


(v) Conduct an accuracy audit every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audit methods include comparisons of sensor output to redundant temperature sensors, to calibrated temperature measurement devices, or to temperature simulation devices.


(vi) Conduct a visual inspection of each sensor every quarter if redundant temperature sensors are not used.


(d) *Carbon adsorbers.* If you are using a carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (*e.g.,* steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle, and comply with paragraphs (a)(3) through (5) and (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having a measurement sensitivity of plus or minus 10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle.


(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle.


(3) For all carbon adsorbers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device.


(e) *Condensers.* If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (a) and (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The temperature monitor must provide a gas temperature record at least once every 15 minutes.


(2) For all condensers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device.


(f) *Emission capture systems.* The capture system monitoring system must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.


(ii) Use a flow sensor with an accuracy of at least 10 percent of the flow.


(iii) Perform an initial sensor calibration in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements.


(iv) Perform a validation check before initial use or upon relocation or replacement of a sensor. Validation checks include comparison of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or via relative accuracy testing.


(v) Perform accuracy audits every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audits include comparison of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or with values obtained via relative accuracy testing.


(vi) Perform leak checks monthly.


(vii) Perform visual inspections of the sensor system quarterly if there is no redundant sensor.


(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.


(ii) Use a pressure sensor with an accuracy of at least 0.5 inches of water column or 5 percent of the measured value, whichever is larger.


(iii) Perform an initial calibration of the sensor according to the manufacturer's requirements.


(iv) Conduct a validation check before initial operation or upon relocation or replacement of the sensor. Validation checks include comparison of the sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.


(v) Conduct accuracy audits every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audits include comparison of sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.


(vi) Perform monthly leak checks on pressure connections. A pressure of at least 1.0 inches of water column to the connection must yield a stable sensor result for at least 15 seconds.


(vii) Perform a visual inspection of the sensor at least monthly if there is no redundant sensor.


(g) *Concentrators.* If you are using a concentrator, such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (g)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) You must install a temperature monitor in the desorption gas stream. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3) of this section.


(2) You must install a device to monitor pressure drop across the zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed. The pressure monitoring device must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 28619, May 23, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 9642, Mar. 15, 2019] 




