# § 60.704a   What test methods and procedures must I use to determine compliance with the standards?

(a) For the purpose of demonstrating compliance with the emission limits and standards specified in table 1 to this subpart, all affected facilities must be run at full operating conditions and flow rates during any performance test. Performance tests are not required if you determine compliance using a CEMS that meets the requirements outlined in paragraph (g) of this section.


(1) Conduct initial performance tests no later than the date required by § 60.8(a).


(2) Conduct subsequent performance tests no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.


(b) The following methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided in § 60.8(b), must be used as reference methods to determine compliance with the emission limit or percent reduction efficiency specified in table 1 to this subpart for non-flare control devices and/or recovery systems.


(1) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to this part, as appropriate, for selection of the sampling sites. The inlet sampling site for determination of vent stream molar composition or TOC (less methane and ethane) reduction efficiency shall be prior to the inlet of the control device or, if equipped with a recovery system, then prior to the inlet of the first recovery device in the recovery system.


(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-1 to this part, as appropriate, for determination of the gas volumetric flow rates.


(3) Method 3A of appendix A-2 to this part or the manual method in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981—Part 10 (incorporated by reference, see §  60.17) must be used to determine the oxygen concentration (%O2d) for the purposes of determining compliance with the 20 ppmv limit. The sampling site must be the same as that of the TOC samples, and the samples must be taken during the same time that the TOC samples are taken. The TOC concentration corrected to 3 percent O_2_ (Cc) must be computed using the following equation:


(4) Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part to determine the concentration of TOC in the control device outlet or in the outlet of the final recovery device in a recovery system, and to determine the concentration of TOC in the inlet when the reduction efficiency of the control device or recovery system is to be determined. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) may be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 may not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 must not be used as a total VOC method.


(i) The minimum sampling time for each run must be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or at least four grab samples must be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately 15-minute intervals.


(ii) The emission reduction (R) of TOC (minus methane and ethane) must be determined using the following equation:


(iii) The mass rates of TOC (E_i_, E_o_) must be computed using the following equations:


(iv) The TOC concentration (C_TOC_) is the sum of the individual components and must be computed for each run using the following equation:


(c) The requirement for initial and subsequent performance tests are waived, in accordance with § 60.8(b), for the following:


(1) When a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW (150 million Btu/hour) or greater is used to seek compliance with § 60.702a(a).


(2) When a vent stream is introduced into a boiler or process heater with the primary fuel.


(3) When a boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste is used for which the owner or operator:


(i) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H;


(ii) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H;


(iii) Has submitted a Notification of Compliance under 40 CFR 63.1207(j) and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE; or


(iv) Complies with 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE, and will submit a Notification of Compliance under 40 CFR 63.1207(j) by the date the owner or operator would have been required to submit the initial performance test report for this subpart.


(4) The Administrator reserves the option to require testing at such other times as may be required, as provided for in section 114 of the Act.


(d) For purposes of complying with the 98 weight-percent reduction in § 60.702a(a), if the vent stream entering a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 MW (150 million Btu/hour) is introduced with the combustion air or as secondary fuel, the weight-percent reduction of TOC (minus methane and ethane) across the combustion device shall be determined by comparing the TOC (minus methane and ethane) in all combusted vent streams, primary fuels, and secondary fuels with the TOC (minus methane and ethane) exiting the combustion device.


(e) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart seeking to demonstrate compliance with § 60.700a(c)(3) shall use Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-1 to this part, as appropriate, for determination of volumetric flow rate. The owner or operator must conduct three velocity traverses and determine the volumetric flow rate for each traverse. If the pipe or duct is smaller than four inches in diameter, the owner operator may conduct the measurement at the centroid of the duct instead of conducting a traverse; the measurement period must be at least five minutes long and data must be recorded at least once every 30 seconds. Owners and operators who conduct the determination with Method 2A or 2D must record volumetric flow rate every 30 seconds for at least five minutes.


(f) Each owner or operator seeking to demonstrate that a reactor process vent stream has a TOC concentration for compliance with the low concentration exemption in § 60.700a(c)(7) shall conduct an initial test to measure TOC concentration.


(1) The sampling site shall be selected as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) Method 18 of appendix A-6 or Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used to measure concentration. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) may be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 may not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 must not be used as a total VOC method.


(3) Where Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part is used to qualify for the low concentration exclusion in § 60.700a(c)(7), the procedures in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (iv) of this section shall be used to measure TOC concentration, and the procedures of paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be used to correct the TOC concentration to 3 percent oxygen. To qualify for the exclusion, the results must demonstrate that the concentration of TOC, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, is below 300 ppm by volume.


(4) Where Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part is used, the following procedures shall be used to calculate ppm by volume TOC concentration, corrected to 3 percent oxygen:


(i) Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used only if a single organic compound is greater than 50 percent of total TOC, by volume, in the reactor process vent stream. This compound shall be the principal organic compound.


(ii) The principal organic compound may be determined by either process knowledge or test data collected using an appropriate EPA Reference Method. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current reactor process vent stream conditions.


(iii) The principal organic compound shall be used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part.


(iv) The span value for Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part shall be 300 ppmv.


(v) Use of Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.


(vi) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the concentration of TOC including methane and ethane measured by Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, is below 150 ppm by volume to qualify for the low concentration exclusion in § 60.700a(c)(7).


(vii) The concentration of TOC shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen using the procedures and equation in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(g) If you use a CEMS to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the TOC standard in table 1 of this subpart, each CEMS must be installed, operated and maintained according to the requirements in § 60.13 and paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You must use a CEMS that is capable of measuring the target analyte(s) as demonstrated using either process knowledge of the control device inlet stream or the screening procedures of Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part on the control device inlet stream. If your CEMS is located after a combustion device and inlet stream to that device includes methanol or formaldehyde, you must use a CEMS which meets the requirements in Performance Specifications 9 or 15 of appendix B to this part.


(2) Each CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable performance specification of appendix B of this part and the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part. Locate the sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location such that you obtain representative measurements of emissions from the affected facility.


(3) Conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS within 180 days of installation of the monitoring system. Conduct subsequent performance evaluations of the CEMS no later than 12 calendar months after the previous performance evaluation. The results each performance evaluation must be submitted in accordance with § 60.705a(b)(1).


(4) You must determine TOC concentration according to one of the following options. The span value of the TOC CEMS must be approximately 2 times the emission standard specified in table 1 of this subpart.


(i) For CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of appendix B to this part, determine the target analyte(s) for calibration using either process knowledge of the control device inlet stream or the screening procedures of Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part on the control device inlet stream. The individual analytes used to quantify TOC must represent 98 percent of the expected mass of TOC present in the stream. Report the results of TOC as equivalent to carbon (C1).


(ii) For CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 9 of appendix B to this part, determine the target analyte(s) for calibration using either process knowledge of the control device inlet stream or the screening procedures of Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part on the control device inlet stream. The individual analytes used to quantify TOC must represent 98 percent of the expected mass of TOC present in the stream. Report the results of TOC as equivalent to carbon (C1).


(iii) For CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 8 of appendix B to this part used to monitor performance of a combustion device, calibrate the instrument on the predominant organic HAP and report the results as carbon (C1), and use Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests. You must also comply with procedure 1 of appendix F to this part.


(iv) For CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 8 of appendix B to this part used to monitor performance of a noncombustion device, determine the predominant organic compound using either process knowledge or the screening procedures of Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part on the control device inlet stream. Calibrate the monitor on the predominant organic compound and report the results as C_1_. Use Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests. You must also comply with procedure 1 of appendix F to this part.


(5) You must determine stack oxygen concentration at the same location where you monitor TOC concentration with a CEMS that meets the requirements of Performance Specification 3 of appendix B of this part. The span value of the oxygen CEMS must be approximately 25 percent oxygen. Use Method 3A of appendix A-2 to this part as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests.


(6) You must maintain written procedures for your CEMS. At a minimum, the procedures must include the information in paragraph (f)(6)(i) through (vi) of this section:


(i) Description of CEMS installation location.


(ii) Description of the monitoring equipment, including the manufacturer and model number for all monitoring equipment components and the span of the analyzer.


(iii) Routine quality control and assurance procedures.


(iv) Conditions that would trigger a CEMS performance evaluation, which must include, at a minimum, a newly installed CEMS; a process change that is expected to affect the performance of the CEMS; and the Administrator's request for a performance evaluation under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.


(v) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures.


(vi) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures.






