# § 436.30   Purpose and scope.

(a) *General.* This subpart provides procedures and methods which apply to Federal agencies with regard to the award and administration of energy savings performance contracts. This subpart applies in addition to the Federal Acquisition Regulation at Title 48 of the CFR and related Federal agency regulations. The provisions of this subpart are controlling with regard to energy savings performance contracts notwithstanding any conflicting provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation and related Federal agency regulations.




(b) *Utility incentive programs.* Nothing in this subpart shall preclude a Federal agency from—


(1) Participating in programs to increase energy efficiency, conserve water, or manage electricity demand conducted by gas, water, or electric utilities and generally available to customers of such utilities; 


(2) Accepting financial incentives, goods, or services generally available from any such utility to increase energy efficiency or to conserve water or manage electricity demand; or 


(3) Entering into negotiations with electric, water, and gas utilities to design cost-effective demand management and conservation incentive programs to address the unique needs of each Federal agency. 


(c) *Promoting competition.* To the extent allowed by law, Federal agencies should encourage utilities to select contractors for the conduct of utility incentive programs in a competitive manner to the maximum extent practicable. 


(d) *Interpretations.* The permissive provisions of this subpart shall be liberally construed to effectuate the objectives of Title VIII of the National Energy Conservation Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 8287-8287c. 



---

[N] [60 FR 18334, Apr. 10, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 19343, Apr. 18, 1995; 65 FR 39786, June 28, 2000; 89 FR 19501, Mar. 19, 2024]




