# ยง 86.1116-87   Treatment of confidential information.

(a) Any manufacturer may assert that some or all of the information submitted pursuant to this subpart is entitled to confidential treatment as provided by 40 CFR part 2, subpart B.


(b) Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information at the time it is submitted to EPA.


(c) To assert that information submitted pursuant to this subpart is confidential, a manufacturer must indicate clearly the items of information claimed confidential by marking, circling, bracketing, stamping, or otherwise specifying the confidential information. Furthermore, EPA requests, but does not require, that the submitter also provide a second copy of its submittal from which all confidential information has been deleted. If a need arises to publicly release nonconfidential information, EPA will assume that the submitter has accurately deleted the confidential information from this second copy.


(d) If a claim is made that some or all of the information submitted pursuant to this subpart is entitled to confidential treatment, the information covered by that confidentiality claim will be disclosed by the Environmental Appeals Board only to the extent and by means of the procedures set forth in part 2, subpart B, of this chapter.


(e) Information provided without a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission may be made available to the public by EPA without further notice to the submitter, in accordance with 40 CFR 2.204(c)(2)(i)(A).



---

[N] [50 FR 34798, Aug. 27, 1985, as amended at 57 FR 5334, Feb. 13, 1992]






