# § 12.407   General requirements for Lifeboat Operator endorsements.

(a) *General.* Every person fulfilling the manning requirements as Lifeboat Operator on any United States vessel must hold an endorsement as Lifeboat Operator. No endorsement as Lifeboat Operator is required of any person employed on any unrigged vessel, except on a seagoing barge and on a tank barge navigating waters other than rivers and/or canals.


(b) *Requirements for certification.* (1) To qualify for an endorsement as Lifeboat Operator, an applicant must—


(i) Be at least 18 years of age;


(ii) Pass the prescribed physical and medical examination requirements specified in 46 CFR, part 10, subpart C; and


(iii) Provide evidence of having passed a chemical test for dangerous drugs or as having qualified for an exemption for testing described in § 16.220 of this subchapter.


(2) To be eligible for an endorsement as Lifeboat Operator, an applicant must meet one of the following sea service requirements:


(i) At least 6 months of sea service in any department of vessels and the successful completion of an approved course.


(ii) At least 12 months of sea service in any department of vessels on ocean, coastwise, inland, and Great Lakes routes.


(3) Before an applicant is issued an endorsement as a Lifeboat Operator, they must prove, to the satisfaction of the Coast Guard, by oral or other means of examination, and by actual practical demonstration of abilities, their knowledge of seamanship and the ability to carry out effectively all the duties that may be required of a Lifeboat Operator. This requirement may be met by completion of an approved course in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, provided the course includes actual practical demonstration of abilities.


(4) The practical demonstration must consist of a demonstration of the applicant's ability to—


(i) Take charge of a survival craft or rescue boat during and after launch;


(ii) Operate a survival craft engine;


(iii) Demonstrate the ability to row by actually pulling an oar in the boat;


(iv) Manage a survival craft and survivors after abandoning ship;


(v) Safely recover survival craft and rescue boats; and


(vi) Use locating and communication devices.


(5) The examination, whether administered orally or by other means, must be conducted only in the English language and must consist of questions regarding—


(i) Lifeboats and liferafts, the names of their essential parts, and a description of the required equipment;


(ii) The clearing away, swinging out, and lowering of lifeboats and liferafts, the handling of lifeboats under oars and sails, including questions relative to the proper handling of a boat in a heavy sea; and


(iii) The operation and functions of commonly used types of davits.


(6) An applicant, to be eligible for an endorsement as Lifeboat Operator, must be able to speak and understand the English language as would be required in the rating of Lifeboat Operator and in an emergency aboard ship.



---

[N] [USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93100, Nov. 25, 2024, as amended by USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102336, Dec. 17, 2024]






