# § 2540.100   What restrictions govern the use of Corporation assistance?

(a) *Supplantation.* Corporation assistance may not be used to replace State and local public funds that had been used to support programs of the type eligible to receive Corporation support. For any given program, this condition will be satisfied if the aggregate non-Federal public expenditure for that program in the fiscal year that support is to be provided is not less than the previous fiscal year. 


(b) *Religious use.* Corporation assistance may not be used to provide religious instruction, conduct worship services, or engage in any form of proselytization. 


(c) *Political activity.* Corporation assistance may not be used by program participants or staff to assist, promote, or deter union organizing; or finance, directly or indirectly, any activity designed to influence the outcome of a Federal, State or local election to public office. 


(d) *Contracts or collective bargaining agreements.* Corporation assistance may not be used to impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements. 


(e) *Nonduplication.* Corporation assistance may not be used to duplicate an activity that is already available in the locality of a program. And, unless the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section are met, Corporation assistance will not be provided to a private nonprofit entity to conduct activities that are the same or substantially equivalent to activities provided by a State or local government agency in which such entity resides. 


(f) *Nondisplacement.* (1) An employer may not displace an employee or position, including partial displacement such as reduction in hours, wages, or employment benefits, as a result of the use by such employer of a participant in a program receiving Corporation assistance. 


(2) An organization may not displace a volunteer by using a participant in a program receiving Corporation assistance. 


(3) A service opportunity will not be created under this chapter that will infringe in any manner on the promotional opportunity of an employed individual. 


(4) A participant in a program receiving Corporation assistance may not perform any services or duties or engage in activities that would otherwise be performed by an employee as part of the assigned duties of such employee. 


(5) A participant in any program receiving assistance under this chapter may not perform any services or duties, or engage in activities, that—


(i) Will supplant the hiring of employed workers; or 


(ii) Are services, duties, or activities with respect to which an individual has recall rights pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or applicable personnel procedures. 


(6) A participant in any program receiving assistance under this chapter may not perform services or duties that have been performed by or were assigned to any— 


(i) Presently employed worker; 


(ii) Employee who recently resigned or was discharged; 


(iii) Employee who is subject to a reduction in force or who has recall rights pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or applicable personnel procedures; 


(iv) Employee who is on leave (terminal, temporary, vacation, emergency, or sick); or 


(v) Employee who is on strike or who is being locked out. 



---

[N] [59 FR 13808, Mar. 23, 1994, as amended at 70 FR 39607, July 8, 2005]




