# § 1.1502-68   Additional first year depreciation deduction for property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Overview.* This section provides rules governing the availability of the additional first year depreciation deduction allowable under section 168(k) for qualified property that is acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017, by a member of a consolidated group. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the rules in § 1.168(k)-2 apply to members of a consolidated group in addition to the rules in this section. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section provides definitions of terms used in this section. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules addressing the application of § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A)(*1*) (requiring that a taxpayer claiming the additional first year depreciation deduction for used property not previously have used the property) to members of a consolidated group. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules addressing certain transfers of eligible property (as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section) between members of a consolidated group if the transferee member (as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section) leaves the group pursuant to the same series of related transactions. Paragraph (d) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of the rules of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the applicability dates.


(2) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(i) *Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule.* The term *Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule* refers to the rule set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section addressing certain intercompany transfers of eligible property.


(ii) *Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.* The term *Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule* refers to the rule set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section addressing certain intercompany transfers of the stock of target (as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(xi) of this section).


(iii) *Deconsolidation date.* The term *deconsolidation date* means the date on which a transferee member ceases to be a member of a consolidated group.


(iv) *Designated transaction.* The term *designated transaction* has the meaning provided in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.


(v) *Deemed replacement property.* The term *deemed replacement property* means used property that is identical to (but is separate and distinct from) the eligible property that the transferee member or target is deemed to sell to an unrelated party under the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule. For all Federal income tax purposes, the deemed purchase of deemed replacement property by the transferee member or target under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) or (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section, respectively, does not result in the basis in such property being determined, in whole or in part, by reference to the basis of other property held at any time by the transferee member or target. See section 179(d)(3) and § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A)(*3*).


(vi) *Deemed sale amount.* The term *deemed sale amount* means an amount equal to the transferee member's or the target's adjusted basis in the eligible property immediately before the transferee member or target is deemed to sell the property to an unrelated party under the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.


(vii) *Eligible property.* The term *eligible property* means depreciable property (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(1)) that meets the requirements in § 1.168(k)-2(b)(2), determined without regard to § 1.168(k)-2(b)(2)(ii)(C) (property subject to an election not to claim the additional first year depreciation for a class of property) except on the day after the deconsolidation date.


(viii) *Group Prior Use Rule.* The term *Group Prior Use Rule* refers to the rule set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section addressing when a member of a consolidated group is attributed another member's depreciable interest in property.


(ix) *Lookback Period.* The term *lookback period* means, with respect to a member of a consolidated group, the period that includes the five calendar years immediately prior to the current calendar year in which the property is placed in service by such member, as well as the portion of such current calendar year before the date on which the member placed the property in service (without taking into account the applicable convention).


(x) *Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule.* The term *Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule* refers to the rule set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section addressing when a member of a consolidated group is attributed a new member's depreciable interest in property.


(xi) *Target.* The term *target* means the member whose stock is transferred in a transaction that is subject to the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.


(xii) *Transferee member.* The term *transferee**member* means the member that acquires eligible property or target stock, respectively, in a transaction that is subject to the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.


(xiii) *Transferor member.* The term *transferor member* means the member that transfers eligible property or target stock, respectively, in a transaction that is subject to the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.


(b) *Acquisitions of depreciable property by a member of a consolidated group*—(1) *General rule (Group Prior Use Rule).* Solely for purposes of applying § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A)(*1*), if a member of a consolidated group acquires depreciable property in which the group had a depreciable interest at any time within the lookback period, the member is treated as having a depreciable interest in the property prior to the acquisition. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1), a consolidated group is treated as having a depreciable interest in property during the time any current or previous member of the group had a depreciable interest in the property while a member of the group. For special rules that apply when a member of a consolidated group acquires depreciable property in an intercompany transaction (as defined in § 1.1502-13(b)(1)(i)) and then leaves the group pursuant to the same series of related transactions, see paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Certain acquisitions pursuant to a series of related transactions (Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule).* Solely for purposes of applying § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A)(*1*), if a series of related transactions includes one or more transactions in which property is acquired by a member of a consolidated group, and one or more transactions in which a corporation that had a depreciable interest in the property (determined without regard to the application of the Group Prior Use Rule) within the lookback period becomes a member of the group, then the member that acquires the property is treated as having a depreciable interest in the property prior to the acquisition.


(c) *Certain intercompany transfers of eligible property followed by deconsolidation*—(1) *Acquisition of eligible property by a member that leaves the group*—(i) *General rule (Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule).* This paragraph (c)(1) applies to certain transactions pursuant to which one member of a consolidated group (transferee member) acquires from another member of the same consolidated group (transferor member) eligible property. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section, if a transaction satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, then § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(C) (providing special rules when depreciable property is acquired as part of a series of related transactions) does not apply to the transaction, and for all Federal income tax purposes—


(A) The transferee member is treated as selling the eligible property to an unrelated person on the day after the deconsolidation date in exchange for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount; and


(B) Immediately after the deemed sale in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the transferee member is treated as purchasing deemed replacement property from an unrelated person for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount.


(ii) *Requirements.* A transaction satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (c)(1)(ii) if—


(A) The transferee member's acquisition of the eligible property meets the requirements of § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A) without regard to section 179(d)(2)(A) or (B) and § 1.179-4(c)(1)(ii) or (iii) or the Group Prior Use Rule;


(B) As part of the same series of related transactions that includes the acquisition, the transferee member ceases to be a member of the consolidated group and ceases to be related, within the meaning of section 179(d)(2)(A) or (B) and § 1.179-4(c)(1)(ii) or (iii), to the transferor member; and


(C) The acquired eligible property continues to be eligible property on the deconsolidation date and the day after the deconsolidation date.


(2) *Deemed acquisition of eligible property pursuant to an election under section 338 or 336(e) by a member that leaves the group*—(i) *General rule (Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule).* This paragraph (c)(2) applies to certain transactions pursuant to which a transferee member acquires from a transferor member the stock of another member of the same consolidated group that holds eligible property (target) in either a qualified stock purchase for which a section 338 election is made or a qualified stock disposition described in § 1.336-2(b)(1) for which a section 336(e) election is made. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section, if a transaction satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, then § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(C) does not apply to the transaction, and for all Federal income tax purposes—


(A) The target is treated as selling the eligible property to an unrelated person on the day after the deconsolidation date in exchange for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount; and


(B) Immediately after the deemed sale in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the target is treated as purchasing deemed replacement property from an unrelated person for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount.


(ii) *Requirements.* A transaction satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) if:


(A) The target's acquisition of the eligible property meets the requirements of § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A) without regard to the Group Prior Use Rule;


(B) As part of the same series of related transactions that includes the qualified stock purchase or qualified stock disposition, the transferee member and the target cease to be members of the transferor member's consolidated group and cease to be related, within the meaning of section 179(d)(2)(A) or (B) and § 1.179-4(c)(1)(ii) or (iii), to the transferor member; and


(C) The target's eligible property on the acquisition date (within the meaning of § 1.338-2(c)(1)) or the disposition date (within the meaning of § 1.336-1(b)(8)) continues to be eligible property on the deconsolidation date and the day after the deconsolidation date.


(3) *Disposition of depreciable property pursuant to the same series of related transactions.* Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply if, following the acquisition of eligible property, the transferee member disposes of such property pursuant to the same series of related transactions that includes the property acquisition. Paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not apply if, following the deemed acquisition of eligible property, the target disposes of such property pursuant to the same series of related transactions that includes the qualified stock purchase or qualified stock disposition. See § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(C) for rules regarding the transfer of property in a series of related transactions. See also § 1.168(k)-2(g)(1) for rules regarding property placed in service and disposed of in the same taxable year. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), the deemed sale of eligible property by the transferee member or the target pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) or (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section is not treated as a “disposition” of such property.


(4) *Election to not apply paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(2)(i) of this section*—(i) *In general.* If a transaction satisfies the requirements of the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section, respectively, the transferee member or the target nonetheless may elect not to apply the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule, respectively, to all eligible property that is acquired or deemed acquired in such transaction. If a transferee member or target makes an election under this paragraph (c)(4) with respect to any transaction (designated transaction), then—


(A) The transferee member or target is deemed to have made such an election for all other transactions—


(*1*) That satisfy the requirements of the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule;


(*2*) That are part of the same series of related transactions as the designated transaction; and


(*3*) In which the transferee member or target either is the same transferee member or target as in the designated transaction or is related, within the meaning of section 179(d)(2)(A) or (B) and § 1.179-4(c)(1)(ii) or (iii), to the transferee member or target in the designated transaction immediately after the end of the series of related transactions; and


(B) Any eligible property acquired or deemed acquired in the designated transaction and in any transactions described in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section does not satisfy either the original use requirement or the used property acquisition requirements in § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3) and, thus, is not “qualified property” within the meaning of § 1.168(k)-2(b)(1).


(ii) *Time and manner for making election*—(A) *Time to make election.* An election under this paragraph (c)(4) must be made by the due date, including extensions, for the Federal tax return for the taxable year of the transferee member or target that begins on the day after the deconsolidation date.


(B) *Manner of making election.* A transferee member or target, as applicable, makes the election under this paragraph (c)(4) by attaching a statement to its return for the taxable year that begins on the day after the deconsolidation date. The statement must describe the transaction(s) to which the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule or Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule otherwise would apply and state that the transferee member or the target, as applicable, is not claiming the additional first year depreciation deduction for any eligible property transferred in such transaction(s). If, at the time the election is made, the transferee member or the target is a member of a consolidated group, the statement is made by the agent for the group (within the meaning of § 1.1502-77(a) and (c)) on behalf of the transferee member or the target and is attached to the consolidated return of the group for the taxable year of the group that includes the taxable year of the transferee member or target that begins on the day after the deconsolidation date.


(C) *Additional procedural guidance.* The IRS may publish procedural guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter) that provides alternative procedures for complying with paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(iii) *Revocation of election.* An election specified in this paragraph (c)(4), once made, may be revoked only by filing a request for a private letter ruling and obtaining the Commissioner of Internal Revenue's written consent to revoke the election. The Commissioner may grant a request to revoke the election if the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith, and the revocation will not prejudice the interests of the Government. See generally § 301.9100-3 of this chapter. An election specified in this paragraph (c)(4) may not be revoked through a request under section 446(e) to change the taxpayer's method of accounting.


(d) *Examples.* For purposes of the examples in this section, unless otherwise stated: Parent, S, B, Controlled, and T are members of a consolidated group of which Parent is the common parent (Parent group); Parent owns all of the only class of stock of each of S, B, Controlled, and T; X is the common parent of the X consolidated group (X group); no member of the X group is related, within the meaning of section 179(d)(2)(A) or (B) and § 1.179-4(c)(1)(ii) or (iii) (Related), to any member of the Parent group; G and U are corporations that are not Related to each other or to any member of the Parent group or the X group; the Equipment in each example is eligible property; no member of the Parent group or the X group has had a depreciable interest in the Equipment within the lookback period; § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A)(*1*) is referred to as the No Prior Use Requirement; and § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A)(*2*) is referred to as the Unrelated Party Requirement. The rules of this section are illustrated by the following examples.


(1) *Example 1: Intercompany sale of eligible property*—(i) *Facts.* S has a depreciable interest in Equipment #1. In 2018, S sells Equipment #1 to B, and B places Equipment #1 in service in the same year.


(ii) *Analysis.* B's acquisition of Equipment #1 does not satisfy either the No Prior Use Requirement or the Unrelated Party Requirement. Under the Group Prior Use Rule, B is treated as previously having a depreciable interest in Equipment #1 because B (a member of the Parent group) acquired Equipment #1 and S, while a member of the Parent group, had a depreciable interest in Equipment #1 within the lookback period. In addition, B acquires Equipment #1 from S, and B and S are Related at the time of the acquisition. Accordingly, B is not eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #1 in 2018.


(2) *Example 2: Sale outside of the consolidated group followed by a reacquisition within the lookback period*—(i) *Facts.* S has a depreciable interest in Equipment #2. In 2018, S sells Equipment #2 to G. In 2019, in an unrelated transaction, B acquires Equipment #2 from G and places it in service in the same year.


(ii) *Analysis.* B's acquisition of Equipment #2 does not satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement as a result of the Group Prior Use Rule. Pursuant to the Group Prior Use Rule, B is treated as previously having a depreciable interest in Equipment #2 because B is a member of the Parent group and S, while a member of the Parent group, had a depreciable interest in Equipment #2 within the lookback period. Thus, B is not eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #2 in 2019. The result would be the same if, after selling Equipment #2 to G, S had ceased to be a member of the Parent group prior to B's acquisition of Equipment #2.


(iii) *Sale outside of the consolidated group followed by a reacquisition beyond the lookback period.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, except that B acquires Equipment #2 and places it in service in 2024 instead of 2019. B's acquisition of Equipment #2 satisfies the No Prior Use Requirement. B would not be treated as previously having a depreciable interest in Equipment #2 under the Group Prior Use Rule because the Parent group did not have a depreciable interest in Equipment #2 within the lookback period. Further, B itself did not have a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #2 within the lookback period. Assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, B is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #2 in 2024. The result would be the same if S, rather than B, acquired and placed in service Equipment #2 in 2024.


(3) *Example 3: Acquisition of eligible property by the consolidated group followed by a corporation with a prior depreciable interest joining the group as part of the same series of related transactions*—(i) *Facts.* G has a depreciable interest in Equipment #3. During 2018, G sells Equipment #3 to U. In a series of related transactions that does not include the 2018 sale, Parent acquires all of the stock of G in 2019. Later in 2019, B purchases Equipment #3 from U and places it in service immediately thereafter.


(ii) *Analysis.* B's acquisition of Equipment #3 does not satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement as a result of the Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule. In a series of related transactions, G became a member of the Parent group and B acquired Equipment #3. Because G had a depreciable interest in Equipment #3 within the lookback period, B is treated as having a depreciable interest in Equipment #3 under the Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule. Thus, B is not eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #3 in 2019.


(iii) *B purchases Equipment #3 in 2024.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, except that B acquires and places in service Equipment #3 in 2024 instead of 2019. B is not treated under the Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #3 because G (which sold Equipment #3 to U in 2018) did not have a depreciable interest in Equipment #3 within the lookback period. In addition, B is not treated under the Group Prior Use Rule as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #3 at the time of the purchase because neither G nor any other member of the Parent group had a depreciable interest in Equipment #3 while a member of the Parent group within the lookback period. Further, B itself did not have a depreciable interest in Equipment #3 within the lookback period. Accordingly, B's acquisition of Equipment #3 satisfies the No Prior Use Requirement. Assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, B is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #3 in 2024.


(iv) *No series of related transactions.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, except that Parent's acquisition of the G stock and B's purchase of Equipment #3 are not part of the same series of related transactions. Because B's purchase of Equipment #3 and Parent's acquisition of the G stock did not occur pursuant to the same series of related transactions, the Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule does not apply. In addition, B is not treated under the Group Prior Use Rule as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #3 at the time of the purchase because neither G nor any other member of the Parent group had a depreciable interest in Equipment #3 while a member of the Parent group within the lookback period. Further, B itself did not have a depreciable interest in Equipment #3 within the lookback period. Accordingly, B's acquisition of Equipment #3 satisfies the No Prior Use Requirement. Assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, B is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #3 in 2019.


(4) *Example 4: Termination of the consolidated group*—(i) *Facts.* S owns Equipment #4. In 2018, S sells Equipment #4 to U. In 2019, X acquires all of the stock of Parent in a transaction that causes the Parent group to terminate and Parent, B, and S to become members of the X group. In 2020, in a transaction that is not part of a series of related transactions, B purchases Equipment #4 from U and places it in service in the same year.


(ii) *Analysis.* B's acquisition of Equipment #4 satisfies the No Prior Use Requirement. The Group Prior Use Rule does not apply to treat B as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #4 because B is a member of the X group and no member of the X group had a depreciable interest in Equipment #4 while a member of the X group within the lookback period. Further, B itself did not have a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #4 within the lookback period. Assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, B is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #4 in 2020.


(iii) *S purchases Equipment #4 in 2020.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, except that S rather than B purchases and places in service Equipment #4 in 2020. S's purchase of Equipment #4 does not satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement because S had a depreciable interest in Equipment #4 within the lookback period. Thus, S is not eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #4 in 2020.


(iv) *Acquisitions are part of the same series of related transactions.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, except that X's acquisition of the Parent stock and B's purchase of Equipment #4 are part of the same series of related transactions. Thus, pursuant to the same series of related transactions, S became a member of the X group and B (another member of the X group) acquired Equipment #4. Because S had a depreciable interest in Equipment #4 within the lookback period, B is treated as having a depreciable interest in Equipment #4 under the Stock and Asset Acquisition Rule. As a result, B's acquisition of Equipment #4 does not satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement, and B is not eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for Equipment #4 in 2020.


(5) *Example 5: Intercompany sale of eligible property followed by sale of B stock as part of the same series of related transactions*—(i) *Facts.* S has a depreciable interest in Equipment #5. On January 1, 2019, B purchases Equipment #5 from S and places it in service. On June 1, 2019, as part of the same series of related transactions that includes B's purchase of Equipment #5, Parent sells all of the stock of B to X. Thus, B leaves the Parent group at the end of the day on June 1, 2019, and B is a member of the X group starting June 2, 2019. See § 1.1502-76(b). As of June 1, 2019, Equipment #5 remains eligible property.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Application of the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule.* B was a member of the Parent group when it acquired Equipment #5. Because S, another member of the Parent group, had a depreciable interest in Equipment #5 while a member of the group within the lookback period, B would be treated as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #5 under the Group Prior Use Rule and B's acquisition of Equipment #5 would not satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement. However, B's acquisition of Equipment #5 satisfies the requirements of the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. First, B's acquisition of Equipment #5 meets the requirements of § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A) without regard to the related-party tests under section 179(d)(2)(A) or (B) and § 1.179-4(c)(1)(ii) or (iii) or the Group Prior Use Rule. Second, as part of the same series of related transactions that includes B's acquisition of Equipment #5, B ceases to be a member of the Parent group and ceases to be Related to S. Third, Equipment #5 continues to be eligible property on the deconsolidation date (June 1, 2019).


(B) *Consequences of the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule.* Under the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule, B is treated for all Federal income tax purposes as transferring Equipment #5 to an unrelated person on June 2, 2019, in exchange for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount and, immediately thereafter, acquiring deemed replacement property (New Equipment #5) from an unrelated person for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount. Accordingly, assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, B is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation for an amount equal to the deemed sale amount for the taxable year in which it places New Equipment #5 in service.


(iii) *Distribution of B.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, except that, on June 1, 2019, Parent distributes the stock of B to its shareholders (which are not Related to S) in a distribution that qualifies for nonrecognition under section 355(a). Accordingly, the Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule applies. As in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(B) of this section, assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, B is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for an amount equal to the deemed sale amount for the taxable year in which it places New Equipment #5 in service.


(iv) *Equipment #5 ceases to be eligible property.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, except that, on June 1, 2019, Equipment #5 is no longer eligible property. The Consolidated Asset Acquisition Rule does not apply because B's acquisition of Equipment #5 fails to satisfy the requirement in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(C) of this section that the acquired eligible property continue to be eligible property on the deconsolidation date. Therefore, B's acquisition of Equipment #5 on January 1, 2019, fails to satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement. Under the Group Prior Use Rule, B is treated as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #5 because B is a member of the Parent group and S, while a member of the Parent group, had a depreciable interest in Equipment #5 within the lookback period. Accordingly, B is not eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction with respect to Equipment #5 in 2019.


(6) *Example 6: Intercompany sale of member stock for which a section 338(h)(10) election is made followed by sale of B stock as part of a series of related transactions*—(i) *Facts.* S owns all of the stock of T, which has a depreciable interest in Equipment #6. On January 1, 2019, B purchases all of the T stock from S in a qualified stock purchase for which a section 338(h)(10) election is made. On June 1, 2019, as part of the same series of related transactions that includes B's purchase of the T stock, Parent sells all of the stock of B to X. Thus, B and T leave the Parent group at the end of the day on June 1, 2019, and B and T are members of the X group starting June 2, 2019. See § 1.1502-76(b). As of June 1, 2019, Equipment #6 remains eligible property.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Section 338(h)(10) election.* Pursuant to the section 338(h)(10) election, Old T is treated as transferring all of its assets, including Equipment #6, to an unrelated person in a single transaction in exchange for consideration at the close of the acquisition date (January 1, 2019), and New T is treated as acquiring all of its assets, including Equipment #6, from an unrelated person in exchange for consideration. Old T is deemed to liquidate following the deemed asset sale. See § 1.338-1(a)(1).


(B) *Application of the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.* New T was a member of the Parent group when New T acquired Equipment #6 from an unrelated person. Because Old T, another member of the Parent group, had a depreciable interest in Equipment #6 while a member of the group within the lookback period, New T would be treated as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #6 under the Group Prior Use Rule and New T's acquisition of Equipment #6 would not satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement. However, New T's acquisition of Equipment #6 satisfies the requirements of the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. First, New T's acquisition of Equipment #6 meets the requirements of § 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A) without regard to the Group Prior Use Rule. Second, as part of the same series of related transactions that includes B's qualified stock purchase of the T stock, B and New T cease to be members of the Parent group and cease to be Related to S. Third, Equipment #6 continues to be eligible property on the deconsolidation date (June 1, 2019).


(C) *Consequences of the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.* Under the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule, New T is treated for all Federal income tax purposes as transferring Equipment #6 to an unrelated person on June 2, 2019, in exchange for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount and, immediately thereafter, acquiring deemed replacement property (New Equipment #6) from an unrelated person for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount. Accordingly, assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, New T is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for an amount equal to the deemed sale amount for the taxable year in which it places New Equipment #6 in service.


(iii) *T owns multiple assets.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section, except that, in addition to Equipment #6, T also owns Asset A (depreciable real estate that is not eligible property). With respect to Equipment #6, the results are the same as in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section. However, the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule does not apply to Asset A because it is not eligible property. Accordingly, New T is not treated as transferring Asset A to an unrelated person on June 2, 2019 and then, immediately thereafter, acquiring deemed replacement property for Asset A. If Equipment #6 had ceased to be eligible property as of June 1, 2019, the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule also would not apply to Equipment #6.


(7) *Example 7: Section 355 transaction following a section 338(h)(10) transaction pursuant to the same series of related transactions*—(i) *Facts.* T has a depreciable interest in Equipment #7. On January 1, 2019, Parent contributes all of the stock of T to B in exchange for common and non-voting preferred stock of B and sells the non-voting preferred stock of B to U pursuant to a binding commitment entered into prior to the contribution (T Exchange). The non-voting preferred stock is not treated as “stock” for purposes of section 1504(a). See section 1504(a)(4). Parent and B jointly make an election under section 338(h)(10) with respect to the T Exchange. On June 1, 2019, as part of the same series of related transactions that includes the T Exchange, Parent contributes the stock of B and assets comprising an active trade or business (within the meaning of section 355(b)) to Controlled in exchange for Controlled common stock and then distributes the Controlled common stock to Parent's shareholders in a distribution qualifying under section 355(a) (Controlled Distribution). In the Controlled Distribution, T and B cease to be Related to Parent. Equipment #7 remains eligible property on June 1, 2019.


(ii) *Section 338(h)(10) election.* Immediately after the Controlled Distribution, Parent and B are not related as determined under section 338(h)(3)(A)(iii). Further, B's basis in the T stock is not determined, in whole or in part, by reference to the adjusted basis of the T stock in the hands of Parent, and the stock is not acquired in an exchange to which section 351, 354, 355, or 356 applies. Accordingly, the T Exchange qualifies as a “purchase” within the meaning of section 338(h)(3). Pursuant to the section 338(h)(10) election, Old T is treated as transferring all of its assets, including Equipment #7, to an unrelated person in a single transaction in exchange for consideration at the close of the acquisition date (January 1, 2019), and New T is treated as acquiring all of its assets, including Equipment #7, from an unrelated person in exchange for consideration. Old T is deemed to liquidate following the deemed asset sale. See § 1.338-1(a)(1).


(iii) *Application of the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule.* New T was a member of the Parent group when New T acquired Equipment #7 from an unrelated person. Because Old T, another member of the Parent group, had a depreciable interest in Equipment #7 while a member of the group within the lookback period, New T would be treated as having a prior depreciable interest in Equipment #7 under the Group Prior Use Rule and New T's acquisition of Equipment #7 would not satisfy the No Prior Use Requirement. However, New T's acquisition of Equipment #7 satisfies the requirements of the Consolidated Deemed Acquisition Rule in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. Thus, New T is treated for all Federal income tax purposes as transferring Equipment #7 to an unrelated person on June 2, 2019, in exchange for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount and, immediately thereafter, acquiring deemed replacement property (New Equipment #7) from an unrelated person for an amount of cash equal to the deemed sale amount. Accordingly, assuming all other requirements in § 1.168(k)-2 are satisfied, New T is eligible to claim the additional first year depreciation deduction for an amount equal to the deemed sale amount for the taxable year in which it places New Equipment #7 in service.


(e) *Applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, this section applies to—


(i) Depreciable property acquired after September 27, 2017, by the taxpayer and placed in service by the taxpayer during or after the taxpayer's taxable year that begins on or after January 1, 2021;


(ii) A specified plant for which the taxpayer properly made an election to apply section 168(k)(5) and that is planted, or grafted to a plant that was previously planted, by the taxpayer during or after the taxpayer's taxable year that begins on or after January 1, 2021; and


(iii) Components acquired or self-constructed after September 27, 2017, of larger self-constructed property described in § 1.168(k)-2(c)(2) and placed in service by the taxpayer during or after the taxpayer's taxable year that begins on or after January 1, 2021.


(2) *Early application of this section and § 1.168(k)-2*—(i) *In general.* Subject to paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, and provided that all members of a consolidated group consistently apply the same set of rules, a taxpayer may choose to apply both the rules of this section and the rules of § 1.168(k)-2, in their entirety and in a consistent manner, to—


(A) Depreciable property acquired after September 27, 2017, by the taxpayer and placed in service by the taxpayer during a taxable year ending on or after September 28, 2017;


(B) A specified plant for which the taxpayer properly made an election to apply section 168(k)(5) and that is planted, or grafted to a plant that was previously planted, after September 27, 2017, by the taxpayer during a taxable year ending on or after September 28, 2017; and


(C) Components acquired or self-constructed after September 27, 2017, of larger self-constructed property described in § 1.168(k)-2(c)(2) and placed in service by the taxpayer during a taxable year ending on or after September 28, 2017.


(ii) *Early application to certain transactions.* In the case of property described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section that is acquired in a transaction that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the taxpayer may apply the rules of this section and the rules of § 1.168(k)-2, in their entirety and in a consistent manner, to such property only if those rules are applied, in their entirety and in a consistent manner, by all parties to the transaction (including the transferor member, the transferee member, and the target, as applicable) and the consolidated groups of which they are members, for the taxable year(s) in which the transaction occurs and the taxable year(s) that includes the day after the deconsolidation date.


(iii) *Bound by early application.* Once a taxpayer applies the rules of this section and the rules of § 1.168(k)-2, in their entirety, for a taxable year, the taxpayer must continue to apply the rules of this section and the rules of § 1.168(k)-2, in their entirety, for the taxpayer's subsequent taxable years.



---

[N] [T.D. 9916, 85 FR 71765, Nov. 10, 2020]




