# § 752.402   Definitions.

In this subpart—






*Current continuous employment* means a period of employment or service immediately preceding an adverse action without a break in Federal civilian employment of a workday.


*Day* means a calendar day.


*Furlough* means the placing of an employee in a temporary status without duties and pay because of lack of work or funds or other nondisciplinary reasons.


*Grade* means a level of classification under a position classification system.


*Indefinite suspension* means the placing of an employee in a temporary status without duties and pay pending investigation, inquiry, or further agency action. The indefinite suspension continues for an indeterminate period of time and ends with the occurrence of the pending conditions set forth in the notice of action which may include the completion of any subsequent administrative action.


*Pay* means the rate of basic pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by the employee, that is, the rate of pay before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any kind.


*Similar positions* means positions in which the duties performed are similar in nature and character and require substantially the same or similar qualifications, so that the incumbent could be interchanged between the positions without significant training or undue interruption to the work.


*Suspension* means the placing of an employee, for disciplinary reasons, in a temporary status without duties and pay for more than 14 days.



---

[N] [74 FR 63532, Dec. 4, 2009, as amended at 85 FR 65986, Oct. 16, 2020; 87 FR 67783, Nov. 10, 2022]






