# ยง 656.21   Supervised recruitment.

(a) *Supervised recruitment.* Where the Certifying Officer determines it appropriate, post-filing supervised recruitment may be required of the employer for the pending application or future applications pursuant to ยง 656.20(b).


(b) *Requirements.* Supervised recruitment shall consist of advertising for the job opportunity by placing an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation or in a professional, trade, or ethnic publication, and any other measures required by the CO. If placed in a newspaper of general circulation, the advertisement must be published for 3 consecutive days, one of which must be a Sunday; or, if placed in a professional, trade, or ethnic publication, the advertisement must be published in the next available published edition. The advertisement must be approved by the Certifying Officer before publication, and the CO will direct where the advertisement is to be placed.


(1) The employer must supply a draft advertisement to the CO for review and approval within 30 days of being notified that supervised recruitment is required.


(2) The advertisement must:


(i) Direct applicants to send resumes or applications for the job opportunity to the CO for referral to the employer;


(ii) Include an identification number and an address designated by the Certifying Officer;


(iii) Describe the job opportunity;


(iv) Not contain a wage rate lower than the prevailing wage rate;


(v) Summarize the employer's minimum job requirements, which can not exceed any of the requirements entered on the application form by the employer;


(vi) Offer training if the job opportunity is the type for which employers normally provide training; and


(vii) Offer wages, terms and conditions of employment no less favorable than those offered to the alien.


(c) *Timing of advertisement.* (1) The advertisement shall be placed in accordance with the guidance provided by the CO.


(2) The employer will notify the CO when the advertisement will be placed.


(d) *Additional or substitute recruitment.* The Certifying Officer may designate other appropriate sources of workers from which the employer must recruit for U.S. workers in addition to the advertising described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(e) *Recruitment report.* The employer must provide to the Certifying Officer a signed, detailed written report of the employer's supervised recruitment, signed by the employer or the employer's representative described in ยง 656.10(b)(2)(ii), within 30 days of the Certifying Officer's request for such a report. The recruitment report must:


(1) Identify each recruitment source by name and document that each recruitment source named was contacted. This can include, for example, copies of letters to recruitment sources such as unions, trade associations, colleges and universities and any responses received to the employer's inquiries. Advertisements placed in newspapers, professional, trade, or ethnic publications can be documented by furnishing copies of the tear sheets of the pages of the publication in which the advertisements appeared, proof of publication furnished by the publication, or dated copies of the web pages if the advertisement appeared on the web as well as in the publication in which the advertisement appeared.


(2) State the number of U.S. workers who responded to the employer's recruitment.


(3) State the names, addresses, and provide resumes (other than those sent to the employer by the CO) of the U.S. workers who applied for the job opportunity, the number of workers interviewed, and the job title of the person who interviewed the workers.


(4) Explain, with specificity, the lawful job-related reason(s) for not hiring each U.S. worker who applied. Rejection of one or more U.S. workers for lacking skills necessary to perform the duties involved in the occupation, where the U.S. workers are capable of acquiring the skills during a reasonable period of on-the-job training, is not a lawful job-related reason for rejecting the U.S. workers. For the purpose of this paragraph (e)(4), a U.S. worker is able and qualified for the job opportunity if the worker can acquire the skills necessary to perform the duties involved in the occupation during a reasonable period of on-the-job training.


(f) The employer shall supply the CO with the required documentation or information within 30 days of the date of the request. If the employer does not do so, the CO shall deny the application.


(g) The Certifying Officer in his or her discretion, for good cause shown, may provide one extension to any request for documentation or information.




