# § 17.3   Alternate methods or procedures.

(a) *General.* The appropriate TTB officer may approve the use of an alternate method or procedure in lieu of a method or procedure prescribed in this part if he or she finds that—


(1) Good cause has been shown for the use of the alternate method or procedure;


(2) The alternate method or procedure is within the purpose of, and consistent with the effect intended by, the method or procedure prescribed by this part, and affords equivalent security to the revenue; and


(3) The alternate method or procedure will not be contrary to any provision of law, and will not result in any increase in cost to the Government or hinder the effective administration of this part.


(b) *Application.* A letter of application to employ an alternate method or procedure must be submitted to the appropriate TTB officer. The application shall specifically describe the proposed alternate method or procedure, and shall set forth the reasons therefor.


(c) *Approval.* No alternate method or procedure shall be employed until the application has been approved by the appropriate TTB officer. The appropriate TTB officer shall not approve any alternate method relating to the giving of any bond or to the assessment, payment, or collection of any tax. The manufacturer shall, during the period of authorization, comply with the terms of the approved application and with any conditions thereto stated by the appropriate TTB officer in the approval. Authorization for any alternate method or procedure may be withdrawn by written notice from the Administrator whenever in his or her judgment the revenue is jeopardized, the effective administration of this part is hindered, or good cause for the authorization no longer exists. The manufacturer shall retain, in the records required by § 17.170, any authorization given by the appropriate TTB officer under this section.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-379, 61 FR 31412, June 20, 1996, as amended by T.D. ATF-436, 66 FR 5470, Jan. 19, 2001]




