# § 162.138   Connecting waters from Lake Huron to Lake Erie; speed rules.

(a) *Maximum speed limit for vessels in normal displacement mode.* (1) Except when required for the safety of the vessel or any other vessel, vessels of 20 meters or more in length operating in normal displacement mode shall proceed at a speed not greater than—


(i) 12 statute miles per hour (10.4 knots) between Fort Gratiot Light and St. Clair Flats Canal Light 2;


(ii) 12 statute miles per hour (10.4 knots) between Peche Island Light and D33 stationary light in the Detroit River entrance; and


(iii) 4 statute miles per hour (3.5 knots) in the River Rouge.


(2) The maximum speed limit is 5.8 statute miles per hour (5 knots) in the navigable channel south of Peche Island (under Canadian jurisdiction).


(b) *Maximum speed limit for vessels operating in nondisplacement mode.* (1) Except when required for the safety of the vessel or any other vessel, vessels 20 meters or more in length but under 100 gross tons operating in the nondisplacement mode and meeting the requirements set out in paragraph (c) of this section, may operate at a speed not exceeding 40 miles per hour (34.8 knots)—


(i) During daylight hours (sunrise to sunset);


(ii) When conditions otherwise safely allow; and


(iii) When approval has been granted by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, Detroit or Commander of the Ninth Coast Guard District prior to each transit of the area.


(2) In this section, “nondisplacement mode” means a mode of operation in which the vessel is supported by hydrodynamic forces, rather than displacement of its weight in the water, to an extent such that the wake which would otherwise be generated by the vessel is significantly reduced.


(c) *Unsafe vessels.* The Captain of the Port or the District Commander may deny approval for operations under paragraph (b) of this section if it appears that the design and operating characteristics of the vessels in question are not safe for the designated waterways, or if it appears that operations under this section have become unsafe for any reason.


(d) *Temporary speed limits.* The District Commander may temporarily establish speed limits or temporarily amend existing speed limit regulations on the waters described in § 162.130(a).



---

[N] [CGD 09-95-002, 60 FR 35702, July 11, 1995, as amended by USCG-2011-1086, 77 FR 62437, Oct. 15, 2012]




