# § 63.116   Process vent provisions—performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.

(a) When a flare is used to comply with § 63.113(a)(1), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section except as specified in § 63.108(a). The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP or TOC concentration.










(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4). 


(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6). 


(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8), as appropriate.


(b) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test when any control device specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section is used. 


(1) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater. 


(2) A boiler or process heater into which the gas stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel. 




(3) A control device for which a performance test was conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by the EPA and the test was conducted using the same methods specified in this section and either no process changes have been made since the test, or the owner or operator can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes is not required to conduct an initial performance test. Subsequent performance tests must be conducted according to § 63.103(b)(1).


(4) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator:


(i) Has been issued a final permit under part 270 of this chapter and complies with the requirements of part 266, subpart H, of this chapter;


(ii) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of part 266, subpart H, of this chapter;


(iii) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section, and has submitted a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) and complies with the requirements of subpart EEE of this part; or


(iv) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section, complies with subpart EEE of this part, and will submit a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) by the date the owner or operator would have been required to submit the initial performance test report for this subpart.


(v) The owner and operator may not waive performance testing pursuant to § 63.1207(d)(4) and each performance test required by § 63.1207(d) must show compliance with the dioxins and furans emission limit specified in § 63.113(a)(5).


(5) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator:


(i) Has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of part 264, subpart O, of this chapter;


(ii) Has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of part 265, subpart O, of this chapter.


(iii) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section, and has submitted a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) and complies with the requirements subpart EEE of this part; or


(iv) Meets the requirement specified in paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section, complies with the requirements subpart EEE of this part, and will submit a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) by the date the owner or operator would have been required to submit the initial performance test report for this subpart.


(v) The owner and operator may not waive performance testing pursuant to § 63.1207(d)(4) and each performance test required by § 63.1207(d) must show compliance with the dioxins and furans emission limit specified in § 63.113(a)(5).


(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an owner or operator using a control device to comply with the organic HAP concentration limit or percent reduction efficiency requirements in § 63.113(a)(2) of this subpart shall conduct performance tests using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section according to the schedule in § 63.103(b)(1) of subpart F of this part. The organic HAP concentration and percent reduction may be measured as either total organic HAP or as TOC minus methane and ethane according to the procedures specified.




(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites. 


(i) For determination of compliance with the 98 percent reduction of total organic HAP requirement of § 63.113(a)(2) of this subpart, sampling sites shall be located at the inlet of the control device as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, and at the outlet of the control device. 


(A) The control device inlet sampling site shall be located after the final product recovery device. 


(B) If a vent stream is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel into a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts, selection of the location of the inlet sampling sites shall ensure the measurement of total organic HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) concentrations in all vent streams and primary and secondary fuels introduced into the boiler or process heater.


(ii) For determination of compliance with the 20 parts per million by volume total organic HAP limit in § 63.113(a)(2) of this subpart, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the control device. 


(2) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate. 


(3) To determine compliance with the 20 parts per million by volume total organic HAP limit in § 63.113(a)(2) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall use Method 18 of appendix A-6 to part 60 of this chapter to measure either TOC minus methane and ethane or total organic HAP. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A of this part, may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration, corrected to 3 percent oxygen:






(i) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the run. 


(ii) The concentration of either TOC (minus methane or ethane) or total organic HAP shall be calculated according to paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) or (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. 


(A) The TOC concentration (C_TOC_) is the sum of the concentrations of the individual components and shall be computed for each run using the following equation: 


(B) The total organic HAP concentration (C_HAP_) shall be computed according to the equation in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section except that only the organic HAP species shall be summed. The list of organic HAP's is provided in table 2 of subpart F of this part. 


(iii) The concentration of TOC or total organic HAP shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen if a combustion device is the control device. 


(A) Method 3A of appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter or the manual method in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see §  63.14) shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration (%O2d). The samples shall be taken during the same time that the TOC (minus methane or ethane) or total organic HAP samples are taken.




(B) The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen (C_c_) shall be computed using the following equation:


(4) To determine compliance with the 98 percent reduction requirement of § 63.113(a)(2), the owner or operator shall use Method 18 of appendix A-6 to part 60 of this chapter; alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A to this part may be used. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. The following procedures shall be used to calculate percent reduction efficiency:




(i) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time such as 15 minute intervals during the run. 


(ii) The mass rate of either TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total organic HAP (E_i_, E_o_) shall be computed. 


(A) The following equations shall be used: 


(B) Where the mass rate of TOC is being calculated, all organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) measured by Method 18 of appendix A-6 to part 60 of this chapter or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) are summed using the equation in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section.




(C) Where the mass rate of total organic HAP is being calculated, only the organic HAP species shall be summed using the equation in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section. The list of organic HAP's is provided in table 2 of subpart F of this part. 


(iii) The percent reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total organic HAP shall be calculated as follows: 


(iv) If the vent stream entering a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, the weight-percent reduction of total organic HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) across the device shall be determined by comparing the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total organic HAP in all combusted vent streams and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total organic HAP exiting the combustion device, respectively. 




(d) An owner or operator using a combustion device followed by a scrubber or other halogen reduction device to control halogenated vent streams in compliance with § 63.113(c)(1) shall conduct performance tests to determine compliance with the control efficiency or emission limits for hydrogen halides and halogens according to the schedule in § 63.103(b)(1).




(1) For an owner or operator determining compliance with the percent reduction of total hydrogen halides and halogens, sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device used to reduce halogen emissions. For an owner or operator determining compliance with the less than 0.45 kilogram per hour outlet emission limit for total hydrogen halides and halogens, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere. 


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, Method 26 or Method 26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the concentration, in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, of total hydrogen halides and halogens that may be present in the vent stream. The mass emissions of each hydrogen halide and halogen compound shall be calculated from the measured concentrations and the gas stream flow rate. 


(3) To determine compliance with the percent removal efficiency, the mass emissions for any hydrogen halides and halogens present at the inlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. The mass emissions of the compounds present at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. Percent reduction shall be determined by comparison of the summed inlet and outlet measurements. 


(4) To demonstrate compliance with the less than 0.45 kilogram per hour outlet emission limit, the test results must show that the mass emission rate of total hydrogen halides and halogens measured at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device is below 0.45 kilogram per hour. 


(5) The owner or operator may use any other method to demonstrate compliance if the method or data has been validated according to the applicable procedures of Method 301 of appendix A of this part. 


(e) An owner or operator using a scrubber or other halogen reduction device to reduce the vent stream halogen atom mass emission rate to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour prior to a combustion control device in compliance with § 63.113(c)(2) of this subpart shall determine the halogen atom mass emission rate prior to the combustor according to the procedures in § 63.115(d)(2)(v) of this subpart.


(f) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits and work practice standards specified in § 63.113(j) for process vents in ethylene oxide service, owners and operators must meet the requirements specified in § 63.124.


(g) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), an owner or operator using a recapture device to comply with the organic HAP concentration limit or percent reduction efficiency requirements in § 63.113(a)(2) shall conduct a performance test using the same procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section, except the term “recapture device” is substituted for “control device.”


(h) To demonstrate compliance with the dioxins and furans emission limit specified in § 63.113(a)(5), owners and operators must conduct performance tests using the procedures in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section according to the schedule in § 63.103(b)(1).


(1) The performance test must consist of three test runs. Collect at least 3 dry standard cubic meters of gas per test run.


(2) Use Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 to select the sampling sites at the sampling location. The sampling location must be at the outlet of the final control device.


(3) Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter.


(4) Use Method 4 of appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.


(5) Measure the concentration of each tetra- through octa-chlorinated dioxin and furan congener emitted using Method 23 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.


(i) For each dioxin and furan congener, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in table 38 to this subpart. For determination of toxic equivalency, zero may be used for congeners with a concentration less than the estimated detection limit (EDL). For congeners with estimated maximum pollutant concentration (EMPC) results, if the value is less than the EDL, zero may be used. Otherwise, the EMPC value must be used in the calculation of toxic equivalency.


(ii) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins and furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.


(6) The concentration of dioxins and furans shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen. Use Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or the manual method in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see §  63.14) to determine the oxygen concentration (%O2d). The oxygen concentration must be determined concurrently with Method 23 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen (Cc) shall be computed using the following equation:



---

[N] [59 FR 19468, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 2746, Jan. 17, 1997; 64 FR 20191, Apr. 26, 1999; 66 FR 6931, Jan. 22, 2001; 89 FR 43183, May 16, 2024]












