# ยง 299.417   Emergency lighting.

(a) *General.* Emergency lighting shall be provided in each unit of a trainset. The emergency lighting system shall be designed to facilitate the ability of passengers and trainset crew members, and/or emergency responders to see and orient themselves, to identify obstacles, in order to assist them to safely move through and out of a passenger rail car.


(1) Emergency lighting shall illuminate the following areas:


(i) Passenger car aisles, passageways, and toilets;


(ii) Door emergency exit controls/manual releases;


(iii) Vestibule floor near the door emergency exits (to facilitate safe entrance/exit from the door);


(iv) Within the car diaphragm and adjacent area; and


(v) Specialty car locations such as crew offices.


(b) *Minimum illumination levels.* (1) A minimum, average illumination level of 10.7 lux (1 foot-candle) measured at floor level adjacent to each exterior door and each interior door providing access to an exterior door (such as a door opening into a vestibule);


(2) A minimum, average illumination level of 10.7 lux (1 foot-candle) measured 635 mm (25 inches) above floor level along the center of each aisle and passageway;


(3) A minimum illumination level of 1.1 lux (0.1 foot-candle) measured 635 mm (25 inches) above floor level at any point along the center of each aisle and passageway;


(c) *Lighting activation.* Each emergency lighting fixture shall activate automatically or be energized continuously whenever the car is in revenue service and normal lighting is not available.


(d) *Independent power source.* Emergency lighting system shall have an independent power source(s) that is located in or within one half a car length of each light fixture it powers.


(e) *Functional requirements.* Emergency lighting system components shall be designed to operate without failure and capable of remaining attached under the conditions typically found in passenger rail equipment including expected mechanical vibrations, and shock in accordance with ยง 299.405(a)(1), as well as comply with electromagnetic interference criteria in ยง 299.435(e).


(1) All emergency lighting system components shall be capable to operate in all railcar orientations.


(2) All emergency lighting system components shall be capable to operate when normal power is unavailable for 90 minutes without a loss of more than 40% of the minimum illumination levels specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(f) *Inspection.* (1) The railroad shall inspect the emergency lighting system as required by its inspection, testing, and maintenance program in accordance with ยง 299.445.


(2) If batteries are used as independent power sources, they shall have automatic self-diagnostic modules designed to perform discharge tests.




