# § 52.2578   Compliance schedules.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) The requirements of § 51.262(a) of this chapter are not met since compliance schedules with adequate increments of progress have not been submitted for every source for which they are required.


(c) *Federal compliance schedules.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of any stationary source in the Southeast Wisconsin AQCR subject to the following emission limiting regulation in the Wisconsin implementation plan shall comply with the applicable compliance schedule in paragraph (c)(2) of this section: Wisconsin Air Pollution Control Regulation NR 154.13.


(2) (i) *Compliance schedules.* The owner or operator of any stationary source in the Southeast Wisconsin AQCR subject to NR 154.13 shall notify the Administrator no later than October 1, 1973, of his intent either to install necessary control systems per Wisconsin Air Pollution Control Regulation NR 154.13(2) or to switch to an exempt solvent per Wisconsin Air Pollution Control Regulation NR 154.13(3) to comply with the requirements of Wisconsin Air Pollution Control Regulation NR 154.13.


(ii) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section who elects to comply with the requirements of NR 154.13 by installing a control system shall take the following actions with respect to the source no later than the specified dates.


(*a*) November 1, 1973—Advertise for bids for purchase and/or construction of control system or purchase of requisite material for process modification sufficient to control hydrocarbon emissions from the source.


(*b*) December 15, 1973—Award contracts or issued order for purchase and/or construction of control system or purchase of requisite material for process modification sufficient to control hydrocarbon emissions from the source.


(*c*) April 15, 1974—Initiate onsite construction or installation of control system or process modification.


(*d*) November 1, 1974—Complete on-site construction or installation of control system or process modification.


(*e*) January 1, 1975—Achieve final compliance with Wisconsin Air Pollution Control Regulation NR 154.13.


(iii) Any owner or operator of a stationary source subject to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, who elects to comply with the requirements of Wisconsin Air Pollution Control Regulation NR 154.13 by switching to an exempt solvent, shall take the following actions with respect to the source no later than the dates specified.


(*a*) April 1, 1974—Begin testing exempt solvents.


(*b*) June 1, 1974—Issue purchase orders for exempt solvents.


(*c*) December 1, 1974—Convert to complete use of exempt solvent.


(*d*) January 1, 1975—Achieve full compliance with Wisconsin Air Pollution Control Regulation NR 154.13.


(iv) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule above shall certify to the Administrator, within five days after the deadline for each increment of progress in that schedule, whether or not the increment has been met.


(3) (i) None of the above paragraphs shall apply to a source which is presently in compliance with applicable regulations and which has certified such compliance to the Administrator by October 1, 1973. The Administrator may request whatever supporting information he considers necessary for proper certification.


(ii) Any compliance schedule adopted by the State and approved by the Administrator shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.


(iii) Any owner or operator subject to a compliance schedule in this paragraph may submit to the Administrator no later than October 1, 1973, a proposed alternative compliance schedule. No such compliance schedule may provide for final compliance after the final compliance date in the applicable compliance schedule of this paragraph. If promulgated by the Administrator, such schedule shall satisfy the requirements of this paragraph for the affected source.


(4) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Administrator from promulgating a separate schedule for any source to which the application of the compliance schedule in paragraph (c)(2) of this section fails to satisfy the requirements of §§ 51.261 and 51.262(a) of this chapter.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) The compliance schedule for the source identified below is disapproved as not meeting the requirements of subpart N of this chapter. All regulations cited are air pollution control regulations of the State, unless otherwise noted.



---

[N] [38 FR 16170, June 20, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 22752, Aug. 23, 1973; 38 FR 24832, Sept. 7, 1973; 39 FR 28159, Aug. 5, 1974; 39 FR 32608, Sept. 10, 1974; 43 FR 53440, Nov. 16, 1978; 51 FR 40675, 40676, 40677, Nov. 7, 1986; 54 FR 25258, June 14, 1989]







