# ยง 167.3   Definitions.

Terms used in this part shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. In addition, when used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings stated below:


*Act* means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 136 *et seq.*

*Amount of pesticidal product* means quantity, expressed in weight or volume of the product, and is to be reported in pounds for solid or semi-solid pesticides and active ingredients or gallons for liquid pesticides and active ingredients, or number of individual retail units for devices.


*Current production* [sales or distribution] means amount of planned production in the calendar year in which the pesticides report is submitted, including new pesticidal products not previously sold or distributed.


*Custom blender* means any establishment which provides the service of mixing pesticides to a customer's specifications, usually a pesticide(s)-fertilizer(s), pesticide-pesticide, or a pesticide-animal feed mixture, when: (1) The blend is prepared to the order of the customer and is not held in inventory by the blender; (2) the blend is to be used on the customer's property (including leased or rented property); (3) the pesticide(s) used in the blend bears end-use labeling directions which do not prohibit use of the product in such a blend; (4) the blend is prepared from registered pesticides; (b) the blend is delivered to the end-user along with a copy of the end-use labeling of each pesticide used in the blend and a statement specifying the composition of mixture; and (6) no other pesticide production activity is performed at the establishment.


*Device* means any device or class of devices as defined by the Act and determined by the Administrator pursuant to section 25(c) to be subject to the provisions of section 7 of the Act.


*Establishment* means any site where a pesticidal product, active ingredient, or device is produced, regardless of whether such site is independently owned or operated, and regardless of whether such site is domestic and producing a pesticidal product for export only, or whether the site is foreign and producing any pesticidal product for import into the United States.


*Past year* means the calendar year immediately prior to that in which the report is submitted.


*Pesticidal product* means a pesticide, active ingredient, or device.


*Pesticidal product report* means information showing the types and amounts of pesticidal products which were: (1) Produced in the past calendar year; (2) produced in the current calendar year; and, (3) sold or distributed in the past calendar year. For active ingredients, the pesticidal product report must include information on the types and amounts of an active ingredient for which there is actual or constructive knowledge of its use or intended use as a pesticide. This pesticidal product report also pertains to those products produced for export only which must also be reported. A positive or a negative annual report is required in order to maintain registration for the establishment.


*Produce* means to manufacture, prepare, propagate, compound, or process any pesticide, including any pesticide produced pursuant to section 5 of the Act, any active ingredient or device, or to package, repackage, label, relabel, or otherwise change the container of any pesticide or device.


*Producer* means any person, as defined by the Act, who produces any pesticide, active ingredient, or device (including packaging, repackaging, labeling and relabeling).


*Sold or distributed* means the aggregate amount of a pesticidal product released for shipment by the establishment in which the pesticidal product was produced.


*Type of pesticidal product* refers to each individual product as identified by: the product name; EPA Registration Number (or EPA File Symbol, if any, for planned products, or Experimental Permit Number, if the pesticide is produced under an Experimental Use Permit); active ingredients; production type (technical, formulation, repackaging, etc.); and, market for which the product was produced (domestic, foreign, etc.). In cases where a pesticide is not registered, registration is not applied for, or the pesticide is not produced under an Experimental Use Permit, the term shall also include the chemical formulation.




