# ยง 8.530   Plan development and approval.

The Company SIP Agent will develop the CAP and VAP with guidance from the Coast Guard SIP Advisor for OCMI approval.


(a) *Company Action Plan.* The CAP shall include at least the following:


(1) A copy of the OCMI CAP approval letter (once the CAP is approved).


(2) An organization commitment statement.


(3) A company organization chart that includes the name(s) of the designated SIP support personnel who will be responsible for implementation and oversight of the approved CAP and VAP(s).


(4) A statement describing the responsibilities and authorities of personnel involved in the examination and maintenance of the vessel(s) for the company.


(5) A description of the method the company will use to integrate the applicable subpart regulations into its SIP and the method or system used to initiate corrective action.


(6) A description of the company's safety program.


(7) A description of the company's environmental protection program.


(8) A description of the company's training infrastructure, the method used to track and record training for individual employees, and the training required for the designated SIP support personnel to implement the CAP and the VAP.


(9) A master list of all SIP documents and ICRs that the company intends to use in its VAP(s).


(10) Appendices for each approved VAP.


(b) *Vessel Action Plan.* Each VAP shall include at least the following:


(1) A copy of the OCMI VAP approval letter (once the VAP is approved).


(2) A description of the method that will be used to integrate the VAP into the vessel's regular operations.


(3) Vessel-specific ICRs.


(4) Vessel-specific ISV forms.


(5) Vessel-specific examination checklists.


(6) Correction reports.


(c) *Plan Approval.* The Company SIP Agent will submit the CAP and each VAP to the cognizant OCMI for approval. Once approved, a copy of the VAP shall be kept on board the vessel.




