# § 93.804   Declaration upon arrival.

Upon arrival of an elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, or tapir at a port of entry, the importer or the importer's agent shall notify APHIS of the arrival by giving an inspector a completed VS Form 17-29, “Declaration of Importation for Animals, Animal Semen, Birds, Poultry, and Eggs for Hatching.” (This form is available from Strategy and Policy, Veterinary Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, 4700 River Road, Riverdale, Maryland 20737 or by visiting *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/resources/forms/ct_vs_forms.)* Forms may be provided to the inspector using a U.S. Government electronic information exchange system or other authorized method. The completed form must state:


(a) The port of entry;


(b) The date of arrival;


(c) The import permit number;


(d) The name of the carrier and identification of the means of conveyance; 


(e) The name and address of the importer; 


(f) The name and address of the broker; 


(g) The region from which the elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, or tapir was shipped; 


(h) The number, species, and purpose of importation of the elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, or tapir; and 


(i) The name and address of the person to whom the elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, or tapir will be delivered. 



---

[N] [52 FR 29502, Aug. 10, 1987; 52 FR 35350, Sept. 18, 1987, as amended at 57 FR 23049, June 1, 1992; 59 FR 67615, Dec. 30, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56021, Oct. 28, 1997, as amended at 81 FR 40151, June 21, 2016; 86 FR 45625, Aug. 16, 2021]




