# ยง 9008.2   Definitions.

(a) *Commission* means the Federal Election Commission.


(b) *Fund* means the Presidential Election Campaign Fund established by 26 U.S.C. 9006(a).


(c) *Major party* means, with respect to any presidential election, a political party whose candidate for the office of President in the preceding presidential election received, as the candidate of such party, 25 percent or more of the total number of popular votes received by all candidates for such office.


(d) *Minor party* means, with respect to any presidential election, a political party whose candidate for the office of President in the preceding presidential election received, as the candidate of such party, 5 percent or more, but less than 25 percent, of the total number of popular votes received by all candidates for such office.


(e) *National committee* means the organization which, by virtue of the by-laws of the political party, is responsible for the day to day operation of that party at the national level.


(f) *New party* means, with respect to any presidential election, a political party which is neither a major party nor a minor party.


(g) *Nominating convention* means a convention, caucus or other meeting which is held by a political party at the national level and which chooses the presidential nominee of the party through selection by delegates to that convention or through other similar means.


(h) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.



---

[N] [59 FR 33616, June 29, 1994, as amended at 82 FR 60854, Dec. 26, 2017]






