# ยง 600.1004   Accepting a request for, and determinations about initiating, a financed program.

(a) *Accepting a request.* Once it receives a request, NMFS will review any request for a financed program to determine whether the request conforms with the requirements of ยง 600.1003. If the request does not conform, NMFS will return the request with guidance on how to make the request conform. If the request conforms, NMFS shall accept it and publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ requesting public comments on the request. Such notice shall state the name and address of record of each eligible voter, as well as the basis for having determined the eligibility of those voters. This shall constitute notice and opportunity to respond about adding eligible voters, deleting ineligible voters, and/or correcting any voter's name and address of record. If, in NMFS' discretion, the comments received in response to such notice warrants it, or other good cause warrants it, NMFS may modify such list by publishing another notice in the _Federal Register._

(b) *Determination about initiating a financed program.* After receipt of a conforming request for a financed program, NMFS will, after reviewing and responding to any public comments received in response to the notice published in the _Federal Register_ under paragraph (a) of this section, initiate the program if NMFS determines that: 


(1) The program meets, or will meet after an appropriate reduction amendment, the requirements in ยง 600.1002(a); 


(2) The CFMP meets, or will meet after an appropriate reduction amendment, the requirements in ยง 600.1002(b); 


(3) The program, if successfully implemented, is cost effective; 


(4) The reduction requested constitutes a realistic and practical prospect for successfully completing a program in accordance with this subpart and the borrower is capable of repaying the reduction loan. This includes enabling NMFS to readily design, propose, and adopt a timely and reliable implementation plan as well as propose and issue timely and reliable implementation regulations and otherwise complete the program in accordance with this subpart; and 


(5) The program accords with all other applicable law. 




