# ยง 1744.201   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).


*Advance* means any funds provided of which repayment is expected.


*Affiliated company* means any organization that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the borrower.


*Borrower* means any organization which has an outstanding loan made by RUS or guaranteed by RUS, or which is seeking such financing.


*Extension of credit* means to make loans or advances.


*Guarantee* means to undertake collaterally to answer for the payment of another's debt or the performance of another's duty, liability, or obligation, including, without limitation, the obligations of affiliated companies. Some examples of such guarantees would include:


(1) Guarantees of payment or collection on a note or other debt instrument;


(2) Issuing performance bonds or completion bonds; or


(3) Cosigning leases or other obligations of third parties.


*Maximum investment ratio* means that the aggregate of all qualified investments by the borrower including the proposed qualified investment shall not be more than one-third of the net worth of the borrower.


*Minimum total assets ratio* means the borrower's net worth is at least twenty percent of its total assets including the proposed qualified investment.


*Net plant* means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:


*Net worth* means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:


*Qualified investment* is defined in ยง 1744.202(b).


*RE Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).


*REA* means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs. 


*Rural development investment* is defined in ยง 1744.202(d).


*RUS* means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.


*RUS mortgage* means the instrument creating a lien on or security interest in the borrower's assets in connection with a loan made or guaranteed under the RE Act.


*Total assets* means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:


*Uniform System of Accounts* means the Federal Communications Commission Uniform System of Accounts for Telecommunications Companies (47 CFR part 32) as supplemented by 7 CFR Part 1770, Accounting Requirements for RUS Telephone Borrowers.



---

[N] [58 FR 52642, Oct. 12, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994; 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]






