# § 1962.49   Civil and criminal cases.

All cases in which court actions to effect collection or to enforce Rural Development rights are recommended, as well as actions relating to apparent violations of Federal criminal statutes, will be handled under this section.


(a) *Criminal action.* When facts or circumstances indicate that criminal violations may have been committed by an applicant, a borrower, or third party purchaser, the State Director will refer the case to the appropriate Regional Inspector General for Investigations, Office of Inspector General (OIG), USDA, in accordance with RD Instruction 2012-B (available in any Rural Development office) for criminal investigation. Any questions as to whether a matter should be referred will be resolved through consultation with OIG for Investigations and the State Director and confirmed in writing. In order to assure protection of the financial and other interest of the government, a duplicate of the notification will be sent to the Office of General Counsel (OGC). After OIG has accepted any matter for investigation, Rural Development staff must coordinate with OIG in advance regarding any administrative action on the matter/borrower other than routine servicing actions on existing loans. Cases requiring further action by OGC will be handled in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Civil action.* Court action or other judicial process will be recommended to OGC when all other reasonable and proper efforts and methods to obtain payment, to remove other defaults, and to protect Rural Development 's property/financial interests have been exhausted. However, if an emergency situation exists or criminal action is to be recommended, the case will be submitted to OGC without taking the action necessary to report the information required by Part II of Form RD 455-22, “Information for Litigation.” This is because delay in submitting cases in emergency situations may affect the financial interests of Rural Development and collection efforts may adversely affect the criminal investigation and/or criminal prosecution.


(1) Civil action will be recommended when one or more of the following conditions exists:


(i) There is a need to repossess security or EO property or to foreclose a lien and such action cannot be accomplished by other means authorized in this subpart.


(ii) There is a need for filing claims against third parties because of a conversion of security or other action.


(iii) Payment due on debts are not made in accordance with the borrower's ability to pay, and the borrower has assets or income from which collection can be made.


(iv) The borrower has progressed to the point that credit can be obtained from other sources, has agreed in the note or other instrument to do so, but refuses to comply with that agreement.


(v) Rural Development or its security becomes involved in court action through foreclosure by a third-party lienholder or through some other action.


(vi) Other conditions exist which indicate that court action may be necessary to protect Rural Development 's interests.


(2) Claims of less than $600 principal will not be referred to OGC for court action unless:


(i) A statement of facts is submitted as to the exact manner in which the interest of Rural Development, other than recovery of the amount involved, would be adversely affected if suit were not filed; and


(ii) Collection of a substantial part of the claim can be made from assets and income that are not exempt under State or Federal law. A State supplement will be issued to set forth such exemptions or a summary of those exemptions with respect to property to which Rural Development normally would look for payment such as real estate, livestock, equipment, and income.


(3) When a borrower has not properly accounted for the proceeds of the sale of security, it is the general policy to look first to the borrower for restitution rather than to third-party purchasers. In line with this policy the remaining chattel security on which Rural Development holds a first lien usually will be liquidated before demand is made, or civil action to recover from third-party purchasers.


(i) When the County Supervisor determines that full collection cannot be made from the borrower and that it will be necessary to collect the full value of the security purchased by a converter, a demand (see Guide Letter 1962-A-1, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office) will be sent to the purchaser at the same time that exhibit D or E of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter, is sent to the borrower.


(ii) When the County Supervisor determines that it is likely that action will have to be taken to collect from third-party pruchasers, the County Supervisor will notify such purchasers by letter (see Guide Letter 1962-A-2, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office) that Rural Development security has been purchased by them and that they may be called upon to return the property or pay the value thereof in the event restitution is not made by the borrower. If it later becomes necessary to make demand on such third-party purchasers, Rural Development will do so unless the case already has been referred to OGC or the U.S. Attorney, in which event the demand will be made by one of those offices.


(iii) When restitution is made by the borrower, or a determination is made, with the advice of OGC, that the facts in the case do not support the claim against the third-party purchaser, the third-party purchaser will be informed by the County Supervisor that Rural Development will take no adverse action (see Guide Letter 1962-A-3, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office). Ordinarily, it will not be necessary to inform the third-party purchaser of OGC's decision when OGC determines that the facts support the claim against the third-party purchaser but no substantial part of the claim can be collected. If OGC makes such a determination and the third-party purchaser asks what determination has been made, the County Supervisor will say that no further action is to be taken on the claim “at this time.”


(iv) In addition, unless personal contacts with the third-party purchaser, or other efforts to collect demonstrate that further demand would be futile, and a satisfactory compromise offer has not been received, a follow-up letter (see Guide Letter 1962-A-4, a copy of which is available in any Rural Development county office) will be sent by the State Director as soon as possible after the 15-day period set forth in the demand letter has expired. Unless response to the State Director's followup letter or personal contacts or other efforts indicate that further demand would be futile, an additional follow-up letter will be sent to the third-party purchaser by OGC after the case has been referred to that office.


(c) *Handling civil and criminal cases.* All cases in which court actions to effect collection or to enforce the rights of Rural Development are recommended, will be forwarded to OGC by the State Director in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(1) *County Office actions.* Forms RD 455-1, “Request for Legal Action,” and RD 455-22 will be prepared. Form RD 455-2, “Evidence of Conversion,” will be prepared for each unauthorized disposal. The original and two copies of Forms RD 455-1 and RD 455-22 and, wh = n applicable, Rural Development 455-2 together with the borrower's case file, will be submitted to the State Office. Signed statements should be obtained, if possible, from the borrower, any third party purchasers, or others to support the information contained on Form RD 455-1. Appropriate recommendations regarding civil actions will be made on Forms RD 455-1 and RD 455-22 against the borrower or others. When a case is referred to the State Office the County Supervisor will keep that office informed of any future developments in the case. If Attachments l, 2 and other appropriate attachments to exhibit A of subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter have not been sent, they will now be sent to the borrower and any other obligor(s) on the note. Any appeal must be concluded before a civil action can be filed.


(2) *District Office actions.* Exhibits D, E, or E-1 of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter will be prepared and sent after any appeal is concluded.


(3) *State Office actions.* (i) upon receipt of Form RD 455-1 and, when applicable, Form RD 455-2, the State Director will analyze each form to determine if all of the necessary information is documented and, if not, whether an appropriate effort was made to obtain the information. If all the necessary information is not documented, the State Director will return the case and request the County Supervisor to obtain the information to complete Forms RD 455-1 and 455-2. The State Director may assign any qualified Rural Development employee to help a County Supervisor obtain the information necessary to complete the reports. After diligent efforts, if Rural Development employees are unable to obtain the additional information, the case will be returned to the State Office with an explanation of why the information is unavailable.


(ii) After all of the pertinent information available has been obtained, the State Director will refer the case to OGC for civil action, if referral is required under the policy expressed in this section. If such referral is not required, the State Director will set forth in Item 19 of Form RD 455-1 the basis for the determination not to refer the case and instructions for follow-up servicing action. The State Director will not recommend a third-party conversion claim to the OGC if more than one year has run from the date of the annual accounting following the disposition of security, unless the Administrator or delegate determines a longer period of time should be applied either because of compelling circumstances such as the case has been referred to and accepted by OIG for criminal or civil investigation. The period of time during which a suit may be filed is set by federal statute and is not changed by this section. Demands on third-party purchasers will be made in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. In cases referred to OGC, the State Director will make comments and recommendations regarding the civil aspects of the case on Form RD 455-1.


(A) When cases are referred to OGC, the County Office case file, Form RD 455-1, and, when appropriate, Form RD 455-2 will be transmitted. In addition, when the institution of civil court proceedings by Rural Development is recommended, the notes, financing statements, security agreements, loan agreements, other legal instruments and copies thereof, as required by OGC, and Form RD 451-11, “Statement of Account,” and Form RD 455-22 will be submitted to OGC. The State Director, with the advice of OGC, will determine the number of copies of such instruments needed and the information required on the certified statement of account. Each request for a certified statement of account will specify the type of information needed.


(B) Notes, statements of account, files, or other documents and copies thereof needed in referring cases to OGC for civil court or other action will be obtained from the Finance Office, or County Office, by the State Director. When the time required for obtaining the above material or documents may jeopardize Rural Development's interest by permitting the diversion or dissipation of assets which otherwise could be expected as a source of payment, the Finance Office, upon the request of the State Director, will forward such material or documents directly to OGC or (at the State Director's direction) to the U.S. Attorney.


(d) *Actions on cases referred to OGC.* When a civil case is referred to OGC, the State Director will notify the County Supervisor of the referral and will return the County Office case file when it is no longer needed. The State Director will also prepare and distribute Form RD 1951-6 according to the FMI. The Rural Development field office will process the descriptive code via the Rural Development field office terminal system. This will flag the borrower's account indicating court action is pending (CAP). After notice of the referral is received by the County Supervisor, no collection or servicing action will be taken except upon specific instructions from the State Director or OGC. However, when a borrower voluntarily proposes to make a payment on an account, the County Supervisor will accept the collection unless notice has been received that the case has been referred to the U.S. Attorney for civil action. The County Supervisor will immediately notify OGC directly by memorandum, with a copy sent to the State Director, of any collections received. The County Supervisor also will notify the State Director and OGC of any developments which may affect a case which has been referred to OGC.


(e) *Actions on cases referred to the U.S. Attorney and on judgement cases* (*including third-party judgements*). OGC will notify the State Director, the Finance Office, and the County Supervisor when a case is referred to the U.S. Attorney or is otherwise closed. When a case is referred to the U.S. Attorney, the Finance Office will discontinue mailing Form RD 1951-9, Annual “Statement of Loan Account,” to such borrowers. OGC will also notify the State Director when a judgement (including third-party) is obtained.


(1) When the County Supervisor receives notice from OGC that a judgment (including third-party) has been obtained, the County Supervisor will establish a judgment account by completing Form RD 1962-20, “Notice of Judgment,” in accordance with the FMI. The Rural Development field office will process the judgment or the third party judgment via the Rural Development field office terminal.


(2) After notice has been received that a case has been referred to the U.S. Attorney or a judgment has been obtained and has not been returned to Rural Development by the U.S. Attorney, no action will be taken by the County Supervisor except upon specific instructions from the State Director, OGC, or the U.S. Attorney. However, the County Supervisor will keep the State Director informed of any developments which may affect the Rural Development security interest or any pending court action to enforce collection. If information is obtained indicating that such debtors have assets or income not previously reported by the County Supervisor to the State Director from which collection of such judgment accounts can be obtained, the facts will be reported to the State Director. The State Director immediately will notify OGC of any developments which might have a bearing on cases referred to the U.S. Attorney, including such judgment cases.


(i) If the debtor proposes to make a payment, Rural Development employees will not accept such payment but will offer to assist in preparing a letter for the debtor's signature to be used in transmitting the payment to the U.S. Attorney. In such case, the debtor will be advised to make payment by check or money order payable to the Treasurer of the United States.


(ii) Collection items received through the mail from the debtor or from other sources by the County Office to be applied to such accounts will be forwarded by the County Supervisor through OGC to the appropriate U.S. Attorney. Likewise, collections received by the District Director or the State Office will be forwarded through OGC to the appropriate U.S. Attorney. Such items will be forwarded in the form received except that cash will be converted into money orders made payable to the Treasurer of the United States. The money order receipts will remain attached to the money orders. Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 451-1 will not be issued in any such case. The debtor will be informed in writing by the County Supervisor of the disposition of the amount received.


(3) When the U.S. Attorney has returned a judgment case to Rural Development, the County Supervisor is responsible for servicing it as follows:


(i) When the judgment debtor has the ability to make periodic payments, action will be taken by the County Supervisor to make arrangements for the judgment debtor to do so.


(ii) [Reserved] 


(iii) At the time of the annual review of collection-only or delinquent and problem cases, the County Supervisor will determine whether such judgment debtors, whose judgments have not been charged off and who are not making regular and satisfactory payments, have assets or income from which the judgment can be collected. If such debtors have either assets or income from which collection can be made and they have declined to make satisfactory arrangements for payment, the facts will be reported by the County Supervisor to the State Director. The State Director will notify OGC of developments when it appears that collections can be enforced out of income or assets.


(iv) Such judgments will not be renewed or revived unless there is a reason to believe that substantial assets have or may become subject thereto.


(v) Such judgments may be released only by the U.S. Attorney when they are paid in full or compromised.


(4) In all judgment cases, any proposed compromise or adjustment will be handled in accordance with subpart B of part 1956 of this chapter.


(5) If the debtor requests information as to the amount of outstanding indebtedness, such information, including court costs, should be obtained from the Finance Office if the County Supervisor does not have that information. If questions arise as to the payment of court costs, information as to such costs will be obtained through the State Office from OGC.



---

[N] [50 FR 45783, Nov. 1, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 45439, Dec. 18, 1986; 53 FR 35787, Sept. 14, 1988; 54 FR 42799, Oct. 18, 1989; 55 FR 35296, Aug. 29, 1990; 57 FR 60085, Dec. 18, 1992; 68 FR 61332, Oct. 28, 2003; 80 FR 9904, Feb. 24, 2015]




