# § 721.10917   Polymethylsiloxane, distillation residues (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polymethylsiloxane, distillation residues (PMN P-15-492) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operations, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measure (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meets the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator with a hood or helmet and with appropriate gas-vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or substance specific) cartridges.


(ii) *Industrial commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N=1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 30479, May 16, 2016]




