# § 115.307   Requirements for participation in the FHAP; Corrective and remedial action for failing to comply with requirements.

(a) Agencies that participate in the FHAP must meet the requirements enumerated in this section. The FHEO regional office shall review the agency's compliance with the requirements of this section when it conducts on-site performance assessments in accordance with § 115.206. The requirements for participation in the FHAP are as follows:


(1) The agency must conform to all reporting and record maintenance requirements set forth in § 115.308, as well as any additional reporting and record maintenance requirements identified by the Assistant Secretary.


(2) The agency must agree to on-site technical assistance and guidance and implementation of corrective actions set out by the Department in response to deficiencies found during the technical assistance or performance assessment evaluations of the agency's operations.


(3) The agency must use the Department's official complaint data information system and must input all relevant data and information into the system in a timely manner.


(4) The agency must agree to implement and adhere to policies and procedures (as the agency's laws allow) provided to the agency by the Assistant Secretary, including, but not limited to, guidance on investigative techniques, case file preparation and organization, and implementation of data elements for complaint tracking.


(5) If an agency that participates in the FHAP enforces antidiscrimination laws other than a fair housing law (e.g., administration of a fair employment law), the agency must annually provide a certification to HUD stating that it spends at least 20 percent of its total annual budget on fair housing activities. The term “total annual budget,” as used in this subsection, means the entire budget assigned by the jurisdiction to the agency for enforcing and administering antidiscrimination laws, but does not include FHAP funds.


(6) The agency may not co-mingle FHAP funds with other funds. FHAP funds must be segregated from the agency's and the state or local government's other funds and must be used for the purpose that HUD provided the funds.


(7) An agency may not unilaterally reduce the level of financial resources currently committed to fair housing activities (budget and staff reductions or other actions outside the control of the agency will not, alone, result in a negative determination for the agency's participation in the FHAP).


(8) The agency must comply with the provisions, certifications, and assurances required in any and all written agreements executed by the agency and the Department related to participation in the FHAP, including, but not limited to, the cooperative agreement.


(9) The agency must draw down its funds in a timely manner.


(10) The agency must be audited and receive copies of the audit reports in accordance with applicable rules and regulations of the state and local government in which it is located.


(11) The agency must participate in all required training, as described in § 115.306(b).


(12) If the agency subcontracts any activity for which the subcontractor will receive FHAP funds, the agency must conform to the subcontracting requirements of § 115.309.


(13) If the agency receives a complaint that may implicate the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, then the agency must conform to the requirements of § 115.310.


(14) If the agency utilizes FHAP funds to conduct fair housing testing, then the agency must conform to the requirements of § 115.311.


(b) *Corrective and remedial action for failing to comply with requirements.* The agency's refusal to provide information, assist in implementation, or carry out the requirements of this section may result in the denial or interruption of its receipt of FHAP funds. Prior to denying or interrupting an agency's receipt of FHAP funds, HUD will put the agency on notice of its intent to deny or interrupt. HUD will identify its rationale for the denial or interruption and provide the agency with an opportunity to respond within a reasonable period of time. If, within the time period requested, the agency does not provide information or documentation indicating that the requirement(s) enumerated in this section is/are met, HUD may proceed with the denial or interruption of FHAP funds. If, at any time following the denial or interruption, HUD learns that the agency meets the requirements enumerated in this section, HUD may opt to reinstate the agency's receipt of FHAP funds.




