# § 1.1310   What definitions apply to this subpart?

The definitions of terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act apply to such terms when used in this subpart. In addition, the following definitions apply to words and phrases as they are used in this subpart:


*Commingled raw agricultural commodity* means any commodity that is combined or mixed after harvesting but before processing, except that the term “commingled raw agricultural commodity” does not include types of fruits and vegetables that are raw agricultural commodities to which the standards for the growing, harvesting, packing, and holding of produce for human consumption in part 112 of this chapter apply. For the purpose of this definition, a commodity is “combined or mixed” only when the combination or mixing involves food from different farms under different company management; except that for food obtained from a fishing vessel, a commodity is “combined or mixed” only when the combination or mixing involves food from different landing vessels and occurs after the vessels have landed. Also, for the purpose of this definition, the term “processing” means operations that alter the general state of the commodity, such as canning, cooking, freezing, dehydration, milling, grinding, pasteurization, or homogenization.


*Cooling* means active temperature reduction of a raw agricultural commodity using hydrocooling, icing (except icing of seafood), forced air cooling, vacuum cooling, or a similar process.


*Critical tracking event* means an event in the supply chain of a food involving the harvesting, cooling (before initial packing), initial packing of a raw agricultural commodity other than a food obtained from a fishing vessel, first land-based receiving of a food obtained from a fishing vessel, shipping, receiving, or transformation of the food.


*Farm* means farm as defined in § 1.328. For producers of shell eggs, “farm” means all poultry houses and grounds immediately surrounding the poultry houses covered under a single biosecurity program, as set forth in § 118.3 of this chapter.


*First land-based receiver* means the person taking possession of a food for the first time on land directly from a fishing vessel.


*Fishing vessel* means any vessel, boat, ship, or other craft which is used for, equipped to be used for, or of a type which is normally used for fishing or aiding or assisting one or more vessels at sea in the performance of any activity relating to fishing, including, but not limited to, preparation, supply, storage, refrigeration, transportation, or processing, as set forth in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802(18)).


*Food Traceability List* means the list of foods for which additional traceability records are required to be maintained, as designated in accordance with section 204(d)(2) of the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act. The term “Food Traceability List” includes both the foods specifically listed and foods that contain listed foods as ingredients, provided that the listed food that is used as an ingredient remains in the same form (*e.g.,* fresh) in which it appears on the list.


*Harvesting* applies to farms and farm mixed-type facilities and means activities that are traditionally performed on farms for the purpose of removing raw agricultural commodities from the place they were grown or raised and preparing them for use as food. Harvesting is limited to activities performed on raw agricultural commodities, or on processed foods created by drying/dehydrating a raw agricultural commodity without additional manufacturing/processing, on a farm. Harvesting does not include activities that transform a raw agricultural commodity into a processed food as defined in section 201(gg) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Examples of harvesting include cutting (or otherwise separating) the edible portion of the raw agricultural commodity from the crop plant and removing or trimming part of the raw agricultural commodity (*e.g.,* foliage, husks, roots, or stems). Examples of harvesting also include cooling, field coring, filtering, gathering, hulling, shelling, sifting, threshing, trimming of outer leaves of, and washing raw agricultural commodities grown on a farm.


*Holding* means storage of food and also includes activities performed incidental to storage of a food (*e.g.,* activities performed for the safe or effective storage of that food, such as fumigating food during storage, and drying/dehydrating raw agricultural commodities when the drying/dehydrating does not create a distinct commodity (such as drying/dehydrating hay or alfalfa)). Holding also includes activities performed as a practical necessity for the distribution of that food (such as blending of the same raw agricultural commodity and breaking down pallets), but does not include activities that transform a raw agricultural commodity into a processed food as defined in section 201(gg) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Holding facilities could include warehouses, cold storage facilities, storage silos, grain elevators, and liquid storage tanks.


*Initial packing* means packing a raw agricultural commodity (other than a food obtained from a fishing vessel) for the first time.


*Key data element* means information associated with a critical tracking event for which a record must be maintained and/or provided in accordance with this subpart.


*Kill step* means lethality processing that significantly minimizes pathogens in a food.


*Location description* means key contact information for the location where a food is handled, specifically the business name, phone number, physical location address (or geographic coordinates), and city, State, and zip code for domestic locations and comparable information for foreign locations, including country.


*Manufacturing/processing* means making food from one or more ingredients, or synthesizing, preparing, treating, modifying, or manipulating food, including food crops or ingredients. Examples of manufacturing/processing activities include: Baking, boiling, bottling, canning, cooking, cooling, cutting, distilling, drying/dehydrating raw agricultural commodities to create a distinct commodity (such as drying/dehydrating grapes to produce raisins), evaporating, eviscerating, extracting juice, formulating, freezing, grinding, homogenizing, irradiating, labeling, milling, mixing, packaging (including modified atmosphere packaging), pasteurizing, peeling, rendering, treating to manipulate ripening, trimming, washing, or waxing. For farms and farm mixed-type facilities, manufacturing/processing does not include activities that are part of harvesting, packing, or holding.


*Mixed-type facility* means an establishment that engages in both activities that are exempt from registration under section 415 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and activities that require the establishment to be registered. An example of such a facility is a “farm mixed-type facility,” which is an establishment that is a farm, but also conducts activities outside the farm definition that require the establishment to be registered.


*Nonprofit food establishment* means a charitable entity that prepares or serves food directly to the consumer or otherwise provides food or meals for consumption by humans or animals in the United States. The term includes central food banks, soup kitchens, and nonprofit food delivery services. To be considered a nonprofit food establishment, the establishment must meet the terms of section 501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)).


*Packing* means placing food into a container other than packaging the food and also includes re-packing and activities performed incidental to packing or re-packing a food (*e.g.,* activities performed for the safe or effective packing or re-packing of that food (such as sorting, culling, grading, and weighing or conveying incidental to packing or re-packing)), but does not include activities that transform a raw agricultural commodity into a processed food as defined in section 201(gg) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


*Person* includes an individual, partnership, corporation, and association.


*Point of contact* means an individual having familiarity with an entity's procedures for traceability, including their name and/or job title, and their phone number.


*Produce* means produce as defined in § 112.3 of this chapter.


*Product description* means a description of a food product and includes the product name (including, if applicable, the brand name, commodity, and variety), packaging size, and packaging style. For seafood, the product name may include the species and/or acceptable market name.


*Raw agricultural commodity* means “raw agricultural commodity” as defined in section 201(r) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


*Receiving* means an event in a food's supply chain in which a food is received by someone other than a consumer after being transported (*e.g.,* by truck or ship) from another location. Receiving includes receipt of an intracompany shipment of food from one location at a particular street address of a firm to another location at a different street address of the firm.


*Reference document* means a business transaction document, record, or message, in electronic or paper form, that may contain some or all of the key data elements for a critical tracking event in the supply chain of a food. A reference document may be established by you or obtained from another person. Reference document types may include, but are not limited to, bills of lading, purchase orders, advance shipping notices, work orders, invoices, database records, batch logs, production logs, field tags, catch certificates, and receipts.


*Reference document number* means the identification number assigned to a specific reference document.


*Restaurant* means a facility that prepares and sells food directly to consumers for immediate consumption. “Restaurant” does not include facilities that provide food to interstate conveyances, central kitchens, and other similar facilities that do not prepare and serve food directly to consumers.


(1) Entities in which food is provided to humans, such as cafeterias, lunchrooms, cafes, bistros, fast food establishments, food stands, saloons, taverns, bars, lounges, catering facilities, hospital kitchens, day care kitchens, and nursing home kitchens are restaurants; and


(2) Pet shelters, kennels, and veterinary facilities in which food is provided to animals are restaurants.


*Retail food establishment* means an establishment that sells food products directly to consumers as its primary function. The term “retail food establishment” includes facilities that manufacture, process, pack, or hold food if the establishment's primary function is to sell from that establishment food, including food that it manufactures, processes, packs, or holds, directly to consumers. A retail food establishment's primary function is to sell food directly to consumers if the annual monetary value of sales of food products directly to consumers exceeds the annual monetary value of sales of food products to all other buyers. The term “consumers” does not include businesses. A “retail food establishment” includes grocery stores, convenience stores, and vending machine locations. A “retail food establishment” also includes certain farm-operated businesses selling food directly to consumers as their primary function.


(1) Sale of food directly to consumers from an establishment located on a farm includes sales by that establishment directly to consumers:


(i) At a roadside stand (a stand situated on the side of or near a road or thoroughfare at which a farmer sells food from his or her farm directly to consumers) or farmers' market (a location where one or more local farmers assemble to sell food from their farms directly to consumers);


(ii) Through a community supported agriculture program. Community supported agriculture (CSA) program means a program under which a farmer or group of farmers grows food for a group of shareholders (or subscribers) who pledge to buy a portion of the farmer's crop(s) for that season. This includes CSA programs in which a group of farmers consolidate their crops at a central location for distribution to shareholders or subscribers; and


(iii) At other such direct-to-consumer sales platforms, including door-to-door sales; mail, catalog and internet order, including online farmers' markets and online grocery delivery; religious or other organization bazaars; and State and local fairs.


(2) Sale of food directly to consumers by a farm-operated business includes the sale of food by that farm-operated business directly to consumers:


(i) At a roadside stand (a stand situated on the side of or near a road or thoroughfare at which a farmer sells food from his or her farm directly to consumers) or farmers' market (a location where one or more local farmers assemble to sell food from their farms directly to consumers);


(ii) Through a community supported agriculture program. Community supported agriculture (CSA) program means a program under which a farmer or group of farmers grows food for a group of shareholders (or subscribers) who pledge to buy a portion of the farmer's crop(s) for that season. This includes CSA programs in which a group of farmers consolidate their crops at a central location for distribution to shareholders or subscribers; and


(iii) At other such direct-to-consumer sales platforms, including door-to-door sales; mail, catalog and internet order, including online farmers' markets and online grocery delivery; religious or other organization bazaars; and State and local fairs.


(3) For the purposes of this definition, “farm-operated business” means a business that is managed by one or more farms and conducts manufacturing/processing not on the farm(s).


*Shipping* means an event in a food's supply chain in which a food is arranged for transport (*e.g.,* by truck or ship) from one location to another location. Shipping does not include the sale or shipment of a food directly to a consumer or the donation of surplus food. Shipping includes sending an intracompany shipment of food from one location at a particular street address of a firm to another location at a different street address of the firm.


*Traceability lot* means a batch or lot of food that has been initially packed (for raw agricultural commodities other than food obtained from a fishing vessel), received by the first land-based receiver (for food obtained from a fishing vessel), or transformed.


*Traceability lot code* means a descriptor, often alphanumeric, used to uniquely identify a traceability lot within the records of the traceability lot code source.


*Traceability lot code source* means the place where a food was assigned a traceability lot code.


*Traceability lot code source reference* means an alternative method for providing FDA with access to the location description for the traceability lot code source as required under this subpart. Examples of a traceability lot code source reference include, but are not limited to, the FDA Food Facility Registration Number for the traceability lot code source or a web address that provides FDA with the location description for the traceability lot code source.


*Transformation* means an event in a food's supply chain that involves manufacturing/processing a food or changing a food (*e.g.,* by commingling, repacking, or relabeling) or its packaging or packing, when the output is a food on the Food Traceability List. Transformation does not include the initial packing of a food or activities preceding that event (*e.g.,* harvesting, cooling).


*Transporter* means a person who has possession, custody, or control of an article of food for the sole purpose of transporting the food, whether by road, rail, water, or air.


*You* means a person subject to this subpart under § 1.1300.




