# ยง 89.540   Rescission and reconsideration.

(a) *Rescission of the FAA's acceptance of a declaration of compliance.* (1) A declaration of compliance is subject to ongoing review by the Administrator. The Administrator may rescind acceptance of a declaration of compliance under circumstances including but not limited to the following:


(i) A standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module listed under an accepted declaration of compliance does not meet the minimum performance requirements of ยง 89.310 or ยง 89.320.


(ii) A previously FAA-accepted declaration of compliance does not meet a requirement of this subpart; or


(iii) The FAA rescinds acceptance of the means of compliance listed in an FAA-accepted declaration of compliance.


(2) The Administrator will notify the person who submitted the FAA-accepted declaration of compliance of any issue of noncompliance.


(3) If the Administrator determines that it is in the public interest, prior to rescinding acceptance of a declaration of compliance, the Administrator may provide a reasonable period of time for the person who submitted the declaration of compliance to remediate the noncompliance. A failure to remediate the noncompliance constitutes cause for rescission of the FAA's acceptance of the declaration of compliance.


(4) The Administrator will notify the person who submitted the declaration of compliance of the decision to rescind acceptance of the declaration of compliance by publishing a notice of rescission in the _Federal Register_.


(b) *Petition to reconsider the FAA's decision to rescind acceptance of a declaration of compliance.* (1) The person who submitted the FAA-accepted declaration of compliance or any person adversely affected by the rescission of the Administrator's acceptance of a declaration of compliance may petition for a reconsideration of the decision by submitting a request to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator within 60 calendar days of the date of publication in the _Federal Register_ of notification of rescission.


(2) A petition to reconsider the rescission of the Administrator's acceptance of a declaration of compliance must show that the petitioner is an interested party and has been adversely affected by the decision of the FAA. The petition must also demonstrate at least one of the following:


(i) The petitioner adduces a significant additional fact not previously presented to the FAA.


(ii) The Administrator made a material error of fact in the decision to rescind acceptance of the declaration of compliance.


(iii) The Administrator did not correctly interpret a law, regulation, or precedent.


(3) Upon consideration of the information submitted by the petitioner, the Administrator will notify the petitioner and the person who submitted the declaration of compliance (if different) of the decision on whether to reinstate the Administrator's acceptance of the declaration of compliance.


(c) *Inapplicability of part 13, subpart D, of this chapter.* Part 13, subpart D, of this chapter does not apply to the procedures of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.




