# § 192.01   Definitions.

(a) *Residual radioactive material* means: 


(1) Waste (which the Secretary determines to be radioactive) in the form of tailings resulting from the processing of ores for the extraction of uranium and other valuable constituents of the ores; and activities.


(e) *Depository site* means a site (other than a processing site) selected under Section 104(b) or 105(b) of the Act. 


(f) *Curie* (Ci) means the amount of radioactive material that produces 37 billion nuclear transformation per second. One picocurie (pCi) = 10_−12_ Ci.


(g) *Act* means the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, as amended.


(h) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 


(i) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Energy. 


(j) *Commission* means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


(k) *Indian tribe* means any tribe, band, clan, group, pueblo, or community of Indians recognized as eligible for services provided by the Secretary of the Interior to Indians. 


(l) *Processing site* means: 


(1) Any site, including the mill, designated by the Secretary under Section 102(a)(1) of the Act; and 


(2) Any other real property or improvement thereon which is in the vicinity of such site, and is determined by the Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, to be contaminated with residual radioactive materials derived from such site. 


(m) *Tailings* means the remaining portion of a metal-bearing ore after some or all of such metal, such as uranium, has been extracted. 


(n) *Disposal period* means the period of time beginning March 7, 1983 and ending with the completion of all subpart A requirements specified under a plan for remedial action except those specified in § 192.03 and § 192.04. 


(o) *Plan for remedial action* means a written plan (or plans) for disposal and cleanup of residual radioactive materials associated with a processing site that incorporates the results of site characterization studies, environmental assessments or impact statements, and engineering assessments so as to satisfy the requirements of subparts A and B of this part. The plan(s) shall be developed in accordance with the provisions of Section 108(a) of the Act with the concurrence of the Commission and in consultation, as appropriate, with the Indian Tribe and the Secretary of Interior. 


(p) *Post-disposal period* means the period of time beginning immediately after the disposal period and ending at termination of the monitoring period established under § 192.03. 


(q) *Groundwater* means water below the ground surface in a zone of saturation. 


(r) *Underground source of drinking water* means an aquifer or its portion: 


(1)(i) Which supplies any public water system as defined in § 141.2 of this chapter; or 


(ii) Which contains a sufficient quantity of groundwater to supply a public water system; and 


(A) Currently supplies drinking water for human consumption; or 


(B) Contains fewer than 10,000 mg/l total dissolved solids; and 


(2) Which is not an exempted aquifer as defined in § 144.7 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [48 FR 602, Jan. 5, 1983, as amended at 60 FR 2865, Jan. 11, 1995]




