# § 716.60   Reporting schedule.

(a) *General requirements.* Except as provided in § 716.5 and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, submissions under §§ 716.30 and 716.35 must be submitted using the electronic method specified in §§ 716.30(c) and 716.35(c), on or before 60 days after the effective date of the listing of a substance or mixture in § 716.120 or within 60 days of proposing to manufacture (including import) or process a listed substance or listed mixture (including as a known byproduct) if first done after the effective date of the substance or mixture being listed in § 716.120.


(b)(1) *Submission of lists of initiated studies.* Persons subject to the listing requirements of § 716.35(a)(2) must inform EPA of the initiated study within 30 days of its initiation. 


(2) *Submission of copies of completed studies.* Persons must submit studies listed as ongoing or initiated under § 716.35(a)(1) and (2) within 30 days of completing the study, using the method specified in §§ 716.30(c) and 716.35(c).


(c) *Requests for extensions of time.* Respondents who cannot meet a deadline under this section may apply for a reasonable extension of time. Extension requests must be submitted on or before 40 days after the effective date of the listing of a substance or mixture in § 716.120, using the electronic method specified in §§ 716.30(c) and 716.35(c). The Director of EPA's Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics will grant or deny extension requests.


(d) *Submission methods.* Persons must use the CISS tool to complete and submit all data, reports, and other information required by 40 CFR part 716, via CDX. Submission requires registration with CDX, and must be made only as set forth in this section.


(e) To access the CISS tool go to *https://cdx.epa.gov/ssl/CSPP/PrimaryAuthorizedOfficial/Home.aspx* and follow the appropriate links and for further instructions to go *http://www.epa.gov/oppt/chemtest/ereporting/index.html.*


---

[N] [51 FR 32726, Sept. 15, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 34464, July 3, 1995; 63 FR 15774, Apr. 1, 1998; 71 FR 47135, Aug. 16, 2006; 78 FR 72826, Dec. 4, 2013]




