# § 1206.3   What definitions apply to the regulations in Part 1206?

As used in Part 1206:


*Board* refers to a State historical records advisory board.


*Commission* (see NHPRC).


*Coordinator* means the coordinator of a State historical records advisory board.


*Cost sharing* means the financial contribution the applicant pledges toward the total cost of a project. Cost sharing can include both direct and indirect expenses, contributions provided by the applicant or by third parties as in-kind or cash contributions, and any income earned directly by the project. For a more detailed definition, see 2 CFR 306.


*Direct costs* means expenses that are attributable directly to the cost of a project, such as salaries, project supplies, travel expenses, equipment rented or purchased for the project, or services procured for the project.


*Grant opportunity announcement* refers to a document published on the NHPRC Web site and at *http://www.grants.gov* that describes a type of grant offered, eligibility requirements, and application instructions.


*Guidance* refers to a non-binding document published on the NHPRC Web site to clarify or explain Commission policy or to provide procedural details.


*Historical records* means documentary material having permanent or enduring value, including manuscripts, personal papers, official records, maps, audiovisual materials, and electronic files.


*Historical records repository* means organizations whose mission is to acquire, preserve, and promote the use of historical records. They include archives, special collections, museums, and historical societies.


*Indirect costs* means costs incurred for common or joint objectives of an applicant's organization and therefore not attributable to a specific project or activity. Typically, indirect costs include items such as overhead for facilities maintenance and accounting services. For a more detailed definition, see 2 CFR 306.


*NHPRC* means members of the National Historical Publications and Records Commission acting as a body.


*NHPRC staff* refers to the Executive Director and the staff of the Commission or the Executive Director of the Commission.


*State,* in §§ 1206.40 through 1206.42, means all 50 States of the Union, plus the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. For a more detailed definition, see 2 CFR 306.


*The Manual of Suggested Practices* refers to “The Manual of Suggested Practices for State Historical Records Advisory Boards.” It is a type of guidance.



---

[N] [75 FR 66317, Oct. 28, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 76080, Dec. 19, 2014]




