# § 319.37-2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, or any other employee of the United States Department of Agriculture authorized to act in his or her stead.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture.


*Bulb.* The portion of a plant commonly known as a bulb, bulbil, bulblet, corm, cormel, rhizome, tuber, or pip, and including fleshy roots or other underground fleshy growths, a unit of which produces an individual plant.


*Consignment.* A quantity of plants for planting being moved from one country to another and covered, when required, by a single phytosanitary certificate (a consignment may be composed of one or more lots or taxa).


*Controlled import permit.* A written or electronically transmitted authorization issued by APHIS for the importation into the United States of otherwise prohibited or restricted plant material for experimental, therapeutic, or developmental purposes, under controlled conditions as prescribed by the Administrator in accordance with § 319.6.


*Earth.* The softer matter composing part of the surface of the globe, in distinction from the firm rock, and including the soil and subsoil, as well as finely divided rock and other soil formation materials down to the rock layer.


*From.* Plants for planting are considered to be “from” any country or locality in which they are grown. *Provided,* That plants for planting imported into Canada from another country or locality shall be considered as being solely from Canada if they meet the following conditions:


(1) They are imported into the United States directly from Canada after having been grown for at least 1 year in Canada;


(2) They have never been grown in a country from which their importation would not be authorized pending pest risk analysis under § 319.37-4;


(3) They have never been grown in a country, other than Canada, from which it would be subject to certain restrictions on the importation of specific types of plants for planting under § 319.37-20, which are listed in the Plants for Planting Manual; *Provided,* that plants for planting that would be subject to postentry quarantine if imported into the United States may be imported from Canada after growth in another country if they were grown in Canada in postentry quarantine under conditions equivalent to those specified in the Plants for Planting Manual; and


(4) They were not imported into Canada in growing media.


*Inspector.* Any individual authorized by the Administrator or the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, to enforce the regulations in this part.


*Lot.* A number of units of a single commodity, identifiable by its homogeneity of composition and origin, forming all or part of a consignment.


*Mother stock.* A group of plants from which plant parts are taken to produce new plants.


*National plant protection organization (NPPO).* The official service established by a government to discharge the functions specified by the International Plant Protection Convention.


*Noxious weed.* Any plant or plant product that can directly or indirectly injure or cause damage to crops (including plants for planting or plant products), livestock, poultry, or other interests of agriculture, irrigation, navigation, the natural resources of the United States, the public health, or the environment.


*Official control.* The active enforcement of mandatory phytosanitary regulations and the application of mandatory phytosanitary procedures with the objective of eradication or containment of quarantine pests.


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture, or other legal entity.


*Phytosanitary certificate.* A document, including electronic versions, that is related to a restricted article and is issued not more than 15 days prior to shipment of the restricted article from the country in which it was grown and that:


(1) Is patterned after the model certificate of the International Plant Protection Convention, a multilateral convention on plant protection under the authority of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO);


(2) Is issued by an official of a foreign national plant protection organization in one of the five official languages of the FAO;


(3) Is addressed to the national plant protection organization of the United States (Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service);


(4) Describes the shipment;


(5) Certifies the place of origin for all contents of the shipment;


(6) Certifies that the shipment has been inspected and/or tested according to appropriate official procedures and is considered free from quarantine pests of the United States;


(7) Contains any additional declarations required in the Plants for Planting Manual; and


(8) Certifies that the shipment conforms with the phytosanitary requirements of the United States and is considered eligible for importation pursuant to the laws and regulations of the United States.


*Place of production.* Any premises or collection of fields operated as a single production or farming unit. This may include production sites that are separately managed for phytosanitary purposes.


*Plant.* Any plant (including any plant part) for or capable of propagation, including a tree, a tissue culture, a plantlet culture, pollen, a shrub, a vine, a cutting, a graft, a scion, a bud, a bulb, a root, and a seed.


*Plant broker.* An entity that purchases or takes possession of plants for planting from an approved place of production for the purpose of exporting those plants without further growing beyond maintaining the plants until export.


*Plant pest.* Any living stage of any of the following that can directly or indirectly injure, cause damage to, or cause disease in any plant or plant product: A protozoan, a nonhuman animal, a parasitic plant, a bacterium, a fungus, a virus or viroid, an infectious agent or other pathogen, or any article similar to or allied with any of these articles.


*Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs.* The organizational unit within APHIS that is delegated responsibility for enforcing provisions of the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701 *et seq.*) and related legislation, quarantines, and regulations.


*Planting.* Any operation for the placing of plants in a growing medium, or by grafting or similar operations, to ensure their subsequent growth, reproduction, or propagation.


*Plants for planting.* Plants intended to remain planted, to be planted, or replanted.




*Plants for Planting Manual.* The document that contains restrictions on the importation of specific types of plants for planting, as provided in § 319.37-20, and other information about the importation of plants for planting as provided in this subpart. The Plants for Planting Manual is available on the internet at *https://acir.aphis.usda.gov/s/plants-for-planting-hub,* or by contacting the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Information Services and Manuals Unit, 4700 River Road, Riverdale, MD 20737.




*Port of first arrival.* The land area (such as a seaport, airport, or land border station) where a person, or a land, water, or air vehicle, first arrives after entering the territory of the United States, and where inspection of plants for planting is carried out by inspectors.


*Preclearance.* Phytosanitary inspection and/or clearance in the country in which the plants for planting were grown, performed by or under the regular supervision of APHIS.


*Production site.* A defined portion of a place of production utilized for the production of a commodity that is managed separately for phytosanitary purposes. This may include the entire place of production or portions of it. Examples of portions of places of production are a defined orchard, grove, field, greenhouse, screenhouse, or premises.


*Quarantine pest.* A plant pest or noxious weed that is of potential economic importance to the United States and not yet present in the United States, or present but not widely distributed and being officially controlled.


*Regulated plant.* A vascular or nonvascular plant. Vascular plants include gymnosperms, angiosperms, ferns, and fern allies. Gymnosperms include cycads, conifers, and gingko. Angiosperms include any flowering plant. Fern allies include club mosses, horsetails, whisk ferns, spike mosses, and quillworts. Nonvascular plants include mosses, liverworts, hornworts, and green algae.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture, or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom authority to act in his/her stead has been or may hereafter be delegated.


*Soil.* The loose surface material of the earth in which plants, trees, and shrubs grow, in most cases consisting of disintegrated rock with an admixture of organic material and soluble salts.


*Species (spp.).* All species, clones, cultivars, strains, varieties, and hybrids of a genus.


*State.* Any of the several States of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


*State Plant Regulatory Official.* The official authorized by the State to sign agreements with Federal agencies involving operations of the State plant protection agency.


*Taxon (taxa).* Any grouping within botanical nomenclature, such as family, genus, species, or cultivar.


*Type of plants for planting.* A grouping of plants for planting based on shared characteristics such as biological traits, morphology, botanical nomenclature, or risk factors.


*United States.* All of the States.





---

[N] [83 FR 11856, Mar. 19, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 79734, Oct. 1, 2024]




