# ยง 57.13030   Boilers.

(a) Fired pressure vessels (boilers) shall be equipped with water level gauges, pressure gauges, automatic pressure-relief valves, blowdown piping, and other safety devices approved by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers to protect against hazards from overpressure, flameouts, fuel interruptions and low water level, all as required by the appropriate sections, chapters and appendices listed in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.


(b) These gauges, devices and piping shall be designed, installed, operated, maintained, repaired, altered, inspected, and tested by inspectors holding a valid National Board Commission and in accordance with the following listed sections, chapters and appendices:


(1) The ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1977, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.


(2) The National Board Inspection Code, a Manual for Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1979, published by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors.


(c) Records of inspections and repairs shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code and the National Board Inspection Code. The records shall be made available to the Secretary or his authorized representative.


(d) Sections of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1977, listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and chapters and appendices of the National Board Inspection Code, 1979, listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, are incorporated by reference and made a part of this standard. These publications may be obtained from the publishers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 22 Law Drive, P.O. Box 2900, Fairfield, New Jersey 07007, Phone: 800-843-2763 (toll free); *http://www.asme.org*, and the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors, 1055 Crupper Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43229. The publication may be examined at any Metal and Nonmetal Mine Safety and Health District Office of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.



---

[N] [50 FR 4082, Jan. 29, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 16667, Apr. 3, 2006]




