# ยง 24.259   Marks.

(a) *Required marks.* Each container larger than four liters or each case used to remove wine for consumption or sale will be durably marked to show the following information:


(1) The serial number or filling date as provided in ยง 24.260;


(2) The name (or trade name) and the registry number of the bottlers wine premises;


(3) The kind (class and type) and the alcohol content of the wine. The kind of wine and alcohol content will be stated in accordance with ยง 24.257. The formula number will be marked on bulk containers of special natural wine or other wine produced under ยง 24.218;


(4) The net contents of each container larger than four liters or each case in wine gallons, or for containers larger than four liters or cases filled according to metric measure, the contents in liters. If wine is removed in cases, the cases may be marked to show the number and size of bottles or other containers in each case in lieu of the net contents of the case; and


(5) Except for cases, the date of removal or shipment.


(b) *Application of marks.* Required marks may be cut, printed, or otherwise legibly and durably marked upon the container larger than four liters or the case or placed on a label or tag securely affixed to the case or container larger than four liters.


(c) *Location of marks.* Required marks will be placed on a container larger than four liters or on the side of a case for ready examination by appropriate TTB officers.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31082, July 9, 1991; T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13684, Mar. 22, 1999]




