# § 156.150   Application to stand-alone dental plans inside the Exchange.

(a) *Annual limitation on cost-sharing.* For a stand-alone dental plan covering the pediatric dental EHB under § 155.1065 of this subchapter in any Exchange, cost sharing may not exceed $350 for one covered child and $700 for two or more covered children.


(1) For plan years beginning after 2017, for one covered child—the dollar limit applicable to a stand-alone dental plan for one covered child specified in this paragraph (a) increased by the percent increase of the consumer price index for dental services for the year 2 years prior to the applicable plan year over the consumer price index for dental services for 2016.


(2) For plan years after 2017, for two or more covered children—twice the dollar limit for one child described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Calculation of AV.* A stand-alone dental plan:


(1) May not use the AV calculator in § 156.135; and


(2) Must have the plan's actuarial value of coverage for pediatric dental essential health benefits certified by a member of the American Academy of Actuaries using generally accepted actuarial principles and reported to the Exchange.


(c) *Consumer price index for dental services defined.* The consumer price index for dental services is a sub-component of the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index specific to dental services.


(d) *Increments of cost sharing increases.* Any increase in the annual dollar limits described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that does not result in a multiple of 25 dollars will be rounded down, to the next lowest multiple of 25 dollars.



---

[N] [78 FR 12866, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 13840, Mar. 11, 2014; 81 FR 12349, Mar. 8, 2016; 83 FR 17069, Apr. 17, 2018]




