# § 721.9675   Titanate [Ti

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as titanate [Ti6O13 (2-)], dipotassium (PMN P-90-226; SNUNs P-96-1408, S-08-6, S-09-4, S-13-49, S-16-5, and S-17-6; CAS No. 12056-51-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* For manufacturing, processing, and use of SN-17-6: Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4), (5), (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health assigned protection factor of at least 10. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate (including solid or liquid droplets).


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.8 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f) and (l). In addition, a significant new use of the substance is importation of the chemical substance if:


(A) Manufactured by other than the method described in premanufacture notice P-90-226 and significant new use notices P-96-1408, S-08-6, S-09-4, S-13-49, S-16-5, and S-17-6.


(B) Manufactured producing respirable, acicular fibers with an average aspect ratio of greater than 5. The average aspect ratio is defined as the ratio of average length to average diameter. For manufacture of S-17-6: Manufacture with a particle size distribution containing greater than 30% of particles less than 10 microns.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d) and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 40215, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 80 FR 70175, Nov. 13, 2015; 86 FR 30213, June 7, 2021]




