# § 550.167   How may I obtain or assign my interest in a RUE?

(a) To obtain a RUE or request an assignment of an interest in a RUE, the applicant or assignee must file an application and provide the information contained in § 550.161 if a change in uses is planned and must obtain BOEM's approval.


(b) An application for approval of an assignment of an interest in a RUE, in whole or in part, must be filed in triplicate with the Regional Director. Such application must be supported by a statement that the assignee agrees to comply with and to be bound by the terms and conditions of the RUE grant. The assignee must satisfy the bonding requirements in § 550.166. No RUE assignment will be recognized unless and until it is first approved, in writing, by the Regional Director. The assignee of an interest in a RUE must pay the same service fee as that listed in § 550.106(a)(1) for a lease record title assignment request.


(c) BOEM may disapprove an assignment in the following circumstances:


(1) When the assignee has unsatisfied obligations under the regulations in this chapter or in chapters II or XII of this title, or under any applicable BOEM or BSEE order;


(2) When an assignment is not acceptable as to form or content (e.g., containing incorrect legal description, not executed by a person authorized to bind the corporation, assignee does not meet the requirements of §§ 556.401 through 556.405 of this subchapter);


(3) When the assignment does not comply with or would conflict with this part, or any other applicable laws or regulations (e.g., Departmental debarment rules); or


(4) When the assignee does not meet the applicable financial assurance requirements in § 550.166 and part 556, subpart I of this subchapter, or has not complied with a BOEM or BSEE order.



---

[N] [89 FR 31589, Apr. 24, 2024]












