# ยง 882.410   Rent adjustments.

(a) *Annual and special adjustments.* Contract Rents will be adjusted as provided in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section upon submittal to the PHA by the Owner of a revised schedule of Contract Rents, provided that the unit is in decent, safe, and sanitary condition and that the Owner is otherwise in compliance with the terms of the Lease and Contract. Subject to the foregoing, adjustments of Contract Rents will be as follows:


(1) The Annual Adjustment Factors which are published annually by HUD (see Schedule C, 24 CFR part 888) will be utilized. On or after each annual anniversary date of the Contract, the Contract Rents may be adjusted in accordance with HUD procedures, effective for the month following the submittal by the Owner of a revised schedule of Contract Rents. The changes in rent as a result of the adjustment cannot exceed the amount established by multiplying the Annual Adjustment Factor by the base rents. However, if the amounts borrowed to finance the rehabilitation costs or to finance purchase of the property are subject to a variable rate or are otherwise renegotiable, Contract Rents may be adjusted in accordance with other procedures as prescribed by HUD, and specified in the Contract, provided that the adjusted Contract Rents cannot exceed the rents established by multiplying the Annual Adjustment Factor by the Contract Rents. Adjusted Contract Rents must then be examined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and may be adjusted accordingly. Contract Rents may be adjusted upward or downward, as may be appropriate.


(2) *Special Adjustments.* (i) A special adjustment, to the extent determined by HUD to reflect increases in the actual and necessary expenses of owning and maintaining the unit which have resulted from substantial general increases in real property taxes, assessments, utility rates and utilities not covered by regulated rates, may be recommended by the PHA for approval by HUD. Subject to appropriations, a special adjustment may also be recommended by the PHA for approval by HUD when HUD determines that a project is located in a community where drug-related criminal activity is generally prevalent, and not specific to a particular project, and the project's operating, maintenance, and capital repair expenses have substantially increased primarily as a result of the prevalence of such drug-related activity. HUD may, on a project-by-project basis, provide adjustments to the maximum monthly rents, to a level no greater than 120 percent of the current gross rents for each unit size under a Housing Assistance Payments Contract, to cover the costs of maintenance, security, capital repairs and reserves required for the Owner to carry out a strategy acceptable to HUD for addressing the problem of drug-related criminal activity. Prior to approval of a special adjustment to cover the cost of physical improvements, HUD will perform an environmental review to the extent required by HUD's environmental regulations at 24 CFR part 50, including the applicable related authorities at 24 CFR 50.4. 


(ii) The aforementioned special rent adjustments will only be approved if and to the extent the Owner clearly demonstrates that these general increases have caused increases in the owners operating costs which are not adequately compensated for by annual adjustments. 


(iii) The Owner must submit financial information to the PHA which clearly supports the increase. For Contracts of more than twenty units, the Owner must submit audited financial information. 


(b) *Overall limitation.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, adjustments as provided in this section must not result in material differences between the rents charged for assisted and comparable unassisted units, as determined by the PHA (and approved by HUD in the case of adjustments under paragraph (a)(2) of this section). However, unless the rents have been adjusted in accordance with ยง 882.409, this limitation should not be construed to prohibit differences in rents between assisted and comparable unassisted units to the extent that differences existed with respect to the initial Contract Rents.



---

[N] [47 FR 34379, Aug. 9, 1982, as amended at 59 FR 47773, Sept. 16, 1994]




