# § 886.302   Definitions.

The terms *Fair Market Rent (FMR), HUD,* and *Public Housing Agency (PHA)* are defined in 24 CFR part 5.


*Act.* The United States Housing Act of 1937.


*Agreement.* An Agreement to Enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract. See § 886.332.


*Annual income.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Contract.* (See Section 8 contract.)


*Contract rent.* The rent payable to the owner under the contract, including the portion of the rent payable by the family. In the case of a cooperative, the term “contract rent” means charges under the occupancy agreements between the members and the cooperative.


*Covered housing provider.* For the Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-Owned Projects, under subpart C of this part, “covered housing provider,” as such term is used in HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), refers to the owner.


*Decent, safe, and sanitary.* Housing is decent, safe, and sanitary if it meets the physical condition requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G.


*Eligible project or project.* A multifamily housing project (see 24 CFR part 290):


(1) For which the disposition in accordance with the provisions of 24 CFR part 290 involves sale with Section 8 housing assistance to enable the project to be used, in whole or in part, to provide housing for lower income families; and


(2) The units of which are decent, safe, and sanitary.


*Family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*HCD Act.* The Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.


*Housing Assistance Payment.* The payment made by the contract administrator to the Owner of an assisted unit as provided in the Contract. Where the unit is leased to an eligible Family, the payment is the difference between the Contract Rent and the Tenant Rent. A Housing Assistance Payment may be made to the Owner when a unit is vacant, in accordance with the terms of the Contract. An additional Housing Assistance Payment is made when the Utility Allowance is greater than the Total Tenant Payment.


*Lease.* A written agreement between the owner and a family for leasing of decent, safe and sanitary dwelling unit to the family. 


*Low-income family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Owner.* The purchaser, including a cooperative entity or an agency of the Federal Government, under this subpart, of a HUD-owned project; or the purchaser, including a cooperative entity or an agency of the Federal Government, through a foreclosure sale of a project that was subject to a HUD-held mortgage.


*Project account.* The account established and maintained in accordance with § 886.308.


*Rehabilitation.* The rehabilitation of an eligible project to upgrade the property to decent, safe, and sanitary condition to comply with the Housing Quality Standards described in § 886.307 of this part, or other standards approved by HUD, from a condition below those standards and requiring repairs that may vary in degree from gutting and extensive reconstruction to the cure of deferred maintenance. Rehabilitation may exceed the requirements of § 886.307 of this part.


*Section 8 contract (“Contract”).* A written contract between the owner of an eligible project and HUD providing housing assistance payments to the owner on behalf of eligible families pursuant to this subpart.


*Tenant rent.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Total tenant payment.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Utility allowance.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Utility reimbursement.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Very low-income family.* As defined in part 5 of this title.



---

[N] [44 FR 70365, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 19949, May 10, 1984; 50 FR 9269, Mar. 7, 1985; 50 FR 38795, Sept. 25, 1985; 53 FR 3369, Feb. 5, 1988; 58 FR 43722, Aug. 17, 1993; 60 FR 11859, Mar. 2, 1995; 61 FR 5213, Feb. 9, 1996; 63 FR 46580, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 16724, Mar. 29, 2000; 81 FR 80814, Nov. 16, 2016]




