# ยง 60.390a   Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the following affected facilities in an automobile or light-duty truck assembly plant specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) Each prime coat operation, each guide coat operation, and each topcoat operation.


(2) All storage containers and mixing vessels in which coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are stored or mixed.


(3) All manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials.


(4) All storage containers and all manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating operation.


(b) Exempted from the provisions of this subpart are operations used to coat plastic body components on separate coating lines. The attachment of plastic body parts to a metal body before the body is coated does not cause the metal body coating operation to be exempted.


(c) The provisions of this subpart apply to any affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that begins construction, reconstruction, or modification after May 18, 2022.


(d) The following physical or operational changes are not, by themselves, considered modifications of existing facilities:


(1) Changes as a result of model year changeovers or switches to larger vehicles.


(2) Changes in the application of the coatings to increase coating film thickness.






