# § 70.28   Summonses excepted from 26 U.S.C. 7609 procedures.

(a) *In aid of the collection of certain liabilities*—(1) *In general.* Title 26 U.S.C. 7609(c)(2)(B) contains an exception to the general notice requirement when a summons is issued to a third-party recordkeeper. That section excepts summonses issued in aid of the collection of the liability of any person against whom an assessment has been made or judgment rendered or the liability at law or in equity of any transferee of such a person.


(2) *Examples.* Examples of summonses referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are:


(i) Summonses issued to determine the amount held in a bank in the name of a person against whom an assessment has been made or judgment rendered;


(ii) Summonses issued to enforce transferee liability for a tax which has been assessed.


(b) *Numbered account (or similar arrangement).* Under 26 U.S.C. 7609(c)(2), a summons issued solely to determine the identity of a person having a numbered account (or similar arrangement) with a bank or other institution is excepted from the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 7609. A “numbered account (or similar arrangement)” under 26 U.S.C. 7609(c)(2) is an account through which a person may authorize transactions solely through the use of a number, symbol, code name, or other device not involving the disclosure of the person's identity. A “person having a numbered account (or similar arrangement)” includes the person who opened the account and any person authorized to use the account or to receive records or statements concerning it.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-301, 55 FR 47610, Nov. 14, 1990]




