# ยง 890.1615   Crediting separate reserves for PSHB.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section concerning crediting separate reserves from FEHB Options to PSHB Options, and for these purposes only, the following definitions apply:


*2024 FEHB Option premium* means, for a 2024 FEHB Option, the 2024 premium attributable to both Postal Service and non-Postal Service enrollees.


*2024 Postal Service premium* means, for a 2024 FEHB Option, the 2024 premium attributable to Postal Service employees and Postal Service annuitants as defined under 5 U.S.C. 8903c(a).


*Amounts available* means:


(i) With respect to experience-rated 2024 FEHB Options, the sum of the balances in the Option's Contingency Reserve Account and Letter of Credit Account less the Runout as of December 31, 2024; and


(ii) With respect to community-rated 2024 FEHB Options, the Option's Contingency Reserve Account balance as of December 31, 2024.


*Corresponding PSHB option* means a 2025 PSHB Option that is in the same geographic area and has equivalent benefits and cost-sharing as a 2025 FEHB Option, and that 2025 FEHB Option was also offered in 2024 by the same carrier.


*Option* means a level of benefits offered by a carrier to self only, self plus one, and self and family enrollees in a specific geographic area, with a unique set of premiums.


*Plan* means all Options offered by a carrier within a defined geographic area under a single contract.


*Runout* means the amount estimated by OPM, as of December 31, 2024, needed to pay claims and expenses incurred but not paid for periods on or before December 31, 2024, for an experience-rated FEHB Option, considering any income attributable to periods on or before, but not yet received by, December 31, 2024.


(b) *Reserve credits.* As soon as practicable on or after January 1, 2025, OPM will credit each PSHB Option's reserves according to the method described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Reserve credit methodology.* OPM will determine the Reserve credit for each 2024 FEHB Option and allocate it to the PSHB.


(1) OPM will determine the 2024 Postal Service premium by multiplying a 2024 FEHB Option's self only, self plus one, and self and family 2024 premiums by the number of Postal Service enrollments of that Option in each enrollment type and taking the sum of these three amounts.


(2) OPM will determine the 2024 FEHB Option premium by multiplying each 2024 FEHB Option's self only, self plus one, and self and family premiums by the number of total enrollments (inclusive of both Postal Service and non-Postal Service enrollments) in each enrollment type for that Option and taking the sum of these three amounts. OPM will use its March 2024 enrollment reports to determine the total enrollments.


(3) OPM will calculate the Postal Service Percentage for each 2024 FEHB Option by dividing the 2024 Postal Service Premium by 2024 FEHB Option Premium.


(4) OPM will calculate the Reserve Credit by multiplying the Postal Service Percentage for each 2024 FEHB Option by the Amounts Available for that Option.


(5) OPM will reallocate the Reserve Credit for each 2024 FEHB Option into a PSHB Contingency Reserves and Letter of Credit Account, as applicable, as follows:


(i) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan with one, two, or three Options in 2024 and offers the same number of Corresponding PSHB Options in 2025, the Reserve Credits for those Options will be allocated to the Corresponding PSHB Options' reserves.


(ii) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan with two or three Options in 2024 and offers only one Corresponding PSHB Option in 2025, the Reserve Credits attributable to all the 2024 FEHB Plan's Options will be allocated to that Corresponding PSHB Option's reserve.


(iii) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan with three Options in 2024 and offers only two Corresponding PSHB Options in 2025, the Reserve Credits attributable to the two FEHB Options that have Corresponding PSHB Options will be allocated to those two Corresponding PSHB Options' reserves. The Reserve Credit from the third FEHB Option (that does not have a Corresponding PSHB Option) will be allocated to one of the two Corresponding PSHB Plan Options that has the lowest self only premium and is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP).


(iv) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan in 2024 and offers no FEHB Plan in 2025, but offers at least one 2025 PSHB Option with similar benefits and cost sharing and in the same geographic area as the carrier's 2024 FEHB Plan, as determined by OPM, the Reserve Credit(s) attributable to that FEHB Plan will be credited to the reserves of the carrier's 2025 PSHB Options as described in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section as if the 2025 PSHB Option(s) were a Corresponding PSHB Option.


(v) If a carrier offers an FEHB Plan in 2024, and offers that FEHB Plan in 2025, but offers no Corresponding PSHB Options for that 2025 FEHB Plan, the Reserve Credit(s) attributable to that FEHB Plan will be credited to the reserves of the PSHB Options offered in 2025, proportionately, consistent with 5 U.S.C. 8903c(j)(2) where the subscription charges paid are the 2024 Postal Service Premium.


(vi) If a carrier offers a 2025 PSHB Option for which no 2024 Postal Service Premium is attributable, then that 2025 PSHB Option will receive no Reserve Credit.



---

[N] [89 FR 85031, Oct. 24, 2024]






