# ยง 205.16   Disclosures at automated teller machines.

(a) *Definition. Automated teller machine operator* means any person that operates an automated teller machine at which a consumer initiates an electronic fund transfer or a balance inquiry and that does not hold the account to or from which the transfer is made, or about which an inquiry is made. 


(b) *General.* An automated teller machine operator that imposes a fee on a consumer for initiating an electronic fund transfer or a balance inquiry shall: 


(1) Provide notice that a fee will be imposed for providing electronic fund transfer services or a balance inquiry; and 


(2) Disclose the amount of the fee. 


(c) *Notice requirement.* To meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, an automated teller machine operator must comply with the following:


(1) *On the machine.* Post in a prominent and conspicuous location on or at the automated teller machine a notice that:


(i) A fee will be imposed for providing electronic fund transfer services or for a balance inquiry; or


(ii) A fee may be imposed for providing electronic fund transfer services or for a balance inquiry, but the notice in this paragraph (c)(1)(ii) may be substituted for the notice in paragraph (c)(1)(i) only if there are circumstances under which a fee will not be imposed for such services; and


(2) *Screen or paper notice.* Provide the notice required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section either by showing it on the screen of the automated teller machine or by providing it on paper, before the consumer is committed to paying a fee.


(d) *Temporary exemption.* Through December 31, 2004, the notice requirement in paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not apply to any automated teller machine that lacks the technical capability to provide such information. 


(e) *Imposition of fee.* An automated teller machine operator may impose a fee on a consumer for initiating an electronic fund transfer or a balance inquiry only if 


(1) The consumer is provided the notices required under paragraph (c) of this section, and 


(2) The consumer elects to continue the transaction or inquiry after receiving such notices.



---

[N] [Reg. E, 66 FR 13412, Mar. 6, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 1659, Jan. 10, 2006]




