# § 1090.1000   Batch certification requirements.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) A fuel manufacturer, fuel additive manufacturer, or regulated blendstock producer must certify batches of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock as specified in this section.


(2) A fuel manufacturer, fuel additive manufacturer, or regulated blendstock producer does not need to certify fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock that is exempt under subpart G of this part.


(3)(i) For purposes of this part, the volume of a batch is one of the following:


(A) The sum of all shipments or transfers of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock out of the tank or vessel in which the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock was certified.


(B) The entire volume of a tank or vessel may be certified as a single batch. In such cases, any heel left in the tank or vessel after shipments of the batch becomes PCG.


(ii) If a volume of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock is placed in a tank, certified (if not previously certified), and is not altered in any manner, then it is considered to be the same batch even if several shipments or transfers are made out of that tank.


(iii) Batch volumes must be temperature-corrected in accordance with § 1090.1350(d).


(4) For fuel produced at a facility that has an in-line blending waiver under § 1090.1315, the volume of the batch is the volume of product that is homogeneous under the requirements in § 1090.1337 and is produced during a period not to exceed 10 days.


(5) A fuel manufacturer must certify each batch of fuel at the facility where the fuel is produced or at a facility that is under the complete control of the fuel manufacturer before they transfer custody or title of the fuel to any other person.


(6) No person may sell, offer for sale, distribute, offer to distribute, supply, offer for supply, dispense, store, transport, or introduce into commerce gasoline, diesel fuel, or ECA marine fuel that is not certified under this section.


(b) *Gasoline.* (1) A gasoline manufacturer must certify gasoline as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section prior to introduction into commerce.


(2) To certify batches of gasoline, a gasoline manufacturer must comply with all the following:


(i) Register with EPA as a refiner, blending manufacturer, importer, transmix processor, certified butane blender, or certified pentane blender under subpart I of this part, as applicable, prior to producing gasoline.


(ii) Ensure that each batch of gasoline meets the applicable requirements of subpart C of this part using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part. A transmix processor must also meet all applicable requirements in subpart F of this part to ensure that each batch of gasoline meets the applicable requirements in subpart C of this part.


(iii) Assign batch numbers as specified in § 1090.1020.


(iv) Designate batches of gasoline as specified in § 1090.1010.


(3) PCG may be mixed with other PCG without re-certification if the resultant mixture complies with the applicable standards in subpart C of this part and is accurately and clearly designated under § 1090.1010. Resultant mixtures of PCG are not new batches and should not be assigned new batch numbers.


(4) Any person that mixes summer gasoline with summer or winter gasoline that has a different designation must comply with one of the following:


(i) Designate the resultant mixture as meeting the least stringent RVP designation of any batch that is mixed. For example, a distributor that mixes Summer RFG with 7.8 psi Summer CG must designate the mixture as 7.8 psi Summer CG.


(ii) Determine the RVP of the mixture using the procedures specified in subpart N of this part and designate the new batch under § 1090.1010 to reflect the RVP of the resultant mixture.


(5) Any person that mixes summer gasoline with winter gasoline to transition any storage tank from winter to summer gasoline is exempt from the requirement in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section but must ensure that the gasoline meets the applicable RVP standard in § 1090.215.


(c) *Diesel fuel and ECA marine fuel.* (1) A diesel fuel or ECA marine fuel manufacturer must certify diesel fuel or ECA marine fuel as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section prior to introducing the fuel into commerce.


(2) To certify batches of diesel fuel or ECA marine fuel, a diesel fuel or ECA marine fuel manufacturer must comply with all the following:


(i) Register with EPA as a refiner, blending manufacturer, importer, or transmix processor under subpart I of this part, as applicable, prior to producing diesel fuel or ECA marine fuel.


(ii) Ensure that each batch of diesel fuel or ECA marine fuel meets the applicable requirements of subpart D of this part using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part. A transmix processor must also meet all applicable requirements specified in subpart F of this part to ensure that each batch of diesel fuel or ECA marine fuel meets the applicable requirements in subpart D of this part.


(iii) Assign batch numbers as specified in § 1090.1020.


(iv) Designate batches of diesel fuel as specified in § 1090.1015.


(d) *Oxygenates.* (1) An oxygenate producer must certify oxygenates intended to be blended into gasoline as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) To certify batches of oxygenates, an oxygenate producer must comply with all the following:


(i) Register with EPA as an oxygenate producer under subpart I of this part prior to producing or importing oxygenate intended for blending into gasoline.


(ii) Ensure that each batch of oxygenate meets the requirements in § 1090.270 by using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part.


(iii) Assign batch numbers as specified in § 1090.1020.


(iv) Designate batches of oxygenate as intended for blending with gasoline as specified in § 1090.1010(c).


(e) *Certified butane.* (1) A certified butane producer must certify butane intended to be blended by a blending manufacturer under § 1090.1320 as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(2) To certify batches of certified butane, a certified butane producer must comply with all the following:


(i) Ensure that each batch of certified butane meets the requirements in § 1090.250 by using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part.


(A) Testing must occur after the most recent delivery into the certified butane producer's storage tank.


(B) The certified butane producer must provide documentation of the test results for each batch of certified butane to the certified butane blender.


(ii) Designate batches of certified butane as intended for blending with gasoline as specified in § 1090.1010(d).


(f) *Certified pentane.* (1) A certified pentane producer must certify pentane intended to be blended by a blending manufacturer under § 1090.1320 as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(2) To certify batches of certified pentane, a certified pentane producer must comply with all the following:


(i) Register with EPA as a certified pentane producer under subpart I of this part prior to producing certified pentane.


(ii) Ensure that each batch of certified pentane meets the requirements in § 1090.255 by using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part.


(A) Testing must occur after the most recent delivery into the certified pentane producer's storage tank, before transferring the certified pentane batch for delivery.


(B) The certified pentane producer must provide documentation of the test results for each batch of certified pentane to the certified pentane blender.


(iii) Assign batch numbers as specified in § 1090.1020.


(iv) Designate batches of certified pentane as intended for blending with gasoline as specified in § 1090.1010(d).


(g) *Certified ethanol denaturant.* (1) A certified ethanol denaturant producer must certify certified ethanol denaturant intended to be used to make DFE that meets the requirements in § 1090.275 as specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(2) To certify batches of certified ethanol denaturant, a certified ethanol denaturant producer must comply with all the following:


(i) Register with EPA as a certified ethanol denaturant producer under subpart I of this part prior to producing certified ethanol denaturant.


(ii) Ensure that each batch of certified ethanol denaturant meets the requirements in § 1090.275 by using the applicable procedures specified in subpart N of this part.


(iii) Assign batch numbers as specified in § 1090.1020.


(iv) Designate batches of certified ethanol denaturant as intended for blending with gasoline as specified in § 1090.1010(e).




