# § 1501.3   Description of central organization and location of offices.

(a) The management of ADF is vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson and five other members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Five of the members are appointed from private life and two from among the officers and employees of agencies of the United States concerned with African affairs. The Board establishes policy for the Foundation and is responsible for its management.


(b) The Board is required to appoint a President of the Foundation upon such terms as it may determine. The President has responsibility for directing the day to day activities of the Foundation. He is assisted by a Vice President, a Congressional liaison officer, a Public Affairs officer, a General Counsel, and the following staff units:


(1) *Office of Administration and Finance.* This office is responsible for the management of the administrative, budgeting, financial and personnel activities of the Foundation.


(2) *Office of Research and Evaluation.* This office is responsible for evaluating, or assisting grantees to evaluate, ADF funded projects; for monitoring evaluations and analyses of grassroots projects conducted by other funding or research organizations; and for identifying and providing assistance to indigenous researchers in Africa working in development projects at the local level.


(3) *Office of Program and Field Operations.* This office is responsible for identifying, reviewing and monitoring projects funded by the Foundation.


(c) The Board is also required to establish an Advisory Council made up of individuals knowledgeable about development activities in Africa, and to consult with the Council at least once each year. The Council shall have not more than 25 members appointed for a period of two years with an option to be reappointed for an additional year.


(d) The Board of Directors and the aforementioned officers, together with the other employees of the Foundation, constitute the central organization of ADF, and are located and function at ADF headquarters, 1724 Massachusetts Avenue NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20036. It is anticipated that in the future a field organization will be established with offices in selected cities in Africa, but this has not yet occurred.




