# ยง 164.4   Arrangements for examining Agency records, transcripts, orders, and decisions.

(a) *Reporting of orders, decisions, and other signed documents.* All orders, decisions, or other signed documents required by the rules in this part, whether issued by the Environmental Appeals Board or the Presiding Officer shall be made available to the public.


(b) *Establishment of an Agency repository.* In addition, all transcripts and docket entries shall become part of the official docket and shall be retained by the hearing clerk. At least two copies of all final orders, decisions and a notification of any appeals taken therefrom shall be retained by the hearing clerk and filed chronologically and shall be periodically bound and indexed. All the above documents shall be made available to the public for reasonable inspections during Agency business hours.


(c) Whenever any information or data is required to be produced or examined and any party to the proceeding claims that such information is a trade secret or commercial or financial information, other than information relating to the formulas of a pesticide, the Administrative Law Judge, the Presiding Officer, or the Environmental Appeals Board may require production or testimony *in camera* and sealed to all but the parties.


(d) All orders, decisions, or other documents made or signed by the Administrative Law Judge, the Presiding Officer, or the Environmental Appeals Board shall be filed with the hearing clerk. The hearing clerk shall immediately serve all parties with a copy of such order, decision, or other document.



---

[N] [38 FR 19371, July 20, 1973, as amended at 57 FR 5342, Feb. 13, 1992]




