# ยง 3550.69   Deferred mortgage payments.

For qualified borrowers, RHS may defer up to 25 percent of the monthly principal and interest payment at 1 percent for up to 15 years. This assistance may be granted only at initial loan closing and is reviewed annually. Deferred mortgage payments are subject to recapture when the borrower transfers title or ceases to occupy the property. 


(a) *Eligibility.* In order to qualify for deferred mortgage payments, all of the following must be true: 


(1) The applicants adjusted income at the time of initial loan approval does not exceed the applicable very low-income limits. 


(2) The loan term is 38 years, or 30 years for a manufactured home. 


(3) The applicant's payments for principal and interest, calculated at a one percent interest rate for the maximum allowable term, plus estimated costs for taxes and insurance exceeds: 


(i) For applicants receiving payment assistance, 29 percent of the applicants repayment income by more than $10 per month; or 


(ii) For applicants receiving interest credit, 20 percent of adjusted income by more than $10 per month. 


(b) *Amount and terms.* (1) The amount of the mortgage payment to be deferred will be the difference between the applicants payment for principal and interest, calculated at one percent interest for the maximum allowable term, plus estimated costs for taxes and insurance and: 


(i) For applicants receiving payment assistance, 29 percent of the applicants repayment income. 


(ii) For applicants receiving interest credit, 20 percent of adjusted income. 


(2) Deferred mortgage payment agreements will be effective for a 12-month period. 


(3) Deferred mortgage assistance may be continued for up to 15 years after loan closing. Once a borrower becomes ineligible for deferred mortgage assistance, the borrower can never again receive deferred mortgage assistance. 


(c) *Annual review.* The borrower's income, taxes, and insurance will be reviewed annually to determine eligibility for continued deferred mortgage assistance. The borrower must notify RHS whenever an adult member of the household changes or obtains employment or if income increases by at least 10 percent so that RHS can determine whether a review of the borrower's circumstances is required. 




