# § 630.803   Definitions.

*Armed forces* means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard. 


*Combat zone* means those areas determined by the President in accordance with section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code. 


*Committed relationship* means one in which the employee, and the domestic partner of the employee, are each other's sole domestic partner (and are not married to or domestic partners with anyone else); and share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's common welfare and financial obligations. This includes, but is not limited to, any relationship between two individuals of the same or opposite sex that is granted legal recognition by a State or by the District of Columbia as a marriage or analogous relationship (including, but not limited to, a civil union).


*Domestic partner* means an adult in a committed relationship with another adult, including both same-sex and opposite-sex relationships.


*Employee* means an employee or individual covered by § 630.802. 


*Funeral leave* means leave authorized by section 6326 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart. 


*Immediate relative* means an individual with any of the following relationships to the employee:


(1) Spouse, and parents thereof;


(2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof;


(3) Parents, and spouses thereof;


(4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof;


(5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof;


(6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in paragraphs (2) through (5) of this definition; and


(7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.


*Parent* means—


(1) A biological, adoptive, step, or foster parent of the employee, or a person who was a foster parent of the employee when the employee was a minor;


(2) A person who is the legal guardian of the employee or was the legal guardian of the employee when the employee was a minor or required a legal guardian; or


(3) A person who stands *in loco parentis* to the employee or stood *in loco parentis* to the employee when the employee was a minor or required someone to stand *in loco parentis.*

(4) A parent, as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition, of an employee's spouse or domestic partner.


*Son or daughter* means—


(1) A biological, adopted, step, or foster son or daughter of the employee;


(2) A person who is a legal ward or was a legal ward of the employee when that individual was a minor or required a legal guardian;


(3) A person for whom the employee stands *in loco parentis* or stood *in loco parentis* when that individual was a minor or required someone to stand *in loco parentis;* or


(4) A son or daughter, as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition, of an employee's spouse or domestic partner.



---

[N] [34 FR 13655, Aug. 26, 1969, as amended at 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995; 75 FR 33496, June 14, 2010]




