# § 10.92   Shortened procedure.

(a) *How initiated.* With the consent of the parties, in lieu of a full oral hearing, the Administrative Law Judge may order a shortened procedure as to the submission of direct evidence may be ordered in a proceeding. An order for shortened procedure shall list the names and addresses of all persons who are parties to the proceeding and shall direct compliance with the procedures established in this section. The order shall be served by the Proceedings Clerk upon all parties.


(b) *Filing of statements*—(1) *Opening statement.* Within 20 days after receipt of notice that the shortened procedure will be used, the Division of Enforcement shall serve upon all other parties and file with the Proceedings Clerk, in triplicate, an opening statement, in support of the complaint;


(2) *Answering statement.* Within 20 days after receipt of the opening statement of the Division, each respondent may serve upon all other parties and file with the Proceedings Clerk, in triplicate, in support of his answer, an answering statement.


(3) *Statement in reply.* Within ten days after receipt of all answering statements, or within ten days after the expiration of the period within which answering statements may be served, the Division of Enforcement may serve upon all other parties and file with the Proceedings Clerk, in triplicate, a statement in reply, which shall be confined strictly to replying to the facts and arguments set forth in the answering statements.


(c) *Joint statements.* Parties having a common interest may serve and file joint statements.


(d) *Failure to file statement.* Any party who, without the express permission of the Administrative Law Judge, should fail to file a statement within the time prescribed by this section after service upon him of an order for shortened procedures shall be in default and shall be deemed to have waived any further hearing.


(e) *Content of statements.* As used in this section, the term “statement” includes


(1) Statements of fact signed and sworn to by persons having knowledge of those facts;


(2) Documents filed as part of the proof of the alleged facts (which shall be duly authenticated under oath or otherwise in a manner that would render them admissible in evidence at an oral hearing under the rules in this part); and


(3) Briefs containing argument to sustain the contentions of the party submitting the statement.


(f) *Verification.* The facts asserted in any statement filed under shortened procedure must be sworn to by persons having knowledge thereof and, except under unusual circumstances, the persons should be those who would appear as witnesses to substantiate the facts asserted should a full oral hearing become necessary.


(g) *Hearings*—(1) *Request for cross-examination or other hearings.* If cross-examination is desired of any witness whose affidavit or other verified statement has been submitted, the name of the witness and the subject matter of the desired cross-examination shall be stated at the end of the answering statement or statement in reply as the case may be. Oral hearings under other circumstances may also be requested but will be granted only under exceptional circumstances. Any request filed under this subparagraph shall include a justification of the need for oral hearing.


(2) *Hearings issues limited.* The order setting the proceeding for oral hearing, if hearing is found necessary, will specify the matters upon which the parties are not in agreement and concerning which oral evidence is to be introduced. Unless material facts are in dispute, oral hearing will not be held.


(h) *Subsequent procedure.* Post-hearing procedures shall be the same as those in proceedings in which the shortened procedures have not been followed.



---

[N] [41 FR 2511, Jan. 16, 1976, as amended at 60 FR 54802, Oct. 26, 1995; 64 FR 30903, June 9, 1999]




