# ยง 7.1022   National banks' authority to buy and sell exchange, coin, and bullion.

(a) In this section, *industrial or commercial metal* means metal (including an alloy) in a physical form primarily suited to industrial or commercial use, for example, copper cathodes.


(b) *Scope of authorization.* Section 24(Seventh) of the National Bank Act authorizes national banks to buy and sell exchange, coin, and bullion. Industrial or commercial metal is not exchange, coin, and bullion within the meaning of this authorization.


(c) *Buying and selling metal as part of or incidental to the business of banking.* Section 24(Seventh) authorizes national banks to engage in activities that are part of, or incidental to, the business of banking. Buying and selling industrial or commercial metal for the purpose of dealing or investing in that metal is not part of or incidental to the business of banking pursuant to section 24(Seventh). Accordingly, national banks may not acquire industrial or commercial metal for purposes of dealing or investing.


(d) *Other authorities not affected.* This section may not be construed to preclude a national bank from acquiring or selling metal in connection with its incidental authority to foreclose on loan collateral, compromise doubtful claims, or avoid loss in connection with a debt previously contracted. This section also may not be construed to preclude a national bank from buying and selling physical metal to hedge a derivative for which that metal is the reference asset so long as the amount of the physical metal used for hedging purposes is nominal.


(e) *Nonconforming holdings.* National banks that hold industrial or commercial metal as a result of dealing or investing in that metal must dispose of such metal as soon as practicable, but not later than one year from April 1, 2018. The OCC may grant up to four separate one-year extensions to dispose of industrial or commercial metal if a national bank makes a good faith effort to dispose of the metal and retention of the metal for an additional year is not inconsistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank.



---

[N] [81 FR 96360, Dec. 30, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 83729, Dec. 22, 2020]




