# ยง 801.2   Definitions.

The terms defined in 36 CFR 800.2 shall be used in conjunction with this regulation. Furthermore, as used in these regulations:


(a) *Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG) Program* means the program of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) authorized by title I of the Housing and Community Development Act (HCDA) of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 5318) to assist revitalization efforts in distressed cities and urban counties which require increased public and private investment.


(b) *Applicant* means cities and urban counties or Pocket of Poverty Communities which meet the criteria at 24 CFR 570.453. Except as specifically provided below, applicants, rather than the Secretary of HUD, must comply with these regulations.


(c) *Project* means a commercial, industrial, and/or neighborhood project supported by the UDAG program of the Department of HUD, as defined in 24 CFR 570.451(g). A project includes the group of integrally related public and private activities described in the grant application which are to be carried out to meet the objectives of the action grant program and consists of all action grant funded activities together with all non-action grant funded activities. A project is an *undertaking* as defined in 36 CFR 800.2(c).


(d) *State Historic Preservation Officer Review Period* is a 45 day period provided to the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer by section 110(c) of the Housing and Community Development Act (HCDA) of 1980 for comment on the formal submission by the applicant of data on properties listed in the National Register or which may meet the Criteria and which will be affected by the proposed UDAG project. This period does not include any period during which the applicant seeks information from the State Historic Preservation Officer to assist the applicant in identifying properties, determining whether a property meets the Criteria for listing in the National Register of Historic Places and determining whether such property is affected by the project.


(e) *Secretary of the Interior Determination Period* is a 45 day period provided by section 110(c) of the HCDA of 1980 for a determination as to whether the identified properties are eligible for inclusion in the National Register.




