# § 18.0   Scope; definitions.

(a) *Scope.* Except as provided in parts 122 (Air commerce) and 123 (CBP relations with Canada and Mexico) of this chapter, this part sets forth the requirements and procedures pertaining to the transportation of merchandise in-bond, as authorized by §§ 551, 552, and 553 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C 1551, 1552, and 1553).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this part, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular part or portion thereof:


*Bonded carrier.* “Bonded carrier” means a carrier of merchandise whose bond under § 113.63 of this chapter is obligated for the transportation and delivery of merchandise.


*Common carrier.* “Common carrier” means a common carrier of merchandise owning or operating a railroad, steamship, pipeline, truck line, or other transportation line or route.


*Origination port.* “Origination port” is the U.S. port at which the transportation of merchandise in-bond commences.


*Port of destination.* “Port of destination” is the U.S. port at which merchandise is delivered after being shipped in-bond from the origination port where it was entered as an immediate transportation entry.


*Port of diversion.* “Port of diversion” is the U.S. port to which merchandise is diverted while in transit from the origination port to the port of destination or the port of exportation.


*Port of exportation.* “Port of exportation” is the U.S. port at which in-bond merchandise entered for transportation and exportation or for immediate exportation is delivered for exportation from the United States.




