# § 422.606   Processing the request for review.

Upon receipt of your written request for review of an assignment and where relevant, the expiration of any additional times allowed under §§ 422.605(d) and 422.606(c), we will take the following action:


(a) *Request not timely filed.* If your request is not filed within the time limits set out in § 422.605(c), we will deny your request for review on that basis and send you a notice explaining that we have taken this action;


(b) *Lack of evidence.* If your request is timely filed under § 422.605(c) but you have not provided evidence constituting a prima facie case of error, we will deny your request for review on that basis and send you a notice explaining that we have taken this action;


(c) *Request for review without requesting detailed information.* If your request is filed within 30 days after you received the notice of assignment and you have not requested detailed information, we will not process your request until at least 30 days after the date you received the notice of assignment. You may still request detailed information within that 30-day period, in which case we will not process your request for review until at least 30 days after you received the detailed information, so that you may submit additional evidence if you wish;


(d) *Reviewing the evidence.* If your request meets the filing requirements of § 422.605 and is accompanied by evidence constituting a prima facie case of error, we will review the assignment. We will review all evidence submitted with your request for review, together with the evidence used in making the assignment. An SSA employee who was not involved in the original assignment will perform the review. The review will be a review on the record and will not involve a face-to-face hearing.


(e) *Original decision correct.* If, following this review of the evidence you have submitted and the evidence in our file, we make a determination that the assignment is correct, we will send you a notice explaining the basis for our decision. We will not review the decision again, except as provided in § 422.607.


(f) *Original decision erroneous.* If, following this review of the evidence you have submitted and the evidence in our file, we make a determination that the assignment is erroneous, we will send you a notice to this effect. We will then determine who the correct operator is and assign the affected beneficiary(s) to that coal operator (or related person). If no assigned operator can be identified, the affected beneficiary(s) will be treated as “unassigned.” We will notify the UMWA Combined Benefit Fund Trustees of the review decision so that any premium liability of the initial assigned operator can be adjusted.




