# § 173.24a   Additional general requirements for non-bulk packagings and packages.

(a) *Packaging design.* Except as provided in § 172.312 of this subchapter:


(1) *Inner packaging closures.* A combination packaging containing liquid hazardous materials must be packed so that closures on inner packagings are upright.


(2) *Friction.* The nature and thickness of the outer packaging must be such that friction during transportation is not likely to generate an amount of heat sufficient to alter dangerously the chemical stability of the contents.


(3) *Securing and cushioning.* Inner packagings of combination packagings must be so packed, secured and cushioned to prevent their breakage or leakage and to control their shifting within the outer packaging under conditions normally incident to transportation. Cushioning material must not be capable of reacting dangerously with the contents of the inner packagings or having its protective properties significantly weakened in the event of leakage.


(4) *Metallic devices.* Nails, staples and other metallic devices shall not protrude into the interior of the outer packaging in such a manner as to be likely to damage inner packagings or receptacles.


(5) *Vibration.* Each non-bulk package must be capable of withstanding, without rupture or leakage, the vibration test procedure specified in § 178.608 of this subchapter.


(b) *Non-bulk packaging filling limits.* (1) A non-bulk packaging not exceeding 400 kg may be filled with a liquid hazardous material only when the specific gravity of the material or gross mass of the package does not exceed that marked on the packaging, or a specific gravity of 1.2 if not marked, except as follows:


(i) A Packing Group I packaging may be used for a Packing Group II material with a specific gravity not exceeding the greater of 1.8, or 1.5 times the specific gravity or gross mass of the package marked on the packaging, provided all the performance criteria can still be met with the higher specific gravity material;


(ii) A Packing Group I packaging may be used for a Packing Group III material with a specific gravity not exceeding the greater of 2.7, or 2.25 times the specific gravity or gross mass of the package marked on the packaging, provided all the performance criteria can still be met with the higher specific gravity material; and


(iii) A Packing Group II packaging may be used for a Packing Group III material with a specific gravity not exceeding the greater of 1.8, or 1.5 times the specific gravity or gross mass of the package marked on the packaging, provided all the performance criteria can still be met with the higher specific gravity material.


(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a non-bulk packaging may not be filled with a hazardous material to a gross mass greater than the maximum gross mass marked on the packaging.


(3) A non-bulk packaging not exceeding 400 kg which is tested and marked for liquid hazardous materials may be filled with a solid hazardous material to a gross mass, in kilograms, not exceeding the rated capacity of the packaging in liters, or gross mass of the package, multiplied by the specific gravity or gross mass of the package marked on the packaging, or 1.2 if not marked. In addition:


(i) A non-bulk packaging not exceeding 400 kg which is tested and marked for Packing Group I liquid hazardous materials may be filled with a solid Packing Group II hazardous material to a gross mass, in kilograms, not exceeding the rated capacity of the packaging in liters, or gross mass of the package, multiplied by 1.5, multiplied by the specific gravity or gross mass of the package marked on the packaging, or 1.2 if not marked.


(ii) A non-bulk packaging not exceeding 400 kg which is tested and marked for Packing Group I liquid hazardous materials may be filled with a solid Packing Group III hazardous material to a gross mass, in kilograms, not exceeding the rated capacity of the packaging in liters, or gross mass of the package, multiplied by 2.25, multiplied by the specific gravity or gross mass of the package marked on the packaging, or 1.2 if not marked.


(iii) A non-bulk packaging not exceeding 400 kg which is tested and marked for Packing Group II liquid hazardous materials may be filled with a solid Packing Group III hazardous material to a gross mass, in kilograms, not exceeding the rated capacity of the packaging in liters, or gross mass of the package, multiplied by 1.5, multiplied by the specific gravity or gross mass of the package marked on the packaging, or 1.2 if not marked.


(4) Packagings tested as prescribed in § 178.605 of this subchapter and marked with the hydrostatic test pressure as prescribed in § 178.503(a)(5) of this subchapter may be used for liquids only when the vapor pressure of the liquid conforms to one of the following:


(i) The vapor pressure must be such that the total pressure in the packaging (i.e., the vapor pressure of the liquid plus the partial pressure of air or other inert gases, less 100 kPa (15 psia)) at 55 °C (131 °F), determined on the basis of a maximum degree of filling in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and a filling temperature of 15 °C (59 °F)), will not exceed two-thirds of the marked test pressure;


(ii) The vapor pressure at 50 °C (122 °F) must be less than four-sevenths of the sum of the marked test pressure plus 100 kPa (15 psia); or


(iii) The vapor pressure at 55 °C (131 °F) must be less than two-thirds of the sum of the marked test pressure plus 100 kPa (15 psia).


(5) No hazardous material may remain on the outside of a package after filling.


(c) *Mixed contents.* (1) An outer non-bulk packaging may contain more than one hazardous material only when—


(i) The inner and outer packagings used for each hazardous material conform to the relevant packaging sections of this part applicable to that hazardous material;


(ii) The package as prepared for shipment meets the performance tests prescribed in part 178 of this subchapter for the packing group indicating the highest order of hazard for the hazardous materials contained in the package;




(iii) Corrosive materials in bottles are further packed in securely closed inner receptacles before packing in outer packagings; and








(iv) For transportation by aircraft, the total net quantity does not exceed the lowest permitted maximum net quantity per package as shown in Column (9a) or (9b), as appropriate, of the § 172.101 Table of this subchapter. The permitted maximum net quantity must be calculated in kilograms if a package contains both a liquid and a solid. These requirements do not apply to limited quantity hazardous materials packaged in accordance with § 173.27(f)(2).


(2) A packaging containing inner packagings of Division 6.2 materials may not contain other hazardous materials except—


(i) Refrigerants, such as dry ice or liquid nitrogen, as authorized under the HMR;


(ii) Anticoagulants used to stabilize blood or plasma; or


(iii) Small quantities of Class 3, Class 8, Class 9, or other materials in Packing Groups II or III used to stabilize or prevent degradation of the sample, provided the quantity of such materials does not exceed 30 mL (1 ounce) or 30 g (1 ounce) in each inner packaging. The maximum quantity in an outer package, including a hazardous material used to preserve or stabilize a sample, may not exceed 4 L (1 gallon) or 4 kg (8.8 pounds). Such preservatives are not subject to the requirements of this subchapter.


(d) Liquids must not completely fill a receptacle at a temperature of 55 °C (131 °F) or less.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52611, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66265, Dec. 20, 1991; 57 FR 45460, Oct. 1, 1992; 58 FR 51532, Oct. 1, 1993; Amdt. 173-255, 61 FR 50624, Sept. 26, 1996; 66 FR 45380, Aug. 28, 2001; 68 FR 61941, Oct. 30, 2003; 71 FR 32258, June 2, 2006; 81 FR 35541, June 2, 2016; 83 FR 55808, Nov. 7, 2018; 87 FR 79775, Dec. 27, 2022]




