# ยง 507.19   Sanitation.

(a) Buildings, structures, fixtures, and other physical facilities of the plant must be kept clean and in good repair to prevent animal food from becoming adulterated.


(b) Animal food-contact and non-contact surfaces of utensils and equipment must be cleaned and maintained and utensils and equipment stored as necessary to protect against the contamination of animal food, animal food-contact surfaces, or animal food-packaging materials. When necessary, equipment must be disassembled for thorough cleaning. In addition:


(1) When animal food-contact surfaces used for manufacturing, processing, packing, or holding animal food are wet-cleaned, the surfaces must, when necessary, be thoroughly dried before subsequent use; and


(2) In wet processing of animal food, when cleaning and sanitizing are necessary to protect against the introduction of undesirable microorganisms into animal food, all animal food-contact surfaces must be cleaned and sanitized before use and after any interruption during which the animal food-contact surfaces may have become contaminated.


(c) Cleaning compounds and sanitizing agents must be safe and adequate under the conditions of use.


(d) The following applies to toxic materials:


(1) Only the following toxic materials may be used or stored in the plant area where animal food is manufactured, processed, or exposed:


(i) Those required to maintain clean and sanitary conditions;


(ii) Those necessary for use in laboratory testing procedures;


(iii) Those necessary for plant and equipment maintenance and operation; and


(iv) Those necessary for use in the plant's operations.


(2) Toxic materials described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section (*e.g.,* cleaning compounds, sanitizing agents, and pesticide chemicals) must be identified, used, and stored in a manner that protects against the contamination of animal food, animal food-contact surfaces, or animal food-packaging materials; and


(3) Other toxic materials (such as fertilizers and pesticides not included in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) must be stored in an area of the plant where animal food is not manufactured, processed, or exposed.


(e) Effective measures must be taken to exclude pests from the manufacturing, processing, packing, and holding areas and to protect against the contamination of animal food by pests. The use of pesticides in the plant is permitted only under precautions and restrictions that will protect against the contamination of animal food, animal food-contact surfaces, and animal food-packaging materials.


(f) Trash must be conveyed, stored, and disposed of in a way that protects against the contamination of animal food, animal food-contact surfaces, animal food-packaging materials, water supplies, and ground surfaces, and minimizes the potential for the trash to become an attractant and harborage or breeding place for pests.



---

[N] [80 FR 56337, Sept. 17, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 3717, Jan. 22, 2016]




