# § 922.36   National Marine Sanctuary authorizations.

(a) *Authority to issue authorizations.* The Director may authorize a person to conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by subparts L through P, or subparts R through V, of this part, if such activity is specifically allowed by any valid Federal, State, or local lease, permit, license, approval, or other authorization (hereafter called “agency approval”) issued after the effective date of sanctuary designation or expansion, provided the applicant complies with the provisions of this section. Such an authorization by the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries (ONMS) is hereafter referred to as an “ONMS authorization.”




(b) *Authorization notification to the Director*—(1) *Notification requirement.* An applicant must notify the Director in writing of the request for an ONMS authorization of an agency approval. The Director may treat an amendment or extension of such an agency approval as constituting a new agency approval for purposes of this section.


(i) Notification must occur within fifteen days after the date the applicant files of filing of the application for the agency approval.


(ii) Notification must be sent to the Director, Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, to the attention of the relevant Sanctuary Superintendent(s) at the address specified in subparts L through P, subpart R, subpart U, or subpart V of this part.




(iii) A copy of the application for the agency approval must accompany the notification.


(2) *Director's response to notification.* The Director shall respond in writing to the applicant and provide periodic updates on pending ONMS authorization request.


(c) *Authorization review procedures and evaluation*—(1) *Additional information.* The Director may request additional information from the applicant as the Director deems reasonably necessary to determine whether to issue an ONMS authorization and what terms and conditions are reasonably necessary to protect sanctuary resources and qualities.


(i) The information requested must be received by the Director within 45 days of the postmark date of the Director's request.


(ii) The Director may seek the views of any persons on the application.


(2) *Review criteria.* The Director shall consider the review criteria in § 922.33(a)(1) through (9) when deciding whether to issue an ONMS authorization.


(3) *Director's response.* The Director shall respond in writing to the applicant to inform the applicant of the Director's decision regarding the authorization request.


(i) The Director may deny a request for an ONMS authorization and shall provide the reason(s) therefore. If the Director denies a request for an ONMS authorization, the applicant remains prohibited from conducting the activity in the sanctuary.


(ii) The Director may issue an ONMS authorization containing terms and conditions deemed reasonably necessary to protect sanctuary resources and qualities. Failure to comply with an ONMS authorization constitutes a violation of the NMSA and these regulations, which may result in an enforcement action and assessment of penalties.


(d) *Authorization actions.* The Director may amend, suspend, or revoke an ONMS authorization issued pursuant to this part for good cause. Procedures governing ONMS sanctions and denials for enforcement reasons are set forth in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904.


(e) *Communication of actions and denials.* Any action taken by the Director under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section to deny, amend, suspend, or revoke an ONMS authorization shall be communicated in writing to the permittee or applicant and shall set forth the reason(s) for the action taken.


(f) *Time limits.* Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director for good cause.



---

[N] [88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 48287, June 6, 2024; 89 FR 83594, Oct. 16, 2024]






