# § 437.2   General definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) The general definitions and abbreviations in 40 CFR part 401 apply to this part. 


(b) *Alternative effluent limitations or pretreatment standards* mean effluent limitations determined on a case-by-case basis under section 402(a)(1) of the CWA or pretreatment standards developed as local limits by the control authority under 40 CFR § 403.6(c) that apply to the discharge of wastewater subject to this provision. The permit writer (or control authority) will calculate these limitations or standards using a “building block” approach or the “combined wastestream formula.” Under this approach, the permit writer (or control authority) will develop flow-weighted effluent limitations or standards for the treated combined wastestream by applying the limitations or standards in 40 CFR subchapter N that would otherwise apply to a particular wastestream received from off-site if the wastestream were treated and discharged from the facility at which it was generated. 


(c) *Centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility* means any facility that treats (for disposal, recycling or recovery of material) any hazardous or non-hazardous industrial wastes, hazardous or non-hazardous industrial wastewater, and/or used material received from off-site. “CWT facility” includes both a facility that treats waste received exclusively from off-site and a facility that treats wastes generated on-site as well as waste received from off-site. For example, an organic chemical manufacturing plant may, in certain circumstances, be a CWT facility if it treats industrial wastes received from offsite as well as industrial waste generated at the organic chemical manufacturing plant. CWT facilities may also include re-refiners and may be owned by the federal government. 


(d) *Centralized waste treatment wastewater* means any wastewater generated as a result of CWT activities. CWT wastewater sources may include, but are not limited to: liquid waste receipts, solubilization water, used oil emulsion-breaking wastewater, tanker truck/drum/roll-off box washes, equipment washes, air pollution control scrubber blow-down, laboratory-derived wastewater, on-site landfill wastewaters, and contaminated storm water. 


(e) *Contaminated storm water* means storm water which comes in direct contact with CWT wastes, the waste handling and treatment areas, or other centralized waste treatment wastewater as defined in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(f) *Discharger* means a facility that discharges wastewater directly to waters of the United States or introduces wastewater to a publicly-owned treatment works.


(g) *Dry* means not producing a wastewater. 


(h) *Equivalent treatment* means a wastewater treatment system that achieves comparable pollutant removals to the applicable treatment technology selected as the basis for the limitations and pretreatment standards. Comparable removals may be demonstrated through literature, treatability tests, or self-monitoring data. 


(i) *Fuel blending* means the process of combining waste, wastewater, or used material for the purpose of regenerating a fuel for reuse. However, fuel blending may be loosely applied to any process where recovered hydrocarbons are combined as a fuel product where some pretreatment operations generate wastewater. 


(j) *High temperature metals recovery* means a metals recovery process in which solid forms of metal-containing materials are processed with a heat-based pyrometallurgical technology to produce a metal product. 


(k) *Marine generated waste* means any waste, wastewater, and/or used material generated as part of the normal maintenance and operation of a ship, boat, or barge operating on inland, coastal, or open waters, or while berthed. 


(l) *Metal-bearing wastes* means wastes and/or used materials from manufacturing or processing facilities or other commercial operations that contain significant quantities of metal pollutants, but not significant quantities of oil and grease (generally less than 100 mg/L). Examples of these wastes are spent electroplating baths and sludges, metal-finishing rinse water and sludges, chromate wastes, blow-down water and sludges from air pollution control, spent anodizing solutions, incineration air pollution control wastewaters, waste liquid mercury, cyanide containing wastes greater than 136 mg/L, and waste acids and bases with or without metals. 


(m) *Multiple wastestream CWT facility* means a CWT facility which accepts waste in more than one CWT subcategory (metals, oils, or organics) and combines any portion of these different subcategory wastes at any point prior to the compliance discharge sampling location. 


(n) *Off-site* means outside the boundaries of a facility. 


(o) *Oily absorbent recycling* means the process of recycling oil-soaked or contaminated disposable rags, paper, or pads for the purpose of regenerating a fuel for reuse. 


(p) *Oily wastes* means wastes and/or used materials that contain oil and grease (generally at or in excess of 100 mg/L) from manufacturing or processing facilities or other commercial operations. Examples of these wastes are used oils, oil-water emulsions or mixtures, lubricants, coolants, contaminated groundwater clean-up from petroleum sources, used petroleum products, oil spill clean-up, bilge water, rinse/wash waters from petroleum sources, interceptor wastes, off-specification fuels, underground storage tank remediation waste, and tank clean out from petroleum or oily sources. 


(q) *On-site* means within the boundaries of a facility. A facility may encompass land areas that are bisected by public thoroughfares but are under the control of a common owner. 


(r) *Organic wastes* means wastes and/or used materials that contain organic pollutants, but not a significant quantity of oil and grease (generally less than 100 mg/L) from manufacturing or processing facilities or other commercial operations. Examples of these wastes are landfill leachate, contaminated groundwater clean-up from non-petroleum sources, solvent-bearing wastes, off-specification organic product, still bottoms, byproduct glycols, wastewater from paint washes, wastewater from adhesives and/or epoxies, wastewater from chemical product operations, and tank clean-out from organic, non-petroleum sources. 


(s) The following regulated parameters are listed with approved methods of analysis in Table 1B at 40 CFR 136.3, and are defined as follows: 


(1) *Antimony* means total antimony. 


(2) *Arsenic* means total arsenic. 


(3) *Barium* means total barium. 


(4) *BOD*_5_ means 5-day biochemical oxygen demand. 


(5) *Cadmium* means total cadmium. 


(6) *Chromium* means total chromium. 


(7) *Cobalt* means total cobalt. 


(8) *Copper* means total copper. 


(9) *Cyanide* means total cyanide. 


(10) *Lead* means total lead. 


(11) *Mercury* means total mercury. 


(12) *Molybdenum* means total molybdenum. 


(13) *Nickel* means total nickel. 


(14) *O&G* means total recoverable oil and grease (n-hexane extractable material). 


(15) *Selenium* means total selenium. 


(16) *Silver* means total silver. 


(17) *Tin* means total tin. 


(18) *Titanium* means total titanium. 


(19) *TSS* means total suspended solids. 


(20) *Vanadium* means total vanadium. 


(21) *Zinc* means total zinc. 


(t) The following regulated parameters are listed with approved methods of analysis in Table 1C at 40 CFR 136.3: 


(1) Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate. 


(2) Butylbenzyl phthalate. 


(3) Fluoranthene. 


(4) Phenol. 


(5) 2,4,6-trichlorophenol. 


(u) The following regulated parameters are listed with approved methods of analysis (Methods 625 and 1625) at 40 CFR 136.3, appendix A: 


(1) Acetone. 


(2) Acetophenone. 


(3) Aniline. 


(4) 2-Butanone. 


(5) Carbazole. 


(6) o-Cresol. 


(7) p-Cresol. 


(8) n-Decane. 


(9) 2,3-dichloroaniline. 


(10) n-Octadecane. 


(11) Pyridine. 


(v) *Pipeline* means an open or closed conduit used for the conveyance of material. A pipeline includes a channel, pipe, tube, trench, or ditch, or fixed delivery system. 


(w) *Product stewardship* means a manufacturer's treatment or recovery of its own unused products, shipping and storage containers with product residues, off-specification products, and does not include spent or used materials from use of its products.


(x) *Re-refining* means the processing of used oil using distillation, hydrotreating, and/or other treatment employing acid, caustic, solvent, clay and/or chemicals in order to produce high quality base stock for lubricants or other petroleum products. 


(y) *Recovery* means the recycling or processing of a waste, wastewater or used material such that the material, or a portion thereof, may be reused or converted to a raw material, intermediate, or product. Recovery does not include the re-use of treated or untreated wastewater in place of potable or pure water in industrial processes such as the use of secondary POTW effluents as non-contact cooling water, storm water in place of process water, or the re-use of spent chemicals in place of virgin treatment chemicals. 


(z) *Solidification* means the addition of sorbents to convert liquid or semi-liquid waste to a solid by means of adsorption, absorption or both. The process is usually accompanied by stabilization.


(aa) *Solvent recovery* includes fuel blending operations and the recycling of spent solvents through separation of solvent mixtures in distillation columns. Solvent recovery may require an additional, pretreatment step prior to distillation. 


(bb) *Stabilization* means a waste process that decreases the mobility of waste constituents by means of a chemical reaction. For the purpose of this rule, chemical precipitation is not a technique for stabilization. 


(cc) *Treatment* means any method, technique, or process designed to change the physical, chemical or biological character or composition of any metal-bearing, oily, or organic wastes to neutralize such wastes; to render such wastes amenable to discharge; or to recover energy or recover metal, oil, or organic content from the wastes. Treatment does not include (a) the re-use of treated or untreated wastewater in place of potable or pure water in industrial processes such as the use of secondary POTW effluents as non-contact cooling water or storm water in place of process water or (b) the re-use of treated or untreated spent chemicals (such as pickle liquor) as treatment chemicals. 


(dd) *Non-contaminated storm water* means storm water which does not come in direct contact with CWT wastes, the waste handling and treatment areas, or other CWT wastewater that is defined in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(ee) *Used oil filter recycling* means crushing and draining of used oil filters of entrained oil and/or shredding and separation of used oil filters. 


(ff) *Waste* includes aqueous, non-aqueous, and solid waste, wastewater, and/or used material. 




