# ยง 27.6   Written response.

(a)(1) A person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment may make a written response explaining why the civil penalty should not be imposed, explaining why a civil monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed and/or explaining why the terms of a proposed civil or equitable remedy should be modified. The written response must provide: 


(i) A reference to and specifically identify the Initial Notice of Assessment involved; 


(ii) The full name of the person charged; 


(iii) If not a natural person, the name and title of the head of the organization charged; and 


(iv) If a representative of the person charged is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative. 


(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of ยง 27.3 charged in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any charge not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a charge is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the charge is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the person charged is not the person responsible for the misuse(s) charged, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the agency to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and/or other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.


(b) *Time.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this paragraph must be received not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment. 


(2) If a request for documents or other evidence is made pursuant to ยง 27.5(d)(4), the written response must be received not later than 20 days after the date of the Department's response to the request.


(3)(i) In computing the number of days allowed for filing a written response under this paragraph, the first day counted is the day after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment. If the last date on which the response is required to be filed by this paragraph is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the response will be due on the next weekday after that date. 


(ii) If a response is transmitted by United States mail, it will be deemed timely filed if postmarked on or before the due date. 


(4) The assessing official may extend the period for making a written response under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) for good cause shown. Generally, failure to obtain representation in a timely manner will not be considered good cause. 


(c) *Filing.* A written response will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment. The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. At the discretion of the assessing official, filing may be accomplished by facsimile or any other method deemed appropriate. 


(d) The assessing official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response and any other documents filed pursuant to this paragraph in determining whether to issue a Final Notice of Assessment under ยง 27.7, the appropriate amount of the civil monetary penalty imposed and the terms of any other appropriate civil or equitable remedy. 




