# § 431.132   Definitions concerning automatic commercial ice makers.

*Automatic commercial ice maker* means a factory-made assembly (not necessarily shipped in 1 package) that—


(1) Consists of a condensing unit and ice-making section operating as an integrated unit, with means for making and harvesting ice; and


(2) May include means for storing ice, dispensing ice, or storing and dispensing ice.


*Baffle* means a partition (usually made of flat material like cardboard, plastic, or sheet metal) that reduces or prevents recirculation of warm air from an ice maker's air outlet to its air inlet—or, for remote condensers, from the condenser's air outlet to its inlet.


*Basic model* means all units of a given type of covered product (or class thereof) manufactured by one manufacturer, having the same primary energy source, and which have essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or hydraulic) characteristics that affect energy consumption, energy efficiency, water consumption, or water efficiency.


*Batch type ice maker* means an ice maker having alternate freezing and harvesting periods.


*Condenser water use* means the total amount of water used by the condensing unit (if water-cooled), stated in gallons per 100 pounds (gal/100 lb) of ice, in multiples of 1.


*Continuous type ice maker* means an ice maker that continually freezes and harvests ice at the same time.


*Energy use* means the total energy consumed, stated in kilowatt hours per one-hundred pounds (kWh/100 lb) of ice, in multiples of 0.01. For remote condensing (but not remote compressor) automatic commercial ice makers and remote condensing and remote compressor automatic commercial ice makers, total energy consumed shall include the energy use of the ice-making mechanism, the compressor, and the remote condenser or condensing unit.


*Harvest rate* means the amount of ice (at 32 degrees F) in pounds produced per 24 hours.


*Ice hardness factor* means the latent heat capacity of harvested ice, in British thermal units per pound of ice (Btu/lb), divided by 144 Btu/lb, expressed as a percent.


*Ice-making head* means automatic commercial ice makers that do not contain integral storage bins, but are generally designed to accommodate a variety of bin capacities. Storage bins entail additional energy use not included in the reported energy consumption figures for these units.




*Portable automatic commercial ice maker* means an automatic commercial ice maker that does not have a means to connect to a water supply line and has one or more reservoirs that are manually supplied with water.


*Potable water use* means the amount of potable water used in making ice, which is equal to the sum of the ice harvested, dump or purge water, and the harvest water, expressed in gal/100 lb, in multiples of 0.1, and excludes any condenser water use.


*Refrigerated storage automatic commercial ice maker* means an automatic commercial ice maker that has a refrigeration system that actively refrigerates the self-contained ice storage bin.


*Remote compressor* means a type of automatic commercial ice maker in which the ice-making mechanism and compressor are in separate sections.


*Remote condensing* means a type of automatic commercial ice maker in which the ice-making mechanism and condenser or condensing unit are in separate sections.


*Self-contained* means a type of automatic commercial ice maker in which the ice-making mechanism and storage compartment are in an integral cabinet.



---

[N] [70 FR 60415, Oct. 18, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 71371, Dec. 8, 2006; 76 FR 12503, Mar. 7, 2011; 77 FR 1613, Jan. 11, 2012; 87 FR 65899, Nov. 1, 2022]




