# ยง 141.53   Approval procedures for a training course: General.

(a) *General.* An applicant for a pilot school certificate or provisional pilot school certificate must obtain the Administrator's approval of the outline of each training course for which certification and rating is sought. 


(b) *Application.* (1) An application for the approval of an initial or amended training course must be submitted in duplicate to the responsible Flight Standards office for the area where the school is based. 


(2) An application for the approval of an initial or amended training course must be submitted at least 30 days before any training under that course, or any amendment thereto, is scheduled to begin. 


(3) An application for amending a training course must be accompanied by two copies of the amendment. 


(c) *Training courses.* An applicant for a pilot school certificate or provisional pilot school certificate may request approval for the training courses specified under ยง 141.11(b).


(d) *Additional rules for internet based training courses.* An application for an initial or amended training course offered through an internet based medium must comply with the following:


(1) All amendments must be identified numerically by page, date, and screen. Minor editorial and typographical changes do not require FAA approval, provided the school notifies the FAA within 30 days of their insertion.


(2) For monitoring purposes, the school must provide the FAA an acceptable means to log-in and log-off from a remote location to review all elements of the course as viewed by attendees and to by-pass the normal attendee restrictions.


(3) The school must incorporate adequate security measures into its internet-based courseware information system and into its operating and maintenance procedures to ensure the following fundamental areas of security and protection:


(i) Integrity.


(ii) Identification/Authentication.


(iii) Confidentiality.


(iv) Availability.


(v) Access control.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16347, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 141-9, 62 FR 40908, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 141-12, 74 FR 42563, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 141-15, 76 FR 54107, Aug. 31, 2011, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 141-19, 83 FR 9175, Mar. 5, 2018]




