# § 173.167   ID8000 consumer commodities.

Packages prepared under the requirements of this section may be offered for transportation and transported by all modes.


(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to limited quantities of “consumer commodity” material. (See § 171.8 of this subchapter.) Materials eligible for transportation in accordance with this section are articles or substances of Class 2 (non-toxic aerosols only), Class 3 (Packing Group II and III only), Division 6.1 (Packing Group III only), UN3077, UN3082, UN3175, UN3334, and UN3335, provided such materials do not have a subsidiary risk and are authorized aboard a passenger-carrying aircraft. The outer packaging for the consumer commodity is not subject to the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter. Except as indicated in § 173.24(i), each completed package must conform to §§ 173.24 and 173.24a of this subchapter. Additionally, except for the pressure differential requirements in § 173.27(c), the requirements of § 173.27 do not apply to packages prepared in accordance with this section. As applicable, the following apply:


(1) *Inner and outer packaging quantity limits.*

(i) Non-toxic aerosols, as defined in § 171.8 of this subchapter and constructed in accordance with § 173.306 of this part, in non-refillable, non-metal containers not exceeding 120 mL (4 fluid ounces) each, or in non-refillable metal containers not exceeding 820 mL (28 fluid ounces) each, except that flammable aerosols may not exceed 500 mL (16.9 fluid ounces) each;


(ii) Liquids, in inner packagings not exceeding 500 mL (16.9 fluid ounces) each. Liquids must not completely fill an inner packaging at 55 °C;


(iii) Solids, in inner packagings not exceeding 500 g (1.0 pounds) each; or


(iv) Any combination thereof not to exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight as prepared for shipment.


(2) *Closures.* Friction-type closures must be secured by positive means. The body and closure of any packaging must be constructed so as to be able to adequately resist the effects of temperature and vibration occurring in conditions normally incident to air transportation. The closure device must be so designed that it is unlikely it can be incorrectly or incompletely closed.


(3) *Absorbent material.* Inner packagings must be tightly packaged in strong outer packagings. Absorbent and cushioning material must not react dangerously with the contents of inner packagings. For glass or earthenware inner packagings containing liquids of Class 3 or Division 6.1, sufficient absorbent material must be provided to absorb the entire contents of the largest inner packaging contained in the outer packaging. Absorbent material is not required if the glass or earthenware inner packagings are sufficiently protected as packaged for transport that it is unlikely a failure would occur and, if a failure did occur, that it would be unlikely that the contents would leak from the outer packaging.


(4) *Drop test capability.* Breakable inner packagings (*e.g.,* glass, earthenware, or brittle plastic) must be packaged to prevent failure under conditions normally incident to transport. Packages of consumer commodities, as prepared for transport, must be capable of withstanding a 1.2 meter drop on solid concrete in the position most likely to cause damage. In order to pass the test, the outer packaging must not exhibit any damage liable to affect safety during transport and there must be no leakage from the inner packaging(s).


(5) *Stack test capability.* Packages of consumer commodities must be capable of withstanding, without failure or leakage of any inner packaging and without any significant reduction in effectiveness, a force applied to the top surface, for a duration of 24 hours, equivalent to the total weight of identical packages if stacked to a height of 3.0 meters (including the test sample).


(6) *Hazard communication.* Packages prepared under the requirements of this section are to be marked as a limited quantity, in accordance with § 172.315(b), and labeled as a Class 9 article or substance, as appropriate, in accordance with subpart E of part 172 of this subchapter; and


(7) *Pressure differential capability.* Except for UN3082, inner packagings intended to contain liquids must be capable of meeting the pressure differential requirements (75 kPa) prescribed in § 173.27(c) of this part. The capability of a packaging to withstand an internal pressure without leakage that produces the specified pressure differential should be determined by successfully testing design samples or prototypes.


(b) *Highway, rail, and vessel hazard communication exceptions.* Packages prepared in accordance with the requirements of this section:


(1) Are excepted from the labeling requirements in paragraph (a)(6) when transported by highway, rail, and vessel; and


(2) Are excepted from the shipping papers requirements in Part 172, Subpart C when transported by highway and rail.



---

[N] [89 FR 25478, Apr. 10, 2024]






