# § 301.6223(a)-2   Withdrawal of notice of the beginning of an administrative proceeding.

(a) *In general.* If the Internal Revenue Service, within 45 days after the day on which the notice specified in section 6223(a)(1) is mailed to the tax matters partner, decides not to propose any adjustments to the partnership return as filed, the Internal Revenue Service may withdraw the notice specified in section 6223(a)(1) by mailing a letter to that effect to the tax matters partner within that 45-day period. Even if the Internal Revenue Service does not withdraw the notice specified in section 6223(a)(1), the Internal Revenue Service is not required to issue a notice of final partnership administrative adjustment. If the Internal Revenue Service withdraws the notice specified in section 6223(a)(1), neither the Internal Revenue Service nor the tax matters partner is required to furnish any notice with respect to that proceeding to any other partner. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a notice specified in section 6223(a)(1) which has been withdrawn shall be treated for purposes of subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code as if that notice had never been mailed to the tax matters partner. 


(b) *Internal Revenue Service may not reissue notice except under certain circumstances.* If the notice specified in section 6223(a)(1) was mailed to the tax matters partner with respect to a partnership taxable year and that notice was later withdrawn as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Internal Revenue Service shall not mail a second notice specified in section 6223(a)(1) with respect to that taxable year unless— 


(1) There is evidence of fraud, malfeasance, collusion, concealment, or misrepresentation of a material fact; 


(2) The prior proceeding involved the misapplication or erroneous interpretation of an established Internal Revenue Service position existing at the time of the previous examination, or the failure to make an adjustment based on such a position; or 


(3) Other circumstances exist which indicate that failure to reissue the notice would be a serious administrative omission. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6223(a)-2T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50547, Oct. 4, 2001]




