# § 770.4   Exemption from the hardwood plywood definition for certain laminated products.

(a) *Current exemptions.* The definition of the term “hardwood plywood” in § 770.3 does not include:


(1) Laminated products made by attaching a wood or woody grass veneer with a phenol-formaldehyde resin to a platform that has been manufactured in compliance with this part (including either certified in accordance with § 770.15, manufactured with no-added formaldehyde-based resins under § 770.17, or manufactured with ultra low-emitting formaldehyde-based resins under § 770.18).


(2) Laminated products made by attaching a wood or woody grass veneer with a resin formulated with no-added formaldehyde as part of the resin cross-linking structure to a platform that has been manufactured in compliance with this part (including either certified in accordance with § 770.15, manufactured with no-added formaldehyde-based resins under § 770.17, or manufactured with ultra low-emitting formaldehyde-based resins under § 770.18).


(b) *Rulemaking petitions for exemption.* (1) Any person may petition the Agency to initiate a rulemaking for additional exemptions for laminated products from the definition of the term “hardwood plywood,” pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 2697(a)(3)(C)(i)(I).




(2) Each petition should provide all available and relevant information, including studies conducted and formaldehyde emissions data. Submit petitions to: TSCA Confidential Business Information Center (7407M), WJC East; Room 6428; Attn: TSCA Title VI Program, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460-0001.








(3) EPA will promptly review each submitted petition and, where appropriate, publish a proposed rule in the _Federal Register_ based on the petition and provide a public comment period of generally 30 days before taking a final action.





---

[N] [81 FR 89724, Dec. 12, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 10476, Feb. 21, 2023]








