# § 24.313   Inventory record.

A proprietor who files monthly or quarterly reports shall prepare a record of the physical inventory of all wine and spirits in storage at the close of business for each tax year, or where a different cycle has been established, the inventory will be taken at the end of that annual period. Such proprietors may use an annual inventory period different from the period beginning July 1 and ending June 30 by submitting a notice to the appropriate TTB officer. However, proprietors who file quarterly reports must select an annual inventory period that begins on the first day of a calendar quarter. Proprietors who file reports on a calendar year basis under the provisions of § 24.300(g) of this part shall take the physical inventory at the close of the calendar year. The inventory record will be retained on file with the proprietor's TTB F 5120.17, Report of Bonded Wine Premises Operations, for the reporting period when the inventory was taken. If a proprietor who files monthly reports takes a complete inventory at other times during the year, losses disclosed will be reported on the TTB F 5120.17 and the inventory record will be maintained on file with the report for each month when an inventory was taken. The proprietor's inventory record will include:


(a) *Description of wine.* (1) State the generic name (e.g., port, claret) or designate as a white, rose or red table or dessert wine; or


(2) Wine intended to be marketed with a vintage date, varietal name, or geographical designation will be appropriately identified, e.g., 1977 Napa Valley Pinot Noir; and


(3) If the wine is other than grape wine, state the type, e.g., orange, honey.


(b) *Bulk containers.* Tanks containing wine will be listed by tank number. Bulk containers which are barrels or puncheons containing the same kind of wine may be summarized, e.g., 10 barrels—red table wine 500 gals.;


(c) *Cases, bottles and other similar containers.* The total volume of one kind of wine in cases, bottles and similar containers may be entered as one item and appropriately identified;


(d) *Inventory summary.* The volume of bulk and bottled or packed wine will be totaled separately in wine gallons or in liters, by tax class, and reported on the TTB F 5120.17. Spirits will also be totaled and reported on the TTB F 5120.17; and


(e) *Inventory record.* All inventory pages will be numbered consecutively and the last inventory page will be dated and signed after the statement, “Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this inventory record and to the best of my knowledge and belief, it is a true, correct and complete record of all wine and spirits required to be inventoried.”



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-338, 58 FR 19065, Apr. 12, 1993; T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13683, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. TTB-41, 71 FR 5603, Feb. 2, 2006]




