# § 242.3   Eligibility for payments by the United States Agency for International Development.

(a) The United States Agency for International Development may provide a payment to covered individuals, as defined in § 242.2, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN), the American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry (AOBNP), the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (ABPMR), or the American Osteopathic Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AOBPMR); occurred on or after January 1, 2016; and while the individual was a covered employee of USAID.


(b) The United States Agency for International Development may provide a payment to covered employees, as defined in § 242.2, if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBPMR; occurred on or after January 1, 2016; and while the employee was a covered employee of USAID.


(c) The United States Agency for International Development may provide a payment to a covered dependent if the qualifying injury to the brain was assessed and diagnosed in person by a currently board-certified physician from the ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBPMR; occurred on or after January 1, 2016; and while the employee was a covered employee of USAID at the time of the dependent's injury.


(d) Payment for a qualifying injury to the brain will be a non-taxable, one-time lump sum payment.


(e) USAID will determine the amount paid to each eligible person based on the following factors:


(1) The responses on the AID 442-1, “Eligibility Questionnaire for HAVANA Act Payments;” and


(2) Whether the Department of Labor (Workers' Compensation) has determined that the requester has no reemployment potential, or the Social Security Administration has approved the requester for Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Insurance (SSI) benefits;, or the requester's ABPN, AOBNP, ABPMR, or AOBPMR board-certified physician has certified that the individual requires a full-time caregiver for activities of daily living, as defined by the Katz Index of Independence of Daily Living.


(3) The award thresholds are based on Level III of the Senior Executive Schedule: Base will be 75 percent of Level III pay, and Base+ will be 100 percent of Level III pay. If the requestor meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the requestor will be eligible to receive a Base+ payment. Requestors whose neurologists confirm that the definition of “qualifying injury to the brain” has been met but have not met any of the criteria listed paragraph (e)(2) of this section, will be eligible to receive a Base payment. If a requestor who received a Base payment later meets any of the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the requestor may apply for an additional payment that will be the difference between the Base and Base+ payment.


(f) The Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO) may approve payments under the rule. The Office of Human Capital and Talent Management (HCTM) will notify individuals of the decision in writing.


(g) An appeal of a decision made by the Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO) may be directed to the Deputy Administrator for Management and Resources in writing. The Deputy Administrator for Management and Resources is the final appeal authority. HCTM will notify individuals of the decision in writing.






