# § 457.740   State expenditures and statistical reports.

(a) *Required quarterly reports.* A State must submit reports to CMS that contain quarterly program expenditures and statistical data no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter of the Federal fiscal year. A State must collect required data beginning on the date of implementation of the approved State plan. Territories are exempt from the definition of “State” for purposes of the required quarterly reporting under this section. The quarterly reports must include data on— 


(1) Program expenditures; 


(2) The number of children enrolled in the title XIX Medicaid program, the separate child health program, and the Medicaid expansion program, as applicable, as of the last day of each quarter of the Federal fiscal year; and 


(3) The number of children under 19 years of age who are enrolled in the title XIX Medicaid program, the separate child health program, and in the Medicaid expansion program, as appropriate, by the following categories: 


(i) Age (under 1 year of age, 1 through 5 years of age, 6 through 12 years of age, and 13 through 18 years of age). 


(ii) Gender, race, and ethnicity. 


(iii) Service delivery system (managed care, fee-for-service, and primary care case management). 


(iv) Household income as a percentage of the Federal poverty level as described in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Reportable household income categories.* (1) A State that does not impose cost sharing or a State that imposes cost sharing based on a fixed percentage of income must report by two household income categories: 


(i) At or below 150 percent of FPL. 


(ii) Over 150 percent of FPL. 


(2) A State that imposes a different level or percentage of cost sharing at different poverty levels must report by poverty level categories that match the poverty level categories used for purposes of cost sharing. 


(c) *Required unduplicated counts.* Thirty days after the end of the Federal fiscal year, the State must submit an unduplicated count for the Federal fiscal year of children who were enrolled in the Medicaid program, the separate child health program, and the Medicaid expansion program, as appropriate, by age, gender, race, ethnicity, service delivery system, and poverty level categories described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. 




