# § 493.1461   Standard: General supervisor qualifications.

The laboratory must have one or more general supervisors who, under the direction of the laboratory director and supervision of the technical supervisor, provides day-to-day supervision of testing personnel and reporting of test results. In the absence of the director and technical supervisor, the general supervisor must be responsible for the proper performance of all laboratory procedures and reporting of test results. 


(a) The general supervisor must possess a current license issued by the State in which the laboratory is located, if such licensing is required; and 


(b) The general supervisor must be qualified as a— 


(1) Laboratory director under § 493.1443; or 


(2) Technical supervisor under § 493.1449. 


(c) If the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section are not met, the individual functioning as the general supervisor must—


(1)(i) Be a doctor of medicine, doctor of osteopathy, or doctor of podiatric medicine licensed to practice medicine, osteopathy, or podiatry in the State in which the laboratory is located or have earned a doctoral, master's, or bachelor's degree in a chemical, biological, clinical or medical laboratory science, or medical technology from an accredited institution; and


(ii) Have at least 1 year of laboratory training or experience, or both, in high complexity testing; or


(2)(i) Qualify as testing personnel under § 493.1489(b)(3); and


(ii) Have at least 2 years of laboratory training or experience, or both, in high complexity testing; or


(3) Meet the requirements at § 493.1443(b)(3) or § 493.1449(c)(4) or (5); or


(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an individual is considered qualified as a general supervisor under this section if they were qualified and serving as a general supervisor in a CLIA-certified laboratory as of December 28, 2024, and have done so continuously since December 28, 2024. 


(d) For blood gas analysis, the individual providing general supervision must— 


(1) Be qualified under § 493.1461(b) (1) or (2), or § 493.1461(c); or 


(2)(i) Have earned a bachelor's degree in respiratory therapy or cardiovascular technology from an accredited institution; and 


(ii) Have at least one year of laboratory training or experience, or both, in blood gas analysis; or 


(3)(i) Have earned an associate degree related to pulmonary function from an accredited institution; and 


(ii) Have at least two years of training or experience, or both in blood gas analysis. 


(e) The general supervisor requirement is met in histopathology, oral pathology, dermatopathology, and ophthalmic pathology because all tests and examinations, must be performed: 


(1) In histopathology, by an individual who is qualified as a technical supervisor under § 493.1449(b) or (f)(1);


(2) In dermatopathology, by an individual who is qualified as a technical supervisor under § 493.1449(b) or (f)(2);


(3) In ophthalmic pathology, by an individual who is qualified as a technical supervisor under § 493.1449(b) or (f)(3); and


(4) In oral pathology, by an individual who is qualified as a technical supervisor under § 493.1449(b) or (g). 



---

[N] [57 FR 7172, Feb. 28, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 5235, Jan. 19, 1993; 58 FR 39155, July 22, 1993; 60 FR 20049, Apr. 24, 1995; 88 FR 90043, Dec. 28, 2023]






