# ยง 115.16   Determination of Surety's Loss.

Loss is determined as follows: 


(a) *Loss under a Bid Bond* is the lesser of the penal sum or the amount which is the difference between the bonded bid and the next higher responsive bid. In either case, the Loss is reduced by any amounts the Surety recovers by reason of the Principal's defenses against the Obligee's demand for performance by the Principal and any sums the Surety recovers from indemnitors and other salvage. 


(b) *Loss under a Payment Bond* is, at the Surety's option, the sum necessary to pay all just and timely claims against the Principal for the value of labor, materials, equipment and supplies furnished for use in the performance of the bonded Contract and other covered debts, or the penal sum of the Payment Bond. In either case, the Loss includes interest (if any), but Loss is reduced by any amounts recovered (through offset or otherwise) by reason of the Principal's claims against laborers, materialmen, subcontractors, suppliers, or other rightful claimants, and by any amounts recovered from indemnitors and other salvage. 


(c) *Loss under a Performance Bond* is, at the Surety's option, the sum necessary to meet the cost of fulfilling the terms of a bonded Contract or the penal sum of the bond. In either case, the Loss includes interest (if any), but Loss is reduced by any amounts recovered (through offset or otherwise) by reason of the Principal's defenses or causes of action against the Obligee, and by any amounts recovered from indemnitors and other salvage. 


(d) *Loss under an Ancillary Bond* is the amount covered by such bond which is attributable to the Contract for which guaranteed Final Bonds were Executed. 


(e) *Loss includes* the following expenses if they are itemized, documented and attributable solely to the Loss under the guaranteed bond: 


(1) Amounts actually paid by the Surety for specialized services that are provided under contract by an outside consultant, which is not an Affiliate of the Surety, provided that such services are beyond the capability of the Surety's salaried claims staff, and amounts actually paid by the Surety for travel expenses of the Surety's claims staff. The cost of the consultant's services and the travel expenses of the Surety's claims staff must be reasonable and necessary and must specifically concern the investigation, adjustment, negotiation, compromise, settlement of, or resistance to a claim for Loss resulting from the breach of the terms of the bonded Contract. The cost allocation method must be reasonable and must comply with generally accepted accounting principles; and


(2) Amounts actually paid by the Surety for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees incurred to mitigate any Loss under paragraphs (a) through (e)(1) of this section including suits to obtain sums due from Obligees, indemnitors, Principals and others. 


(f) *Loss does not include* the following expenses: 


(1) Any unallocated expenses, all direct and indirect costs incurred by the Surety's salaried claims staff (except for reasonable and necessary travel expenses of such staff), or any clear mark-up on expenses or any overhead of the Surety, its attorney, or any other consultant hired by the Surety or the attorney;


(2) Expenses paid for any suits, cross-claims, or counterclaims filed against the United States of America or any of its agencies, officers, or employees unless the Surety has received, prior to filing such suit or claim, written concurrence from SBA that the suit may be filed; 


(3) Attorney's fees and court costs incurred by the Surety in a suit by or against SBA or its Administrator; 


(4) Fees, costs, or other payments, including tort damages, arising from a successful tort suit or claim by a Principal or any other Person against the Surety; and


(5) Any costs that arise from the Principal's failure to secure and maintain insurance coverage required by the Contract or Order, or any costs that result from any claims or judgments that exceed the amount of any insurance coverage required by the Contract or Order, as well as any costs that arise as a result of any agreement by the Principal in the Contract or Order to indemnify the Obligee or any other Persons.



---

[N] [61 FR 3271, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 2572, Jan. 14, 2011; 81 FR 23566, Apr. 22, 2016]




