# ยง 86.440-78   Maintenance of records.

(a) The manufacturer of any motorcycle subject to any of the standards or procedures prescribed in this subpart shall establish, maintain and retain the following adequately organized and indexed records;


(1) *General records.* (i)(A) Identification and description of all certification vehicles for which testing is required under this subpart.


(B) A description of all emission control systems which are installed on or incorporated in each certification vehicle.


(C) A description of all procedures used to test each such certification vehicle.


(ii) A properly completed application, following the format prescribed by the U.S. EPA for the appropriate year of production, fulfills each of the requirements of this paragraph.


(2) *Individual records.* (i) A brief history of each motocycle used for certification under this subpart including:


(A)(*1*) In the case where a current production engine is modified for use in a certification vehicle, a description of the process by which the engine was selected and of the modification made.


(*2*) In the case where the engine for a certification vehicle is not derived from a current production engine, a general description of the build-up of the engine (e.g., experimental heads were cast and machined according to supplied drawings, etc.)


(*3*) In both cases above, a description of the origin and selection process for the carburetor, fuel system, emission control system components, and exhaust after treatment device shall be included.


(*4*) The required description shall specify the steps taken to assure that the certification vehicle with respect to its engine, drive train, fuel system, emission control system components, exhaust after treatment device, vehicle mass, or any other device or component that can reasonably be expected to influence exhaust emissions, will be representative of production vehicles, and that either all components and/or vehicle construction processes, component inspection and selection techniques, and assembly techniques employed in constructing such vehicles are reasonably likely to be implemented for production vehicles, or they are as closely analogous as practicable to planned construction and assembly processes.


(B) A complete record of all emission tests performed (except tests performed by EPA directly) including test results, the date and purpose of each test, and the distance accumulated on the vehicle.


(C) The date of each service accumulation run, listing the distance accumulated.


(D) [Reserved]


(E) A record and description of all maintenance and other servicing performed, giving the date of the maintenance or service and the reason for it.


(F) A record and description of each test performed to diagnose engine or emissions control system performance, giving the date and time of the test and the reason for it.


(G) [Reserved]


(H) A brief description of any significant events affecting the vehicle during any time in the period covered by the history, not described by an entry under one of the previous headings, including such extraordinary events as vehicle accidents or dynamometer runaway.


(ii) Each such history shall be started on the date that the first of any of the selection or build-up activities in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section occurred with respect to the certification vehicle, shall be updated each time the operational status of the vehicle changes or additional work is performed on it, and shall be kept in a designated location.


(3) All records, other than routine emission test records, required to be maintained under this subpart shall be retained by the manufacturer for a period of six (6) years after the issuance of all certificates of conformity to which they relate. Routine emission test records shall be retained by the manufacturer for a period of one (1) year after issuance of all certificates of conformity to which they relate. Records may be retained as hard copy or reduced to microfilm, punch cards, etc., depending on the record retention procedures of the manufacturer: *Provided* That, in every case, all the information contained in the hard copy shall be retained.



---

[N] [42 FR 1126, Jan. 5, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 56738, Oct. 28, 1977; 49 FR 48140, Dec. 10, 1984]




