# § 1.601   What is the purpose of this subpart, and to what license proceedings does it apply?

(a) *Hearing process.* (1) The regulations in §§ 1.601 through 1.660 contain rules of practice and procedure applicable to hearings on disputed issues of material fact with respect to mandatory conditions that the Department of Agriculture, Forest Service (Forest Service) may develop for inclusion in a hydropower license issued under subchapter I of the Federal Power Act (FPA), 16 U.S.C. 791 *et seq.* The authority to develop these conditions is granted by FPA section 4(e), 16 U.S.C. 797(e), which authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to condition hydropower licenses issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).


(2) The hearing process under this part does not apply to recommendations that the Forest Service may submit to FERC under FPA section 10(a), 16 U.S.C. 803(a).


(3) The FPA also grants the Department of Commerce and the Department of the Interior the authority to develop mandatory conditions and prescriptions for inclusion in a hydropower license. Where the Forest Service and either or both of these other Departments develop conditions or prescriptions to be included in the same hydropower license and where the Departments agree to consolidate the hearings under § 1.623:


(i) A hearing conducted under this subpart will also address disputed issues of material fact with respect to any condition or prescription developed by one of the other Departments; or


(ii) A hearing requested under this subpart will be conducted by one of the other Departments, pursuant to 43 CFR 45.1 *et seq.* or 50 CFR 221.1 *et seq.,* as applicable.


(4) The regulations in §§ 1.601 through 1.660 will be construed and applied to each hearing process to achieve a just and speedy determination, consistent with adequate consideration of the issues involved and the provisions of § 1.660(a).


(b) *Alternatives process.* The regulations in §§ 1.670 through 1.674 contain rules of procedure applicable to the submission and consideration of alternative conditions under FPA section 33, 16 U.S.C. 823d. That section allows any party to the license proceeding to propose an alternative to a condition deemed necessary by the Forest Service under section 4(e).


(c) *Reserved authority.* Where the Forest Service has notified or notifies FERC that it is reserving its authority to develop one or more conditions at a later time, the hearing and alternatives processes under this subpart for such conditions will be available if and when the Forest Service exercises its reserved authority.


(d) *Applicability.* (1) This subpart applies to any hydropower license proceeding for which the license had not been issued as of November 17, 2005, and for which one or more preliminary conditions have been or are filed with FERC before FERC issues the license.


(2) This subpart also applies to any exercise of the Forest Service's reserved authority under paragraph (c) of this section with respect to a hydropower license issued before or after November 17, 2005.




