# § 1005.301   Tribal legal and administrative framework.

(a) *Tribal requirements.* (1) A Tribe seeking to allow eligible Borrowers to place a mortgage lien on Trust Land under the Section 184 Program must apply to HUD for approval to participate in the program.


(2) Tribes electing to make Trust Land available under the Section 184 Program must provide to HUD a legal and administrative framework for leasing, foreclosure, and eviction on Trust Land to protect the interests of the Borrower, Tribe, Direct Guarantee Lender, and HUD.


(3) When Tribes are notified of the Borrower's default in accordance with § 1005.501(j) or when the Tribe receives notice of Tribal right of first refusal pursuant to § 1005.759, Tribes must assist, where practical, in facilitating loss mitigation and disposition, such as assisting with identifying potential purchasers or identifying Tribal members who may wish to assume the loan, encouraging Borrower to execute Lease-in-Lieu, and providing other general assistance to the Borrower.


(4) Tribes must notify HUD in writing when the Tribe determines a property is vacant or abandoned and the property is not secured by the Servicer or HUD.


(b) *Legal and administrative framework.* A Tribe may enact legal procedures through Tribal council resolution or any other recognized legislative action. These procedures must be legally enforceable and include the following requirements:


(1) *Foreclosure and assignment.* When a Borrower is in default, and is unwilling or unable to successfully complete loss mitigation in accordance with subpart G of this part; and Servicer either completes First Legal Action against the Borrower, or assigns the loan to HUD after completing Tribal first right of refusal in accordance with § 1005.759:


(i) The Tribe must demonstrate that a foreclosure will be processed through the legal systems having jurisdiction over the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan. A foreclosure must be held in a court of competent jurisdiction, which includes Federal courts, when HUD forecloses on the property.


(ii) Foreclosure ordinances must allow for the legal systems with jurisdiction to assign Borrower's property interest to HUD or Holder.


(iii) Where applicable, if the Holder assigns the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD without initiating or completing the foreclosure process, or the property becomes vacant and abandoned during the loss mitigation or foreclosure process, the Tribe may assign the lease to HUD to facilitate disposition of the property, so long as the Tribe provides due process to the lessee in compliance with Tribal law.


(2) *Property disposition.* Once a lease is vacated or reassigned, or the property interest has otherwise been conveyed to HUD or the Holder, the Tribe or the TDHE shall work with HUD or the Holder to sell the property to an eligible party.


(3) *Eviction.* The Tribe must have a legal and administrative framework implementing eviction procedures, allowing for the expedited removal of the Borrower in default, all household residents, and any unauthorized occupants of the property. Eviction procedures must enable the Servicer or the Tribe to secure possession of the property. Eviction may be required upon:


(i) The completion of a foreclosure;


(ii) The involuntary termination of the lease;


(iii) The reassignment of the lease or conveyance of the property interest to HUD or the Holder; or


(iv) The sale of the property.


(4) *Lien priority.* Section 184 Guaranteed Loans must be in a first lien position securing the property.


(i) To ensure that each Section 184 Guaranteed Loan holds a first lien position, the Tribe must enact an ordinance that either:


(A) Provides for the satisfaction of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan before any and all other obligations; or


(B) Follows State law to determine the priority of liens against the property. If a Tribal jurisdiction spans two or more states, the State in which the property is located is the applicable State law.


(ii) For lien to be considered valid on Trust Land, the lien must be:


(A) Approved by the Tribe, and BIA as applicable; and


(B) Recorded by the Tribe and/or BIA, as applicable.


(5) *Lease provisions for Trust Land.* Where applicable, the lease provisions for Trust Land must meet the following requirements:


(i) Tribes may use a HUD model lease for Section 184 Guaranteed Loan lending on Trust Land. The Tribe may make modifications to the HUD model lease, with the approval of HUD and, as applicable, BIA.


(ii) Tribes may draft their own lease in compliance with Federal requirements and contain mandatory lease terms and language as prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance, with approval of HUD and, as applicable, BIA. At a minimum the lease must:


(A) Identify lessor;


(B) Identify the lessee;


(C) Provide a legal description of the land and identify the property address covered by the lease;


(D) The lease must have a minimum term of 50 years unless an extended term is approved by the Secretary. For refinances or lease transfers the lease must have a remaining term which exceeds the maturity date of the Loan by a minimum of ten years, or other period as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(E) The lease must be executed by all interested parties to be enforceable;


(F) The Tribe shall require HUD consent for any lease termination or assignment of the lease when the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is secured by the property.


(G)(*1*) The lease must contain the following provision: “In the case of a default on a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan:


(*i*) The lessee may assign the lease and deliver possession of the leased premises, including any improvements thereon, to HUD; or


(*ii*) The lessor may assign the lease and deliver possession of the leased premises, including any improvements thereon, to HUD when the Tribe has provided due process to lessee in compliance with Tribal law.


(*2*) HUD may transfer this lease and the leased premises to a successor lessee if the successor lessee is another member of the Tribe or Tribal entity, as approved by the Tribe.”


(H) Lease language as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(I) The lease must also provide that in the event of foreclosure, the lease will not be subject to any forfeiture or reversion and will not be otherwise subject to termination.






