# § 401.621   Termination of collection action.

(a) *General factors.* After considering the bases for a decision to terminate collection action under paragraph (b) of this section, CMS may further consider factors such as—


(1) The age and health of the debtor if the debtor is an individual;


(2) Present and potential income of the debtor; and


(3) Whether assets have been concealed or improperly transferred by the debtor.


(b) *Basis for termination of collection action.* Bases on which CMS may terminate collection action on a claim include the following— 


(1) *Inability to collect a substantial amount of the claim.* CMS may terminate collection action if it determines that it is unable to collect, or to enforce collection, of a significant amount of the claim. In making this determination, CMS will consider factors such as—


(i) Judicial remedies available;


(ii) The debtor's future financial prospects; and


(iii) Exemptions available to the debtor under State or Federal law.


(2) *Inability to locate debtor.* In cases involving missing debtors, CMS may terminate collection action if—


(i) There is no security remaining to be liquidated;


(ii) The applicable statute of limitations has run; or


(iii) The prospects of collecting by offset, whether or not an applicable statute of limitations has run, are considered by CMS to be too remote to justify retention of the claim.


(3) *Cost of collection exceeds recovery.* CMS may terminate collection action if it determines that the cost of further collection action will exceed the amount recoverable.


(4) *Legal insufficiency.* CMS may terminate collection action if it determines that the claim is legally without merit.


(5) *Evidence unavailable.* CMS may terminate collection action if—


(i) Efforts to obtain voluntary payment are unsuccessful; and


(ii) Evidence or witnesses necessary to prove the claim are unavailable.




