# ยง 302.16   Accountability.

(a) *General.* Each Recipient must submit reports to EDA at intervals and in the manner that EDA shall require, except that EDA shall not require any report to be submitted more than ten years after the date of closeout of the Investment Assistance.


(b) *Data on Project effectiveness.* Each report must contain a data-specific evaluation of the effectiveness of the Investment Assistance provided in fulfilling the Project's purpose (including alleviation of economic distress and meeting Project goals) and in meeting the objectives of PWEDA. Data used by a Recipient in preparing reports shall be accurate and verifiable as determined by EDA, and from independent sources (whenever possible). EDA will use this data and report to fulfill its performance measurement reporting requirements under the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, as amended (Pub. L. 103-62) and to monitor internal, Investment, and Project performance through an internal performance measurement system.


(c) *Reporting Project service benefits.* To enable EDA to determine the economic development effect of a Project that provides service benefits, EDA may require the Recipient to submit a Project service map and information from which to determine whether services are provided to all segments of the Region being assisted.


(d) *Consequences for failure to undertake good faith efforts.* (1) The Recipient must undertake good faith efforts to fulfill the purpose of the Project as set out in the terms of the Investment Assistance and must report regularly on Project goals. In the event that EDA determines that the Recipient is failing to make good faith efforts to meet these goals, or otherwise is failing to meets its obligations under the Investment Assistance, EDA shall take necessary actions to protect EDA's interest in the Project, including the following:


(i) Discontinue disbursement of funds pending correction;


(ii) Suspend the Investment Assistance;


(iii) Terminate the Investment Assistance;


(iv) Require reimbursement of the EDA share of the Project; or


(v) Institute formal Government-wide debarment and suspension proceedings against the Recipient.


(2) Before making a determination under this subsection, EDA shall provide the Recipient with reasonable notice and opportunity to respond. A determination under this subsection is final and cannot be appealed.



---

[N] [79 FR 76129, Dec. 19, 2014]




