# § 9428.4   Contents.

(a) *Information about the applicant.* The application shall provide appropriate fields for the applicant's:


(1) Last, first, and middle name, any suffix, and (optional) any prefix;


(2) Address where the applicant lives including: street number and street name, or rural route with a box number; apartment or unit number; city, town, or village name; state; and zip code; with instructions to draw a locational map if the applicant lives in a rural district or has a non-traditional residence, and directions not to use a post office box or rural route without a box number;


(3) Mailing address if different from the address where the applicant lives, such as a post office box, rural route without a box number, or other street address; city, town, or village name; state; and zip code;


(4) Month, day, and year of birth;


(5) Telephone number (optional); and


(6) Voter identification number as required or requested by the applicant's state of residence for election administration purposes.


(i) The application shall direct the applicant to consult the accompanying state-specific instructions to determine what type of voter identification number, if any, is required or requested by the applicant's state.


(ii) For each state that requires the applicant's full social security number as its voter identification number, the state's Privacy Act notice required at 11 CFR 9428.6(c) shall be reprinted with the instructions for that state.


(7) Political party preference, for an applicant in a closed primary state.


(i) The application shall direct the applicant to consult the accompanying state-specific instructions to determine if the applicant's state is a closed primary state.


(ii) The accompanying instructions shall state that if the applicant is registering in a state that requires the declaration of party affiliation, then failure to indicate a political party preference, indicating “none”, or selecting a party that is not recognized under state law may prevent the applicant from voting in partisan races in primary elections and participating in political party caucuses or conventions, but will not bar an applicant from voting in other elections.


(8) Race/ethnicity, if applicable for the applicant's state of residence. The application shall direct the applicant to consult the state-specific instructions to determine whether race/ethnicity is required or requested by the applicant's state.


(b) *Additional information required by the Act.* (42 U.S.C. 1973gg-7(b) (2) and (4)). The form shall also:


(1) Specify each eligibility requirement (including citizenship). The application shall list U.S. Citizenship as a universal eligibility requirement and include a statement that incorporates by reference each state's specific additional eligibility requirements (including any special pledges) as set forth in the accompany state instructions;


(2) Contain an attestation on the application that the applicant, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, meets each of his or her state's specific eligibility requirements;


(3) Provide a field on the application for the signature of the applicant, under penalty of perjury, and the date of the applicant's signature;


(4) Inform an applicant on the application of the penalties provided by law for submitting a false voter registration application;


(5) Provide a field on the application for the name, address, and (optional) telephone number of the person who assisted the applicant in completing the form if the applicant is unable to sign the application without assistance;


(6) State that if an applicant declines to register to vote, the fact that the applicant has declined to register will remain confidential and will be used only for voter registration purposes; and


(7) State that if an applicant does register to vote, the office at which the applicant submits a voter registration application will remain confidential and will be used only for voter registration purposes.


(c) *Other information.* The form will, if appropriate, require an applicant's former address or former name or request a drawing of the area where the applicant lives in relation to local landmarks.



---

[N] [59 FR 32323, June 23, 1994; 59 FR 40639, Aug. 9, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 35720, July 29, 2009]




