# ยง 194.2   Definitions.

Unless otherwise indicated in this part, all terms have the same meaning as in part 191 of this chapter. 


*Acceptable knowledge* means any information about the process used to generate waste, material inputs to the process, and the time period during which the waste was generated, as well as data resulting from the analysis of waste, conducted prior to or separate from the waste certification process authorized by EPA's Certification Decision, to show compliance with Condition 3 of the certification decision (appendix A of this part).


*Administrator's authorized representative* means the director in charge of radiation programs at the Agency.


*Certification* means any action taken by the Administrator pursuant to section 8(d)(1) of the WIPP LWA. 


*Compliance application(s)* means the compliance certification application submitted to the Administrator pursuant to section 8(d)(1) of the WIPP LWA or any compliance re-certification applications submitted to the Administrator pursuant to section 8(f) of the WIPP LWA. 


*Compliance assessment(s)* means the analysis conducted to determine compliance with ยง 191.15, and part 191, subpart C of this chapter. 


*Delaware Basin* means those surface and subsurface features which lie inside the boundary formed to the north, east and west of the disposal system by the innermost edge of the Capitan Reef, and formed, to the south, by a straight line drawn from the southeastern point of the Davis Mountains to the most southwestern point of the Glass Mountains. 


*Deep drilling* means those drilling events in the Delaware Basin that reach or exceed a depth of 2,150 feet below the surface relative to where such drilling occurred. 


*Department* means the United States Department of Energy. 


*Disposal regulations* means part 191, subparts B and C of this chapter. 


*Management systems review* means the qualitative assessment of a data collection operation or organization(s) to establish whether the prevailing quality management structure, policies, practices, and procedures are adequate to ensure that the type and quality of data needed are obtained. 


*Minor alternative provision* means an alternative provision to the Compliance Criteria that only clarifies an existing regulatory provision, or does not substantively alter the existing regulatory requirements.


*Modification* means action(s) taken by the Administrator that alters the terms or conditions of certification pursuant to section 8(d)(1) of the WIPP LWA. Modification of any certification shall comply with this part and part 191 of this chapter. 


*Population of CCDFs* means all possible complementary, cumulative distribution functions (CCDFs) that can be generated from all disposal system parameter values used in performance assessments. 


*Population of estimates* means all possible estimates of radiation doses and radionuclide concentrations that can be generated from all disposal system parameter values used in compliance assessments. 


*Quality assurance* means those planned and systematic actions necessary to provide adequate confidence that the disposal system will comply with the disposal regulations set forth in part 191 of this chapter. Quality assurance includes quality control, which comprises those actions related to the physical characteristics of a material, structure, component, or system that provide a means to control the quality of the material, structure, component, or system to predetermined requirements. 


*Re-certification* means any action taken by the Administrator pursuant to section 8(f) of the WIPP LWA. 


*Regulatory time frame* means the time period beginning at disposal and ending 10,000 years after disposal. 


*Revocation* means any action taken by the Administrator to terminate the certification pursuant to section 8(d)(1) of the WIPP LWA. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Energy. 


*Shallow drilling* means those drilling events in the Delaware Basin that do not reach a depth of 2,150 feet below the surface relative to where such drilling occurred. 


*Suspension* means any action taken by the Administrator to withdraw, for a limited period of time, the certification pursuant to section 8(d)(1) of the WIPP LWA. 


*Waste* means the radioactive waste, radioactive material and coincidental material subject to the requirements of part 191 of this chapter. 


*Waste characteristic* means a property of the waste that has an impact on the containment of waste in the disposal system. 


*Waste component* means an ingredient of the total inventory of the waste that influences a waste characteristic. 


*WIPP* means the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, as authorized pursuant to section 213 of the Department of Energy National Security and Military Applications of Nuclear Energy Authorization Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-164; 93 Stat. 1259, 1265). 


*WIPP LWA* means the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant Land Withdrawal Act of 1992 (Pub.L. 102-579, 106 Stat. 4777). 



---

[N] [61 FR 5235, Feb. 9, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 27404, May 18, 1998; 69 FR 42580, July 16, 2004]




