# § 1204.2   What do the terms in this part mean?

The following definitions apply to the terms used in this part—


*Access* means making a record available to a subject individual.


*Amendment* means any correction of, addition to, or deletion from a record.


*Court* means any entity conducting a legal proceeding.


*Days,* unless stated as “calendar days,” are working days and do not include Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays. If the last day of any period prescribed herein falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, the last day of the period will be the next working day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday.


*FHFA* means the Federal Housing Finance Agency and includes its predecessor agencies, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO) and the Federal Housing Finance Board (FHFB).


*FHFA-OIG* means the Office of Inspector General for FHFA.


*FOIA* means the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552).


*Individual* means a natural person who is either a citizen of the United States of America or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


*Maintain* includes collect, use, disseminate, or control.


*Privacy Act* means the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a).


*Privacy Act Appeals Officer* means a person designated by the FHFA Director to process appeals of denials of requests for or seeking amendment of records maintained by FHFA under the Privacy Act. For appeals pertaining to records maintained by FHFA-OIG, *Privacy Act Appeals Officer* means a person designated by the FHFA Inspector General to process appeals of denials of requests for or seeking amendment of records maintained by FHFA-OIG under the Privacy Act.


*Privacy Act Officer* means a person designated by the FHFA Director who has primary responsibility for privacy and data protection policy and is authorized to process requests for or amendment of records maintained by FHFA under the Privacy Act. For requests pertaining to records maintained by FHFA-OIG, *Privacy Act Officer* means a person designated by the FHFA Inspector General to process requests for or amendment of records maintained by FHFA-OIG under the Privacy Act.


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that FHFA or FHFA-OIG maintains within a system of records, including, but not limited to, the individual's name, an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print, or photograph.


*Routine use* means the purposes for which records and information contained in a system of records may be disclosed by FHFA or FHFA-OIG without the consent of the subject of the record. Routine uses for records are identified in each system of records notice. Routine use does not include disclosure that subsection (b) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(b)) otherwise permits.


*Senior Agency Official for Privacy* means a person designated by the FHFA Director who has the authority and responsibility to oversee and supervise the FHFA privacy program and implementation of the Privacy Act.


*System of Records* means a group of records FHFA or FHFA-OIG maintains or controls from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. Single records or groups of records that are not retrieved by a personal identifier are not part of a system of records.


*System of Records Notice* means a notice published in the _Federal Register_ which announces the creation, deletion, or amendment of one or more system of records. System of records notices are also used to identify a system of records' routine uses.




