# § 135.337   Qualifications: Check pilots.

(a) For the purposes of this part:


(1) A check pilot (aircraft) is a person who is qualified to conduct flight checks in an aircraft for a particular type aircraft.


(2) A check-pilot (FSTD) is a person who is qualified to conduct flight checks only in an FSTD for a particular type aircraft.


(3) Check pilots are those persons who perform the functions described in §§ 135.321(a) and 135.323(a)(4) and (c).


(b) No certificate holder may use a person, nor may any person serve as a check pilot in a training program established under this subpart unless, with respect to the aircraft type involved, that person—


(1) Holds the pilot certificates and ratings required to serve as a pilot in command in operations under this part;


(2) Has satisfactorily completed the appropriate training phases for the aircraft, including recurrent training, that are required to serve as a pilot in command in operations under this part;


(3) Has satisfactorily completed the proficiency or competency checks that are required to serve as a pilot in command in operations under this part;


(4) Has satisfactorily completed the applicable training requirements of § 135.339;


(5) Has been approved by the Administrator for the check pilot duties involved.


(c) Completion of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, as applicable, shall be entered in the individual's training record maintained by the certificate holder.


(d) A check pilot (FSTD) must accomplish the following—


(1) Fly at least two flight segments as a required crewmember for the type, class, or category aircraft involved within the 12-month period preceding the performance of any check-pilot duty in an FSTD; or


(2) Satisfactorily complete an approved line-observation program within the period prescribed by that program and that must precede the performance of any check pilot duty in an FSTD.


(e) The flight segments or line-observation program required in paragraph (d) of this section are considered to be completed in the month required if completed in the calendar month before or the calendar month after the month in which they are due.


(f) A person who serves as a required flightcrew member while performing check pilot duties must also meet the requirements of this chapter for the duty position in which they are serving.



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2019-0360; Amdt. No. 135-145, 89 FR 51431, June 18, 2024]






