# § 1005.61   Computation of uniform prices.

On or before the 11th day of each month, the market administrator shall compute a uniform butterfat price, a uniform skim milk price, and a uniform price for producer milk receipts reported for the prior month. The report of any handler who has not made payments required pursuant to § 1005.71 for the preceding month shall not be included in the computation of these prices, and such handler's report shall not be included in the computation for succeeding months until the handler has made full payment of outstanding monthly obligations.


(a) *Uniform butterfat price.* The uniform butterfat price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be computed by: 


(1) Multiplying the pounds of butterfat in producer milk allocated to each class pursuant to § 1000.44(b) by the respective class butterfat prices; 


(2) Adding the butterfat value calculated in § 1005.60(e) for other source milk allocated to Class I pursuant to § 1000.43(d) and the steps of § 1000.44(b) that correspond to § 1000.44(a)(3)(i) and § 1000.44(a)(8) by the Class I price; and 


(3) Dividing the sum of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section by the sum of the pounds of butterfat in producer milk and other source milk used to calculate the values in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. 


(b) *Uniform skim milk price.* The uniform skim milk price per hundredweight, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be computed as follows:


(1) Combine into one total the values computed pursuant to § 1005.60 for all handlers;


(2) Add an amount equal to the minus location adjustments and subtract an amount equal to the plus location adjustments computed pursuant to § 1005.75;


(3) Add an amount equal to not less than one-half of the unobligated balance in the producer-settlement fund;


(4) Subtract the value of the total pounds of butterfat for all handlers. The butterfat value shall be computed by multiplying the sum of the pounds of butterfat in producer milk and other source milk used to calculate the values in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section by the butterfat price computed in paragraph (a) of this section; 


(5) Divide the resulting amount by the sum of the following for all handlers included in these computations:


(i) The total skim pounds of producer milk; and


(ii) The total skim pounds for which a value is computed pursuant to § 1005.60(e); and


(6) Subtract not less than 4 cents and not more than 5 cents.


(c) *Uniform price.* The uniform price per hundredweight, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be the sum of the following:


(1) Multiply the uniform butterfat price for the month pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section times 3.5 pounds of butterfat; and


(2) Multiply the uniform skim milk price for the month pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section times 96.5 pounds of skim milk.



---

[N] [64 FR 47960, Sept. 1, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 82835, Dec. 28, 2000]




