# § 1240.400   Stability capital buffer.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this subpart:


(1) *Mortgage assets* means, with respect to an Enterprise, the dollar amount equal to the sum of:


(i) The unpaid principal balance of its single-family mortgage exposures, including any single-family loans that secure MBS guaranteed by the Enterprise;


(ii) The unpaid principal balance of its multifamily mortgage exposures, including any multifamily mortgage exposures that secure MBS guaranteed by the Enterprise;


(iii) The carrying value of its MBS guaranteed by an Enterprise, MBS guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, PLS, and other securitization exposures (other than its retained CRT exposures); and


(iv) The exposure amount of any other mortgage assets.


(2) *Residential mortgage debt outstanding* means the dollar amount of mortgage debt outstanding secured by one- to four-family residences or multifamily residences that are located in the United States (and excluding any mortgage debt outstanding secured by commercial or farm properties).


(b) *Amount.* An Enterprise must calculate its stability capital buffer under this section on an annual basis by December 31 of each year. The stability capital buffer of an Enterprise is equal to:


(1) The ratio of:


(i) The mortgage assets of the Enterprise as of December 31 of the previous calendar year; to


(ii) The residential mortgage debt outstanding as of December 31 of the previous calendar year, as published by FHFA;


(2) Minus 0.05;


(3) Multiplied by 5;


(4) Divided by 100; and


(5) Multiplied by the adjusted total assets of the Enterprise, as of December 31 of the previous calendar year.


(c) *Effective date of an adjusted stability capital buffer*—(1) *Increase in stability capital buffer.* An increase in the stability capital buffer of an Enterprise under this section will take effect (*i.e.,* be incorporated into the maximum payout ratio under table 1 to paragraph (b)(5) in § 1240.11) on January 1 of the year that is one full calendar year after the increased stability capital buffer was calculated, provided that where a stability capital buffer under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is calculated to be a decrease in the stability capital buffer from the previously calculated scheduled increase applicable on the same January 1, the decreased stability capital buffer under paragraph (c)(2) shall take effect. 


(2) *Decrease in stability capital buffer.* A decrease in the stability capital buffer of an Enterprise will take effect (*i.e.,* be incorporated into the maximum payout ratio under table 1 to paragraph (b)(5) in § 1240.11) on January 1 of the year immediately following the calendar year in which the decreased stability capital buffer was calculated.





---

[N] [85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 83481, Nov. 30, 2023]




