# § 1.60001   Definitions.

The following definitions are applicable to the ECIP.


(a) *Affiliate.* A person holding an attributable interest in an applicant if such individual or entity:


(1) Directly or indirectly controls or has the power to control the applicant; or


(2) Is directly or indirectly controlled by the applicant; or


(3) Is directly or indirectly controlled by a third party or parties that also controls or has the power to control the applicant; or


(4) Has an “identity of interest” with the applicant.


(b) *Qualifying transaction.* A transaction between unaffiliated parties involving a partition and/or disaggregation, long-term leasing arrangement, or full assignment that meets the requirements of either the small carrier or Tribal Nation transaction prong 



pursuant to § 1.60003 or the rural-focused transaction prong pursuant to § 1.60004. 




(c) *Qualifying geography.* Qualifying Geography is the minimum geography threshold required for the rural-focused transaction prong.


(d) *Rural area.* Rural area is any area except:


(1) A city, town, or incorporated area that has a population of more than 20,000 inhabitants; or


(2) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants.


(e) *Small carrier.* A small carrier is a carrier, defined as any person engaged as a common carrier for hire, in interstate or foreign communication by wire or radio or interstate or foreign radio transmission of energy in section 3 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153), that:


(1) Has not more than 1,500 employees (as determined under 13 CFR 121.106); and


(2) Offers services using the facilities of the carrier.


(f) *Transaction geography.* Transaction Geography is the total geography included in a Qualifying Transaction.


(g) *Tribal nation.* A Tribal Nation is any federally-recognized American Indian Tribe and Alaska Native Village, the consortia of federally recognized Tribes and/or Native Villages, and other entities controlled and majority-owned by such Tribes or consortia.



---

[N] [87 FR 57417, Sept. 20, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 11743, Feb. 15, 2024]














