# § 570.490   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *State records.* (1) The State shall establish and maintain such records as may be necessary to facilitate review and audit by HUD of the State's administration of CDBG funds under §  570.493. The content of records maintained by the State shall be as jointly agreed upon by HUD and the States and sufficient to enable HUD to make the determinations described at §  570.493. For fair housing and equal opportunity purposes, whereas such data is already being collected and where applicable, such records shall include data on the racial, ethnic, and gender characteristics of persons who are applicants for, participants in, or beneficiaries of the program. The records shall also permit audit of the States in accordance with 24 CFR part 85. 


(2) The state shall keep records to document its funding decisions reached under the method of distribution described in 24 CFR 91.320(j)(1), including all the criteria used to select applications from local governments for funding and the relative importance of the criteria (if applicable), regardless of the organizational level at which final funding decisions are made, so that they can be reviewed by HUD, the Inspector General, the Government Accountability Office, and citizens pursuant to the requirements of § 570.490(c). 


(3) *Integrated Disbursement and Information System (IDIS).* The state shall make entries into IDIS in a form prescribed by HUD to accurately capture the state's accomplishment and funding data, including program income, for each program year. It is recommended that the state enter IDIS data on a quarterly basis and it is required to be entered annually.


(b) *Unit of general local government's record.* The State shall establish recordkeeping requirements for units of general local government receiving CDBG funds that are sufficient to facilitate reviews and audits of such units of general local government under §§  570.492 and 570.493. For fair housing and equal opportunity purposes, whereas such data is already being collected and where applicable, such records shall include data on the racial, ethnic, and gender characteristics of persons who are applicants for, participants in, or beneficiaries of the program.




(c) *Access to records.* (1) Representatives of HUD, the Inspector General, and the General Accounting Office shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports, files, and other papers, or property pertaining to the administration, receipt and use of CDBG funds and necessary to facilitate such reviews and audits. 


(2) The State shall provide citizens with reasonable access to records regarding the past use of CDBG funds and ensure that units of general local government provide citizens with reasonable access to records regarding the past use of CDBG funds consistent with State or local requirements concerning the privacy of personal records. 


(d) *Record retention.* Records of the State and units of general local government, including supporting documentation, shall be retained for the greater of three years from closeout of the grant to the state, or the period required by other applicable laws and regulations as described in § 570.487 and § 570.488. 



---

[N] [57 FR 53397, Nov. 9, 1992, as amended at 71 FR 6971, Feb. 9, 2006; 77 FR 24146, Apr. 23, 2012; 80 FR 42367, July 16, 2015; 80 FR 75937, Dec. 7, 2015; 85 FR 47911, Aug. 7, 2020]






