# ยง 754.7   Petitions for the imposition of monitoring or controls on recyclable metallic materials; Public hearings.

(a) *Scope.* Section 7(c) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (EAA) provides for the filing and review of petitions seeking the imposition of monitoring or controls on recyclable metallic materials.


(b) *Eligibility for filing petitions.* Any entity, including a trade association, firm or certified or recognized union or group of workers, which is representative of an industry or a substantial segment of an industry which processes metallic materials capable of being recycled with respect to which an increase in domestic prices or a domestic shortage, either of which results from increased exports, has or may have a significant adverse effect on the national economy or any sector thereof, may submit a written petition to BIS requesting the monitoring of exports, or the imposition of export controls, or both, with respect to such materials.


(c) *Public hearings.* The petitioner may also request a public hearing. Public hearings may also be requested by an entity, including a trade association, firm, or certified or recognized union or group of workers, which is representative of an industry or a substantial segment of an industry which processes, produces or exports the metallic materials which are the subject of a petition.


(d) *Address.* Submit petitions pursuant to section 7(c) of the EAA, via courier, to: Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th and Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Room 2099B, Washington, DC 20230.



---

[N] [61 FR 12844, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25467, May 9, 1997; 73 FR 38, Jan. 2, 2008; 78 FR 13470, Feb. 28, 2013]





