# § 48.4063-2   Tax-free sales of parts or accessories sold for resale on or in connection with the first retail sale of a light-duty truck.

(a) *In general.* Under section 4063(e), the 8-percent manufacturers excise tax imposed by section 4061(b) on the sale of truck parts or accessories does not apply to the sale by the manufacturer, producer, or importer of any parts which are to be resold by the purchaser on or in connection with the first retail sale of a light-duty truck as defined in section 4061(a)(2), or which are to be resold by the purchaser to a second purchaser for resale by the second purchaser on or in connection with the first retail sale of a light-duty truck. A tax-free sale is also allowed under section 4063(e) if an ultimate purchaser makes a direct purchase from a manufacturer of a part or accessory for use on or in connection with a substantially contemporaneous purchase of a new light-duty truck.


(b) *Evidence required for tax-free sales of light-duty truck parts and accessories*—(1) *In general.* The provisions of section 4063(e) do not apply with respect to any sale unless the manufacturer, the first purchaser, and the second purchaser, if any, are all registered as required under section 4222, and unless they comply with all the requirements under that section relating to tax-free sales. To effectuate a tax-free sale directly from the manufacturer, first or second purchaser to an ultimate purchaser, the ultimate purchaser must, in every case, satisfy the provisions of paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section. Persons not required to be registered under section 4222(b) may purchase articles tax free by following the same procedures that apply to them in the case of other tax-free sales. See § 48.4222(b)-1.


(2) *Revocation or suspension of registration or right to use exemption certificate.* A person's registration and right to sell or purchase articles tax free through the use of an exemption certificate may be revoked or suspended. See § 48.4222(c)-1. Such a revocation or suspension shall be in addition to any other penalties that may apply. Any person who purchases articles tax free and who sells or uses them for a non-exempt purpose shall notify its vendor of the taxable sale or use.


(3) *Exemption certificate.* (i) To establish exemption from tax under section 4061(b) in those instances where a sale is made directly to an ultimate purchaser, the manufacturer, first, or second purchaser must obtain (prior to or at the time of sale) from the ultimate purchaser and retain in its possession a properly executed exemption certificate in the form prescribed in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.


(ii) Where only occasional sales are made, a separate exemption certificate shall be furnished for each order. However, where sales are regularly or frequently made to a purchaser for such exempt use, a certificate covering all sales for a specified period not to exceed 12 calendar quarters will be acceptable. Such certificates and proper records of invoices, orders, etc. relative to tax-free sales must be kept for inspection by the district director as provided in section 6001 and the regulations thereunder.


(iii) The following form of exemption certificate will be acceptable for purposes of this section and must be adhered to in substance.


(c) *Information; records*—(1) *Information to be furnished to vendee.* A vendor (including the manufacturer) selling light-duty truck parts and accessories tax free under section 4063(e) shall indicate to its vendee that the vendee is obtaining the parts or accessories tax free for the purpose of resale (or use) on or in connection with the first retail sale of a light-duty truck. This information may be transmitted by any convenient means, such as coding of sales invoices, provided that the information is presented with sufficient particularity so that the purchaser is informed that the purchaser has obtained the light-duty truck parts or accessories tax free.


(2) *Records of vendor.* A manufacturer or vendor selling light-duty truck parts or accessories tax free under section 4063(e) shall maintain in its records the identity of the purchaser, a signed statement of the exempt purpose for purchasing the light-duty truck parts or accessories, and the quantity of light-duty truck parts or accessories sold tax free to each purchaser.


(3) *Records of vendee.* A person purchasing light-duty truck parts or accessories tax free under section 4063(e) must maintain sufficient records to establish that the parts or accessories purchased tax free have actually been resold (or used) on or in connection with the first retail sale of a light-duty truck or have been resold to a second purchaser for such a resale by the second purchaser.


(d) *Duty of selling manufacturer to ascertain validity of tax-free sale.* The selling manufacturer of light-duty truck parts is not relieved of liability under the provisions of section 4063(e) by reason of section 4221(c) for the tax imposed by section 4061(b) if at the time of sale the selling manufacturer has knowledge or reason to believe that the light-duty truck parts or accessories sold by it to the purchaser are not intended for resale (or use) on or in connection with the first retail sale of a light-duty truck. The selling manufacturer is also not relieved of liability if it has knowledge or reason to believe that the purchaser has failed to register, refused to execute an exemption certificate, or that its registration or its right to purchase tax free through the use of an exemption certificate has been revoked or suspended.


(e) *Cross reference.* For credit or refund, see section 6416(b)(2).


(f) *Effective date.* Section 4063(e) (relating to light-duty truck parts and accessories) applies to sales on or after December 1, 1978. Light-duty truck parts or accessories sold prior to that date are not exempt from tax under section 4061(b) by reason of section 4063(e).



---

[N] [T.D. 7834, 47 FR 42344, Sept. 27, 1982]




