# § 705.9   Reporting and monitoring.

(a) *General.* NCUA's policy is to monitor Participating Credit Unions to assure that loan and technical assistance grant funds awarded under this part have been used in accordance with their intended purposes and to determine whether anticipated outcomes have been achieved. Particular emphasis will be placed on reviewing loan funds earmarked for programs or initiatives proposed by the Participating Credit Union to determine if the funds have been used as represented and whether the program or initiative has had the impact anticipated by the Participating Credit Union.


(b) *Reporting*—(1) *Reporting to NCUA.* A Participating Credit Union must complete and submit to NCUA all required reports, at such times and in such formats as NCUA will direct. Such reports must describe how the Participating Credit Union has used the loan or technical assistance grant proceeds and the results it has obtained, in relation to the programs, policies, or initiatives identified by the Participating Credit Union in its application. NCUA may request additional information as it determines appropriate.


(2) *Reporting to Members*—(i) *Loans.* A Participating Credit Union that receives a loan under this part must report on the progress of providing needed community services to the Participating Credit Union's members once a year, either at the annual meeting or in a written report sent to all members. The Participating Credit Union must also submit to NCUA the written report or a summary of the report provided to members.


(ii) *Technical Assistance Grants.* A Participating Credit Union that receives a technical assistance grant under this part should report on the progress of providing needed community services to the Participating Credit Union's members once a year, either at the annual meeting or in a written report sent to all members.


(c) *Monitoring.* At its discretion, for verification purposes and as part of its evaluation of the effectiveness of the loan and technical assistance grant programs, NCUA may elect to review information concerning Participating Credit Unions to which it already has access, including information obtained through the examination process and data contained in Call Reports.



---

[N] [76 FR 67587, Nov. 2, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 85113, Nov. 25, 2016]




