# ยง 1691.13   Definitions.

As used in this regulation, the term:


(a) *Agency* means any Federal department or agency which extends Federal financial assistance subject to any civil rights provision(s) to which this regulation applies.


(b) *Assistant Attorney General* refers to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice, or his or her delegate.


(c) *Chairman of the EEOC* refers to the Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or his or her delegate.


(d) *EEOC* means the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and, where appropriate, any of its District Offices and its Washington Field Office.


(e) *Federal financial assistance* includes:


(1) Grants and loans of Federal funds,


(2) The grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property, 


(3) The detail of Federal personnel,


(4) The sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in such property without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient, and


(5) Any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.


(f) *Joint complaint* means a complaint of employment discrimination covered by title VII or the Equal Pay Act and by title VI, title IX, or the revenue sharing act.


(g) *Recipient* means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, for any program, including any successor, assign, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary under such program.


(h) *Revenue sharing act* refers to the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 1221 *et seq.*

(i) *Title VI* refers to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d to 2000d-4. Where appropriate, *title VI* also refers to the civil rights provisions of other Federal statutes or regulations to the extent that they prohibit employment discrimination on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in programs receiving Federal financial assistance of the type subject to title VI itself.


(j) *Title VII* refers to title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2000e, *et seq.*

(k) *Title IX* refers to title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681 to 1683. 



---

[N] [48 FR 3574, Jan. 25, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 32063, Aug. 4, 1989]




