# ยง 250.202   Definitions.

*Chief Human Capital Officer (CHCO)* is the agency's senior leader whose primary duty is to:


(1) Advise and assist the head of the agency and other agency officials in carrying out the agency's responsibilities for selecting, developing, training, and managing a high-quality, productive workforce in accordance with merit system principles; and


(2) Implement the rules and regulations of the President, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), and the laws governing the civil service within the agency.


*CHCO agency* is an Executive agency, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 105, which is required by 5 U.S.C. 1401 and 31 U.S.C. 901(b)(1) to appoint a CHCO.


*Director of OPM* is, among other things, the President's advisor on actions that may be taken to promote an efficient civil service and a systematic application of the merit system principles, including recommending policies relating to the selection, promotion, transfer, performance, pay, conditions of service, tenure, and separation of employees. The Director of OPM provides governmentwide leadership and direction in the strategic management of the Federal workforce.


*Evaluation system* is an agency's overarching system for evaluating the results of all human capital planning and implementation of human capital strategies to inform the agency's continuous process improvement efforts. This system is also used for ensuring compliance with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and agency policies.


*Federal Workforce Priorities Report (FWPR)* is a strategic human capital report, published by OPM by the first Monday in February of any year in which the term of the President commences. OPM may extend the date of publication if needed. The report communicates key Governmentwide human capital priorities and suggested strategies. The report also informs agency strategic and human capital planning.


*Focus areas* are areas that agencies and human capital practitioners must focus on to achieve a system's standard.


*HRStat* is a strategic human capital performance evaluation process that identifies, measures, and analyzes human capital data to inform the impact of an agency's human capital management on organizational results with the intent to improve human capital outcomes. HRStat, which is a quarterly review process, is a component of an agency's strategic planning and alignment and evaluation systems that are part of the Human Capital Framework.


*Human Capital Evaluation Framework* underlies the three human capital evaluation mechanisms (*i.e.,* HRStat, Audits, and Human Capital Reviews) to create a central evaluation framework that integrates the outcomes from each to provide OPM and agencies with an understanding of how human capital policies and programs are supporting missions.


*Human Capital Framework (HCF)* provides comprehensive guidance on the principles of strategic human capital management in the Federal Government. The framework, as described in ยง 250.203 below, provides direction on human capital planning, implementation, and evaluation in the Federal environment.


*Human Capital Operating Plan (HCOP)* is an agency's human capital implementation document, which describes how an agency will execute the human capital elements stated within Agency Strategic Plan and Annual Performance Plan (APP). Program specific workforce investments and strategies (e.g., hiring, closing skill gaps, etc.) should be incorporated into the APPs as appropriate. The HCOP should clearly execute each of the four systems of the HCF. The HCOP should align with the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) Modernization Act of 2010, annual performance plans and timelines.


*Human Capital Review (HCR)* is OPM's annual, evidence-based review of an agency's design and implementation of its HCOP, independent audit, and HRStat programs to support mission accomplishment and human capital outcomes.


*Independent audit program* is a component of an agency's evaluation system designed to review all human capital management systems and select human resources transactions to ensure efficiency, effectiveness, and legal and regulatory compliance.


*Skill gap* is a variance between the current and projected workforce size and skills needed to ensure an agency has a cadre of talent available to meet its mission and make progress towards achieving its goals and objectives now and into the future.


*Standard* is a consistent practice within human capital management in which agencies strive towards in each of the four HCF systems. The standards ensure that an agency's human capital management strategies, plans, and practices:


(1) Are integrated with strategic plans, annual performance plans and goals, and other relevant budget, finance, and acquisition plans;


(2) Contain measurable and observable performance targets;


(3) Are communicated in an open and transparent manner to facilitate cross-agency collaboration to achieve mission objectives; and


(4) Inform the development of human capital management priority goals for the Federal Government.




