# ยง 932.40   Accounting.

(a) If, at the end of a fiscal year, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:


(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the committee shall refund or credit to handler accounts the aforesaid excess. Each handler's share of such excess funds shall be the amount of assessments such handler has paid in excess of such handler's pro rata share of the actual net expenses of the committee for such fiscal year. Excess funds may be used temporarily by the committee to defray expenses of the subsequent fiscal year: *Provided,* That each handler's share of such excess shall be made available to the handler by the committee within five months after the end of the fiscal year.


(2) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over such excess into subsequent fiscal years as a reserve: *Provided,* That funds already in the reserve do not exceed approximately one fiscal year's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used for any expenses authorized pursuant to ยง 932.38 and for necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate: *Provided,* That to the extent practicable, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.


(b) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purpose specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the committee and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.


(c) Upon the removal or expiration of the term of office of any member of the committee, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in his possession to the committee, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the committee full title to all of the property, funds, and claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.



---

[N] [30 FR 12629, Oct. 2, 1965, as amended at 47 FR 32908, July 30, 1982]




