# § 60.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Accompanying individual* means an individual seeking Fisher House or other temporary lodging, who provides familial support or the equivalent of familial support, to a veteran while the veteran is experiencing an episode of care. This term is defined broadly to include relatives, close friends, and caregivers.


*Compensation and pension examination* means an examination requested by VA's Veterans Benefits Administration to be conducted at a VA health care facility for the purpose of evaluating a veteran's claim.


*Episode of care* means a course of outpatient treatment, or a period of hospitalization, during which a veteran receives health care under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17, or 38 U.S.C. 8111 or 8153. Examples of episodes of care include (but are not limited to) the following:


(1) An appointment at a VA health care facility to receive health care or a compensation and pension examination.


(2) Extended outpatient treatment, such as treatment associated with organ transplant, chemotherapy, or radiation.


(3) Hospitalization for a critical injury or illness; where death is imminent; or where a veteran is unable to make medical decisions for him/herself and the accompanying individual is authorized to make such decisions on the veteran's behalf.


*Fisher House* means a housing facility that is located at or near a VA health care facility and was constructed by and donated to VA by the Fisher House Foundation (formerly the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Armed Services Foundation), or a facility that is treated as if it were Fisher House lodging under § 60.3.


*Other temporary lodging* includes:


(1) Lodging at a temporary lodging facility, other than a Fisher House, located at a VA health care facility (generally referred to as a “hoptel”);


(2) A hotel or motel;


(3) Non-utilized beds at a VA health care facility designated as lodging beds; and


(4) Other donated lodging to be used on a temporary basis in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1708.


*VA* means the Department of Veterans Affairs.


