# § 165.1198   Safety zone; Military Ocean Terminal Concord Safety Zone, Suisun Bay, Military Ocean Terminal Concord, CA.

(a) *Location.* This safety zone is established in the navigable waters of Suisun Bay near Military Ocean Terminal Concord, CA (MOTCO) as depicted in National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Chart 18656. Upon commencement of military onloads and offloads, the safety zone will encompass the navigable waters in the area between 500 yards of MOTCO Pier 2 in position 38°03′30″ N, 122°01′14″ W (NAD 83) as depicted in National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Chart 18656 (the perimeter of the existing security zone) and 3,000 yards of the pier.


(b) *Enforcement period.* The zone described in paragraph (a) of this section will be enforced during all military onload and offload operations. The Captain of the Port San Francisco (COTP) will notify the maritime community of periods during which this zone will be enforced via actual notice on-scene during military onloads and offloads.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The safety zone is open to all persons and vessels for transitory use.


(2) Persons and vessels operating within the safety zone may not anchor or otherwise loiter within the safety zone.


(3) Vessel operators desiring to anchor or otherwise loiter within the safety zone must contact Sector San Francisco Vessel Traffic Service at (415) 556-2760 or VHF Channel 14 to obtain permission.


(4) All persons and vessels transiting through or operating within the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the COTP or a designated representative.


(5) The public can contact Sector San Francisco Bay at (415) 399-3530 to obtain information concerning enforcement of this rule.


(d) *Enforcement.* All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP or the designated on-scene patrol personnel. Patrol personnel comprise commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the Coast Guard onboard Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, local, state, and federal law enforcement vessels. The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the safety zone by local law enforcement and the MOTCO police as necessary. Upon being hailed by U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel must proceed as directed.



---

[N] [USCG-2012-1008, 78 FR 5720, Jan. 28, 2013]






