# ยง 63.4681   Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the source category to which this subpart applies is surface coating of wood building products, which means the application of coatings using, for example, roll coaters or curtain coaters in the finishing or laminating of any wood building product that contains more than 50 percent by weight wood or wood fiber excluding the weight of any glass components, and is used in the construction, either interior or exterior, of a residential, commercial, or institutional building. The wood building products source category includes the subcategories listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) *Doors, windows, and miscellaneous.* The doors, windows, and miscellaneous subcategory includes doors, windows, finished doorskins, and door and window components such as millwork, moulding, or trim, and other miscellaneous wood building products including, but not limited to, all moulding and trim, shingles, and shutters.


(2) *Flooring.* The flooring subcategory includes solid wood flooring, engineered wood flooring, and wood laminate flooring.


(3) *Interior wall paneling and tileboard.* The interior wall paneling and tileboard subcategory includes interior wall paneling products. Tileboard is a premium interior wall paneling product.


(4) *Other interior panels.* The other interior panel subcategory includes panels that are sold for uses other than interior wall paneling, such as coated particleboard, hardboard, and perforated panels.


(5) *Exterior siding and primed doorskins.* The exterior siding and primed doorskins subcategory includes lap or panel siding, trimboard, and primed doorskins. Doorskins that are coated with more than primer are included in the doors, windows, and miscellaneous subcategory.


(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source, as defined in ยง 63.4682, that uses 4,170 liters (1,100 gallons) per year, or more, of coatings in the source category defined in paragraph (a) of this section and that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year.


(c) This subpart does not apply to surface coating and other operations that meet the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Surface coating in the processes identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (xi) of this section that are part of plywood and composite wood product manufacturing and subject to subpart DDDD of this part including:


(i) Edge seals applied to a reconstituted wood product or plywood.


(ii) Anti-skid coatings applied to reconstituted wood products.


(iii) Primers applied to waferboard or oriented strand board (OSB) siding at the site of manufacture of the waferboard or OSB siding.


(iv) Surface coating that occurs during the manufacture of fiberboard, including application of clay slurry, titanium dioxide, or asphalt coatings to fiberboard.


(v) Painting of company logo information on plywood or reconstituted wood products.


(vi) Application of trademarks and grade stamp to reconstituted wood products or plywood.


(vii) Application of nail lines to reconstituted wood products.


(viii) Synthetic patches, wood patches, and wood putty applied to plywood.


(ix) Application of concrete forming and other drying or tempering oils to wood building products.


(x) Veneer composing.


(xi) Application of shelving edge fillers to reconstituted wood products.


(2) Surface coating of wood furniture subject to subpart JJ of this part, including finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations associated with the production of wood furniture or wood furniture components. The surface coating of millwork and trim associated with cabinet manufacturing is also subject to subpart JJ of this part and not to this subpart.


(3) Surface coating that occurs during the manufacture of prefabricated homes and mobile/modular homes.


(4) Surface coating that occurs at research or laboratory facilities; janitorial, building, and facility construction or maintenance operations; or hobby shops that are operated for personal rather than for commercial purposes. The source category also does not include non-commercial coating operations or coating applications using handheld nonrefillable aerosol containers.


(5) Wood treatment or fire retardant operations located at wood building products sources that involve impregnating the wood product with the wood treatment chemicals or fire retardant by using a retort or other pressure vessel.


(d) If you have an affected source with surface coating operations subject to the requirements of another subpart of this part that account for at least 95 percent of the total (annual) coating usage for the affected source, you may demonstrate compliance with the requirements, including all applicable emission limit(s), for that subpart for the entire affected source.



---

[N] [68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7698, Mar. 4, 2019]




