# § 1924.102   General policy.

(a) *Rural development.* This subpart provides for the development of building sites and related facilities in rural areas. It is designed to:


(1) Recognize community needs and desires in local planning, control, and development.


(2) Recognize standards for building-site design which encourage and lead to the development of economically stable communities, and the creation of attractive, healthy, and permanent living environments.


(3) Encourage improvements planned for the site to be the most cost-effective of the practicable alternatives. Encourage utilities and services utilized to be reliable, efficient, and available at reasonable costs.


(4) Provide for a planning process that will consider impacts on the environment and existing development in order to formulate actions that protect, enhance, and restore environmental quality.


(5) No site will be approved unless it meets the requirements of this part and all state and local permits and approvals in connection with the proposed development have been obtained.


(b) *Subdivisions.* RHS does not review or approve subdivisions. Each site approved by RHS must meet the requirements of § 1924.115, on a site by site basis.


(c) *Development related costs*—(1) *Applicant.* The applicant is responsible for all costs incurred before loan or grant closing associated with planning, technical services, and actual construction. These costs may be included in the loan or grant as authorized by RHS regulations.


(2) *Developer.* The developer is responsible for payment of all costs associated with development.




