# ยง 4280.159   Servicing EA and REDA grants.

The Agency will service EA and REDA grants in accordance with the requirements specified in Departmental Regulations, the Financial Assistance Agreement, 7 CFR part 3, 7 CFR 1951 Subparts E and O, and the requirements in ยง 4280.124, except as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.


(a) *Grant disbursement.* The Agency will determine, based on the applicable Departmental Regulations, whether disbursement of a grant will be by advance or reimbursement. Form SF-270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement, must be completed by the grantee and submitted to the Agency no more often than monthly to request either advance or reimbursement of funds.


(b) *Semiannual performance reports.* Project performance reports shall include, but not be limited to, the following:


(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period (*e.g.,* the number of EA performed, number of recipients assisted, and the type of assistance provided for REDA);


(2) A list of recipients, each recipient's location, and each recipient's NAICS code;


(3) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions, if any, that have in the past or will in the future affect attainment of overall project objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation;


(4) Objectives and timetable established for the next reporting period.


(c) *Final performance report.* A final performance report will be required with the final Federal financial report within 90 days after project completion. The final performance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(1) For EA projects, the final performance report must provide complete information regarding:


(i) The number of audits conducted,


(ii) A list of recipients (agricultural producers and rural small businesses) with each recipient's NAICS code,


(iii) The location of each recipient,


(iv) The cost of each audit and documentation showing that the recipient of the EA provided 25 percent of the cost of the audit, and


(v) The expected energy saved for each audit conducted if the audit is implemented.


(2) For REDA projects, the final performance report must provide complete information regarding:


(i) The number of recipients assisted, and the type of assistance provided,


(ii) A list of recipients with each recipient's NAICS code,


(iii) The location of each recipient, and


(iv) The expected renewable energy that would be generated if the projects were implemented.


(d) *Outcome project performance report.* One year after submittal of the final performance report, the grantee will provide the Agency a final status report on the number of projects that are proceeding with the grantee's recommendations, including the amount of energy saved and the amount of renewable energy generated, as applicable.






