# § 141.80   General requirements and action level.

(a) *Applicability, effective date, and compliance deadlines.* The requirements of this subpart constitute the national primary drinking water regulations for lead and copper.


(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to community water systems and non-transient, non-community water systems (in this subpart referred to as “water systems” or “systems”) as defined at § 141.2.


(2) The requirements of this subpart are effective as of December 30, 2024.


(3) Community water systems and non-transient non-community water systems must comply with the requirements of this subpart no later than November 1, 2027, except where otherwise specified in §§ 141.81, 141.84, 141.85, 141.86, and 141.90, or where an exemption in accordance with 40 CFR part 142, subpart C or F, has been issued by the Administrator.


(4)(i) Between October 30, 2024, and November 1, 2027, community water systems and non-transient non-community water systems must comply with 40 CFR 141.2, 141.31(d), and 141.80 through 141.91, as codified on July 1, 2020, except systems must also comply with 40 CFR 141.84(a)(1) through (10) (excluding paragraphs (a)(6) and (7)), 141.85(a)(1)(ii) and (e), 141.90(e)(1) and (13), (f)(4), and (h)(3), 141.201(a)(3)(vi) and (c)(3), and 141.202(a)(10); 40 CFR part 141, appendix A to subpart Q, entry I.C.1 (excluding § 141.90, except paragraphs (e)(1) and (13) and (f)(4)) and entry I.C.2; 40 CFR part 141, appendix B to subpart Q, entry D.23; and 40 CFR 141.31(d)(2), as codified on July 1, 2024.


(ii) If an exemption from subpart I of this part has been issued in accordance with 40 CFR part 142, subpart C or F, prior to December 16, 2021, then the water systems must comply with 40 CFR 141.80 through 141.91, as codified on July 1, 2020, until the expiration of that exemption.


(b) *Scope.* The regulations in this subpart constitute a treatment technique rule that includes treatment techniques to control corrosion, treat source water, replace service lines, and provide public education. The regulations in this subpart include requirements to support the treatment technique including a service line inventory, tap sampling, and monitoring for lead in schools and child care facilities. Some of the requirements in this subpart only apply if there is an exceedance of the lead or copper action levels, specified in paragraph (c) of this section, as measured in samples collected at consumers' taps.


(c) *Lead and copper action levels and method for determining whether there is an exceedance of the action level.* Action levels must be determined based on tap water samples that must be considered for inclusion under § 141.86(e) for the purpose of calculating the 90th percentile and tested using the analytical methods specified in § 141.89. The action levels described in this paragraph (c) are applicable to all sections of subpart I of this part. Action levels for lead and copper are as follows:


(1) The lead action level is exceeded if the 90th percentile concentration of lead as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section is greater than 0.010 mg/L.


(2) The copper action level is exceeded if the 90th percentile concentration of copper as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section is greater than 1.3 mg/L.


(3) For purposes of this subpart, the 90th percentile concentration must be derived as follows:


(i) For water systems that do not have Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 sites and only have sites identified as Tier 3, 4, or 5 under § 141.86(a):


(A) The results of all lead or copper samples taken during a tap sampling period and eligible for inclusion in the 90th percentile calculation under § 141.86(e) must be placed in ascending order from the sample with the lowest concentration of lead or copper to the sample with the highest concentration of lead or copper. Each sampling result must be assigned a number, in ascending order beginning with the number 1 for the sample with the lowest concentration of lead or copper. The number assigned to the sample with the highest concentration must be equal to the total number of samples taken and considered for inclusion in the 90th percentile calculation, in accordance with § 141.86(e).


(B) The number of samples taken during the tap sampling period must be multiplied by 0.9.


(C) The 90th percentile concentration is the concentration of lead or copper in the numbered sample yielded after multiplying the number of samples by 0.9 in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(B) of this section.


(D) For water systems that collect five samples per tap sampling period, the 90th percentile concentration is the average of the highest and second highest concentration from the results in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section.


(E) For a water system that is allowed by the State to collect fewer than five samples in accordance with § 141.86(a)(2) or has failed to meet their required minimum number of samples and collected fewer than five samples, the sample result with the highest concentration from the results in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section is considered the 90th percentile value.


(ii) For water systems with sites identified as Tier 1 or 2 under § 141.86(a) with sufficient Tier 1 and 2 sites to meet the minimum number of sites required in § 141.86(c) or (d) as applicable:


(A) For lead, water systems must include the higher of the first-liter and fifth-liter lead sample results at each Tier 1 and 2 site (or first-liter lead sample if tiering is based on premise plumbing) taken during the tap sampling period in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(B) through (D) of this section. For copper, water systems must include all first-liter copper samples collected at each Tier 1 and 2 site taken during the tap sampling period. Lead or copper sample results from Tier 3, 4, or 5 sites cannot be included in this calculation.


(B) The results of the lead or copper samples taken during a tap sampling period and eligible for inclusion in the 90th percentile calculation under § 141.86(e) identified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section must be placed in ascending order from the sample with the lowest concentration to the sample with the highest concentration. Each sampling result must be assigned a number, in ascending order beginning with the number 1 for the sample with the lowest concentration. The number assigned to the sample with the highest concentration must be equal to the total number of samples.


(C) The number of samples identified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) must be multiplied by 0.9.


(D) The 90th percentile concentration is the concentration of lead or copper in the numbered sample yielded after multiplying the number of samples by 0.9 in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.


(E) For water systems that collect samples from five sites per tap sampling period, the 90th percentile concentration is the average of the highest and second highest concentration from the results in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.


(F) For a water system that is allowed by the State to collect fewer than five copper samples or five first-liter-and-fifth-liter-paired lead samples in accordance with § 141.86(a)(2), or has failed to collect at least five copper samples or five first-liter-and fifth-liter-paired lead samples, the sample result with the highest concentration from the results in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) is considered the 90th percentile value.


(iii) For water systems with sites identified as Tier 1 or 2 under § 141.86(a) with an insufficient number of Tier 1 or 2 sites to meet the minimum number of sites required in § 141.86(c) or (d) as applicable:


(A) For lead, the system must use the higher value of the first-liter and fifth-liter lead sample for each Tier 1 or 2 site (or first-liter lead sample if tiering is based on premise plumbing) and the first-liter lead samples from sites in the next highest available tier (*i.e.,* Tier 3, 4, and 5) to meet the minimum number of sites required in § 141.86(c) or (d) sampled during a tap sampling period for the steps in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(B) through (D) of this section. For copper, the system must use all first-liter copper samples collected.


(B) The results of all of the lead or copper samples identified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section must be placed in ascending order from the sample with the lowest concentration to the sample with the highest concentration. The water system must reduce this list to only include samples with the highest concentrations such that the number of sample results equals the minimum number of sites required to be sampled by § 141.86(c) or (d), as applicable. From this reduced list, each sampling result must be assigned a number, in ascending order beginning with the number 1 for the sample with the lowest concentration. The number assigned to the sample with the highest concentration must be equal to the minimum number of sites required by § 141.86(c) or (d), as applicable.


(C) The number of samples identified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) must be multiplied by 0.9.


(D) The 90th percentile concentration is the concentration of lead or copper in the numbered sample yielded after multiplying the number of samples by 0.9 in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.


(E) For water systems that collect samples from five sites per tap sampling period, the 90th percentile concentration is the average of the highest and second highest concentration from the results in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.


(F) For a water system that is allowed by the State to collect fewer than five copper samples or five first-liter-and-fifth-liter-paired lead samples in accordance with § 141.86(a)(2), or has failed to collect at least five copper samples or five first-and-fifth—liter-paired lead samples, the sample result with the highest concentration from the results in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) is considered the 90th percentile value.


(G) If a water system does not collect enough samples sufficient to meet the minimum number of sites required in § 141.86(c) or (d), the system must calculate the 90th percentile lead and copper levels following the steps in § 141.80(c)(3)(i)(A) through (C).





---

[N] [56 FR 26548, June 7, 1991; 57 FR 28788, June 29, 1992, as amended at 72 FR 57814, Oct. 10, 2007; 86 FR 4282, Jan. 15, 2021; 86 FR 31947, June 16, 2021; 89 FR 86626, Oct. 30, 2024]




