# ยง 3565.457   Determination of claim amount.

In all liquidation cases, final settlement will be made with the lender after the collateral is liquidated, unless otherwise designated as a future recovery or after settlement and compromise of all parties has been completed.


(a) *Report of loss form.* An Agency approved form will be used for calculations of all estimated and final loss determinations. Estimated loss payments will only be paid by the Agency after it has approved a liquidation plan.


(b) *Estimated loss.* An estimated loss claim based on liquidation appraisal value will be prepared and submitted by the lender.


(1) The estimated loss payment shall be applied as of the date of such payment. The total amount of the loss payment paid by the Agency will be applied by the lender on the loan debt. Such application does not release the borrower from liability.


(2) The Government's written authorization is required for all protective advances in excess of $5,000. Protective advances include, but are not limited to, advances made for property taxes, annual assessments, ground rent, hazard or flood insurance premiums affecting the collateral, and other expenses necessary to preserve or protect the security. Attorney fees are not a protective advance. A protective advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final report of loss payment except in certain transfer and assumption situations with Agency approval.


(c) *Final loss.* Within 30 calendar days after liquidation of all collateral, except for certain unsecured personal or corporate guarantees (as provided for in this section) is completed, a final report of loss on a form approved by the Agency must be prepared and submitted by the lender to the Agency. Before approval by the Agency of any final loss report, the lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. Upon receipt of the final accounting and report of loss, the Agency may audit all applicable documentation to determine the final loss. The lender will make its records available and otherwise assist the Agency in making any investigation. The documentation accompanying the report of loss must support the amounts shown on the report of loss form.


(1) A determination must be made regarding the collectability of unsecured personal and corporate guarantees. If reasonably possible, such guarantees should be promptly collected prior to completion of the final loss report. However, in the event that collection from the guarantors appears unlikely or will require a prolonged period of time, the report of loss will be filed when all other collateral has been liquidated, and unsecured personal or corporate guarantees will be treated as a future recovery with the net proceeds to be shared on a pro rata basis by the lender and the Agency.


(2) The lender must document that all of the collateral has been accounted for and properly liquidated and that liquidation proceeds have been properly accounted for and applied correctly to the loan.


(3) The lender will show a breakdown of any protective advance amount as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper and that payment was actually made.


(4) The lender will show a breakdown of liquidation expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper and that payment was actually made. Liquidation expenses are recoverable only from collateral proceeds.


(5) Accrued interest will be supported by documentation as to how the amount was accrued.


(6) Loss payments will be paid by the Agency within 60 calendar days after the receipt of the final loss report and accounting of the collateral.


(7) Should there be a circumstance where the lender cannot or will not sign a final report of loss, the State Director may complete the final report of loss and submit it to the Finance Office without the lender's signature. Before this action can be taken, all collateral must be disposed of or accounted for; there must be no evidence of fraud, misrepresentation, or negligent servicing by the lender; and all efforts to obtain the cooperation of the lender must have been exhausted and documented.


(d) *Maximum guarantee payment.* The maximum guarantee payment will not exceed the amount of guarantee percentage as contained in the guarantee agreement (but in no event more than 90%) times the allowable loss amount.


(e) *Rent.* Any net rental or other income that has been received by the lender from the collateral will be applied on the guaranteed loan debt after paying operating expenses of the property.


(f) *Liquidation costs.* Liquidation costs will be deducted from the proceeds of the disposition of primary collateral. If changed circumstances after submission of the liquidation plan require a substantial revision of liquidation costs, the lender will procure the Agency's written concurrence prior to proceeding with the proposed changes.


(g) *Payment.* When the Agency finds the final report of loss to be proper in all respects, it will approve the form and proceed as follows:


(1) If the loss is greater than any estimated loss payment, the Agency will pay the additional amount owed by the Agency to the lender.


(2) If the loss is less than the estimated loss payment, the lender will reimburse the Agency for the overpayment.


(3) If the Agency determines that it is in the Government's best interest to take assignment of the loan and conduct liquidation, as stipulated in 42 U.S.C. 1490(i)(3), Assignment by Secretary, the Agency will pay the lender in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee.


(h) *Date of loss.* The date of loss is the date on which the collateral will be liquidated in the liquidation plan, unless an alternative date is approved by the Agency. Where the Agency chooses to accept an assignment of the loan or conveyance of title, the date of loss will be the date on which the Agency accepts assignment of the loan or conveyance of title.


(i) *Allowable claim amount.* The allowable claim amount must be calculated by:


(1) Adding to the unpaid principal and interest on the date of loss, an amount approved by the Agency for payments made by the lender for amounts due and owning on the property, including:


(i) Property taxes and other protective advances as approved by the Agency;


(ii) Water and sewer charges and other special assessments that are liens prior to the guaranteed loan;


(iii) Insurance of the property; and


(iv) Reasonable liquidation expenses.


(2) And by deducting the following items:


(i) Any amount received by the lender on the account of the guaranteed loan after the date of default;


(ii) Any net income received by the lender from the secured property after the date of default; and


(iii) Any cash items retained by the lender, except any amount representing a balance of the guaranteed loan not advanced to the borrower. Any loan amount not advanced will be applied by the lender to reduce the outstanding principal on the loan.


(j) *Lender certification.* The lender must certify that all possibilities of collection have been exhausted and that all of the items specified in paragraph (c) of this section have been identified and reported to the Agency as a condition for payment of claim.



---

[N] [70 FR 2933, Jan. 19, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 5, Jan. 3, 2011]




