# ยง 1470.2   Definitions.

(a) The term *Department* as used herein shall have the meaning set forth in 22 U.S.C. 3902 and 4103, and ยง 1421.4 of subchapter C of these regulations.


(b) The terms *labor organization,* and *conditions of employment* as used herein shall have the meanings set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4102.


(c) The term *Executive Director* means the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasse Panel as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7119(c).


(d) The terms *designated representative* or *designee* of the Panel means a Panel member, a staff member, or other individual designated by the Panel to act on its behalf pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4110(c)(1).


(e) The term *hearing* means a factfinding hearing, arbitration hearing, or any other hearing procedure deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of 22 U.S.C. 4110.


(f) The term *impasse* means that point in the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement at which the parties are deadlocked, notwithstanding their efforts to reach agreement by direct negotiations and other voluntary arrangements, if any.


(g) The term *Panel* means the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel described in 22 U.S.C. 4110(a) or a quorum thereof.


(h) The term *party* means the Department or the labor organization participating in the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement.


(i) The term *quorum* means three (3) or more members of the Panel.


(j) The term *voluntary arrangements* means any appropriate technique, not inconsistent with the provisions of 22 U.S.C. 4110, used by the parties to assist in the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement.




