# § 1.962-2   Election of limitation of tax for individuals.

(a) *Who may elect.* The election under section 962 may be made only by an individual (including a trust or estate) who is a United States shareholder (including an individual who is a United States shareholder because, by reason of section 958(b), he is considered to own stock of a foreign corporation owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) by a domestic pass-through entity (as defined in § 1.965-1(f)(19))).


(b) *Time and manner of making election.* A United States shareholder shall make an election under this section by filing a statement to such effect with his return for the taxable year with respect to which the election is made. The statement shall include the following information:


(1) The name, address, and taxable year of each controlled foreign corporation with respect to which the electing shareholder is a United States shareholder and of all other corporations, partnerships, trusts, or estates in any applicable chain of ownership described in section 958(a);


(2) The amounts, on a corporation-by-corporation basis, which are included in such shareholder's gross income for his taxable year under section 951(a);


(3) Such shareholder's pro rata share of the earnings and profits (determined under § 1.964-1) of each such controlled foreign corporation with respect to which such shareholder includes any amount in gross income for his taxable year under section 951(a) and the foreign income, war profits, excess profits, and similar taxes paid on or with respect to such earnings and profits;


(4) The amount of distributions received by such shareholder during his taxable year from each controlled foreign corporation referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph from excludable section 962 earnings and profits (as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of § 1.962-3), from taxable section 962 earnings and profits (as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of § 1.962-3), and from earnings and profits other than section 962 earnings and profits, showing the source of such amounts by taxable year; and


(5) Such further information as the Commissioner may prescribe by forms and accompanying instructions relating to such election.


(c) *Effect of election*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, an election under this section by a United States shareholder for a taxable year shall be applicable to all controlled foreign corporations with respect to which such shareholder includes any amount in gross income for his taxable year under section 951(a) and shall be binding for the taxable year for which such election is made.


(2) *Revocation.* Upon application by the United States shareholder, an election made under this section may, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, be revoked. Approval will not be granted unless a material and substantial change in circumstances occurs which could not have been anticipated when the election was made. The application for consent to revocation shall be made by the United States shareholder's mailing a letter for such purpose to Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: T:R, Washington, DC 20224, containing a statement of the facts upon which such shareholder relies in requesting such consent.


(d) *Applicability dates.* Paragraph (a) of this section applies beginning the last taxable year of a foreign corporation that begins before January 1, 2018, and with respect to a United States person, for the taxable year in which or with which such taxable year of the foreign corporation ends.



---

[N] [T.D. 6858, 30 FR 13696, Oct. 28, 1965, as amended by T.D. 9846, 84 FR 1875, Feb. 5, 2019; T.D. 9849, 84 FR 9236, Mar. 14, 2019]




