# § 147.1550   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of New Jersey, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on July 15, 1983 (48 FR 32343); the effective date of this program is August 15, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of New Jersey. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Water Pollution Control Act, New Jersey Statutes Annotated sections 58:10A-1 through 58:10A-20 (West 1982 and Supp. 1990); 


(2) New Jersey Administrative Code, sections 7:14A-1.1 through 1.9 (subchapter 1), 7:14A-2.1 through 2.15 (subchapter 2), 7:14A-5.1 through 5.17, (subchapter 5) (amended March 1988). 


(b)(1) The Memorandum Agreement between EPA Region II and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on September 9, 1982;


(2) Letter from Commissioner, New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, to Regional Administrator, EPA Region II, March 21, 1983.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) Letter from Attorney General of New Jersey (by Deputy Attorney General) to Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, “Re: New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System—Underground Injection Control,” February 9, 1982;


(2) Letter from Attorney General of New Jersey (by Deputy Attorney General) to Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, “Re: New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System—Underground Injection Control,” April 15, 1983 (six pages);


(3) Letter from Attorney General of New Jersey (by Assistant Attorney General) to Commissioner, Department of Environmental Protection, “Re: New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System—Underground Injection Control,” April 15, 1983 (two pages).


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9417, Mar. 6, 1991]




