# § 363.4   Filing and notice requirements.

(a) *Part 363 Annual Report.* (1) Each insured depository institution shall file with each of the FDIC, the appropriate Federal banking agency, and any appropriate State bank supervisor, two copies of its Part 363 Annual Report. A Part 363 Annual Report must contain audited comparative annual financial statements, the independent public accountant's report thereon, a management report, and, if applicable, the independent public accountant's attestation report on management's assessment concerning the institution's internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting as required by §§ 363.2(a), 363.3(a), 363.2(b), and 363.3(b), respectively.


(2) Subject to the criteria specified in § 363.1(b), each insured depository institution with consolidated total assets of less than $1 billion as of the beginning of its fiscal year that is required to file, or whose parent holding company is required to file, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting with the SEC or the appropriate Federal banking agency in accordance with section 404 of SOX must submit a copy of such assessment to the FDIC, the appropriate Federal banking agency, and any appropriate State bank supervisor with its Part 363 Annual Report as additional information. This assessment will not be considered part of the institution's Part 363 Annual Report.


(3)(i) Each insured depository institution that is neither a public company nor a subsidiary of a public company that meets the criterion specified in § 363.1(b)(1) shall file its Part 363 Annual Report within 120 days after the end of its fiscal year. (ii) Each insured depository institution that is a public company or a subsidiary of public company that meets the criterion specified in § 363.1(b)(1) shall file its Part 363 Annual Report within 90 days after the end of its fiscal year.


(b) *Public availability.* Except for the annual report in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the peer reviews and inspection reports in § 363.3(g), which shall be available for public inspection, the FDIC has determined that all other reports and notifications required by this part are exempt from public disclosure by the FDIC.


(c) *Independent public accountant's letters and reports.* Except for the independent public accountant's reports that are included in its Part 363 Annual Report, each insured depository institution shall file with the FDIC, the appropriate Federal banking agency, and any appropriate State bank supervisor, a copy of any management letter or other report issued by its independent public accountant with respect to such institution and the services provided by such accountant pursuant to this part within 15 days after receipt. Such reports include, but are not limited to:


(1) Any written communication regarding matters that are required to be communicated to the audit committee (for example, critical accounting policies, alternative accounting treatments discussed with management, and any schedule of unadjusted differences),


(2) Any written communication of significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal control required by the AICPA's or the PCAOB's auditing standards;


(3) For institutions with total assets of less than $1 billion as of the beginning of their fiscal year that are public companies or subsidiaries of public companies that meet the criterion specified in § 363.1(b)(1), any independent public accountant's report on the audit of internal control over financial reporting required by section 404 of SOX and the PCAOB's auditing standards; and


(4) For all institutions that are public companies or subsidiaries of public companies that meet the criterion specified in § 363.1(b)(1), any independent public accountant's written communication of all deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that are of a lesser magnitude than significant deficiencies required by the PCAOB's auditing standards.


(d) *Notice of engagement or change of accountants.* Each insured depository institution shall provide, within 15 days after the occurrence of any such event, written notice to the FDIC, the appropriate Federal banking agency, and any appropriate State bank supervisor of the engagement of an independent public accountant, or the resignation or dismissal of the independent public accountant previously engaged. The notice shall include a statement of the reasons for any such resignation or dismissal in reasonable detail.


(e) *Notification of late filing.* No extensions of time for filing reports required by § 363.4 shall be granted. An insured depository institution that is unable to timely file all or any portion of its Part 363 Annual Report or any other report or notice required by § 363.4 shall submit a written notice of late filing to the FDIC, the appropriate Federal banking agency, and any appropriate State bank supervisor. The notice shall disclose the institution's inability to timely file all or specified portions of its Part 363 Annual Report or any other report or notice and the reasons therefore in reasonable detail. The late filing notice shall also state the date by which the report or notice will be filed. The written notice shall be filed on or before the deadline for filing the Part 363 Annual Report or any other report or notice, as appropriate.


(f) *Place for filing.* The Part 363 Annual Report, any written notification of late filing, and any other report or notice required by § 363.4 should be filed as follows:


(1) *FDIC:* Appropriate FDIC Regional or Area Office (Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection), *i.e.,* the FDIC regional or area office in the FDIC region or area that is responsible for monitoring the institution or, in the case of a subsidiary institution of a holding company, the consolidated company. A filing made on behalf of several covered institutions owned by the same parent holding company should be accompanied by a transmittal letter identifying all of the institutions covered.


(2) *Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC):* Appropriate OCC Supervisory Office.


(3) *Federal Reserve:* Appropriate Federal Reserve Bank.


(4) *Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS):* Appropriate OTS District Office.


(5) *State bank supervisor:* The filing office of the appropriate State bank supervisor.




