# ยง 628.32   What funding priorities does the Secretary use in evaluating an application for an endowment challenge grant?

In evaluating an endowment challenge grant application, the Secretary uses the following two priorities:


(a) *Recipient or former recipient of a grant under the Strengthening Institutions, Special Needs, Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Strengthening Historically Black Colleges and Universities, or Strengthening Historically Black Graduate Institutions Program.* (Total: 20 points) The Secretary gives 20 points to each applicant who on October 1 of the fiscal year in which the applicant is applying for an endowment challenge grant is a current recipient of a planning or development grant, or was a recipient of a planning or development grant within the five preceding fiscal years, under the Strengthening Institutions, Special Needs, Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Strengthening Historically Black Colleges and Universities, or Strengthening Historically Black Graduate Institutions Program.


(b) *Need for an endowment challenge grant as measured by the lack of endowment funds.* (Total: 20 points)


(1) The Secretary gives up to 20 total points to an applicant with the greatest need for an endowment challenge grant under this part, as measured by the applicant's lack of endowment funds.


(2) The Secretary gives up to 20 points to the applicant with the lowest market value, at the end of the applicant's fiscal year preceding the year it applies for an endowment challenge grant, of its existing endowment and quasi-endowment fund in relation to the number of full-time equivalent students enrolled at the institution in the fall of the year preceding the year it applies for an endowment challenge grant.


(3) In measuring the applicant's need for an endowment challenge grant, the Secretary excludes real estate from being considered as part of the applicant's existing endowment or quasi-endowment fund.



---

[N] [49 FR 28521, July 21, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 11258, Apr. 8, 1987; 58 FR 11163, Feb. 23, 1993; 59 FR 46175, Sept. 7, 1994]




