# § 1108.29   Decisions.

(a) *Technical requirements*—(1) *Findings of fact and conclusions of law.* An arbitration decision under this subpart shall be in writing and shall contain findings of fact and conclusions of law.


(2) *Compliance with confidentiality agreement.* The unredacted arbitration decision served on the parties in accordance with § 1108.27(c)(3) shall comply with the confidentiality agreement described in § 1108.27(f). As applicable, the arbitration panel shall also provide the parties with a redacted version(s) of the arbitration decision that redacts or omits confidential and/or highly confidential information as required by the governing confidentiality agreement.


(b) *Substantive requirements.* The arbitration panel under this subpart shall decide the issues of both market dominance and maximum lawful rate.


(1) *Market dominance.* (i) The arbitration panel shall determine if the carrier whose rate is the subject of the arbitration has market dominance based on evidence submitted by the parties, unless paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section applies.


(ii) Subject to § 1108.27(e)(2), in determining the issue of market dominance, the arbitration panel under this subpart shall follow, at the complainant's discretion, either the streamlined market dominance test or the non-streamlined market dominance test.


(iii) The arbitration panel shall issue its decision on market dominance as part of its final arbitration decision.


(iv) The arbitration panel shall not consider evidence of product and geographic competition when deciding market dominance.


(v) The arbitration panel shall not consider evidence on the Limit Price Test when deciding market dominance.


(vi) If a carrier concedes that it possesses market dominance, the arbitration panel need not make a determination on market dominance and need only address the maximum lawful rate in the arbitration decision. Additionally, the parties may jointly request that the Board determine market dominance prior to initiating arbitration under this part.


(2) *Maximum lawful rate.* Subject to the requirements on inadmissible evidence in § 1108.27(e)(2), in determining the issue of maximum lawful rate, the arbitration panel under this subpart shall consider the Board's methodologies for setting maximum lawful rates, giving due consideration to the need for differential pricing to permit a rail carrier to collect adequate revenues (as determined under 49 U.S.C. 10704(a)(2)). The arbitration panel may otherwise base its decision on the Board's existing rate review methodologies, revised versions of those methodologies, new methodologies, or market-based factors, including, for example: rate levels on comparative traffic; market factors for similar movements of the same commodity; and overall costs of providing the rail service. The arbitration panel's decision must be consistent with sound principles of rail regulation economics.


(3) *Agency precedent.* Decisions rendered by the arbitration panel under this subpart may be guided by, but need not be bound by, agency precedent.


(c) *Confidentiality of arbitration decision.* The arbitration decision under this part, whether redacted or unredacted, shall be confidential, subject to the limitations set forth in § 1108.31(d).


(1) No copy of the arbitration decision shall be served on the Board except as is required under § 1108.31(a)(1).


(2) The arbitrators and parties shall have a duty to maintain the confidentiality of the arbitration decision, whether redacted or unredacted, and shall not disclose any details of the arbitration decision unless, and only to the extent, required by law.


(d) *Arbitration decisions are binding.* (1) By arbitrating pursuant to the procedures under this part, each party to the arbitration agrees that the decision and award of the arbitration panel shall be binding and judicially enforceable in any court of appropriate jurisdiction, subject to the rights of appeal provided in § 1108.31.


(2) An arbitration decision under this subpart shall preclude the complainant(s) from filing any rate complaint for the movements at issue in the arbitration or instituting any other proceeding regarding the rates for the movements at issue in the arbitration, with the exception of appeals under § 1108.31. This preclusion shall last until the later of:


(i) Two years after the Joint Notice of Intent to Arbitrate; or


(ii) The expiration of the term of any prescription imposed by the arbitration decision.


(3) The preclusion will cease if the carrier increases the rate either: after a complainant is unsuccessful in arbitration or after a complainant has been awarded a prescription and the prescription has expired.


(e) *Confidential summaries of arbitrations; quarterly reports.* To permit the STB to monitor the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program, the parties shall submit a confidential summary of the arbitration to the Board's Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance (OPAGAC) within 14 days after either the arbitration decision is issued, the dispute settles, or the dispute is withdrawn. A confidential summary must be filed for any instance in which a complainant has submitted to the participating carrier a notice of intent to arbitrate, even if the parties did not reach the arbitration phase. The confidential summary itself shall not be published. OPAGAC will provide copies of the confidential summaries to the Board Members and other appropriate Board employees.


(1) *Contents of confidential summary.* The confidential summary shall provide only the following information to the Board with regard to the dispute arbitrated under this part:


(i) Geographic region of the movement(s) at issue;


(ii) Commodities shipped;


(iii) Number of calendar days from the commencement of the arbitration proceeding to the conclusion of the arbitration;


(iv) Resolution of the arbitration, limited to the following descriptions: settled, withdrawn, dismissed on market dominance, challenged rate(s) found unreasonable/reasonable; and


(v) Any agreement to a different relief cap or period than set forth in § 1108.28(b).


(2) *STB quarterly reports on Small Rate Case Arbitration Program.* The STB may publish public quarterly reports on the final disposition of arbitrated rate disputes under the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program.


(i) If issued, the Board's quarterly reports on the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program shall disclose only the five categories of information listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The parties to the arbitration who filed the confidential summary shall not be disclosed.


(ii) If issued, the Board's quarterly reports on the Small Rate Case Arbitration Program shall be posted on the Board's website.






