# § 668.195   Participation rate index appeals.

(a) *Eligibility.* (1) You may appeal a notice of a loss of eligibility under § 668.187(a)(1), based on one cohort default rate over 40 percent, if your participation rate index for that cohort's fiscal year is equal to or less than 0.06015. 


(2) You may appeal a notice of a loss of eligibility under § 668.187(a)(2), based on three cohort default rates of 25 percent or greater, if your participation rate index is equal to or less than 0.0375 for any of those three cohorts' fiscal years. 


(b) *Calculating your participation rate index.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, your participation rate index for a fiscal year is determined by multiplying your cohort default rate for that fiscal year by the percentage that is derived by dividing— 


(i) The number of students who received an FFELP or a Direct Loan Program loan to attend your institution during a period of enrollment, as defined in 34 CFR 682.200 or 685.102, that overlaps any part of a 12-month period that ended during the 6 months immediately preceding the cohort's fiscal year, by


(ii) The number of regular students who were enrolled at your institution on at least a half-time basis during any part of the same 12-month period. 


(2) If your cohort default rate for a fiscal year is calculated as an average rate under § 668.183(d)(2), you may calculate your participation rate index for that fiscal year using either that average rate or the cohort default rate that would be calculated for the fiscal year alone using the method described in § 668.183(d)(1). 


(c) *Deadline for submitting an appeal.* You must send us your appeal under this section, including all supporting documentation, within 30 days after you receive the notice of your loss of eligibility. 


(d) *Determination.* (1) You do not lose eligibility under § 668.187 if we determine that you meet the requirements for a participation rate index appeal. 


(2) If we determine that your participation rate index for a fiscal year is equal to or less than 0.0375, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, we also excuse you from any subsequent loss of eligibility under § 668.187(a)(2) that would be based on the official cohort default rate for that fiscal year.


