# § 1209.38   Records.

(a) *Establishment and maintenance.* Each manufacturer, importer, and private labeler of cellulose insulation subject to the standard shall establish and maintain the following records which shall be available to any designated officer or employee of the Commission upon request in accordance with section 16(b) of the act (15 U.S.C. 2965(b)):


(1) A record of each product specification containing all information required by § 1209.35. (This includes information concerning the types of qualification tests as well as the results from these tests.)


(2) Records to demonstrate compliance with the requirements for production testing in § 1209.36, including a description of the types of production tests conducted and the production interval selected for performance of each production test.


(3) Records of all corrective actions taken in accordance with § 1209.37, including the specific action taken, the date the action was taken, and the test failure which necessitated the action. Records of corrective action must relate the corrective action taken to the product specification of the insulation product which was the subject of that corrective action, and the product specification of any new product which results from any corrective action.


(4) Records indicating exactly which insulation material is covered by each certificate of compliance issued.


(b) *Retention*—(1) *Product specification.* The records of each product specification shall be retained for as long as the cellulose insulation covered by that specification is manufactured and for a period of two (2) years thereafter.


(2) *Other records.* Records of production testing, corrective actions taken, and certificates issued shall be maintained for a period of two (2) years.


(c) *Confidentiality.* Requests for confidentiality of records provided to the Commission will be handled in accordance with section 6(a)(2) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2055(a)(2)), the Freedom of Information Act as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), and the Commission's regulations under that act (16 CFR part 1015, February 22, 1977).




