# § 435.907   Application.

(a) *Basis and implementation.* In accordance with section 1413(b)(1)(A) of the Affordable Care Act, the agency must accept an application from the applicant, an adult who is in the applicant's household, as defined in § 435.603(f), or family, as defined in section 36B(d)(1) of the Code, an authorized representative, or if the applicant is a minor or incapacitated, someone acting responsibly for the applicant, and any documentation required to establish eligibility—


(1) Via the internet Web site described in § 435.1200(f) of this part;


(2) By telephone;


(3) Via mail;


(4) In person; and


(5) Through other commonly available electronic means.


(b) The application must be—


(1) The single, streamlined application for all insurance affordability programs developed by the Secretary; or


(2) An alternative single, streamlined application for all insurance affordability programs, which may be no more burdensome on the applicant than the application described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, approved by the Secretary.


(c) For individuals applying, or who may be eligible, for assistance on a basis other than the applicable MAGI standard in accordance with § 435.911(c)(2) of this part, the agency may use either—


(1) An application described in paragraph (b) of this section and supplemental forms to collect additional information needed to determine eligibility on such other basis; or


(2) An application designed specifically to determine eligibility on a basis other than the applicable MAGI standard. Such application must minimize burden on applicants.


(3) Any MAGI-exempt applications and supplemental forms in use by the agency must be submitted to the Secretary.


(4) Any MAGI-exempt applications and supplemental forms must be accepted through all modalities described at paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *Requesting information from applicants.* (1) If the agency needs to request additional information from the applicant to determine and verify eligibility in accordance with § 435.911, the agency must—


(i) Provide applicants with a reasonable period of time of no less than 15 calendar days, measured from the date the agency sends the request, to respond and provide any necessary information;


(ii) Allow applicants to provide requested information through any of the modes of submission specified in paragraph (a) of this section; and


(iii) If the applicant subsequently submits the additional information within 90 calendar days after the date of denial, or a longer period elected by the agency, treat the additional information as a new application and reconsider eligibility in accordance with the application time standards at § 435.912(c)(3) without requiring a new application; and


(2) The agency may not require an in-person interview as part of the application process.


(e) *Limits on information.* (1) The agency may only require an applicant to provide the information necessary to make an eligibility determination or for a purpose directly connected to the administration of the State plan.


(2) The agency may request information necessary to determine eligibility for other insurance affordability or benefit programs.


(3) The agency may request a non-applicant's SSN provided that—


(i) Provision of such SSN is voluntary;


(ii) Such SSN is used only to determine an applicant's or beneficiary's eligibility for Medicaid or other insurance affordability program or for a purpose directly connected to the administration of the State plan; and


(iii) At the time such SSN is requested, the agency provides clear notice to the individual seeking assistance, or person acting on such individual's behalf, that provision of the non-applicant's SSN is voluntary and information regarding how the SSN will be used.


(f) The agency must require that all initial applications are signed under penalty of perjury. Electronic, including telephonically recorded, signatures and handwritten signatures transmitted via any other electronic transmission must be accepted.


(g) Any application or supplemental form must be accessible to persons who are limited English proficient and persons who have disabilities, consistent with § 435.905(b) of this subpart.


(h) *Reinstatement of withdrawn applications.* (1) In the case of individuals described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the agency must reinstate the application submitted by the individual, effective as of the date the application was first received by the Exchange.


(2) Individuals described in this paragraph are individuals who—


(i) Submitted an application described in paragraph (b) of this section to the Exchange;


(ii) Withdrew their application for Medicaid in accordance with 45 CFR 155.302(b)(4)(A);


(iii) Are assessed as potentially eligible for Medicaid by the Exchange appeals entity.



---

[N] [77 FR 17208, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 42302, July 15, 2013; 89 FR 22867, Apr. 2, 2024]




