# ยง 51.15   What data does my state need to report to EPA?

(a) *Pollutants.* Report actual emissions of the following (see ยง 51.50 for precise definitions as required):


(1) Required pollutants for triennial reports of annual (12-month) emissions for all sources and every-year reports of annual emissions from Type A sources:


(i) Sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(ii) Volatile organic compounds (VOC).


(iii) Nitrogen oxides (NO_X_).


(iv) Carbon monoxide (CO).


(v) Lead and lead compounds.


(vi) Primary PM_2.5_. As applicable, also report filterable and condensable components.


(vii) Primary PM_10_. As applicable, also report filterable and condensable components.


(viii) Ammonia (NH_3_).


(2) A state may, at its option, choose to report NO_X_ and VOC summer day emissions (or any other emissions) as required under the Ozone Implementation Rule or report CO winter work weekday emissions for CO nonattainment areas or CO attainment areas with maintenance plans to the Emission Inventory System (EIS) using the data elements described in this subpart.


(3) A state may, at its option, choose to report ozone season day emissions of NO_X_ as required under the NO_X_ SIP Call and summer day emissions of NO_X_ that may be required under the NO_X_ SIP Call for controlled sources to the EIS using the data elements described in this subpart.


(4) A state may, at its option, include estimates of emissions for additional pollutants (such as hazardous air pollutants) in its emission inventory reports.


(b) *Sources.* Emissions should be reported from the following sources in all parts of the state, excluding sources located on tribal lands:


(1) Point.


(2) *Nonpoint.* States may choose to meet the requirements for some of their nonpoint sources by accepting the EPA's estimates for the sources for which the EPA makes calculations. In such instances, states are encouraged to review and update the activity values or other calculational inputs used by the EPA for these sources.


(3) *Onroad and Nonroad mobile.* (i) Emissions for onroad and nonroad mobile sources must be reported as inputs to the latest EPA-developed mobile emissions models, such as the Motor Vehicle Emissions Simulator (MOVES) for onroad sources or the NMIM for nonroad sources. States using these models may report, at their discretion, emissions values computed from these models in addition to the model inputs.


(ii) In lieu of submitting model inputs for onroad and nonroad mobile sources, California must submit emissions values.


(iii) In lieu of submitting any data, states may accept existing EPA emission estimates.


(4) Emissions for wild and prescribed fires are not required to be reported by states. If states wish to optionally report these sources, they must be reported to the events data category. The events data category is a day-specific accounting of these large-scale but usually short duration emissions. Submissions must include both daily emissions estimates as well as daily acres burned values. In lieu of submitting this information, states may accept the EPA estimates or they may submit inputs (*e.g.,* acres burned, fuel loads) for us to use in the EPA's estimation approach.


(c) *Supporting information.* You must report the data elements in Tables 2a and 2b in Appendix A of this subpart. We may ask you for other data on a voluntary basis to meet special purposes.


(d) *Confidential data.* We do not consider the data in Tables 2a and 2b in Appendix A of this subpart confidential, but some states limit release of these types of data. Any data that you submit to EPA under this subpart will be considered in the public domain and cannot be treated as confidential. If Federal and state requirements are inconsistent, consult your EPA Regional Office for a final reconciliation.



---

[N] [73 FR 76552, Dec. 17, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 8795, Feb. 19, 2015]




