# § 1990.142   Initiation of a rulemaking.

Where the Secretary decides to regulate a potential occupational carcinogen, the Secretary shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding in accordance with one of the following procedures, as appropriate. 


(a) *Notice of proposed rulemakings (section 6(b) of the Act)*—(1) *General.* The Secretary may issue a notice of proposed rulemaking in the _Federal Register,_ pursuant to section 6(b) of the Act and part 1911 of this chapter. The notice shall provide for no more than a sixty (60) day comment period, and may provide for a hearing, which shall be scheduled for no later than one hundred (100) days after publication of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. The commencement of the hearing may be postponed once, for no more than thirty (30) days, for good cause shown. 


(2) *Provisions of the proposed standard for Category I Potential Carcinogens.* Whenever the Secretary issues a notice of proposed rulemaking to regulate a substance as a Category I Potential Carcinogen: 


(i) The proposed standard shall contain at least provisions for scope and application, definitions, notification of use, a permissible exposure limit, monitoring, regulated areas, methods of compliance including the development of a compliance plan, respiratory protection, protective clothing and equipment, housekeeping, waste disposal, hygiene facilities, medical surveillance, employee information and training, signs and labels, recordkeeping, and employee observation of monitoring as set forth in § 1990.151, unless the Secretary explains why any or all such provisions are not appropriate; 


(ii) The model standard set forth in § 1990.151 shall be used as a guideline, and 


(iii) The permissible exposure limit shall be achieved primarily through engineering and work practice controls except that if a suitable substitute is available for one or more uses no occupational exposure shall be permitted for those uses.


(3) *Provisions of the proposed standard for Category II Potential Carcinogens.* Whenever the Secretary issues a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to regulate a substance as a Category II Potential Carcinogen: 


(i) The proposed standard shall contain at least provisions for scope and application, definitions, notification of use, monitoring, respiratory protection, protective clothing and equipment, housekeeping, waste disposal, medical surveillance, employee information and training, recordkeeping and employee observation of monitoring as set forth in § 1990.151, unless the Secretary explains why any or all such provisions are not appropriate; and 


(ii) The model standard set forth in § 1990.151 shall be used as a guideline; and 


(iii) Worker exposure to Category II Potential Carcinogens will be reduced as appropriate and consistent with the statutory requirements on a case-by-case basis in the individual rulemaking proceedings. Any permissible exposure level so established shall be met primarily through engineering and work practice controls. 


(b) *Emergency temporary standards (section 6(c) of the Act)*—(1) *General.* The Secretary may issue an Emergency Temporary Standard (ETS) for a Category I Potential Carcinogen in accordance with section 6(c) of the Act. 


(2) *Provisions of the ETS.* (i) The ETS shall contain at least provisions for scope and application, definitions, notification of use, a permissible exposure limit, monitoring, methods of compliance including the development of a compliance plan, respiratory protection, protective clothing and equipment, housekeeping, waste disposal, medical surveillance, employee information and training, signs and labels, recordkeeping and employee observation of monitoring, unless the Secretary explains why any or all such provisions are not appropriate. 


(ii) The model standard set forth in § 1990.152 shall be used as a guideline. 


(iii) The permissible exposure limit shall be achieved through any practicable combination of engineering controls, work practice controls and respiratory protection.



---

[N] [45 FR 5282, Jan. 22, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 5881, Jan. 21, 1981]




