# § 721.11250   Substituted carboxylic acid, polymer with 2,4-diisocyanato- 1-methylbenzene, hexanedioic acid, alpha-hydro-omega-hydroxypoly [oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], 1,1'-methylenebis[4- isocyanatobenzene], 2,2'-oxybis[ethanol], 1,1'-oxybis[2-propanol] and 1,2-propanediol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as substituted carboxylic acid, polymer with 2,4-diisocyanato- 1-methylbenzene, hexanedioic acid, alpha-hydro-omega-hydroxypoly [oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], 1,1′-methylenebis[4- isocyanatobenzene], 2,2′-oxybis[ethanol], 1,1′-oxybis[2-propanol] and 1,2-propanediol) (PMN P-17-239) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o). It is a significant new use to use the substance involving spray application that results in inhalation exposures. It is a significant new use to manufacture (includes importing) the substance to contain more than 20% residual isocyanate by weight.


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=33.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, including importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 15957, Mar. 20, 2020]




