# § 52.2233   Significant deterioration of air quality.

(a)(1) Paragraph 1200-3-9-.01(4)-(0)-2. of Tennessee's regulations is disapproved because it does not require that the consent of the Governor(s) of affected states be obtained when innovative technology waivers are granted. EPA retains permitting authority for sources requesting innovative technology waivers which would significantly impact air quality in adjacent states.


(2) Tennessee's definition of *stationary source* specifically excludes *the activities of any Vessel.* This exclusion is not currently approvable and EPA is deferring action on it pending final rulemaking on the issue. EPA retains authority for permits which involve vessel emissions where a source is not willing to include all vessel emissions in the definition of source.


(b) The requirements of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are hereby incorporated and made part of the applicable SIP for the State of Tennessee for the following purposes: 


(1) Permitting of sources requesting innovative technology waivers which would significantly impact air quality in adjacent states.


(2) Permitting of sources involving vessel emissions where the source is unwilling to include all vessel emissions in the definition of source.


(c) All applications and other information required pursuant to § 52.21 from sources located in the State of Tennessee shall be submitted to the appropriate state or local agency for which the source is located, rather than to EPA's Region 4 office: Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, Division of Air Pollution Control, William R. Snodgrass Tennessee Tower, 312 Rosa L. Parks Avenue, 15th Floor, Nashville, Tennessee 37243; Knox County Air Quality Management—Department of Public Health, 140 Dameron Avenue, Knoxville, Tennessee 37917; Metro Public Health Department, Pollution Control Division, 2500 Charlotte Ave., Nashville, Tennessee 37209; Chattanooga-Hamilton County Air Pollution Control Bureau, 6125 Preservation Drive, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37416; or Shelby County Health Department, Pollution Control Section, 814 Jefferson Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38105.



---

[N] [42 FR 36456, July 15, 1977, and 43 FR 26410, June 19, 1978, as amended at 50 FR 7779, Feb. 26, 1985; 68 FR 11324, Mar. 10, 2003; 68 FR 74490, Dec. 24, 2003; 74 FR 55144, Oct. 27, 2009; 79 FR 30052, May 27, 2014; 82 FR 32646, July 17, 2017]




