# ยง 162.92   Notice of seizure.

(a) *Generally.* Customs will send written notice of seizure as provided in this section to all known interested parties as soon as practicable. Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section, in no case may notice be sent more than 60 calendar days after the date of seizure. Any notice issued under this section will include all information that is required by ยง 162.31(a) and (b) of this part. 


(b) *Seizure by state or local authorities.* In a case in which property is seized by a state or local law enforcement agency and turned over to Customs for the purpose of forfeiture under Federal law, notice will be sent not more than 90 calendar days after the date of seizure by the State or local law enforcement agency. 


(c) *Identity or interest of party not determined.* If the identity or interest of a party is not determined until after the seizure or turnover, but it is determined before a declaration of forfeiture, notice will be sent to such interested party not later than 60 calendar days after the determination by Customs of the identity of the party or the party's interest. 


(d) *Extensions.* (1) The Assistant Secretary, Immigration and Customs Enforcement or the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection for cases within their respective agencies, or their successors or designees, may extend the period for sending notice under this section for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days, if it is determined that issuance of the notice within 60 calendar days of seizure may have an adverse result, including: 


(i) Endangering the life or physical safety of an individual; 


(ii) Flight from prosecution; 


(iii) Destruction of or tampering with evidence; 


(iv) Intimidation of potential witnesses; or 


(v) Otherwise seriously jeopardizing an investigation or unduly delaying a trial. 


(2) The period for sending notice of seizure as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section may not be further extended except by order of a court of competent jurisdiction as prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(e) *Extensions by a court.* Upon motion by the Government, a court of competent jurisdiction may extend the period for sending notice for a period not to exceed 60 calendar days. This period may be further extended by the court for additional 60 calendar-day periods, as necessary, if the court determines, based on a written certification of the Assistant Commissioner, Investigations, or designee, that the conditions set forth in paragraph (d) of this section are present. 



---

[N] [T.D. 00-88, 65 FR 78091, Dec. 14, 2000, as amended by USCBP-2006-0122, 73 FR 9012, Feb. 19, 2007]




