# § 193.13   What is the no-notice procedure?

This section states the no-notice procedure for the FAA to designate information as protected under this part. This procedure is used when there is an immediate safety or security need for the information. This procedure generally is used for specific information that you will provide on a short-term basis.


(a) *Application.* You may request that the FAA designate information you are offering as protected under this part. You must state your name, at least the general nature of information, and whether you will provide the information without the protection of this part. Your request may be verbal or writing.


(b) *Designation.* The FAA issues a written order designating information provided under this section as protected under this part. The FAA designates the information as protected under this part if the FAA—


(1) Makes the findings as § 193.7; and


(2) Finds that there is an immediate safety or security need to obtain the information without carrying out the procedures in § 193.11 of this part.


(c) *Time limit.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, no designation under this section continues in effect for more than 60 days after the date of designation. Information provided during the time the designation was in effect remains protected under this part. Information provided that the designation ceases to be in effect is not protected under this part. The designation remains in effect for more than 60 days if—


(1) The procedures to designate such information under § 193.11(a) have been initiated, or


(2) There is an ongoing enforcement or criminal investigation, in which case the designation may continue until the investigation is completed.


(d) *Amendment of designation.* The FAA may amend a designation under this section using the procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(e) *Withdrawal of designation.* The FAA may withdraw a designation under this section at any time the FAA finds that continuation does not meet the elements of § 193.7, or if the requirements of the designation are not met. The FAA withdraws the designation by notifying the person in writing that the designation is withdrawn. The withdrawal is effective on the date of receipt of the notice or such later date as the notice may state. Information provided during the time the designation was in effect remains protected under this part. Information provided after the withdrawal is effective is not protected under this part.




