# ยง 15.13   Demand for testimony or production of documents: Department procedures.

(a) *General.* No employee, in response to a demand, shall produce any documents or information of the Department, or provide testimony regarding any information relating to, or based upon Department documents, or disclose any information or produce documents acquired or generated as part of the performance of that employee's official duties or because of that employee's official status without the prior authorization of the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel.


(b) *Notifications.* (1) A demand for the testimony of an employee or for the production of documents of the Department shall be made in writing and addressed to the Assistant General Counsel for Employment, Litigation, and Information, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401 Constitution Avenue NW, Room 5896, Washington, DC 20230; or by email to: *Touhy@doc.gov;* or to appropriate agency counsel.


(2) The process for any demand for testimony of an employee or for the production of documents of the USPTO can be found at 37 CFR 104.21 through 104.24, and any such demands should be sent directly to the USPTO, in accordance with ยง 15.11(d).


(c) *Employee procedure.* Whenever a Department employee receives an inquiry or demand for testimony or production of documents, that employee shall not respond, and shall immediately notify the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Employment, Litigation, and Information as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or appropriate agency counsel, and provide a copy of the demand. An employee may not answer inquiries from a person not employed by the Department regarding testimony or documents subject to a demand or a potential demand under the provisions of this subpart without the approval of the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel.


(d) *Subpoenas.* A subpoena for testimony or production of documents by a Department employee must be served in person, at the office or home, or by mail in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil or Criminal Procedure or applicable state procedure. Service solely by electronic means is not authorized. If service is made upon anyone other than the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel, then a copy of the subpoena shall also be contemporaneously sent to the General Counsel at the appropriate addresses in paragraph (b) of this section, or appropriate agency counsel.


(1) An employee who receives such a subpoena shall not respond and shall immediately forward the subpoena to the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Employment, Litigation, and Information or the appropriate agency counsel. The General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel will determine the extent to which a Department employee will comply with the subpoena.


(2) If the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel determines that an employee should not comply with a properly-served subpoena, the General Counsel or agency counsel will attempt to have the subpoena withdrawn or modified. If this cannot be done with regard to a subpoena for documents, the Department will provide the tribunal with an objections letter or other notification that the documents will not be produced. If this cannot be done with regard to a subpoena for testimony, the General Counsel or appropriate agency counsel will attempt to obtain U.S. Department of Justice representation for the employee and move to have the subpoena modified or quashed. If, because of time constraints, this is not possible prior to the compliance date specified in the subpoena, the employee should appear at the time and place set forth in the subpoena. If legal counsel cannot appear on behalf of the employee, the employee should produce a copy of the Department's regulations in this subpart and inform the legal tribunal that the employee has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony and/or produce documents. If the legal tribunal rules that the demand in the subpoena must be complied with, the employee shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand. *United States ex rel. Touhy* v. *Ragen,* 340 U.S. 462 (1951).



---

[N] [87 FR 162, Jan. 4, 2022]








