# ยง 192.59   Plastic pipe.

(a) New plastic pipe is qualified for use under this part if:


(1) It is manufactured in accordance with a listed specification;


(2) It is resistant to chemicals with which contact may be anticipated; and


(3) It is free of visible defects.


(b) Used plastic pipe is qualified for use under this part if:


(1) It was manufactured in accordance with a listed specification; 


(2) It is resistant to chemicals with which contact may be anticipated; 


(3) It has been used only in gas service;


(4) Its dimensions are still within the tolerances of the specification to which it was manufactured; and 


(5) It is free of visible defects. 


(c) For the purpose of paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section, where pipe of a diameter included in a listed specification is impractical to use, pipe of a diameter between the sizes included in a listed specification may be used if it:


(1) Meets the strength and design criteria required of pipe included in that listed specification; and 


(2) Is manufactured from plastic compounds which meet the criteria for material required of pipe included in that listed specification.


(d) Rework and/or regrind material is not allowed in plastic pipe produced after March 6, 2015 used under this part.



---

[N] [35 FR 13257, Aug. 19, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 192-19, 40 FR 10472, Mar. 6, 1975; Amdt. 192-58, 53 FR 1635, Jan. 21, 1988; Amdt. 192-119, 80 FR 180, Jan. 5, 2015; Amdt. 192-124, 83 FR 58716, Nov. 20, 2018]




