# § 65.3   Definitions.

As used in this rule:


(a) *Advisory Council* means the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, established by the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470 *et seq.).* Address: Executive Director, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, 1522 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20005.


(b) *Chief elected local official* means the mayor, county judge or otherwise titled chief elected administrative official who is the elected head of the local political jurisdiction in which the property is located.


(c) *Advisory Board* means the National Park System Advisory Board which is a body of authorities in several fields of knowledge appointed by the Secretary under authority of the Historic Sites Act of 1935, as amended.


(d) *District* means a geographically definable area, urban or rural, that possesses a significant concentration, linkage or continuity of sites, buildings, structures or objects united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically but linked by association or history.


(e) *Endangered property* means a historic property which is or is about to be subjected to a major impact that will destroy or seriously damage the resources which make it eligible for National Historic Landmark designation.


(f) *Federal Preservation Officer* means the official designated by the head of each Federal agency responsible for coordinating that agency's activities under the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended, including nominating properties under that agency's ownership or control to the National Register.


(g) *Keeper* means the Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places.


(h) *Landmark* means National Historic Landmark and is a district, site, building, structure or object, in public or private ownership, judged by the Secretary to possess national significance in American history, archeology, architecture, engineering and culture, and so designated by him.


(i) *National Register* means the National Register of Historic Places, which is a register of districts, sites, buildings, structures and objects significant in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering and culture, maintained by the Secretary. (Section 2(b) of the Historic Sites Act of 1935 (49 Stat. 666, 16 U.S.C. 461) and section 101(a)(1) of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 915; 16 U.S.C. 470), as amended.) (Address: Chief, Interagency Resource Management Division, 440 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20243.)


(j) *National Historic Landmarks Program* means the program which identifies, designates, recognizes, lists, and monitors National Historic Landmarks conducted by the Secretary through the National Park Service. (Address: Chief, History Division, National Park Service, Washington, DC 20240; addresses of other participating divisions found throughout these regulations.)


(k) *Object* means a material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.


(l) *Owner* or *owners* means those individuals, partnerships, corporations or public agencies holding fee simple title to property. “Owner” or “owners” does not include individuals, partnerships, corporations or public agencies holding easements or less than fee interests (including leaseholds) of any nature.


(m) *Property* means a site, building, object, structure or a collection of the above which form a district.


(n) *Site* means the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.


(o) *State official* means the person who has been designated in each State to administer the State Historic Preservation Program.


(p) *Structure* means a work made by human beings and composed of interdependent and interrelated parts in a definite pattern of organization.



---

[N] [48 FR 4655, Feb. 2, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 30235, June 3, 1997]




