# 25.503   Group offers.

(a) If the solicitation or an offer specifies that award can be made only on a group of line items or on all line items contained in the solicitation or offer, reject the offer—


(1) If any part of the award would consist of prohibited end products (see subpart 25.7); or


(2) If the acquisition is covered by the WTO GPA and any part of the offer consists of items restricted in accordance with 25.403(c).


(b) If an offer restricts award to a group of line items or to all line items contained in the offer, determine for each line item whether to apply an evaluation factor (see 25.504-4, Example 1).


(1) First, evaluate offers that do not specify an award restriction on a line item basis in accordance with 25.502, determining a tentative award pattern by selecting for each line item the offer with the lowest evaluated price.


(2) Evaluate an offer that specifies an award restriction against the offered prices of the tentative award pattern, applying the appropriate evaluation factor on a line item basis.


(3) Compute the total evaluated price for the tentative award pattern and the offer that specified an award restriction.


(4) Unless the total evaluated price of the offer that specified an award restriction is less than the total evaluated price of the tentative award pattern, award based on the tentative award pattern.


(c) If the solicitation specifies that award will be made only on a group of line items or all line items contained in the solicitation, determine the category of end products on the basis of each line item, but determine whether to apply an evaluation factor on the basis of the group of items (see 25.504-4, Example 2).


(1) If the proposed price of domestic end products exceeds 50 percent of the total proposed price of the group, evaluate the entire group as a domestic offer. Evaluate all other groups as foreign offers.


(2) For foreign offers, if the proposed price of domestic end products and eligible products exceeds 50 percent of the total proposed price of the group, evaluate the entire group as an eligible offer.


(3) Apply the evaluation factor to the entire group in accordance with 25.502.


(d) If no trade agreement applies to a solicitation and the solicitation specifies that award will be made only on a group of line items or all line items contained in the solicitation, determine the category of end products (*i.e.,* domestic or foreign) on the basis of each line item, but determine whether to apply an evaluation factor on the basis of the group of items (*see* 25.504-4(c), Example 3).


(1) If the proposed price of domestic end products exceeds 50 percent of the total proposed price of the group, evaluate the entire group as a domestic offer. Evaluate all other groups as foreign offers.


(2) Apply the evaluation factor to the entire group in accordance with 25.502, except where 25.502(c)(4) applies and the evaluated price of the low offer remains less than the lowest domestic offer. Where the evaluated price of the low offer remains less than the lowest domestic offer, treat as a domestic offer any group where the proposed price of end products with a domestic content of at least 55 percent exceeds 50 percent of the total proposed price of the group.


(3) Apply the evaluation factor to the entire group in accordance with 25.502(c)(4).





---

[N] [64 FR 72419, Dec. 27, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 77875, Dec. 28, 2004; 71 FR 20306, Apr. 19, 2006; 87 FR 12793, Mar. 7, 2022]




