# § 48.3   What definitions apply to terms in this part?

*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or his or her designee.


*Bureau* means the Bureau of Indian Education.


*Bureau-operated school* means a day or boarding school, a dormitory for students attending a school other than a Bureau school, or an institution of higher learning and associated facilities operated by the Bureau. This term does not include public schools, Public Law 100-297 Tribally controlled schools, or Public Law 93-638 contract or grant schools.


*Construction* means construction of new facilities, modification, or alteration of existing grounds or building structures.


*Days* means calendar days unless otherwise specified.


*Director* means the Director, Bureau of Indian Education.


*Director's designee* or *designee* means the Associate Deputy Director—Navajo Schools or Associate Deputy Director—Bureau-Operated Schools.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*Donation* means something of value (*e.g.,* funds, land, personal property) received from a non-Federal source without consideration or an exchange of value.


*Employee* means an employee of the Bureau working at a Bureau-operated school.


*Facilities* means land or facilities authorized for use by a Bureau-operated school.


*Funds* means money.


*Fundraising* means requesting donations, selling items, or providing a service, activity, or event to raise funds, except that writing a grant proposal to secure resources to support school purposes is not fundraising. Fundraising does not include requests for donated supplies, materials, in-kind services, or funds (*e.g.,* fees for school activities) that schools traditionally require or request parents and guardians of students to provide.


*Head of the School* means the Principal, President, School Supervisor, Residential Life Director, Superintendent of the School, or equivalent head of a Bureau-operated school.


*Lease* means a written contract or rental agreement executed in accordance with this part, granting the possession and use of facilities at a Bureau-operated school to a private or public person or entity in return for funds.


*Private person or entity* means an individual who is not acting on behalf of a public person or entity and includes, but is not limited to, private companies, nonprofit organizations and any other entity not included in the definition of public person or entity.


*Public person or entity* means a State, local, Federal, or Tribal governmental agency or unit thereof.


*School purposes* means lawful activities and purchases for the benefit of students and school operations including, but not limited to: Academic, residential, and extra-curricular programs during or outside of the normal school day and year; books, supplies or equipment for school use; building construction, maintenance and/or operations; landscape construction, modifications, or maintenance on the school grounds.




