# § 72.22   Alternate designated representative.

(a) The certificate of representation may designate one and only one alternate designated representative, who may act on behalf of the designated representative. The agreement by which the alternate designated representative is selected shall include a procedure for the owners and operators of the source and affected units at the source to authorize the alternate designated representative to act in lieu of the designated representative.


(b) Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete certificate of representation that meets the requirements of § 72.24 (including those applicable to the alternate designated representative), any representation, action, inaction, or submission by the alternate designated representative shall be deemed to be an action, representation, or failure to act by the designated representative.


(c) In the event of a conflict, any action taken by the designated representative shall take precedence over any action taken by the alternate designated representative if, in the Administrator's judgement, the actions are concurrent and conflicting.


(d) Except in this section, § 72.23, and § 72.24, whenever the term “designated representative” is used under the Acid Rain Program, the term shall be construed to include the alternate designated representative.


(e)(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the certification of representation may designate two alternate designated representatives for a unit if:


(i) The unit and at least one other unit, which are located in two or more of the contiguous 48 States or the District of Columbia, each have a utility system that is a subsidiary of the same company; and


(ii) The designated representative for the units under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section submits a NO_X_ averaging plan under § 76.11 of this chapter that covers such units and is approved by the permitting authority, *provided* that the approved plan remains in effect.


(2) Except in this paragraph (e), whenever the term “alternate designated representative” is used under the Acid Rain Program, the term shall be construed to include either of the alternate designated representatives authorized under this paragraph (e). Except in this section, § 72.23, and § 72.24, whenever the term “designated representative” is used under the Acid Rain Program, the term shall be construed to include either of the alternate designated representatives authorized under this paragraph (e).



---

[N] [58 FR 3650, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 55480, Oct. 24, 1997; 71 FR 25378, Apr. 28, 2006]




