# § 1702.3   Procedures governing acceptance of service of process.

(a) Service of process upon the ODNI or an ODNI employee in the employee's official capacity.


(1) Personal service. Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the General Counsel, personal service of process upon the ODNI or an ODNI employee in the employee's official capacity, may be accepted only by an OGC attorney at ODNI Headquarters. The OGC attorney shall write or stamp “Service Accepted In Official Capacity Only” on the return of service form.


(2) Mail service. Where service of process by registered or certified mail is authorized by law, only an OGC attorney may accept such service of process upon the ODNI or an ODNI employee in the employee's official capacity, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the General Counsel. The OGC attorney shall write or stamp, “Service Accepted In Official Capacity Only,” on the waiver of personal service form. Service of process by mail must be addressed to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Office of General Counsel, Washington, DC 20511, and the envelope must be conspicuously marked “Service of Process.”


(b) Service of process upon an ODNI employee solely in the employee's individual capacity.


(1) *Generally.* ODNI employees will not be required to accept service of process in their purely individual capacity on ODNI facilities or premises.


(2) *Personal Service.* Subject to the sole discretion of the General Counsel, process servers generally will not be allowed to enter ODNI facilities or premises for the purpose of serving process upon an ODNI employee solely in the employee's individual capacity. Except for the DNI, the Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, and the Director of the Intelligence Staff, the OGC is not authorized to accept service of process on behalf of any ODNI employee in the employee's individual capacity.


(3) *Mail Service.* Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the General Counsel, ODNI employees are not authorized to accept or forward mailed service of process directed to another ODNI employee in that employee's individual capacity. Any such process will be returned to the sender via appropriate postal channels.


(c) Service of Process Upon an ODNI employee in a combined official and individual capacity. Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the General Counsel, service of process, in person or by mail, upon an ODNI employee in the employee's combined official and individual capacity, may be accepted only for the ODNI employee in the employee's official capacity by an OGC attorney at ODNI Headquarters. The OGC attorney shall write or stamp, “Service Accepted In Official Capacity Only,” on the return of service form.


(d) Acceptance of service of process shall not constitute an admission or waiver with respect to jurisdiction, propriety of service, improper venue or any other defense in law or equity available under the laws or rules applicable to the service of process.




