# § 1900.23   Payment of fees, notification of decision, and right of appeal.

(a) *Fees in general.* Fees collected under this part do not accrue to the Central Intelligence Agency and shall be deposited immediately to the general account of the United States Treasury.


(b) *Notification of decision.* Upon completion of all required review and the receipt of accrued fees (or promise to pay such fees), the Agency will promptly inform the requester of its determination regarding the request. With respect to any records that the Agency determines may be released, the Agency will provide copies. For any records or portions of records that the Agency determines must be denied, the Agency shall explain the reasons for the denial, identify the person(s) responsible for such decisions by name and title, and give notice of a right of administrative appeal.


(c) *Availability of reading room.* As an alternative to receiving records by mail, a requester may arrange to inspect the records deemed releasable at a CIA “reading room” in the metropolitan Washington, DC, area. Access will be granted after applicable and accrued fees have been paid. All such requests shall be in writing and addressed pursuant to § 1900.03. The records will be available at such times as mutually agreed but not less than three (3) business days from our receipt of a request. The requester will be responsible for duplication charges for any copies of records desired. The Agency has an electronic FOIA reading room on its website, located at *www.cia.gov/readingroom,* which contains records that the Agency has previously publicly released under FOIA as well as under other information review and release activities.




