# § 416.1131   The one-third reduction rule.

(a) *What the rule is.* Instead of determining the actual dollar value of in-kind support and maintenance, we count one-third of the Federal benefit rate as additional income if you (or you and your eligible spouse)—


(1) Live in another person's household (see § 416.1132) for a full calendar month except for temporary absences (see § 416.1149); and


(2) Receive shelter from others living in the household. (If you do not receive shelter from others living in the household, see § 416.1140); and


(3) Others within the household pay for or provide you with all of your meals. If others within the household do not pay for or provide you with all of your meals, any ISM received for shelter will be calculated under the PMV rule (see § 416.1140).


(b) *How we apply the one-third reduction rule.* The one-third reduction applies in full or not at all. When you are living in another person's household, and the one-third reduction rule applies, we do not apply any income exclusions to the reduction amount. However, we do apply appropriate exclusions to any other earned or unearned income you receive. If you have an eligible spouse we apply the rules described in § 416.1147.


(c) *If you receive other support and maintenance.* If the one-third reduction rule applies to you, we do not count any other in-kind support and maintenance you receive.



---

[N] [45 FR 65547, Oct. 3, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 48574, Nov. 26, 1985; 89 FR 21210, Mar. 27, 2024]




