# § 162.9   Renewal of opt out.

(a) *Renewal notice and opt-out requirement*—(1) *In general.* Since the FCRA provides that opt-out elections can expire in a period of no less than five years, an affiliate that has or previously had a pre-existing business relationship with a consumer must provide a renewal notice to the consumer after such time in order to allow its affiliates to make solicitations. After the opt-out election period expires, its affiliates may make solicitations unless:


(i) The consumer has been given a renewal notice that complies with the requirements of this section and §§ 162.6 through 162.8 of this subpart, and a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to renew the opt-out election, and the consumer does not renew the opt out; or


(ii) An exception in Sec. 162.3(c) of this subpart applies.


(2) *Renewal period.* Each opt-out renewal must be effective for a period of at least five years as provided in § 162.4(b) of this subpart.


(3) *Affiliates who may provide the renewal notice.* The notice required by this paragraph must be provided:


(i) By the affiliate that provided the previous opt-out notice, or its successor; or


(ii) As part of a joint renewal notice from two or more members of an affiliated group of companies, or their successors, that jointly provided the previous opt-out notice.


(b) *Contents of renewal or extension notice.* The contents of the renewal notice must include all of the same contents of the initial notices, but also must include:


(1) A statement that the consumer previously elected to limit the use of certain information to make solicitations to the consumer;


(2) A statement that the consumer may elect to renew the consumer's previous election; and


(3) If applicable, a statement that the consumer's election to renew will apply for a specified period of time stated in the notice and that the consumer will be allowed to renew the election once that period expires.


(c) *Timing of renewal notice.* Renewal notices must be provided in a reasonable period of time before the expiration of the opt-out election period or any time after the expiration of the opt-out period, but before solicitations that would have been prohibited by the expired opt-out election are made to the consumer.


(d) *No effect on opt-out period.* An opt-out period may not be shortened by sending a renewal notice to the consumer before the expiration of the opt-out period, even if the consumer does not renew the opt-out election.




