# § 102-75.1164   For the purposes of this subpart, what is the policy concerning real property reported excess to GSA?

(a) Each landholding agency must submit a report to GSA of properties it determines excess. Each landholding agency must also provide a copy of HUD's suitability determination, if any, including HUD's identification number for the property.


(b) If a landholding agency reports an excess property to GSA that HUD has already determined to be suitable for use to assist the homeless, GSA will screen the property pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section and will advise HUD of the availability of the property for use by the homeless as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. In lieu of the preceding sentence, GSA may submit a new checklist to HUD and follow the procedures in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section.


(c) If a landholding agency reports an excess property to GSA that has not been reviewed by HUD for homeless assistance suitability, GSA will complete a property checklist, based on information provided by the landholding agency, and will forward this checklist to HUD for a suitability determination. This checklist will reflect any change in classification, such as from unutilized or underutilized to excess or surplus.


(d) Within 30 days after GSA's submission, HUD will advise GSA of the suitability determination.


(e) When GSA receives notification from HUD listing suitable excess properties, GSA will transmit a response to HUD within 45 days. GSA's response will include the following for each identified property:


(1) A statement that there is no other compelling Federal need for the property and, therefore, the property will be determined surplus; or


(2) A statement that there is further and compelling Federal need for the property (including a full explanation of such need) and that, therefore, the property is not presently available for use to assist the homeless.


(f) When GSA submits a checklist to HUD in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the information regarding the availability of the property, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) and (2) of this section, may be included with the checklist if it is known at the time of submittal.


(g) When a surplus property is determined as suitable, confirmed as available by GSA, and notice is published on the HUD website, GSA will concurrently notify HHS, State and local government units, and known homeless assistance providers that have expressed interest in the particular property, and other organizations, as appropriate, concerning suitable properties.


(h) Upon submission of a Report of Excess to GSA, GSA may screen the property for Federal use. In addition, GSA may screen State and local governmental units and eligible non-profit organizations to determine interest in the property in accordance with this part. (See §§ 102-75.1220, 102-75.255, and 102-75.350.)


(i) The landholding agency will retain custody and accountability and will protect and maintain any property that is reported excess to GSA as provided in § 102-75.965.




