# § 412.610   Assessment schedule.

(a) *General.* For each inpatient, an inpatient rehabilitation facility must complete a patient assessment instrument as specified in § 412.606 that covers a time period that is in accordance with the assessment schedule specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Starting the assessment schedule day count.* The first day that the inpatient is furnished services during his or her current inpatient rehabilitation facility hospital stay is counted as day one of the patient assessment schedule.


(c) *Assessment schedules and references dates.* The inpatient rehabilitation facility must complete a patient assessment instrument upon the patient's admission and discharge as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Admission assessment*—(i) *General rule.* The admission assessment— 


(A) *General.* Time period is a span of time that covers calendar days 1 through 3 of the patient's current hospitalization.




(B) Has an admission assessment reference date that is the third calendar day of the span of time specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section; and 


(C) Must be completed by the calendar day that follows the admission assessment reference day.


(ii) *Exception to the general rule.* We may specify in the patient assessment instrument item-by-item guide and in other issued instructions, items that have a different admission assessment time period to most appropriately capture patient information for payment and quality of care monitoring objectives. 


(2) *Discharge assessment*—(i) *General rule.* The discharge assessment— 


(A) Time period is a span of time that covers 3 calendar days, and is the discharge assessment reference date itself specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section and the 2 calendar days prior to the discharge assessment reference date; and 


(B) Must be completed on the 5th calendar day that follows the discharge assessment reference date specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section with the discharge assessment reference date itself being counted as the first day of the 5 calendar day time span. 


(ii) *Discharge assessment reference date.* The discharge assessment reference date is the actual day that the first of either of the following two events occurs: 


(A) The patient is discharged from the inpatient rehabilitation facility; or


(B) The patient stops being furnished inpatient rehabilitation services.


(iii) *Exception to the general rule.* We may specify in the patient assessment instrument item-by-item guide and in other issued instructions, items that have a different discharge assessment time period to most appropriately capture patient information for payment and quality of care monitoring objectives. 


(d) *Encoding dates.* The admission and discharge patient assessments must be encoded by the 7th calendar day from the completion dates specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) *Accuracy of the patient assessment data.* The encoded patient assessment data must accurately reflect the patient's clinical status at the time of the patient assessment. 


(f) *Patient assessment instrument record retention.* An inpatient rehabilitation facility must maintain all patient assessment data sets completed on all Medicare Part A fee-for-service patients within the previous 5 years, on Medicare Part C (Medicare Advantage) patients within the previous 10 years, and all other patients within the previous 5 years either in a paper format in the patient's clinical record or in an electronic computer file format that the inpatient rehabilitation facility can easily obtain and produce upon request to CMS or its contractors.



---

[N] [66 FR 41388, Aug. 7, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 44077, July 1, 2002; 68 FR 45699, Aug. 1, 2003; 74 FR 39810, Aug. 7, 2009; 87 FR 47090, Aug. 1, 2022]




