# § 1.367(a)-9T   Treatment of deemed section 351 exchanges pursuant to section 304(a)(1) (temporary).

(a) *Scope and general rule.* This section applies to the extent that, pursuant to section 304(a)(1), a United States person is treated as transferring stock of a domestic or foreign corporation to a foreign corporation (foreign acquiring corporation) in exchange for stock of the foreign acquiring corporation in a transaction to which section 351(a) applies (deemed section 351 exchange). Except to the extent provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a transfer of stock by a United States person to a foreign acquiring corporation in a deemed section 351 exchange is not subject to section 367(a)(1).


(b) *Special rule.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if the distribution received by the United States person in redemption of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation deemed issued in the deemed section 351 exchange is applied against and reduces (in whole or in part), pursuant to section 301(c)(2), the basis of stock of the foreign acquiring corporation held by the United States person other than the stock deemed issued in the deemed section 351 exchange, the United States person shall recognize gain pursuant to this paragraph (b). The exceptions described in § 1.367(a)-3(b)(1) and (c)(1) shall not apply to a transfer of stock described in paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of gain recognized by a United States person pursuant to this paragraph (b) shall equal the amount, if any, by which—


(1) The gain realized by the United States person with respect to the transferred stock in connection with the deemed section 351 exchange exceeds;


(2) The amount of the distribution received by the United States person in redemption of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation deemed issued in the deemed section 351 exchange that is treated as a dividend under section 301(c)(1) and included in gross income by the United States person.


(c) *Ordering rule.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the amount of gain realized by the United States person in connection with the deemed section 351 exchange shall be determined without regard to the amount of gain recognized by the United States person under paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Allocation of recognized gain.* Gain recognized by a United States person pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be treated as recognized with respect to the stock transferred in the deemed section 351 exchange in proportion to the amount of gain realized by the United States person with respect to such stock. See § 1.367(a)-1T(b)(4) for additional rules on the character, source, and adjustments relating to gain recognized under section 367(a).


(e) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of this section:


(f) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to transfers occurring on or after February 10, 2009. See § 1.367(a)-3(a), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2008, for transfers occurring on or after February 21, 2006, and before February 10, 2009.


(g) *Expiration date.* This section expires on or before February 10, 2012.



---

[N] [T.D. 9444, 74 FR 6826, Feb. 11, 2009; 74 FR 10175, Mar. 10, 2009]




