# § 238.114   Rescue access windows.

(a) *Number and location.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the following requirements in this paragraph (a) apply on or after April 1, 2008—


(1) *Single-level passenger cars.* Except as provided in this paragraph (a)(1) and in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(1)(ii), and (a)(5) of this section, each single-level passenger car shall have a minimum of two rescue access windows. At least one rescue access window shall be located in each side of the car entirely within 15 feet of the car's centerline, or entirely within 7


1/2 feet of the centerline if the car does not exceed 45 feet in length. (*See* Figure 1a to this subpart; *see also* Figures 1b and 1c to this subpart.) If the seating level is obstructed by an interior door or otherwise partitioned into separate seating areas, each separate seating area shall have a minimum of one rescue access window in each side of the seating area, located as near to the center of the car as practical.


(i) For a single-level passenger car ordered prior to April 1, 2009, and placed in service prior to April 1, 2011, rescue access windows may be located farther than the above prescribed distances from the car's centerline, or located within exterior side doors, or both, if at least one rescue access window is located within each side of each end (half) of the same passenger compartment.


(ii) For a single-level passenger car ordered prior to September 8, 2000, and placed in service prior to September 9, 2002, the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) apply on or after August 1, 2009 if the car has at least two exterior side doors (or door leaves), each with a manual override device, and such doors (or door leaves) are located one on each side of the car, in opposite ends (halves) of the car (*i.e.*, in diagonally-opposite quadrants). The manual override device shall be—


(A) Capable of releasing the door (or door leaf) to permit it to be opened without power from outside the car;


(B) Located adjacent to the door (or door leaf) that it controls; and


(C) Designed and maintained so that a person can access the override device from outside the car without using a tool or other implement.


(2) *Multi-level passenger cars—main levels.* Each main level in a multi-level passenger car is subject to the same requirements specified for single-level passenger cars in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with the exception of paragraph (a)(1)(ii), which is not applicable.


(3) *Multi-level passenger cars—levels with seating areas other than main levels.* (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(3)(iii) of this section, any level other than a main level used for passenger seating in a multi-level passenger car, such as an intermediate level, shall have a minimum of two rescue access windows in each seating area. The rescue access windows shall permit emergency responders to gain access to passengers in the seating area without requiring movement through an interior door or to another level of the car. At least one rescue access window shall be located in each side of the seating area. A rescue access window may be located within an exterior side door in the passenger compartment if it is not practical to place the access window in the side of the seating area. (*See* Figures 2 and 2a of this subpart.)


(ii) Only one rescue access window is required in a seating area in a passenger compartment if—


(A) It is not practical to place a rescue access window in a side of the passenger compartment due to the need to provide accessible accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;


(B) There are no more than four seats in the seating area; and


(C) A suitable, alternate arrangement for rescue access is provided.


(iii) For passenger cars ordered prior to April 1, 2009, and placed in service prior to April 1, 2011, only one rescue access window is required in a seating area in a passenger compartment if—


(A) It is not practicable to place an access window in a side of the passenger compartment (due to the presence of a structure such as a bathroom, electrical locker, or kitchen); and


(B) There are no more than eight seats in the seating area.


(4) *Cars with a sleeping compartment or similar private compartment.* Each level of a passenger car with a sleeping compartment or a similar private compartment intended to be occupied by a passenger or train crewmember shall have a minimum of one rescue access window in each such compartment. For purposes of this paragraph, a bathroom, kitchen, or locomotive cab is not considered a “compartment.”


(5) *Dual-function windows.* If, on any level of a passenger car, the emergency window exits installed to meet the minimum requirements of § 238.113 are also intended to function as rescue access windows, the minimum requirements for the number and location of rescue access windows in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section are also met for that level.


(b) *Ease of operability.* On or after April 1, 2008, each rescue access window must be capable of being removed without unreasonable delay by an emergency responder using either—


(1) A provided external mechanism; or


(2) Tools or implements that are commonly available to the responder in a passenger train emergency.


(c) *Dimensions.* Each rescue access window in a passenger car, including a sleeping car, ordered on or after April 1, 2009, or placed in service for the first time on or after April 1, 2011, shall have an unobstructed opening with minimum dimensions of 26 inches horizontally by 24 inches vertically. A rescue access window located within an exterior side door, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, may have an unobstructed opening with minimum dimensions of 24 inches horizontally by 26 inches vertically. A seatback is not an obstruction if it can be moved away from the window opening without using a tool or other implement.


(d) *Marking and instructions.* (1) Prior to January 28, 2015, each rescue access window shall be marked with retroreflective material on the exterior of each car. A unique and easily recognizable symbol, sign, or other conspicuous marking shall also be used to identify each such window. Legible and understandable window-access instructions, including instructions for removing the window, shall be posted at or near each rescue access window.


(2) On or after January 28, 2015, each rescue access window shall be marked, and instructions provided for its use, as specified in § 238.125.



---

[N] [73 FR 6401, Feb. 1, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 71813, Nov. 29, 2013]




