# § 1.6151-1   Time and place for paying tax shown on returns.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in section 6152 and paragraph (b) of this section, the tax shown on any income tax return shall, without assessment or notice and demand, be paid to the internal revenue officer with whom the return is filed at the time fixed for filing the return (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing the return). For provisions relating to the time for filing income tax returns, see section 6072 and §§ 1.6072-1 to 1.6072-4, inclusive. For provisions relating to the place for filing income tax returns, see section 6091 and §§ 1.6091-1 to 1.6091-4, inclusive.


(b)(1) *Returns on which tax is not shown.* If a taxpayer files a return and in accordance with section 6014 and the regulations thereunder, elects not to show the tax on the return, the amount of tax determined to be due shall be paid within 30 days after the date of mailing to the taxpayer a notice stating the amount payable and making demand upon the taxpayer therefor. However, if the notice is mailed to the taxpayer more than 30 days before the due date of the return, payment of the tax shall not be required prior to such due date.


(2) *Where tax is shown on the return.* In any case in which a taxpayer files a return on Form 1040A pursuant to paragraph (a)(7) of § 1.6012-1 and shows the amount of tax on the return, the unpaid balance of the tax shall, without assessment or notice and demand, be paid not later than the date fixed for filing the return.


(c) *Date fixed for payment of tax.* In any case in which a tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code is required to be paid on or before a certain date, or within a certain period, any reference in subtitle A or F of the Code to the date fixed for payment of such tax shall be deemed a reference to the last day fixed for such payment (determined without regard to any extension of time for paying the tax).


(d) *Use of Government depositaries.* (1) For provisions relating to the use of authorized financial institutions in depositing income and estimated income taxes of certain corporations, see § 1.6302-1.


(2) For provisions relating to the use of such financial institutions for the deposit of taxes required to be withheld under chapter 3 of the Code on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations and tax-free covenant bonds, see § 1.6302-2. With respect to section 1446, the previous sentence shall apply only to a publicly traded partnership described in § 1.1446-4.


(e) *Effective/Applicability date.* Paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall apply to publicly traded partnerships described in § 1.1446-4 for partnership taxable years beginning after April 29, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12137, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6922, 32 FR 8713, June 17, 1967; T.D. 6950, 33 FR 5357, Apr. 4, 1968; T.D. 7102, 36 FR 5498, Mar. 24, 1971; T.D. 7953, 49 FR 19644, May 9, 1984; T.D. 8952, 66 FR 33831, June 26, 2001; T.D. 9394, 73 FR 23085, Apr. 29, 2008; T.D. 9394, 74 FR 14932, Apr. 2, 2009]




