# ยง 405.966   Evidence to be submitted with the reconsideration request.

(a) *Evidence submitted with the request.* When filing a request for reconsideration, a party should present evidence and allegations of fact or law related to the issue in dispute and explain why it disagrees with the initial determination, including the redetermination.


(1) This evidence must include any missing documentation identified in the notice of redetermination, consistent with ยง 405.956(b)(6).


(2) Absent good cause, failure to submit all evidence, including documentation requested in the notice of redetermination prior to the issuance of the notice of reconsideration precludes subsequent consideration of that evidence.


(b) *Evidence submitted after the request.* Each time a party submits additional evidence after filing the request for reconsideration, the QIC's 60 calendar day decisionmaking timeframe is automatically extended by up to 14 calendar days for each submission. This extension does not apply to timely submissions of documentation specifically requested by a QIC, unless the documentation was originally requested in the notice of redetermination.


(c) *Exception for beneficiaries and State Medicaid Agencies that file reconsideration requests.* (1) Beneficiaries and State Medicaid Agencies that file requests for reconsideration are not required to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. However, the automatic 14 calendar day extension described in paragraph (b) of this section applies to each evidence submission made after the request for reconsideration is filed.


(2) Beneficiaries who are represented by providers or suppliers must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [70 FR 11472, Mar. 8, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 65334, Dec. 9, 2009]




