# § 522.2100   Selenium and vitamin E.

(a)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of emulsion contains 5.48 milligrams (mg) sodium selenite (equivalent to 2.5 mg selenium) and 50 mg of vitamin E (68 I.U.) (as d-alpha tocopheryl acetate).


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 000061 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use in horses*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 1 milliliter (mL) per (/) 100 pounds (lbs) of body weight by intravenous injection or by deep intramuscular injection in divided doses in two or more sites in the gluteal or cervical muscles. Administration may be repeated at 5 to 10 day intervals.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the prevention and treatment of selenium-tocopherol deficiency syndrome in horses.


(iii) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(b)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter contains 2.19 mg of sodium selenite (equivalent to 1 mg of selenium), 50 mg of vitamin E (68 I.U.) (as d-alpha tocopheryl acetate).


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 000061 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter. 


(3) *Conditions of use in dogs*—(i) *Amount.* Administer by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection in divided doses in two or more sites at 1 mL/20 lbs of body weight with a minimum dosage of 
1/4 mL and a maximum dosage of 5 mL. The dose is repeated at 3-day intervals until a satisfactory therapeutic response is observed. A maintenance regimen is then initiated which consists of 1 mL per 40 lbs of body weight with a minimum dosage of 
1/4 mL which is repeated every 3 days or 7 days, or longer, as required to maintain continued improvement or an asymptomatic condition; or the drug may be used in capsule form for oral maintenance therapy.


(ii) *Indications for use.* As an aid in alleviating and controlling inflammation, pain, and lameness associated with certain arthropathies in dogs.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(c)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter contains 2.19 milligrams of selenite sodium (equivalent to 1 milligram selenium), 50 milligrams vitamin E (68 U.S.P. units).


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 000061 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use*—(i) *Dosage.* Calves: 2.5 to 3.75 milliliters per 100 pounds of body weight. Lambs 2 weeks of age or older: 1 milliliter per 40 pounds, minimum 1 milliliter. Ewes: 2.5 milliliters per 100 pounds. Sows: 1 milliliter per 40 pounds. Weanling pigs: 1 milliliter per 40 pounds, minimum 1 milliliter.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Calves, lambs, and ewes: prevention and treatment of white muscle disease (selenium-tocopherol deficiency syndrome). Sows and weanling pigs: an aid in the prevention and treatment of selenium-tocopherol deficiency.


(iii) *Limitations.* For subcutaneous or intramuscular use. Not for use in newborn pigs. Do not use in pregnant ewes. Calves: Discontinue use 30 days before treated calves are slaughtered for human consumption. Lambs, ewes, sows, or pigs: Discontinue use 14 days before treated lambs, ewes, sows, or pigs are slaughtered for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(d)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter contains 10.95 milligrams selenite sodium (equivalent to 5 milligrams selenium), 50 milligrams vitamin E (68 U.S.P. units).


(2) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 000061 and 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use*—(i) *Dosage.* Breeding beef cows: 1 milliliter per 200 pounds of body weight during the middle third of gestation, and 30 days before calving. Weanling calves: 1 milliliter per 200 pounds of body weight.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Weanling calves and breeding beef cows: For the prevention and treatment of selenium-tocopherol deficiency syndrome.


(iii) *Limitations.* For subcutaneous or intramuscular use. Discontinue use 30 days before treated cattle are slaughtered for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(e)(1) *Specifications.* Each milliliter contains 0.55 milligram selenite sodium (equivalent to 0.25 milligram selenium), 50 milligrams (68 U.S.P. units) vitamin E.


(2) *Sponsor.* See No. 000061 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(3) *Conditions of use*—(i) *Dosage.* Newborn lambs: 1 milliliter. Lambs 2 weeks of age or older: 4 milliliters. Baby pigs: 1 milliliter (or treat the sow during the last week of pregnancy). 


(ii) *Indications for use.* Lambs: for prevention and treatment of white muscle disease (selenium-tocopherol deficiency syndrome). Baby pigs: an aid in the prevention and treatment of selenium-tocopherol deficiency.


(iii) *Limitations.* For subcutaneous or intramuscular use only. Discontinue use 14 days before treated animals are slaughtered for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [40 FR 13858, Mar. 27, 1975, as amended at 52 FR 7832, Mar. 13, 1987; 57 FR 21209, May 19, 1992; 58 FR 57556, Oct. 26, 1993; 60 FR 57833, Nov. 22, 1995; 64 FR 27916, May 24, 1999; 79 FR 16195, Mar. 25, 2014]




