# ยง 206.436   Application procedures.

(a) *General.* This section describes the procedures to be used by the recipient in submitting an application for HMGP funding. Under the HMGP, the State or Indian Tribal government is the recipient and is responsible for processing subawards to applicants in accordance with 2 CFR parts 200 and 3002. Subrecipients are accountable to the recipient.


(b) *Governor's Authorized Representative.* The Governor's Authorized Representative serves as the grant administrator for all funds provided under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. The Governor's Authorized Representative's responsibilities as they pertain to procedures outlined in this section include providing technical advice and assistance to eligible subrecipients, and ensuring that all potential applicants are aware of assistance available and submission of those documents necessary for grant award.


(c) *Hazard mitigation application.* Upon identification of mitigation measures, the State (Governor's Authorized Representative) will submit its Hazard Mitigation Grant Program application to the FEMA Regional Administrator. The application will identify one or more mitigation measures for which funding is requested. The application must include a Standard Form (SF) 424, Application for Federal Assistance, SF 424D, Assurances for Construction Programs, if appropriate, and a narrative statement. The narrative statement will contain any pertinent project management information not included in the State's administrative plan for Hazard Mitigation. The narrative statement will also serve to identify the specific mitigation measures for which funding is requested. Information required for each mitigation measure must include the following:


(1) Name of the subrecipient, if any;


(2) State or local contact for the measure; 


(3) Location of the project; 


(4) Description of the measure; 


(5) Cost estimate for the measure; 


(6) Analysis of the measure's cost-effectiveness and substantial risk reduction, consistent with ยง 206.434(c); 


(7) Work schedule; 


(8) Justification for selection; 


(9) Alternatives considered; 


(10) Environmental information consistent with 44 CFR part 9, Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands, and other applicable environmental and historic preservation laws, regulations, Executive Orders, and agency policy.


(d) *Application submission time limit.* The State's application may be amended as the State identifies and selects local project applications to be funded. The State must submit all local HMGP applications and funding requests for the purpose of identifying new projects to the Regional Administrator within 15 months of the date of disaster declaration.


(e) *Extensions.* Upon written request from the applicant, FEMA may extend the application submission timeline as follows:


(1) The State may request the Regional Administrator to extend the application time limit by 30 to 120 day increments, not to exceed a total of 240 days. The applicant must include a justification in its request.


(2) FEMA will only consider requests for extensions beyond 240 days for extenuating circumstances outside of the applicant's control. Such requests must be submitted to the Regional Administrator and must include justification. The Regional Administrator, in coordination with FEMA's Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate, may extend the application time limit for a reasonable amount of time based upon the extenuating circumstances.


(f) *Reopening of application period.* FEMA's Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate may reopen a closed application period for up to 180 days in the following circumstances:


(1) *Recalculation of assistance.* If FEMA approves a recalculation of assistance under ยง 206.432 and an applicant requests to reopen the application period within 60 days of FEMA's recalculation approval.


(2) *Appeal.* If FEMA grants an appeal under ยง 206.440 for an application extension denial after an application period is closed.


(g) *FEMA approval.* The applicant must submit its application and supplement(s) to the FEMA Regional Administrator for approval. FEMA has final approval authority for funding of all projects.


(h) *Indian Tribal recipients.* Indian Tribal governments may submit a SF 424 directly to the Regional Administrator.



---

[N] [67 FR 8853, Feb. 26, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 76086, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 56534, Aug. 22, 2016; 86 FR 50678, Sept. 10, 2021; 89 FR 66253, Aug. 15, 2024]






