# ยง 250.61   Summer Food Service Program (SFSP).

(a) *Distribution of donated foods in SFSP.* The Department provides donated foods in SFSP to distributing agencies, which provide them to eligible service institutions participating in SFSP for use in serving nutritious meals to needy children primarily in the summer months, in their nonprofit food service programs. Distributing agencies and service institutions in SFSP must also adhere to Federal regulations in 7 CFR part 225, as applicable.


(b) *Types and quantities of donated foods distributed.* The distributing agency receives donated foods available under Section 6 and Section 14 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755 and 1762), and may also receive donated foods under Section 32 (7 U.S.C. 612c), Section 416 (7 U.S.C. 1431), or Section 709 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), as available, for distribution to eligible service institutions participating in SFSP. Section 6 donated foods are provided to distributing agencies in accordance with the number of meals served in the State in the previous school year that are eligible for donated food support, in accordance with 7 CFR part 225.


(c) *Distribution of donated foods to service institutions in SFSP.* The distributing agency provides donated food assistance to eligible service institutions participating in SFSP based on the number of meals served that are eligible for donated food support, in accordance with 7 CFR part 225.


(d) *Use of donated foods in a contract with a food service management company.* A service institution may use donated foods in a contract with a food service management company to conduct the food service. The contract must meet the requirements in subpart D of this part with respect to donated foods, and must also meet requirements in 7 CFR part 225, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416, as applicable, with respect to the formation of such contracts.


(e) *Applicability of other requirements in this subpart to SFSP.* The requirements in this subpart relating to the ordering, storage and inventory management, and use of donated foods in NSLP, also apply to SFSP.



---

[N] [73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008. Redesignated and amended at 81 FR 23112, Apr. 19, 2016]




