# ยง 750.45   Filing claim.

(a) *Who may file.* Under the MCA, specifically, the following are proper claimants:


(1) U.S. citizens and inhabitants.


(2) U.S. military personnel and civilian employees, except not for personal injury or death incident to service.


(3) Persons in foreign countries who are not inhabitants.


(4) States and their political subdivisions (including agencies).


(5) Prisoners of war for personal property, but not personal injury.


(6) Subrogees, to the extent they paid the claim.


(b) *Who may not file.* (1) Inhabitants of foreign nations for loss or injury occurring in the country they inhabit.


(2) U.S. Government agencies and departments.


(c) *When to file/statute of limitations.* Claims against the DON must be presented in writing within 2 years after they accrue. In computing the 2 year period, the day the claim accrues is excluded and the day the claim is presented is included. If the incident occurs in time of war or armed conflict, however, or if war or armed conflict intervenes within 2 years after its occurrence, an MCA claim, on good cause shown, may be presented within 2 years after the war or armed conflict is terminated. For the purposes of the MCA, the date of termination of the war or armed conflict is the date established by concurrent resolution of Congress or by the President. See 10 U.S.C. 2733(b)(1).


(d) *Where to file.* The claim shall be submitted by the claimant to the commanding officer of the naval activity involved, if it is known. Otherwise, it shall be submitted to the commanding officer of any naval activity, preferably the one within which, or nearest to which, the incident occurred, or to the Office of the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, (Claims and Tort Litigation), 1322 Patterson Avenue, SE., Suite 3000, Washington Navy Yard, DC 20375-5066.


(e) *Claim form.* A claim is correct in form if it constitutes written notification of an incident, signed by the claimant or a duly authorized agent or legal representative, with a claim for money damages in a sum certain. A Standard Form 95 is preferred. A claim should be substantiated as discussed in section 750.27 of this part. A claim must be substantiated as required by this part in order to be paid. See 10 U.S.C. 2733(b)(5).


(f) *Amendment of claim.* A proper claim may be amended by the claimant at any time prior to final denial or payment of the claim. An amendment shall be submitted in writing and signed by the claimant or a duly authorized agent or legal representative.


(g) *Payment.* Claims approved for payment shall be forwarded to such disbursing officer as may be designated by the Comptroller of the Navy for payment from appropriations designated for that purpose. If the Secretary of the Navy considers that a claim in excess of $100,000.00 is meritorious and would otherwise be covered by 10 U.S.C. 2733 and ยง 750.43, he may make a partial payment of $100,000.00 and refer the excess to the General Accounting Office for payment from appropriations provided therefore.



---

[N] [57 FR 4722, Feb. 7, 1992, as amended at 72 FR 53420, Sept. 19, 2007]




