# ยง 204.4   Grant appeals.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to certain determinations (as set forth in part 16, appendix A, section C of this title), made with respect to direct, discretionary project grants awarded by the Family Support Administration, and such other grants or grant programs as the Administrator, with the approval of the Secretary, may designate. The statutory authority for current grant programs to which this section applies appears in the appendix to this section. This section is also applicable to determinations with respect to grants which were made under authority which has expired or been repealed since the grants were made, even though such authority does not appear in the appendix.


(b) *Submission.* (1) A grantee who has received notification, as described in ยง 16.3 (b) and (c) of this title, of a determination described in part 16, appendix A, section C of this title, may request reconsideration by informing the Grants Appeals Officer as identified in the final adverse determination or otherwise designated by the Administrator, Family Support Administration, Washington, DC 20201 of the grantee's intent to contest the determination. The grantee's request for reconsideration must be postmarked no later than 30 days after the postmark date of the written notification of such determination, except when the Grant Appeals Officer grants an extension of time for good cause.


(2) Although the request need not follow any prescribed form, it shall clearly identify the question or questions in dispute and contain a full statement of the grantee's position with respect to such question or questions, and the pertinent facts and reasons in support of such position. The grantee shall attach to his submission a copy of the agency notification specified in ยง 16.3(b) of this title.


(c) *Action by the Administration on requests for reconsideration.* (1) Upon receipt of such an application the Grant Appeals Officer will inform the grantee that:


(i) His request is under review, and


(ii) If no decision is received within 90 days of the postmark date of the grantee's request for reconsideration, the determination may be appealed to the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.


(2) The Grant Appeals Officer will reconsider the determination appealed from, considering any material submitted by the grantee and any other material necessary.


(3) If the response to the grantee is adverse to the grantee's position, the response will include notification of the grantee's right to appeal to the Departmental Grant Appeals Board.



---

[N] [40 FR 51443, Nov. 5, 1975, as amended at 53 FR 36579, Sept. 21, 1988] 




