# ยง 3.653   Foreign residence.

(a) *General.* Pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation is not payable to an alien who is located in the territory of or under the control of an enemy of the United States or of its allies. The benefit may, however, be paid to the dependents of such alien, but not in excess of the amount which would be payable to the dependent if the alien were dead.


(b) *Retroactive payments.* Any amount not paid to an alien under this section, together with any amounts placed to the alien's credit in the special deposit account in the Treasury or covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts under 31 U.S.C. 123-128 will be paid to him or her on the filing of a new claim. Such claim should be supported with evidence that the alien has not been guilty of mutiny, treason, sabotage or rendering assistance to an enemy, as provided in ยง 3.902(a).


(c) *Treasury Department list.* This paragraph is applicable to claims for benefits for aliens residing in countries identified on the list established by the Secretary of the Treasury as countries to which checks could not be delivered with reasonable assurance that the payee would actually receive and be able to negotiate a check for full value. 


(1) *Evidence requests.* Requests for evidence to establish either basic or continued entitlement will not be made where such evidence would be obtained from a country on the Treasury Department list unless the claimant requests that checks be sent to him or her in care of a U.S. Foreign Service post in a country which is not on the list. 


(2) *Awards.* Payments for a claimant residing in a country included in the Treasury Department list will not be authorized unless the claimant requests that checks be sent to him or her in care of a U.S. Foreign Service post in a country which is not on the list. 


(3) *Retroactive payments.* Where award action is authorized under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, or a new claim has been filed after a country has been removed from the Treasury Department list, all benefits to which the payee is otherwise entitled will be paid as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. There is no time limit for filing claim. 


(d) *Germany and Japan.* Where payments were discontinued before July 1, 1954, because the payee was a citizen or subject of Germany or Japan, no payments will be made for any period prior to the date of filing a new claim.



---

[N] [26 FR 1599, Feb. 24, 1961, as amended at 31 FR 13172, Oct. 12, 1966; 47 FR 24551, June 7, 1982] 




