# § 301.9100-20T   Election to treat certain distributions as made on the last day of the taxable year.

(a) *In general.* Section 233(b) of the Revenue Act of 1964 (78 Stat. 112) amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 by adding to section 1375 a new subsection (e) (relating to certain distributions after close of taxable year). Section 1375(e) provides that a corporation, with the consent of its shareholders, may elect, for purposes of chapter 1 of the Code, to treat a distribution of money made after the close of the taxable year as made, and as received by its shareholders, on the last day of such taxable year if the following conditions are satisfied:


(1) The corporation makes a distribution of money to its shareholders on or before the 15th day of the third month following the close of a taxable year with respect to which it was an electing small business corporation within the meaning of section 1371(b);


(2) Such distribution is made pursuant to a resolution of the corporation's board of directors, adopted before the close of such taxable year, to distribute to its shareholders all or a part of the proceeds of one or more sales of capital assets, or of property described in section 1231(b), made during such taxable year; and


(3) Each shareholder on the day such distribution is received—


(i) Owns the same proportion of the stock of the corporation on such day as he owned on the last day of such taxable year, and


(ii) Consents to such election. Section 1375(e) applies only with respect to taxable years of corporations beginning after December 31, 1957.


(b) *Time and manner for making election*—(1) *Taxable years ending after February 26, 1964.* For taxable years ending after February 26, 1964, an election under section 1375(e) with respect to a taxable year shall be made by attaching to the corporation income tax return for such taxable year, filed not later than the time (including extensions thereof) prescribed by law, the following documents:


(i) A statement that the corporation elects the application of section 1375(e) and the date and amount of each distribution to which the election applies;


(ii) A copy of the resolution of the board of directors referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and


(iii) A statement of the consent of each shareholder of the corporation containing the information required by, and filed in the manner provided in, paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, and ending on or before February 26, 1964.* For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, and ending on or before February 26, 1964, an election under section 1375(e) with respect to a taxable year shall be made on or before June 25, 1964, by either attaching the documents described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to its income tax return for such taxable year, or by filing such documents with the district director with whom the corporation has filed, or intends to file, its income tax return for such taxable year.


(3) *Election is binding.* An election under subparagraph (1) or (2) of this paragraph is binding and may not be withdrawn.


(c) *Shareholders' consent.* The consent of a shareholder to an election under section 1375(e) shall be in the form of a statement signed by the shareholder in which such shareholder consents to the election of the corporation. Such shareholder's consent is binding and may not be withdrawn after a valid election is made by the corporation. Each person who is a shareholder of the electing corporation must consent to the election; thus, where stock of the corporation is owned by a husband and wife as community property (or the income from which is community property), or is owned by tenants in common, joint tenants, or tenants by the entirety, each person having a community interest in such stock and each tenant in common, joint tenant, and tenant by the entirety must consent to the election. The consent of a minor shall be made by the minor or by his legal guardian, or his natural guardian if no legal guardian has been appointed. The consent of an estate shall be made by the executor or administrator thereof. The statement shall set forth the name, address, and account number of the corporation and of the shareholder, the date the distribution is received, the number and proportion of the shares of stock of the corporation owned by him on the date the distribution is received, and the number and proportion of such shares owned by him on the last day of the taxable year of the corporation with respect to which the election is made. The consents of all shareholders may be incorporated in one statement.



---

[N] [T.D. 6719, 29 FR 4771, Apr. 3, 1964. Redesignated by T.D. 8435, 57 FR 43896, Sept. 23, 1992]




