# ยง 93.700   Definitions.

Wherever in this subpart the following terms are used, unless the context otherwise requires, they shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any other employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, delegated to act in the Administrator's stead. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS). 


*Brushtail possum.* Vulpine phalangers (*Trichosurus vulpecula*) of the family Phalangeridae. 


*Delivery.* The transfer of goods or interest in goods from one person to another. 


*Enter (entry).* To introduce into the commerce of the United States after release from government detention. 


*Hedgehog.* All members of the family Erinaceidae. 


*Import (imported, importation).* To bring into the territorial limits of the United States. 


*Inspector.* An employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service authorized to perform duties required under this subpart. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company. 


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.)


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*Tenrec.* All members of the family Tenrecidae. 


*United States.* All of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other territories and possessions of the United States. 



---

[N] [55 FR 34195, Aug. 2, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56020, Oct. 28, 1997]




