# § 303.3   Documents: Format and length.

(a) *Format*—(1) *Caption and description.* Parties filing pleadings and documents in a proceeding before the Copyright Royalty Judges must include on the first page of each filing a caption that identifies the proceeding by proceeding type and docket number, and a heading under the caption describing the nature of the document. In addition, to the extent technologically feasible using software available to the general public, Parties must include a footer on each page after the page bearing the caption that includes the name and posture of the filing party, *e.g.,* [Party's] Motion, [Party's] Response in Opposition, etc.


(2) *Page layout.* Parties must submit documents that are typed (double spaced) using a serif typeface (*e.g.,* Times New Roman) no smaller than 12 points for text or 10 points for footnotes and formatted for 8 
1/2″ by 11″ pages with no less than 1 inch margins. Parties must assure that, to the extent technologically feasible using software available to the general public, any exhibit or attachment to documents reflects the docket number of the proceeding in which it is filed and that all pages are numbered appropriately. Any party submitting a document to the Copyright Royalty Board in paper format must submit it unfolded and produced on opaque 8 
1/2 by 11 inch white paper using clear black text, and color to the extent the document uses color to convey information or enhance readability.


(3) *Binding or securing.* Parties submitting any paper document to the Copyright Royalty Board must bind or secure the document in a manner that will prevent pages from becoming separated from the document. For example, acceptable forms of binding or securing include: Ring binders; spiral binding; comb binding; and for documents of fifty pages or fewer, a binder clip or single staple in the top left corner of the document. Rubber bands and paper clips are not acceptable means of securing a document.


(b) *Additional format requirements for electronic documents*—(1) *In general.* Parties filing documents electronically through eCRB must follow the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and the additional requirements in paragraphs (b)(2) through (10) of this section.


(2) *Pleadings; file type.* Parties must file all pleadings, such as motions, responses, replies, briefs, notices, declarations of counsel, and memoranda, in Portable Document Format (PDF).


(3) *Proposed orders; file type.* Parties filing a proposed order as required by § 303.4 must prepare the proposed order as a separate Word document and submit it together with the main pleading.


(4) *Exhibits and attachments; file types.* Parties must convert electronically (not scan) to PDF format all exhibits or attachments that are in electronic form, with the exception of proposed orders and any exhibits or attachments in electronic form that cannot be converted into a usable PDF file (such as audio and video files, files that contain text or images that would not be sufficiently legible after conversion, or spreadsheets that contain too many columns to be displayed legibly on an 8 
1/2″ x 11″ page). Participants must provide electronic copies in their native electronic format of any exhibits or attachments that cannot be converted into a usable PDF file. In addition, participants may provide copies of other electronic files in their native format, in addition to PDF versions of those files, if doing so is likely to assist the Judges in perceiving the content of those files.


(5) *No scanned pleadings.* Parties must convert every filed document directly to PDF format (using “print to pdf” or “save to pdf”), rather than submitting a scanned PDF image. The Copyright Royalty Board will NOT accept scanned documents, except in the case of specific exhibits or attachments that are available to the filing party only in paper form.


(6) *Scanned exhibits.* Parties must scan exhibits or other documents that are only available in paper form at no less than 300 dpi. All exhibits must be searchable. Parties must scan in color any exhibit that uses color to convey information or enhance readability.


(7) *Bookmarks.* Parties must include in all electronic documents appropriate electronic bookmarks to designate the tabs and/or tables of contents that would appear in a paper version of the same document.


(8) *Page rotation.* Parties must ensure that all pages in electronic documents are right side up, regardless of whether they are formatted for portrait or landscape printing.


(9) *Signature.* The signature line of an electronic pleading must contain “/s/” followed by the signer's typed name. The name on the signature line must match the name of the user logged into eCRB to file the document.


(10) *File size.* The eCRB system will not accept PDF or Word files that exceed 128 MB, or files in any other format that exceed 500 MB. Parties may divide excessively large files into multiple parts if necessary to conform to this limitation.


(c) *Length of submissions.* Whether filing in paper or electronically, parties must adhere to the following space limitations or such other space limitations as set forth in subchapter B or as the Copyright Royalty Judges may direct by order. Any party seeking an enlargement of the applicable page limit must make the request by a motion to the Copyright Royalty Judges filed no fewer than three days prior to the applicable filing deadline. Any order granting an enlargement of the page limit for a motion or response shall be deemed to grant the same enlargement of the page limit for a response or reply, respectively.


(1) *Motions.* Motions must not exceed 20 pages and must not exceed 5000 words (exclusive of cover pages, tables of contents, tables of authorities, signature blocks, exhibits, and proof of delivery).


(2) *Responses.* Responses in support of or opposition to motions must not exceed 20 pages and must not exceed 5000 words (exclusive of cover pages, tables of contents, tables of authorities, signature blocks, exhibits, and proof of delivery).


(3) *Replies.* Replies in support of motions must not exceed 10 pages and must not exceed 2500 words (exclusive of cover pages, tables of contents, tables of authorities, signature blocks, exhibits, and proof of delivery).




