# ยง 250.107   What must I do to protect health, safety, property, and the environment?

(a) You must protect health, safety, property, and the environment by:


(1) Performing all operations in a safe and workmanlike manner; 


(2) Maintaining all equipment and work areas in a safe condition;


(3) Utilizing recognized engineering practices that reduce risks to the lowest level practicable when conducting design, fabrication, installation, operation, inspection, repair, and maintenance activities; and


(4) Complying with all lease, plan, and permit terms and conditions.


(b) You must immediately control, remove, or otherwise correct any hazardous oil and gas accumulation or other health, safety, or fire hazard.


(c) *Best available and safest technology.* (1) On all new drilling and production operations and, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, on existing operations, you must use the best available and safest technologies (BAST) which the Director determines to be economically feasible whenever the Director determines that failure of equipment would have a significant effect on safety, health, or the environment, except where the Director determines that the incremental benefits are clearly insufficient to justify the incremental costs of utilizing such technologies.


(2) Conformance with BSEE regulations will be presumed to constitute the use of BAST unless and until the Director determines that other technologies are required pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(3) The Director may waive the requirement to use BAST on a category of existing operations if the Director determines that use of BAST by that category of existing operations would not be practicable. The Director may waive the requirement to use BAST on an existing operation at a specific facility if you submit a waiver request demonstrating that the use of BAST would not be practicable.


(d) BSEE may issue orders to ensure compliance with this part, including, but not limited to, orders to produce and submit records and to inspect, repair, and/or replace equipment. BSEE may also issue orders to shut-in operations of a component or facility because of a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm to health, safety, property, or the environment posed by those operations or because the operations violate law, including a regulation, order, or provision of a lease, plan, or permit.



---

[N] [76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 26014, Apr. 29, 2016; 81 FR 61915, Sept. 7, 2016]




