# ยง 882.5850   Implanted spinal cord stimulator for bladder evacuation.

(a) *Identification.* An implanted spinal cord stimulator for bladder evacuation is an electrical stimulator used to empty the bladder of a paraplegic patient who has a complete transection of the spinal cord and who is unable to empty his or her bladder by reflex means or by the intermittent use of catheters. The stimulator consists of an implanted receiver with electrodes that are placed on the conus medullaris portion of the patient's spinal cord and an external transmitter for transmitting the stimulating pulses across the patient's skin to the implanted receiver. 


(b) *Classification.* Class III (premarket approval). 


(c) *Date PMA or notice of completion of a PDP is required.* A PMA or a notice of completion of a PDP is required to be filed with the Food and Drug Administration on or before December 26, 1996 for any implanted spinal cord stimulator for bladder evacuation that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, or that has, on or before December 26, 1996 been found to be substantially equivalent to an implanted spinal cord stimulator for bladder evacuation that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976. Any other implanted spinal cord stimulator for bladder evacuation shall have an approved PMA or a declared completed PDP in effect before being placed in commercial distribution.



---

[N] [44 FR 51730, Sept. 4, 1979, as amended at 52 FR 17740, May 11, 1987; 61 FR 50708, Sept. 27, 1996]




