# § 63.4761   How do I demonstrate initial compliance?

(a) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all of the coating operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled coating operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in §§ 63.4690, 63.4692, and 63.4693. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.


(b) *Compliance with operating limits.* Except as provided in § 63.4760(a)(4), and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements of § 63.4761(j), you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4692, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4767 and 63.4768.


(c) *Compliance with work practice requirements.* You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4693 during the initial compliance period, as specified in § 63.4730.


(d) *Compliance with emission limits.* You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (e) through (n) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690.


(e) *Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, volume used, and volume fraction of coating solids.* Follow the procedures specified in § 63.4751(a) through (d) to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP, density, and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each month; and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each month.


(f) *Calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls.* Using Equation 1 of § 63.4751, calculate the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls from all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each month in the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.


(g) *Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation.* Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions reduced for each controlled coating operation during each month. The emission reduction determination quantifies the total organic HAP emissions that pass through the emission capture system and are destroyed or removed by the add-on control device. Use the procedures in paragraph (h) of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, use the procedures in paragraph (j) of this section to calculate the organic HAP emission reduction.


(h) *Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation not using liquid-liquid material balances.* For each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction, using Equation 1 of this section. The calculation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during each month. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4763(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled coating operation, including a deviation during a period of SSM, you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 1 of this section treats the materials used during such a deviation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation.


(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, grams, using Equation 1A of this section:


(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation, grams, using Equation 1B of this section:


(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during the month, grams, using Equation 1C of this section:


(4) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during deviations specified in § 63.4763(c) and (d), using Equation 1D of this section:


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using liquid-liquid material balances.* For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during each month. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each month as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (j)(7) of this section.


(1) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each month. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.


(2) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the month, grams, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.


(3) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams volatile organic matter per gram coating. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, one of the voluntary consensus standards specified in § 63.4741(a)(2)(i) through (iv), or an EPA approved alternative method, or you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, or an approved alternative method, the test method results will take precedence unless after consultation, a regulated source could demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data were correct.


(4) Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams per liter, according to § 63.4751(c).


(5) Measure the volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.


(6) Each month, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:


(7) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, using Equation 3 of this section:


(i) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, using Equation 3A of this section:


(ii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, using Equation 3B of this section:


(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams, using Equation 3C of this section.


(k) *Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.* Determine the total volume of coating solids used, liters, which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during each month in the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751.


(l) *Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions for each month.* Determine the mass of organic HAP emissions, grams, during each month, using Equation 4 of this section.


(m) *Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period.* Determine the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 5 of this section:


(n) *Compliance demonstration.* To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit, the organic HAP emission rate, calculated using Equation 5 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4710, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4692 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4693.



---

[N] [68 FR 31760, May 28, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 7703, Mar. 4, 2019]




