# § 272.9   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Accident/incident* has the meaning assigned to that term by part 225 of this chapter.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration or the Administrator's delegate.


*Associate Administrator* means the Associate Administrator for Railroad Safety and Chief Safety Officer of the Federal Railroad Administration or that person's delegate.


*Class I* has the meaning assigned to that term by the regulations of the Surface Transportation Board (49 CFR part 1201; General Instructions 1-1).


*Commuter railroad* means a railroad, as described by 49 U.S.C. 20102(2), including public authorities operating passenger train service, that provides regularly-scheduled passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area and commuter railroad service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation on January 1, 1979.


*Critical incident* means either—


(1) An accident/incident reportable to FRA under part 225 of this chapter that results in a fatality, loss of limb, or a similarly serious bodily injury; or


(2) A catastrophic accident/incident reportable to FRA under part 225 of this chapter that could be reasonably expected to impair a directly-involved employee's ability to perform his or her job duties safely.


*Directly-involved employee* means a railroad employee covered under § 272.7—


(1) Whose actions are closely connected to the critical incident;


(2) Who witnesses the critical incident in person as it occurs or who witnesses the immediate effects of the critical incident in person; or


(3) Who is charged to directly intervene in, or respond to, the critical incident (excluding railroad police officers or investigators who routinely respond to and are specially trained to handle emergencies).


*FRA* means the Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE., Washington, DC 20590.


*Home terminal* means an employee's regular reporting point at the beginning of the tour of duty.


*Intercity passenger railroad* means a railroad, as described by 49 U.S.C. 20102(2), including public authorities operating passenger train service, which provides regularly-scheduled passenger service between large cities.




