# § 200.64   Factors for determining equitable participation of private school children.

(a) *Equal expenditures.* (1) Funds expended by an LEA under this subpart for services for eligible private school children in the aggregate must be equal to the proportion of funds generated by private school children from low-income families who reside in participating public school attendance areas under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) An LEA must determine the proportional share of funds available for services for eligible private school children based on the total amount of funds received by the LEA under subpart 2 of part A of title I of the ESEA prior to any allowable expenditures or transfers by the LEA.


(3)(i) To obtain a count of private school children from low-income families who reside in participating public school attendance areas, the LEA may—


(A) Use the same poverty data the LEA uses to count public school children;


(B)(*1*) Use comparable poverty data from a survey of families of private school students that, to the extent possible, protects the families' identity; and


(*2*) Extrapolate data from the survey based on a representative sample if complete actual data are unavailable;


(C) Use comparable poverty data from a different source, such as scholarship applications;


(D) Apply the low-income percentage of each participating public school attendance area to the number of private school children who reside in that school attendance area; or


(E) Use an equated measure of low income correlated with the measure of low income used to count public school children.


(ii) An LEA may count private school children from low-income families every year or every two years.


(iii) After timely and meaningful consultation in accordance with § 200.63, the LEA shall have the final authority in determining the method used to calculate the number of private school children from low-income families.


(4) An SEA must provide notice in a timely manner to appropriate private school officials in the State of the allocation of funds for educational services and other benefits that LEAs have determined are available for eligible private school children.


(5) An LEA must obligate funds generated to provide equitable services for eligible private school children in the fiscal year for which the funds are received by the LEA.


(b) *Services on an equitable basis.* (1) The services that an LEA provides to eligible private school children must be equitable in comparison to the services and other benefits that the LEA provides to public school children participating under subpart A of this part.


(2) Services are equitable if the LEA—


(i) Addresses and assesses the specific needs and educational progress of eligible private school children on a comparable basis as public school children;


(ii) Meets the equal expenditure requirements under paragraph (a) of this section; and


(iii) Provides private school children with an opportunity to participate that—


(A) Is equitable to the opportunity provided to public school children; and


(B) Provides reasonable promise of the private school children achieving the high levels called for by the State's student academic achievement standards or equivalent standards applicable to the private school children.


(3)(i) The LEA may provide services to eligible private school children either directly or through arrangements with another LEA or a third-party provider.


(ii) If the LEA contracts with a third-party provider—


(A) The provider must be independent of the private school; and


(B) The contract must be under the control and supervision of the LEA.


(4) After timely and meaningful consultation under § 200.63, the LEA must make the final decisions with respect to the services it will provide to eligible private school children.



---

[N] [82 FR 31709, July 7, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 31675, July 2, 2019]




