# § 52.633   Visibility protection.

(a) The requirements of section 169A of the Clean Air Act are not met, because the plan does not include approvable procedures for protection of visibility in mandatory Class I Federal areas.


(b) Regulations for visibility monitoring and new source review. The provisions of §§ 52.27 and 52.28 are hereby incorporated and made part of the applicable plan for the State of Hawaii.


(c) [Reserved] 


(d) *Regional Haze Plan Provisions—(1) Applicability*— This paragraph (d) applies to following electric generating units (EGUs) and boilers: Kanoelehua Hill Generating Station, Hill 5 and Hill 6; Puna Power Plant, Boiler 1; Shipman Power Plant, Boiler S-3 and Boiler S-4.


(2) *Definitions.* Terms not defined below shall have the meaning given to them in the Clean Air Act or EPA's regulations implementing the Clean Air Act. For purposes of this paragraph (d):


(3) *Emissions cap.* The EGUs identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not emit or cause to be emitted SO_2_ in excess of a total of 3,550 tons per year, calculated as the sum of total SO_2_ emissions for all five units over a rolling 12-month period.


(4) *Compliance date.* Compliance with the emissions cap and other requirements of this section is required at all times on and after December 31, 2018.


(5) *Monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements.*

(i) All records, including support information, required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section shall be maintained for at least five (5) years from the date of the measurement, test or report. These records shall be in a permanent form suitable for inspection and made available to EPA, the Hawaii Department of Health or their representatives upon request.


(ii) The owners and operators of the EGUs identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall maintain records of fuel deliveries identifying the delivery dates and the type and amount of fuel received. The fuel to be fired in the boilers shall be sampled and tested in accordance with the most current American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) methods.


(iii) The owners and operators of the EGUs identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall analyze a representative sample of each batch of fuel received for its sulfur content and heat value following ASTM D4057. The samples shall be analyzed for the total sulfur content of the fuel using ASTM D129, or alternatively D1266, D1552, D2622, D4294, or D5453.


(iv) The owners and operators of the EGUs identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall calculate on a monthly basis the SO_2_ emissions for each unit for the preceding month based on the sulfur content, heat value and total gallons of fuel burned.


(v) The owners and operators of the EGUs identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall calculate on a monthly basis the total emissions for all units for the preceding twelve (12) months.


(vi) The owners and operators of the EGUs identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall notify the Hawaii Department of Health and EPA Region 9 of any exceedance of the emission cap in paragraph (d)(3) of this section within thirty (30) days of such exceedance.


(vii) By March 1, 2019 and within sixty (60) days following the end of each calendar year thereafter, the owners and operators of the EGUs identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall report to the Hawaii Department of Health and EPA Region 9 the total tons of SO_2_ emitted from all units for the preceding calendar year by month and the corresponding rolling 12-month total emissions for all units.


(viii) Any document (including reports) required to be submitted by this rule shall be certified as being true, accurate, and complete by a responsible official and shall be mailed to the following addresses: Clean Air Branch, Environmental Management Division, State of Hawaii Department of Health, P.O. Box 3378, Honolulu, HI 96801-3378 and Director of Enforcement Division, U.S. EPA Region IX, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105.


(e) *Approval.* On October 20, 2017, the Hawaii Department of Health submitted the “Hawaii State Department of Health 5-Year Regional Haze Progress Report for Federal Implementation Plan” (“Progress Report”). The Progress Report meets the requirements of the Regional Haze Rule in 40 CFR 51.308.



---

[N] [50 FR 28553, July 12, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 45137, Nov. 24, 1987; 77 FR 61506, Oct. 9, 2012; 82 FR 3129, Jan. 10, 2017; 84 FR 39756, Aug. 12, 2019]




