# § 501.17   Animal food labeling warning statements.

(a) *Self-pressurized containers.* (1) The label of a food packaged in a self-pressurized container and intended to be expelled from the package under pressure shall bear the following warning: 


*Warning* Avoid spraying in eyes. Contents under pressure. Do not puncture or incinerate. Do not store at temperature above 120 °F. Keep out of reach of children. 


(2) In the case of products intended for use by children, the phrase “except under adult supervision” may be added at the end of the last sentence in the warning required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(3) In the case of products packaged in glass containers, the word “break” may be substituted for the word “puncture” in the warning required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(4) The words “Avoid spraying in eyes” may be deleted from the warning required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section in the case of a product not expelled as a spray. 


(b) *Self-pressurized containers with halocarbon or hydrocarbon propellants.* (1) In addition to the warning required by paragraph (a) of this section, the label of a food packaged in a self-pressurized container in which the propellant consists in whole or in part of a halocarbon or a hydrocarbon shall bear the following warning: 


*Warning* Use only as directed. Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal. 


(2) The warning required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not required for the following products: 


(i) Products expelled in the form of a foam or cream, which contain less than 10 percent propellant in the container. 


(ii) Products in a container with a physical barrier that prevents escape of the propellant at the time of use. 


(iii) Products of a net quantity of contents of less than 2 ozs that are designed to release a measured amount of product with each valve actuation. 


(iv) Products of a net quantity of contents of less than 
1/2 oz. 


(c) *Animal food containing or manufactured with a chlorofluorocarbon or other ozone-depleting substance.* Labeling requirements for animal foods that contain or are manufactured with a chlorofluorocarbon or other ozone-depleting substance designated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are set forth in 40 CFR part 82. 



---

[N] [41 FR 38619, Sept. 10, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 22033, Apr. 29, 1977; 61 FR 20101, May 3, 1996]




