# ยง 17.323   Information collection requirements.

Each recipient shall:


(a) Keep records in a form and containing information which DOI determines may be necessary to ascertain whether the recipient is complying with the Act and these regulations.


(b) Provide to DOI, upon request, information and reports which DOI determines are necessary to ascertain whether the recipient is complying with the Act and these regulations.


(c) Permit reasonable access by DOI to the books, records, accounts, and other recipient facilities and sources of information to the extent DOI determines necessary to ascertain whether the recipient is complying with the Act and these regulations.


(d) The information collection requirements contained in this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* and assigned clearance number 1084-0027. The information will be collected and used to assess recipients' compliance with the Act. Response is required to obtain a benefit.


(e) Public reporting burden for this information is estimated to average 8 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed; and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Departmental Clearance Officer, U.S. Department of the Interior, 18th and C Streets, NW., Washington, DC 20240, Mail Stop 2242; and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503.




