# § 324.173   Disclosures by certain advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institutions and Category III FDIC-supervised institutions.

(a)(1) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.172(b) must make the disclosures described in Tables 1 through 12 to § 324.173.


(2) An advanced approaches FDIC-supervised institution and a Category III FDIC-supervised institution that is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 324.172(d) must make the disclosures required under Table 13 to this section unless the FDIC-supervised institution is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or depository institution that is subject to these disclosure requirements or a subsidiary of a non-U.S. banking organization that is subject to comparable public disclosure requirements in its home jurisdiction.


(3) The disclosures described in Tables 1 through 12 to § 324.173 must be made publicly available for twelve consecutive quarters beginning on January 1, 2014, or a shorter period, as applicable, for the quarters after the FDIC-supervised institution has completed the parallel run process and received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d). The disclosures described in Table 13 to § 324.173 must be made publicly available for twelve consecutive quarters beginning on January 1, 2015, or a shorter period, as applicable, for the quarters after the FDIC-supervised institution becomes subject to the disclosure of the supplementary leverage ratio pursuant to § 324.172(d) and § 324.173(a)(2).


(b) *General qualitative disclosure requirement.* For each separate risk area described in Tables 5 through 12 to § 324.173, the FDIC-supervised institution must describe its risk management objectives and policies, including:


(1) Strategies and processes;


(2) The structure and organization of the relevant risk management function;


(3) The scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems; and


(4) Policies for hedging and/or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants.


(c) Except as provided in § 324.172(b), an FDIC-supervised institution described in § 324.172(d) must make the disclosures described in Table 13 to § 324.173; provided, however, the disclosures required under this paragraph are required without regard to whether the FDIC-supervised institution has completed the parallel run process and has received notification from the FDIC pursuant to § 324.121(d). The FDIC-supervised institution must make these disclosures publicly available beginning on January 1, 2015.



---

[N] [78 FR 55471, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 57750, Sept. 26, 2014; 80 FR 41425, July 15, 2015; 84 FR 4247, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59279, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 4442, Jan. 24, 2020]




