# ยง 285.705   When must I use a Certified Verification Agent (CVA)?

(a) Unless BSEE waives this requirement under paragraph (c) of this section, you must use one or more CVAs to review and verify your FDRs, FIRs, and the Project Modification and Repair Reports.


(b) The purpose of a CVA is to:


(1) Ensure that your facilities are designed, fabricated, and installed in conformance with accepted engineering practices and the FDR(s) and FIR(s); and that the design of the facilities is suitable for the location where they will be installed;


(2) Ensure Critical Safety Systems and Equipment are commissioned in accordance with the procedures identified in ยง 285.702(a)(8);


(3) Ensure that major repairs and major modifications are completed in conformance with accepted engineering practices; and


(4) Provide BSEE and you with reports of all incidents that affect the facility design, fabrication, and installation, including commissioning of Critical Safety Systems and Equipment, for the project and its components.


(c) BSEE may waive in whole or in part the requirement that you use a CVA if you can demonstrate the following:


(d) You must submit a request to waive, in whole or in part, the requirement to use a CVA to BSEE in writing.


(1) BSEE will review your request to waive, in whole or in part, the use of the CVA and notify you of its decision.


(2) If BSEE does not waive, in whole or in part, the requirement for a CVA, you may file an appeal under ยง 285.118.


(3) If BSEE waives, in whole or in part, the requirement that you use a CVA, your project engineer must perform the same duties and responsibilities as would have the CVA, except as otherwise provided. You must submit the project engineer's qualifications to BSEE as a part of your waiver request to demonstrate that your project engineer is a professional engineer with relevant experience and expertise in the facilities they will be verifying/certifying.



---

[N] [89 FR 42717, May 15, 2024]










