# ยง 1010.35   Payment of fees.

(a) *Method of payment.* (1) Each fee must be paid by:


(i) Certified check, cashier's check, or postal money order made payable to the Treasurer of the United States, with the registration number, when known, and the name, of the subdivision on the face of the check, and mailed to an address specified by the Director; or


(ii) Electronic payment in a manner specified by the Director.


(2) Information regarding the current mailing address or electronic payment procedures is available from: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Interstate Land Sales Registration Program, 1700 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20552, or on the Bureau's Web site at *www.consumerfinance.gov.*

(b) *Fees for registration.* The fee for each initial and consolidated registration is set forth in section VII of the appendix to this part: Initial and Consolidated Registration Fee Schedule.


(c) *Fee for Exemption Order or Advisory Opinion.* The filing fee for an Exemption Order or an Advisory Opinion (ยง 1010.16 or ยง 1010.17) is $500. This fee is not refundable.


(d) *Amendment fee.* (1) A fee of $800 is charged when an Annual Activity Report reflects an annual ending inventory of 101 or more unsold registered lots.


(2) A fee of $800 is charged for an amendment to reactivate a Statement of Record subsequent to its suspension, unless the developer has 100 or fewer unsold lots included in the Statement of Record.



---

[N] [76 FR 79489, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 29116, May 11, 2016]




