# § 1036.1   Applicability.

(a) Except as specified in § 1036.5, the provisions of this part apply for engines that will be installed in heavy-duty vehicles (including glider vehicles). Heavy-duty engines produced before December 20, 2026 are subject to greenhouse gas emission standards and related provisions under this part as specified in § 1036.108; these engines are subject to exhaust emission standards for NO_X_, HC, PM, and CO, and related provisions under 40 CFR part 86, subpart A and subpart N, instead of this part, except as follows:


(1) The provisions of §§ 1036.115, 1036.501(d), and 1036.601 apply.


(2) 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 may specify that certain provisions in this part apply.


(3) This part describes how several individual provisions are optional or mandatory before model year 2027. For example, § 1036.150(a) describes how you may generate emission credits by meeting the standards of this part before model year 2027.


(b) The provisions of this part also apply for fuel conversions of all engines described in paragraph (a) of this section as described in 40 CFR 85.502.


(c) Gas turbine heavy-duty engines and other heavy-duty engines not meeting the definition of *compression-ignition* or *spark-ignition* are deemed to be compression-ignition engines for purposes of this part.


(d) For the purpose of applying the provisions of this part, engines include all emission-related components and any components or systems that should be identified in your application for certification, such as hybrid components for engines that are certified as hybrid engines or hybrid powertrains.






