# ยง 158.241   Form of rebate.

(a) *Current enrollees.* (1) An issuer may choose to provide any rebates owing to current enrollees in the form of a premium credit, lump-sum check, or, if an enrollee paid the premium using a credit card or direct debit, by lump-sum reimbursement to the account used to pay the premium.


(2) For each of the 2011, 2012, and 2013 MLR reporting years, any rebate provided in the form of a premium credit must be provided by applying the full amount due to the first month's premium that is due on or after August 1 following the MLR reporting year. If the amount of the rebate exceeds the premium due for August, then any overage shall be applied to succeeding premium payments until the full amount of the rebate has been credited. Beginning with the 2014 MLR reporting year, any rebate provided in the form of a premium credit must be provided by applying the full amount due to the first month's premium that is due on or after September 30 following the MLR reporting year. If the amount of the rebate exceeds the premium due for October, then any overage shall be applied to succeeding premium payments until the full amount of the rebate has been credited. Beginning with rebates due for the 2020 MLR reporting year, any rebate provided in the form of a premium credit must be provided by applying the full amount due to the monthly premium that is due no later than October 30 following the MLR reporting year. If the amount of the rebate exceeds the monthly premium, then any overage shall be applied to succeeding premium payments until the full amount of the rebate has been credited.


(b) *Former enrollees in the individual market.* Rebates owing to former enrollees in the individual market must be paid in the form of lump-sum check or lump-sum reimbursement using the same method that was used for payment, such as credit card or direct debit.



---

[N] [75 FR 74921, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 76593, Dec. 7, 2011; 78 FR 15540, Mar. 11, 2013; 86 FR 24295, May 5, 2021]




