# § 203.355   Acquisition of property.

(a) *In general.* Upon default of a mortgage, except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section, the mortgagee shall take one of the following actions within nine months from the date of default, or within any additional time approved by the Secretary or authorized by §§ 203.345 or 203.346. For mortgages where the date of default is on or after February 1, 1998, the mortgagee shall take one or a combination of the following actions within six months of the date of default or within such additional time approved by HUD or authorized by §§ 203.345 or 203.346:


(1) Obtain a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure (see §§ 203.357, 203.389 and 203.402(f) of this part) with title being taken in the name of the mortgagee or the Secretary;


(2) Commence foreclosure;


(3) Enter into a special forbearance agreement under § 203.614;


(4) Complete a modification of the mortgage under § 203.616;


(5) Complete a refinance of the mortgage under § 203.43(c);


(6) Complete an assumption under § 203.512;


(7) File a partial claim under § 203.371; or


(8) Initiate a pre-foreclosure sale under § 203.370.


(b) *Vacant or abandoned property.* With respect to defaulted mortgages on vacant or abandoned property, if the mortgagee discovers, or should have discovered, that the property is vacant or abandoned, the mortgagee must commence foreclosure within the later of 120 days after the date the property became vacant, or 60 days after the date the property is discovered, or should have been discovered, to be vacant or abandoned; but no later than the number of months from the date of default as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. The mortgagee must not delay foreclosure on vacant or abandoned property because of the requirements of § 203.606. 


(c) *Prohibition of foreclosure within time limits.* If the laws of the State in which the mortgaged property is located, or Federal bankruptcy law:


(1) Do not permit the commencement of foreclosure within the time limits described in paragraphs (a), (b), (g), (h) and (i) of this section, the mortgagee must commence foreclosure within 90 days after the expiration of the time during which foreclosure is prohibited; or


(2) Require the prosecution of a foreclosure to be discontinued, the mortgagee must recommence the foreclosure within 90 days after the expiration of the time during which foreclosure is prohibited.


(d) *Property located on Indian land.* Upon default of a mortgage on property located on Indian land insured pursuant to section 248 of the National Housing Act (see § 203.43h of this part), the mortgagee must comply with §§ 203.350(b) and 204.664 of this part.


(e) *Property located on Hawaiian home lands.* Upon default of a mortgage on property located on Hawaiian home lands insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act (see § 203.43i of this part), the mortgagee must comply with §§ 203.350(c) and 203.665 of this part.


(f) *Property located on the Allegany Reservation of the Seneca Nation of Indians.* Upon default of a mortgage on property located on the Allegany Reservation of the Seneca Nation of Indians authorized by section 203(q) of the National Housing Act (see § 203.43j of this part), the mortgagee must comply with §§ 203.350(d) and 203.666 of this part, unless the mortgagor and the lessor have executed a lease renewal or a new lease either with a term of not less than five years beyond the maturity date of the mortgage, or with a term established by arbitration award. If a lease renewal or new lease has been executed, the mortgagee must comply with paragraph (a) of this section.


(g) *Pre-foreclosure sale procedure.* Within 90 days of the end of a mortgagor's participation in the pre-foreclosure sale procedure, *or* within the time limit described in paragraph (a) of this section, whichever is later, if no closing of an approved pre-foreclosure sale has occurred, the mortgagee must obtain a deed in lieu of foreclosure, with title being taken in the name of the mortgagee or the Secretary, or undertake one of the actions listed at § 203.355(a). The end-of-participation date is defined as:


(1) Four months after the date of commencement of participation, if there is no signed Contract of Sale at that time, unless extended by the Commissioner; 


(2) Six months after the date of commencement of participation, if there is a signed contract but settlement has not occurred by that date, unless extended by the Commissioner; 


(3) The date the mortgagee is notified of the mortgagor's withdrawal from the Pre-foreclosure Sale procedure; or 


(4) The date of the letter sent by the mortgagee to the mortgagor prior to the expiration of the customary participation period, terminating the mortgagor's opportunity to participate in the Pre-foreclosure Sale procedure. 


(h) *Special forbearance.* If the mortgagor fails to meet the requirements of a special forbearance under § 203.614 and the failure continues for 60 days, the mortgagee must undertake one of the actions listed at § 203.355(a) within the time limit described in paragraph (a) of this section or 90 days after the mortgagor's failure to meet the special forbearance requirements, whichever is later.


(i) *Modification under § 203.616, refinance under § 203.43(c), or assumption under § 203.512.* Provided that the mortgagee has established the mortgagor's eligibility within the time frame provided in § 203.355(a), if a mortgagee enters into a loss mitigation relief measure (*i.e.,* modification under § 203.616, refinance under § 203.43(c), or assumption under § 203.512) and it fails, the six-month period provided in § 203.355(a) is extended by an additional 90 days to allow the mortgagee to try another loss mitigation tool or go to foreclosure.



---

[N] [57 FR 47970, Oct. 20, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 50143, Sept. 30, 1994; 60 FR 57678, Nov. 16, 1995; 61 FR 35018, July 3, 1996; 62 FR 60129, Nov. 6, 1997]




