# § 721.11151   2-Butanone 1,1,1,3,4,4,4-heptafluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-butanone 1,1,1,3,4,4,4-heptafluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)- (PMN P-15-114, CAS No. 756-12-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3) (when determining which persons are reasonable likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposures, where feasible), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(2)(i)(v), (g)(3) (harmful to aquatic organisms) (harmful to fish), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). It is a significant new use unless containers of the PMN substance are labeled with the statement: “Contains a dielectric fluid which should not be mixed or used in conjunction with sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)”. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(t). It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as a dielectric medium for medium and high voltage power generation/distribution equipment and heat transfer.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N = 180.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 64759, Nov. 25, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 10616, Feb. 25, 2020]




