# § 63.1260   Reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the reporting requirements of paragraphs (b) through (n) of this section. Applicable reporting requirements of §§ 63.9 and 63.10 are also summarized in Table 1 of this subpart.


(b) *Initial notification.* The owner or operator shall submit the applicable initial notification in accordance with § 63.9(b) or (d).


(c) *Application for approval of construction or reconstruction.* An owner or operator who is subject to § 63.5(b)(3) shall submit to the Administrator an application for approval of the construction of a new major affected source, the reconstruction of a major affected source, or the reconstruction of a major source such that the source becomes a major affected source subject to the standards. The application shall be prepared in accordance with § 63.5(d).


(d) *Notification of CMS performance evaluation.* An owner or operator who is required by the Administrator to conduct a performance evaluation for a continuous monitoring system shall notify the Administrator of the date of the performance evaluation as specified in § 63.8(e)(2).


(e) *Precompliance report.* The Precompliance report shall be submitted at least 6 months prior to the compliance date of the standard. For new sources, the Precompliance report shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction. The Administrator shall have 90 days to approve or disapprove the plan. The plan shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the plan in writing, or fails to disapprove the plan in writing. The 90 day period shall begin when the Administrator receives the request. If the request is denied, the owner or operator must still be in compliance with the standard by the compliance date. To change any of the information submitted in the report, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator 90 days before the planned change is to be implemented; the change shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the change in writing, or fails to disapprove the change in writing. The Precompliance report shall include:


(1) Requests for approval to use alternative monitoring parameters or requests to set monitoring parameters according to § 63.1258(b)(4).


(2) Descriptions of the daily or per batch demonstrations to verify that control devices subject to § 63.1258(b)(1)(i) are operating as designed.


(3) A description of test conditions, and the corresponding monitoring parameter values for parameters that are set according to § 63.1258(b)(3)(ii)(C).


(4) For owners and operators complying with the requirements of § 63.1252(e), the P2 demonstration summary required in § 63.1257(f).


(5) Data and rationale used to support an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled emissions from process vents as required in § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii).


(6) Data and other information supporting the determination of annual average concentrations by process simulation as required in § 63.1257(e)(1)(ii). 


(7) Bench scale or pilot-scale test data and rationale used to determine annual average concentrations as required in § 63.1257(e)(1)(ii)(C). 


(f) *Notification of Compliance Status report.* The Notification of Compliance Status report required under § 63.9 shall be submitted no later than 150 days after the compliance date and shall include:


(1) The results of any applicability determinations, emission calculations, or analyses used to identify and quantify HAP emissions from the affected source.


(2) The results of emissions profiles, performance tests, engineering analyses, design evaluations, or calculations used to demonstrate compliance. For performance tests, results should include descriptions of sampling and analysis procedures and quality assurance procedures.


(3) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies, and the values of monitored parameters established during the initial compliance determinations, including data and calculations to support the levels established.


(4) Listing of all operating scenarios.


(5) Descriptions of worst-case operating and/or testing conditions for control devices.


(6) Identification of emission points subject to overlapping requirements described in § 63.1250(h) and the authority under which the owner or operator will comply.


(7) Anticipated periods of planned routine maintenance of a CCCD subject to § 63.1252(h) during the period between the compliance date and the end of the period covered by the first Periodic report, and if applicable, the rationale for why the planned routine maintenance must be performed while a process with a vent subject to § 63.1254(a)(3) will be operating.


(g) *Periodic reports.* An owner or operator shall prepare Periodic reports in accordance with paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section and submit them to the Administrator.


(1) *Submittal schedule.* Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, an owner or operator shall submit Periodic reports semiannually. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due. Each subsequent Periodic report shall cover the 6-month period following the preceding period.


(i) When the Administrator determines on a case-by-case basis that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the affected source; or


(ii) Quarterly reports shall be submitted when the source experiences an exceedance of a temperature limit monitored according to the provisions of § 63.1258(b)(1)(iii) or an exceedance of the outlet concentration monitored according to the provisions of § 63.1258(b)(1)(x) or (b)(5). Once an affected source reports quarterly, the affected source shall follow a quarterly reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency is approved. If an owner or operator submits a request to reduce the frequency of reporting, the provisions in § 63.10(e)(3)(ii) and (iii) shall apply, except that the phrase “excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and/or summary report” shall mean “Periodic report” for the purposes of this section. 


(iii) When a new operating scenario has been operated since the last report, in which case quarterly reports shall be submitted.


(2) *Content of Periodic report.* The owner or operator shall include the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Each Periodic report must include the information in § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(A) through (I) and (K) through (M). For each continuous monitoring system, the Periodic report must also include the information in § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(J).


(ii) If the total duration of excess emissions, parameter exceedances, or excursions for the reporting period is 1 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, or the total continuous monitoring system downtime for the reporting period is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, the Periodic report must include the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Monitoring data, including 15-minute monitoring values as well as daily average values of monitored parameters, for all operating days when the average values were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status report or operating permit.


(B) Duration of excursions, as defined in § 63.1258(b)(7).


(C) Operating logs and operating scenarios for all operating scenarios for all operating days when the values are outside the levels established in the Notification of Compliance Status report or operating permit.


(D) When a continuous monitoring system is used, the information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13).


(iii) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.1258(h)(2) or (3) during which a leak is detected, the records specified in § 63.1259(i)(7) must be included in the next Periodic report.


(iv) For each vapor collection system or closed vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.1252(b)(1), records required under § 63.1259(i)(6)(i) of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device through a bypass line. For each vapor collection system or closed vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.1252(b)(2), records required under § 63.1259(i)(6)(ii) of all periods in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out.


(v) The information in paragraphs (g)(2)(v)(A) through (D) of this section shall be stated in the Periodic report, when applicable.


(A) No excess emissions.


(B) No exceedances of a parameter.


(C) No excursions.


(D) No continuous monitoring system has been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted.


(vi) The information specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(vi)(A) through (C) for periods of planned routine maintenance. 


(A) For each storage tank subject to control requirements, periods of planned routine maintenance during which the control device does not meet the specifications of § 63.1253(b) through (d). 


(B) For a CCCD subject to § 63.1252(h), periods of planned routine maintenance during the current reporting period and anticipated periods of planned routine maintenance during the next reporting period. 


(C) Rationale for why planned routine maintenance of a CCCD subject to § 63.1252(h) must be performed while a process with a vent subject to § 63.1254(a)(3) will be operating, if applicable. This requirement applies only if the rationale is not in, or differs from that in, the Notification of Compliance Status report.


(vii) Each new operating scenario which has been operated since the time period covered by the last Periodic report. For each new operating scenario, the owner or operator shall provide verification that the operating conditions for any associated control or treatment device have not been exceeded, and that any required calculations and engineering analyses have been performed. For the initial Periodic report, each operating scenario for each process operated since the due date of the Notification of Compliance Status Report shall be submitted.


(viii) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the provisions of § 63.1253(b) or (c) by installing a floating roof, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.122(d) through (f) as applicable. References to § 63.152 from § 63.122 shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(h) *Notification of process change.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, whenever a process change is made, or a change in any of the information submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status Report, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section with the next Periodic report required under paragraph (g) of this section.


(i) A brief description of the process change.


(ii) A description of any modifications to standard procedures or quality assurance procedures.


(iii) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original Notification of Compliance Status Report under paragraph (f) of this section.


(iv) Information required by the Notification of Compliance Status Report under paragraph (f) of this section for changes involving the addition of processes or equipment.


(2) An owner or operator must submit a report 60 days before the scheduled implementation date of either of the following:


(i) Any change in the activity covered by the Precompliance report.


(ii) A change in the status of a control device from small to large.


(i) The owner or operator shall submit a report of the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1250(g)(3), including actions taken to correct a malfunction. The report shall be submitted on the same schedule as the periodic reports required under paragraph (g) of this section.


(j) *Reports of LDAR programs.* The owner or operator of any affected source implementing the LDAR program specified in § 63.1255 of this subpart shall implement the reporting requirements in § 63.1255 of this subpart. Copies of all reports shall be retained as records for a period of 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(b)(1).


(k) *Reports of emissions averaging.* The owner or operator of any affected source that chooses to comply with the requirements of § 63.1252(d) shall submit the implementation plan described in § 63.1259(e) 6 months prior to the compliance date of the standard and the following information in the periodic reports:


(1) The records specified in § 63.1259(e) for each process or storage tank included in the emissions average;


(2) All information as specified in paragraph (g) of this section for each process or storage tank included in the emissions average;


(3) Any changes of the processes or storage tanks included in the average.


(4) The calculation of the overall percent reduction efficiency for the reporting period.


(5) Changes to the Implementation Plan which affect the calculation methodology of uncontrolled or controlled emissions or the hazard or risk equivalency determination.


(6) Every second semiannual or fourth quarterly report, as appropriate, shall include the results according to § 63.1259(e)(4) to demonstrate the emissions averaging provisions of §§ 63.1252(d), 63.1257(g) and (h), 63.1258(f), and 63.1259(f) are satisfied.


(l) *Notification of performance test and test plan.* The owner or operator of an affected source shall notify the Administrator of the planned date of a performance test at least 60 days before the test in accordance with § 63.7(b). The owner or operator also must submit the test plan required by § 63.7(c) and the emission profile required by 63.1257(b)(8)(ii) with the notification of the performance test.


(m) *Request for extension of compliance.* An owner or operator may submit to the Administrator a request for an extension of compliance in accordance with § 63.1250(f)(4).


(n)(1) As of January 1, 2012, and within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, as defined in § 63.2 and as required in this subpart, you must submit performance test data, except opacity data, electronically to EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the ERT (see *http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert tool.html/*) or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only data collected using test methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.


(2) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (n)(1) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (n)(1) of this section in paper format.



---

[N] [63 FR 50326, Sept. 21, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 52614, Aug. 29, 2000; 66 FR 40135, Aug. 2, 2001; 76 FR 22601, Apr. 21, 2011]




