# § 382.103   Applicability.

(a) This part applies to service agents and to every person and to all employers of such persons who operate a commercial motor vehicle in commerce in any State and are subject to:


(1) The commercial driver's license requirements of part 383 of this subchapter;


(2) The Licencia Federal de Conductor (Mexico) requirements; or


(3) The commercial drivers license requirements of the Canadian National Safety Code.


(b) An employer who employs himself/herself as a driver must comply with both the requirements in this part that apply to employers and the requirements in this part that apply to drivers. An employer who employs only himself/herself as a driver shall implement a random alcohol and controlled substances testing program of two or more covered employees in the random testing selection pool.


(c) The exceptions contained in § 390.3T(f) of this subchapter do not apply to this part. The employers and drivers identified in § 390.3T(f) of this subchapter must comply with the requirements of this part, unless otherwise specifically provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Exceptions.* This part shall not apply to employers and their drivers:


(1) Required to comply only with the alcohol and/or controlled substances testing requirements of part 655 of this title (Federal Transit Administration alcohol and controlled substances testing regulations); or


(2) Who a State must waive from the requirements of part 383 of this subchapter. These individuals include active duty military personnel; members of the reserves; and members of the national guard on active duty, including personnel on full-time national guard duty, personnel on part-time national guard training and national guard military technicians (civilians who are required to wear military uniforms), and active duty U.S. Coast Guard personnel; or


(3) Who a State has, at its discretion, exempted from the requirements of part 383 of this subchapter. These individuals may be:


(i) Operators of a farm vehicle which is:


(A) Controlled and operated by a farmer;


(B) Used to transport either agricultural products, farm machinery, farm supplies, or both to or from a farm;


(C) Not used in the operations of a for-hire motor carrier, except for an exempt motor carrier as defined in § 390.5T of this subchapter; and


(D) Used within 241 kilometers (150 miles) of the farmer's farm.


(ii) Firefighters or other persons who operate commercial motor vehicles which are necessary for the preservation of life or property or the execution of emergency governmental functions, are equipped with audible and visual signals, and are not subject to normal traffic regulation.


(4) Who operate “covered farm vehicles,” as defined in 49 CFR 390.5.



---

[N] [66 FR 43103, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 16194, Mar. 14, 2013; 81 FR 68346, Oct. 4, 2016; 81 FR 71016, Oct. 14, 2016; 81 FR 87724, Dec. 5, 2016; 86 FR 35639, July 7, 2021; 89 FR 90619, Nov. 18, 2024]




