# ยง 600.237   Subgrants.

(a) *States.* States shall follow state law and procedures when awarding and administering subgrants (whether on a cost reimbursement or fixed amount basis) of financial assistance to local and Indian tribal governments. States shall:


(1) Ensure that every subgrant includes any clauses required by Federal statute and executive orders and their implementing regulations;


(2) Ensure that subgrantees are aware of requirements imposed upon them by Federal statute and regulation;


(3) Ensure that a provision for compliance with ยง 600.242 is placed in every cost reimbursement subgrant; and


(4) Conform any advances of grant funds to subgrantees substantially to the same standards of timing and amount that apply to cash advances by Federal agencies.


(b) *All other grantees.* All other grantees shall follow the provisions of this subpart which are applicable to awarding agencies when awarding and administering subgrants (whether on a cost reimbursement or fixed amount basis) of financial assistance to local and Indian tribal governments. Grantees shall:


(1) Ensure that every subgrant includes a provision for compliance with this subpart;


(2) Ensure that every subgrant includes any clauses required by Federal statute and executive orders and their implementing regulations; and


(3) Ensure that subgrantees are aware of requirements imposed upon them by Federal statutes and regulations.


(c) *Exceptions.* By their own terms, certain provisions of this subpart do not apply to the award and administration of subgrants:


(1) Section 600.210;


(2) Section 600.211;


(3) The letter-of-credit procedures specified in Treasury Regulations at 31 CFR part 205, cited in ยง 600.221; and


(4) Section 600.250.



---

[N] [53 FR 8045, 8087, Mar. 11, 1988. Redesignated at 59 FR 53264, Oct. 21, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 7166, Feb. 26, 1996]


