# ยง 30.3   Applicability.

(a) The restrictions imposed by section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution extend to all DOT agencies as well as all recipients of DOT funds. The restrictions apply to all projects for which funds are obligated or contracts or subcontracts are awarded during fiscal year 1988, including projects and contracts under all DOT financial assistance programs. The prohibition applies to public buildings and public works projects everywhere in the United States or any territory or possession of the United States. U.S. overseas bases, installations, and embassies are not subject to this part.


(b) The restrictions imposed by section 115 of the Airport Safety Act extend to all projects for which funds are made available by that Act, whether or not the contracts are awarded during fiscal year 1988. The restrictions apply to all contracts entered into under grants authorized by the Airport Safety Act.


(c) This part applies to projects covered by section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution, section 115 of the Airport Safety Act, or both. Whether one or the other statute or both apply, the effect on the project shall be the same, subject to paragraph (e) of this section.


(d) In addition to construction, alteration, and repair contracts, the restrictions of this part cover all architect, engineering, and other services related to the preparation and performance of construction, alteration, and repair of public projects and public works.


(e) The restrictions of this part also apply to all products used in the construction, alteration, or repair of public projects and public works; *Provided, however,* That


(1) The restrictions of this part do not apply to construction equipment or vehicles that do not become part of a delivered structure, product, or project and


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the restrictions of section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution do not apply to vehicles to be used by the project, including, but not limited to, buses, trucks, automobiles, rail rolling stock, and aircraft.




