# § 2520.104b-2   Summary plan description.

(a) *Obligation to furnish.* Under the authority of sections 104(b)(1) and 104(c) of the Act, the plan administrator of an employee benefit plan subject to the provisions of part 1 of title I shall furnish a copy of the summary plan description and a statement of ERISA rights as provided in § 2520.102-3(t), to each participant covered under the plan (as defined in § 2510.3-3(d)), and each beneficiary receiving benefits under a pension plan on or before the later of: 


(1) The date which is 90 days after the employee becomes a participant, or (in the case of a beneficiary receiving benefits under a pension plan) within 90 days after he or she first receives benefits, except as provided in § 2520.104b-4(a), or, 


(2) Within 120 days after the plan becomes subject to part 1 of title I. 


(3)(i) A plan becomes subject to part 1 of title I on the first day on which an employee is credited with an hour of service under § 2530.200b-2 or § 2530.200b-3. Where a plan is made prospectively effective to take effect after a certain date or after a condition is satisfied, the day upon which the plan becomes subject to part 1 of title I is the day after such date or condition is satisfied. Where a plan is adopted with a retroactive effective date, the 120 day period begins on the day after the plan is adopted. Where a plan is made retroactively effective dependent on a condition, the day on which the plan becomes subject to part 1 of title I is the day after the day on which the condition is satisfied. Where a plan is made retroactively effective subject to a contingency which may or may not occur in the future, the day on which the plan becomes subject to part 1, title I is the day after the day on which the contingency occurs. 


(ii) *Examples:* Company A is negotiating the purchase of Company B. On September 1, 1978, as part of the negotiations, Company A adopts a pension plan covering the employees of Company B, contingent on the successful conclusion of its negotiations to purchase Company B. The plan provides that it shall take effect on the first day of the calendar year in which the purchase is concluded. On February 1, 1979, the negotiations conclude with Company A's purchase of Company B. The plan therefore becomes effective on February 1, 1979, retroactive to January 1, 1979. The summary plan description must be filed and disclosed no later than 120 days after February 1, 1979. 


(b) *Periods for furnishing updated summary plan description.* (1) For purposes of the requirement to furnish the updated summary plan description to each participant and each beneficiary receiving benefits under the plan (other than beneficiaries receiving benefits under a welfare plan) required by section 104(b)(1) of the Act, the administrator of an employee benefit plan shall furnish such updated summary plan description no later than 210 days following the end of the plan year which occurs five years after the last date a change in the information required to be disclosed by section 102 or 29 CFR 2520.102-3 would have been reflected in the most recently distributed summary plan description (or updated summary plan description) as described in section 102 of the Act. 


(2) In the case of a plan to which no amendments have been made between the end of the time period covered by the last distributed summary plan description (or updated summary plan description), described in section 102 of the Act, and the next occurring applicable date described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, for purposes of the requirement to furnish the updated summary plan description to each participant, and to each beneficiary receiving benefits under the plan (other than beneficiaries receiving benefits under a welfare plan), required by section 104(b)(1) of the Act, the administrator of an employee benefit plan shall furnish such updated summary plan description no later than 210 days following the end of the plan year which occurs ten years after the last date a change in the information required to be disclosed by section 102 or 29 CFR 2520.102-3 would have been reflected in the most recently distributed summary plan description (or updated summary plan description), as described in section 102 of the Act. 


(c)-(f) [Reserved] 


(g) *Terminated plans.* (1) If, on or before the date by which a plan is required to furnish a summary plan description or updated summary plan description to participants and pension plan beneficiaries under this section, the plan has terminated within the meaning of paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the administrator of such plan is not required to furnish to participants covered under the plan or to beneficiaries receiving benefits under the plan a summary plan description.


(2) For purposes of this section, a plan shall be considered terminated if: 


(i) In the case of an employee pension benefit plan, all distributions to participants and beneficiaries have been completed; and 


(ii) In the case of an employee welfare benefit plan, no claims can be incurred which will result in a liability of the plan to pay benefits. A claim is incurred upon the occurrence of the event or condition from which the claim arises (whether or not discovered). 


(h) [Reserved] 


(i) *Style and format of the summary plan description.* See § 2520.102-2. 


(j) *Contents of the summary plan description.* See § 2520.102-3. 


(k) *Option for different summary plan descriptions.* See § 2520.102-4; § 2520.104-26; and § 2520.104-27. 


(l) *Employee benefit plan—participant covered under a plan.* See § 2510.3-3(d).



---

[N] [42 FR 37187, July 19, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 14032, Mar. 4, 1980; 48 FR 1714, Jan. 14, 1983; 61 FR 33849, 33850, July 1, 1996; 67 FR 777, Jan. 7, 2002] 




