# ยง 516.12   Service of civil process outside the United States.

(a) *Process of foreign courts.* In foreign countries service of process issued by foreign courts will be made under the law of the place of service, as modified by status of forces agreements, treaties or other agreements. In foreign areas under exclusive U.S. jurisdiction, service of process issued by foreign courts will be made under the law specified by appropriate U.S. authority.


(b) *Process of Federal courts.* Service of process on U.S. citizens or residents may be accomplished under the following provisions: The Hague Convention, reprinted in 28 USCA Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, following Rule 4; Fed. R. Civ. P. 4(i); 28 USC 1781 and 1783; and, the rules of the Federal court concerned. If a DA official receives a request to serve Federal process on a person overseas, he will determine if the individual wishes to accept service voluntarily. Individuals will be permitted to seek counsel. If the person will not accept service voluntarily, the party requesting service will be notified and advised to follow procedures prescribed by the law of the foreign country concerned.


(c) *Process of state courts.* If a DA official receives a request to serve state court process on a person overseas, he will determine if the individual wishes to accept service voluntarily. Individuals will be permitted to seek counsel. If the person will not accept service voluntarily, the party requesting service will be notified and advised to follow procedures prescribed by the law of the foreign country concerned. (See, for example, The Hague Convention, reprinted in 28 USCA Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, following Rule 4).


(d) *Suits against the United States.* DA personnel served with foreign civil process will notify the appropriate SJA or legal adviser, who will return the document to the issuing authority explaining the lack of authority to accept service for the United States. Service on the United States must be made upon DOJ through established diplomatic channels.




