# ยง 3560.255   Requesting rental assistance.

(a) *Submitting requests.* Borrowers seeking an allocation of rental assistance for MFH must request the rental assistance from the Agency as follows.


(1) *Renewal rental assistance.* To the extent sufficient funds are available, the Agency will automatically renew expiring rental assistance agreements at the existing number of units.


(2) *New construction units.* Loan applicants proposing to use Agency rental assistance must include their request for rental assistance in their loan proposal in accordance with ยง 3560.56.


(3) *Servicing units.* Borrowers requesting rental assistance must have tenants or eligible tenant applicants on a waiting list who are RA eligible.


(b) *Denial of requests.* (1) If a rental assistance request is denied due to the loan applicant's or borrower's ineligibility, the Agency will send the loan applicant or borrower written notification of the decision with an explanation of the denial.


(2) If a rental assistance request to renew expiring rental assistance agreements is denied because funding is not available, the Agency will notify the borrower and the borrower must notify the tenants of rent increases in accordance with their lease and state and local law. Tenants losing rental assistance due to a lack of Agency funding may quit the lease and vacate the housing without penalty in accordance with the terms of their lease.


(3) Loan applicants or borrowers determined to be eligible for RA as a result of an appeal or funding review will receive RA, if RA funding is available, beginning with the month following the date of the appeal or funding review decision or beginning in the first month that RA funding becomes available. 




