# § 1.162-4   Repairs.

(a) *In general.* A taxpayer may deduct amounts paid for repairs and maintenance to tangible property if the amounts paid are not otherwise required to be capitalized. Optionally, § 1.263(a)-3(n) provides an election to capitalize amounts paid for repair and maintenance consistent with the taxpayer's books and records.


(b) *Accounting method changes.* A change to comply with this section is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and the accompanying regulations apply. A taxpayer seeking to change to a method of accounting permitted in this section must secure the consent of the Commissioner in accordance with § 1.446-1(e) and follow the administrative procedures issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's consent to change its accounting method.


(c) *Effective/applicability date*—(1) *In general.* This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, § 1.162-4 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2011, applies to taxable years beginning before January 1, 2014.


(2) *Early application of this section.* A taxpayer may choose to apply this section to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012.


(3) *Optional application of TD 9564.* A taxpayer may choose to apply § 1.162-4T as contained in TD 9564 (76 FR 81060), December 27, 2011, to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and before January 1, 2014.



---

[N] [T.D. 9636, 78 FR 57705, Sept. 19, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 42191, July 21, 2014]




