# § 63.11147   What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources not using batch copper converters?

(a) *Emissions limits and work practice standards.* (1) You must not discharge to the atmosphere through any combination of stacks or other vents captured process exhaust gases from the copper concentrate dryers, smelting vessels, converting vessels, matte drying and grinding plants, secondary gas systems, and anode refining department that contain particulate matter less than 10 microns in aerodynamic diameter (PM_10_) in excess of 89.5 pounds per hour (lb/hr) on a 24-hour average basis.


(2) You must operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released during the transfer of molten materials from smelting vessels and converting vessels and conveys the collected gas stream to a control device.


(3) You must operate one or more capture systems that collect the gases and fumes released from each vessel used to refine blister copper, remelt anode copper, or remelt anode scrap and convey each collected gas stream to a control device. One control device may be used for multiple collected gas streams.


(b) *Compliance requirements.* For purposes of determining compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must calibrate, maintain and operate a system to continuously measure emissions of particulate matter (PM) from the smelter's main stack.


(2) All PM collected by the smelter main stack continuous PM sampling system is reported as PM_10_ unless you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the permitting authority that, due to an infrequent event, the measured PM contains a large fraction of particles greater than 10 microns in diameter.


(3) To determine the mass emissions rate, the PM_10_ concentration as determined by the smelter main stack continuous PM sampling system is multiplied by the volumetric flow rate for the smelter main stack and any necessary conversion factors.


(4) Compliance with the PM_10_ emissions limit is demonstrated based on the average mass PM_10_ emissions rate for each 24-hour period.


(5) The results of the PM monitoring and calculated average mass PM_10_ emissions rate for each 24-hour period must be recorded and the records maintained for at least 5 years. Collected data must be available for inspection when the required laboratory analysis is completed.




(6) You must submit to the permitting authority by the 20th day of each month a report summarizing the 24-hour average mass PM_10_ emissions rates for the previous month. Beginning November 12, 2024, the owner or operator must electronically submit all subsequent reports in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*) following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).




(7) You may certify initial compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section based on the results of PM sampling conducted during the previous month.


(c) *Operation and maintenance requirements.* (1) At all times, you must maintain and operate any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the permitting authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.




(2) All pollution control equipment must be installed, maintained, and operated properly. Instructions from the vendor or established maintenance practices that maximize pollution control must be followed. All necessary equipment control and operating devices, such as pressure gauges, amp meters, volt meters, flow rate indicators, temperature gauges, continuous emission monitors, etc., must be installed, operated properly, and easily accessible to compliance inspectors. A copy of all manufacturers' operating instructions for pollution control equipment and pollution emitting equipment must be maintained at your facility site. These instructions must be available to all employees who operate the equipment and must be made available to the permitting authority upon request. Maintenance records must be made available to the permitting authority upon request.


(3) You must document the activities performed to assure proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control equipment and monitoring systems or devices.


(4) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, in the event of an emergency situation the owner or operator must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. For the purposes of complying with this paragraph, an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that requires immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that causes the affected source to exceed an applicable emissions limitation under this subpart, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error.


(i) During the period of the emergency, you must implement all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceed the emissions standards or other applicable requirements in this subpart.


(ii) You must document through signed contemporaneous logs or other relevant evidence that an emergency occurred and you can identify the probable cause, your facility was being operated properly at the time the emergency occurred, and the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as required by paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.


(iii) You must submit a notice of the emergency to the permitting authority within two working days of the time when emissions limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternate timeframe acceptable to the permitting authority). This notice must contain a description of the emergency, any steps taken to mitigate emissions, and corrective actions taken.


(5) Before November 12, 2024, as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, you must comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements in § 63.6(e)(3). On or after November 12, 2024, you may not use the requirements in § 63.6(e)(3) as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. You must comply with all emissions limitation or work practice standards in this subpart at all times.






(d) *Deviations.* You must submit written notification to the permitting authority of any deviation from the requirements of this subpart, including the number, date, time, duration, and the cause of such events (including unknown cause, if applicable); a list of the affected sources or equipment; an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the probable cause of such deviations and any corrective actions or preventative measures taken. You must submit this notification within 14 days of the date the deviation started.




(e) *Reports.* (1) You must submit semiannual monitoring reports to your permitting authority. All instances of deviations from the requirements of this subpart must be clearly identified in the reports. The report must contain the number, date, time, duration, and the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable); a list of the affected sources or equipment; an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the probable cause of such deviations and any corrective actions or preventative measures taken. Examples of methods used to estimate the emissions would include product-loss calculations, mass balance calculations, measurements when available, or engineering judgment based on known process parameters.


(2) Beginning November 13, 2024, the owner or operator must electronically submit all subsequent semiannual monitoring reports in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*) following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).




(f) *Records.* (1) You must retain records of all required monitoring data and support information. Support information includes all calibration and maintenance records, all original strip charts or appropriate recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, and copies of all reports required by this subpart. For all monitoring requirements, the owner or operator must record, where applicable, the date, place, and time of sampling or measurement; the date analyses were performed; the company or entity that performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; the results of such analyses; and the operating conditions existing at the time of sampling or measurement.


(2) You must maintain records of the activities performed to assure proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control equipment and monitoring systems or devices. Records of these activities must be maintained for at least 5 years. 



---

[N] [72 FR 2944, Jan. 23, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 41717, May 13, 2024]






