# § 5.306   Definitions.

*Common household pet* means: 


(1) *For purposes of Housing programs:* A domesticated animal, such as a dog, cat, bird, rodent (including a rabbit), fish, or turtle, that is traditionally kept in the home for pleasure rather than for commercial purposes. Common household pet does not include reptiles (except turtles). If this definition conflicts with any applicable State or local law or regulation defining the pets that may be owned or kept in dwelling accommodations, the State or local law or regulation shall apply. This definition shall not include animals that are used to assist persons with disabilities. 


(2) *For purposes of Public Housing programs:* PHAs may define the term “common household pet” under § 5.318. 


*Elderly or disabled family* means: 


(1) *For purposes of Housing programs:* An elderly person, a person with a disability, or an elderly or disabled family for purposes of the program under which a project for the elderly or persons with disabilities is assisted or has its mortgage insured. 


(2) *For purposes of Public Housing programs:* (i) An elderly person, a person with a disability, or an elderly or disabled family as defined in § 5.403 in subpart A of this part. 


(ii) [Reserved]


*Housing programs* means: 


(1) The housing programs administered by the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner; and 


(2) The programs contained in chapter VIII of this title 24 that assist rental projects that meet the definition of project for the elderly or persons with disabilities in this subpart C.


*Project for the elderly or persons with disabilities* means:


(1) *For purposes of Housing programs:* (i) A specific rental or cooperative multifamily property that, unless currently owned by HUD, is subject to a first mortgage, and: 


(A) That is assisted under statutory authority identified by HUD through notice; 


(B) That was designated for occupancy by elderly or disabled families when funds for the project were reserved, or when the commitment to insure the mortgage was issued or, of not then so designated, that is designated for such occupancy in an effective amendment to the regulatory agreement covering the project, made pursuant to the project owner's request, and that is assisted or insured under one of the programs identified by HUD through notice; or 


(C) For which preference in tenant selection is given for all units in the project to elderly or disabled families and that is owned by HUD or assisted under one of the programs identified by HUD through notice. 


(ii) This term does not include health and care facilities that have mortgage insurance under the National Housing Act. This term also does not include any of the project owner's other property that does not meet the criteria contained in any one of paragraphs (1)(i)(A) through (C) of this definition, even if the property is adjacent to or under joint or common management with such specific property. 


(2) *For purposes of Public Housing programs:* Any project assisted under title I of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (other than under section 8 or 17 of the Act), including any building within a mixed-use project, that was designated for occupancy by the elderly or persons with disabilities at its inception or, although not so designated, for which the PHA gives preference in tenant selection (with HUD approval) for all units in the project (or for a building within a mixed-use project) to elderly or disabled families. For purposes of this part, this term does not include projects assisted the Low-Rent Housing Homeownership Opportunity program or under title II of the United States Housing Act of 1937. 


*Project owner* means an owner (including HUD, where HUD is the owner) or manager of a project for the elderly or persons with disabilities, or an agent authorized to act for an owner or manager of such housing. 


*Public Housing Agency (PHA)* is defined in § 5.100. 



---

[N] [61 FR 5202, Feb. 9, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 16715, Mar. 29, 2000]




