# § 78.95   General operation requirements.

(a) *Eligibility documentation.* Prior to providing suicide prevention services, grantees must verify, document, and classify each participant's eligibility for suicide prevention services, and determine and document each participant's degree of risk of suicide using tools identified in the suicide prevention services grant agreement. Documentation must be maintained consistent with § 78.150.


(b) *Required screening prior to services ending.* Prior to services ending, grantees must provide or coordinate the provision of a mental health screening using the screening tool described in § 78.50(a) to all eligible individuals they serve, when possible.


(c) *Suicide prevention services documentation.* For each participant who receives suicide prevention services from the grantee, the grantee must document the suicide prevention services provided or coordinated, how such services are provided or coordinated, the duration of the services provided or coordinated, and any goals for the provision or coordination of such services. Such documentation must be maintained consistent with § 78.150.


(d) *Notifications to participants.* (1) Prior to initially providing or coordinating suicide prevention services to an eligible individual and their family, the grantee must notify each eligible individual and their family of the following:


(i) The suicide prevention services are being paid for, in whole or in part, by VA;


(ii) The suicide prevention services available to the eligible individual and their family through the grantee's program;


(iii) Any conditions or restrictions on the receipt of suicide prevention services by the eligible individual and their family; and


(iv) In the instance of an eligible individual who receives assistance from the grantee under this program, that the eligible individual is able to apply for enrollment in VA health care pursuant to 38 CFR 17.36. If the eligible individual wishes to enroll in VA health care, the grantee must inform the eligible individual of a VA point of contact for assistance with enrollment. The requirements in this clause do not apply to eligible individuals who are members of the Armed Forces described in 38 U.S.C. 1712A(a)(1)(C)(i)-(iv).


(2) The grantee must provide each participant with a satisfaction survey, which the participant can submit directly to VA, within 30 days of such participant's pending exit from the grantee's program.


(e) *Assessment of funds.* Grantees must regularly assess how suicide prevention services grant funds can be used in conjunction with other available funds and services to assist participants.


(f) *Development of a suicide prevention services plan.* For each participant, grantees must develop and document an individualized plan with respect to the provision of suicide prevention services provided under this part. This plan must be developed in consultation with the participant and must be maintained consistent with § 78.150.


(g) *Coordination with VA.* The grantee will coordinate with VA with respect to the provision of health care and other services to eligible individuals pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapters 17 and 20.


(h) *Measurement and monitoring.* The grantee will submit to VA a description of the tools and assessments the grantee uses or will use to determine the effectiveness of the suicide prevention services furnished by the grantee. These will include any measures and metrics developed and provided by VA for the purposes of measuring the effectiveness of the programming to be provided in improving mental health status, wellbeing, and reducing suicide risk and suicide deaths of eligible individuals.


(i) *Agreements with community partners.* Only grantees that are a State or local government or an Indian tribe may use grant funds to enter into an agreement with a community partner under which the grantee may provide funds to the community partner for the provision of suicide prevention services to eligible individuals and their families.


(j) *Contracts for goods and services under this part.* Grantees may enter into contracts for good or services under this part.


(k) *Administration of suicide prevention services grants.* Grantees must ensure that suicide prevention services grants are administered in accordance with the requirements of this part, the suicide prevention services grant agreement, and other applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, including Federal civil rights laws. Grantees are responsible for ensuring that any community partners carry out activities in compliance with this part.



---

[N] [87 FR 13835, Mar. 10, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 62663, Aug. 1, 2024]






