# ยง 88.1   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*APHIS.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Assembly point.* Any facility, including auction markets, ranches, feedlots, and stockyards, in which equines are gathered in commerce.


*Commercial transportation.* Movement for profit via conveyance on any highway or public road.


*Conveyance.* Trucks, tractors, trailers, or semitrailers, or any combination of these, propelled or drawn by mechanical power.


*Equine.* Any member of the *Equidae* family, which includes horses, asses, mules, ponies, and zebras.


*Equine for slaughter.* Any member of the Equidae family being transferred to a slaughter facility, including an assembly point, feedlot, or stockyard.


*Euthanasia.* The humane destruction of an animal by the use of an anesthetic agent or other means that causes painless loss of consciousness and subsequent death.


*Feedlot.* Any facility which consolidates livestock for preconditioning, feeding, fattening, or holding before being sent to slaughter.


*Owner/shipper.* Any individual, partnership, corporation, or cooperative association that engages in the commercial transportation of more than 20 equines per year to slaughtering facilities, except any individual or other entity who transports equines to slaughtering facilities incidental to his or her principal activity of production agriculture (production of food or fiber).


*Owner-shipper certificate.* VS Form 10-13, 
1 which requires the information specified by ยง 88.4(a)(3) of this part.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture.


*Slaughtering facility.* A commercial establishment that slaughters equines for any purpose.


*Stallion.* Any uncastrated male equine that is 1 year of age or older.


*Stockyard.* Any place, establishment, or facility commonly known as stockyards, conducted, operated, or managed for profit or nonprofit as a public market for livestock producers, feeders, market agencies, and buyers, consisting of pens, or other enclosures, and their appurtenances, in which live cattle, sheep, swine, horses, mules, or goats are received, held, or kept for sale or shipment in commerce.


*USDA.* The U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*USDA backtag.* A backtag issued by APHIS that conforms to the eight-character alpha-numeric National Backtagging System and that provides unique identification for each animal.


*USDA representative.* Any employee of the USDA who is authorized by the Deputy Administrator for Veterinary Services of APHIS, USDA, to enforce this part.



---

[N] [66 FR 63615, Dec. 7, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 55216, Sept. 7, 2011]




