# § 68.6   Procedures.

(a) *TA for Service members participating in education programs.* (1) TA will be available for Service members participating in high school completion and approved courses from accredited undergraduate or graduate education programs or educational institutions. Approved courses are those that are part of an identified course of study leading to a postsecondary certificate or degree and non-degree oriented language courses integral to the Defense Language Transformation Roadmap (available at *http://www.defense.gov/news/Mar2005/d20050330roadmap.pdf*).


(i) Use of TA for non-degree oriented language courses is limited to those published by the Under Secretary of Defense (P&R) on the DoD Strategic Language List.


(ii) Dominant-in-the-force languages and languages deemed by DoD as already having sufficient strategic capacity will not be funded under 10 U.S.C. 2007, except for assignments outside the continental United States.


(2) TA will be applied as follows:


(i) For 100 percent of the cost of approved high school completion programs for Service members who have not been awarded a high school or equivalency diploma and who are enrolled in such programs.


(ii) In support of the voluntary education of active duty Service members during their off-duty periods, each Military Service will pay all or a portion, as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section, of the charges of an educational institution for education during the member's off-duty periods. TA funding will only be paid to educational institutions accredited by an accrediting organization recognized by ED, approved VA funding, and certified to participate in federal student aid programs through the ED under Title IV of Public Law 89-329, also known and referred to in this part as the Higher Education Act of 1965. Whenever ED withdraws the recognition of any accrediting agency, an institution of higher education that meets the requirements of accreditation, eligibility, and certification on the day before such withdrawal, may, notwithstanding the withdrawal, continue to participate in the TA program for a period not to exceed 18 months from the date of the withdrawal of recognition.


(A) When an educational institution's charges are equal to or less than the established cap per semester-hour of credit or its equivalent, the responsible Service will pay the entire amount charged by the educational institution. In computing credit equivalency, the following conversions will apply: 1 quarter-hour credit = 2/3 semester-hour credit; and 45 contact hours will be considered equivalent to 1 semester-hour credit when neither semester- nor quarter-hours are specified for the education for which the Service member is enrolled.


(B) When an educational institution's charges exceed the established cap per semester-hour of credit, or its equivalent, the responsible Service, will pay no more than the established cap per semester-unit (or equivalent) for tuition.


(C) Each Service member participating in off-duty, voluntary education will be allowed no more than the established annual ceiling, in aggregate, for each fiscal year.


(D) Covered charges include those that are submitted to the Service by the educational institution for tuition only. Educational institutions that bundle tuition, fees, or books into a consolidated cost must detail the charges of fees and books separately for Service members participating in the TA program. Fees include any charge not directly related to course instruction including but not limited to costs associated with room, board, distance learning, equipment, supplies, books/materials, exams, insurance, parking, transportation, admissions, registration, or fines.


(E) TA funds are not to be used for the purchase of books to include textbooks, ebooks, CDs/DVDs, or reference or instructional materials. Additionally, institutional education revenue generated from military TA funds cannot be used to support textbook grants or scholarships.


(F) To be eligible to receive TA, a Service member must meet the minimum requirement of successfully completing basic training. RC members are exempt from the requirement to first attend basic training before authorized to receive TA. Additional, respective Service requirements must be met to include training qualification, unit assignment, and time in service criteria.


(iii) The TA rate, credit-cap, and annual per capita ceiling, will be reviewed annually in consideration of inflation and other effects, and will be applicable uniformly whether instruction is delivered traditionally in-the-classroom or through distance education. Rates of TA other than as identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section are not authorized.


(3) *Service-specific TA eligibility requirements.* (i) Service-specific eligibility criteria and management controls are determined by each Military Service.


(ii) Service-specific TA eligibility criteria and management controls may include, but are not limited to, applying TA:


(A) For courses leading to a certificate or required for a credentialing program. All payments for courses must comply with the allowable caps and ceilings.


(B) For graduate studies through the master's degree level. All payments for courses must comply with the allowable caps and ceilings.


(C) For same level degrees, subject to the availability of funds. However, TA is primarily intended to raise the academic degree level of the Service member.


(4) TA is available to a commissioned officer on active duty, other than an officer serving in the Ready Reserves (addressed in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (a)(6)(i) of this section), only if the officer agrees to remain on active duty, for a period of at least 2 years after the completion of the education or training for which TA was paid (see 10 U.S.C. 2007).


(5) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned may only make TA available to a member of the SELRES, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2007, under the following conditions:


(i) In the case of a commissioned officer, the officer must agree to remain a member of the SELRES for at least 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA is paid.


(ii) In the case of an enlisted member, the Secretary concerned may require the member of the SELRES to enter into an agreement to remain a member of the SELRES for up to 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA is paid.


(6) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned may only make TA available to a member of the IRR who has a military occupational specialty designated by the Secretary concerned pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2007 and only under the following conditions:


(i) In the case of a commissioned officer, the officer must agree to remain a member of the SELRES or IRR for at least 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA was paid.


(ii) In the case of an enlisted member, the Secretary concerned may require the member of the IRR to enter into an agreement to remain a member of the IRR for up to 4 years after completion of the education or training for which TA is paid.


(7) Members performing Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) duty under either 10 U.S.C. 12310 or active duty under 14 U.S.C. 712 are eligible for TA under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(8) The Secretary of the Military Department concerned may make TA available to National Guard members in accordance with paragraph (a)(4), except for National Guard members assigned to the Inactive National Guard.


(9) Reimbursement and repayment requirements:


(i) If a commissioned officer or member of the RR does not fulfill a specified Service obligation as required by 10 U.S.C. 2007, they are subject to the repayment provisions of 37 U.S.C. 303a(e).


(ii) For other conditions pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2005, the Secretary concerned may require a Service member to enter into a written agreement when providing advanced education assistance. If the Service member does not fulfill any terms or conditions as prescribed by the Secretary concerned, the Service member will be subject to the repayment provisions of 37 U.S.C. 303a(e).


(iii) Pursuant to 37 U.S.C. 303a(e), the Secretary concerned may establish procedures for determining the amount of the repayment required from the Service member and the circumstances under which an exception to the required repayment may be granted.


(iv) Reimbursement will be required from the Service member if a successful course completion is not obtained. For the purpose of reimbursement, a successful course completion is defined as a grade of “C” or higher for undergraduate courses, a “B” or higher for graduate courses and a “Pass” for “Pass/Fail” grades. Reimbursement will also be required from the Service member if he or she fails to make up a grade of “I” for incomplete within the time limits stipulated by the educational institution or 6 months after the completion of the class, whichever comes first. The Secretary of the Military Department will establish recoupment processes for unsuccessful completion of courses.


(10) Students using TA must maintain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher after completing 15 semester hours, or equivalent, in undergraduate studies, or a GPA of 3.0 or higher after completing 6 semester hours, or equivalent, in graduate studies, on a 4.0 grading scale. If the GPA for TA funded courses falls below these minimum GPA limits, TA will not be authorized and Service members will use alternative funding (such as financial aid or personal funds) to enroll in courses to raise the cumulative GPA to 2.0 for undergraduate studies or 3.0 for graduate studies.


(11) TA will not be authorized for any course for which a Service member receives reimbursement in whole or in part from any other Federal source such as veterans' education benefits (GI Bill and other programs) and Service-funded programs (ROTC scholarship, education-related incentive or bonus, and advanced civil schooling) when the payment would constitute a duplication of benefits paid to that educational institution. Federal student aid loan, grant, and work-study programs will not be considered a duplication of benefit. Educational institutions have the responsibility to notify the Service if there is any duplication of benefits, determine the amount of credit that should be returned, and credit the amount back to the Service. The use of funds related to veterans' education benefits to supplement TA received by active duty and RC personnel is authorized in accordance with applicable VA guidelines.


(12) Pell Grants may be used in conjunction with TA assistance to pay that portion of tuition costs not covered by TA.


(13) TA will be provided for courses provided by educational institutions awarding degrees based on demonstrated competency, if:


(i) Competency rates are equated to semester or quarter units of credit, and


(ii) The educational institution publishes traditional grade correlations with “Pass/Fail” grades, and


(iii) The educational institution provides a breakdown by course equivalent for Service members.


(14) Enrollment in a professional practicum integral to these types of programs is also authorized. However, normal DoD TA caps and ceilings apply; the cost of expanded levels of enrollment over and above these enrollment levels and normal caps and ceilings must be borne by the student.


(15) When used for postsecondary education, TA will be provided only for courses offered by postsecondary educational institutions whose home campus is operating within the United States, to include the District of Columbia and U.S. territories, which are accredited by a national or regional accrediting body recognized by the ED.


(16) On a date to be determined, but not earlier than 60 days following the publication of this part in the _Federal Register,_ to receive TA, all educational institution home campuses must sign the revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part, and the name of the educational institution must be posted on the DoD MOU Web site under the 'Participating Institutions' tab (located at *http://www.dodmou.com*). One signed, revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with the educational institution's home campus will cover any program offered by the educational institution, regardless of location. The requirement to sign the revised DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU contained in this part applies to institutions with a previously approved and signed DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU posted on the DoD MOU Web site.


(17) To the extent that any provision of the standard language of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU template in appendices A, B, C, D, and E to this part, results from DoD policy that conflicts with a state law or regulation, the DASD(MCFP) may authorize amending the standard language of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU template on a case-by-case basis to the extent permissible by Federal law or regulation.


(18) A DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with an educational institution may be suspended or terminated by DoD in these circumstances:


(i) The DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with an educational institution may be terminated by the ASD(R&FM) following written notice and an opportunity to respond for the failure to comply with any element of this part of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU. In addition, an otherwise qualified educational institution may be suspended from participating in the tuition assistance program by the ASD(R&FM) following written notice and an opportunity to respond through either the termination of an existing DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU or the refusal by DoD to enter into a new DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU upon indictment of the educational institution or any senior official of the educational institution on a criminal charge related to the operation of the educational institution. The decision of the ASD(R&FM) in either of these cases may be appealed to the USD(P&R), and the decision of the USD(P&R) will be deemed to be the final administrative action by DoD on the matter.


(ii) An otherwise qualified educational institution may also be immediately suspended from participating in the tuition assistance program through either the termination of an existing DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU or the refusal to enter into a new DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU by the USD(P&R) on national security grounds. Written notice of the action will be provided to the educational institution, and, if practicable without damaging national security, the written notice will include a short unclassified summary of the reasons for the action. Such a decision of the USD(P&R) is only appealable to the Secretary of Defense, who has authorized the Deputy Secretary of Defense to act on such an appeal.


(iii) The authorities pursuant to this paragraph are not delegable.


(b) *Guidelines for establishing, maintaining, and operating voluntary education programs.* (1) Education programs established under this part by each Military Service will:


(i) Provide for the academic, technical, intellectual, personal, and professional development of Service members, thereby contributing to the readiness of the Military Services and the quality of life of Service members and their families.


(ii) Increase Service members' opportunities for advancement and leadership by reinforcing their academic skills and occupational competencies with new skills and knowledge.


(iii) Lead to a credential, such as a high school diploma, certificate, or college degree, signifying satisfactory completion of the educational program.


(iv) Include an academic skills program, which allows personnel to upgrade their reading, writing, computation, and communication abilities in support of academic skills and military occupations and careers. Academic skills programs may include English as a Second Language, mathematics and basic science.


(v) Include programs and college offerings that support findings from periodic needs assessments conducted by the appropriate DoD installation official (normally the Education Services Officer) for programs provided on the DoD installation. The DoD installation needs assessment process is used to determine such items as staffing requirements, course offerings, size of facilities, funding, or other standards for delivery of educational programs. Duplication of course offerings on a DoD installation should be avoided. However, the availability of similar courses through correspondence or electronic delivery will not be considered duplication.


(vi) Be described in a publication or on-line source that includes on-installation educational programs, programs available at nearby DoD installations, and colleges and universities nearby the DoD installation.


(2) Each Military Service, in cooperation with community educational service providers, will provide support essential to operating effective education programs. This support includes:


(i) Adequate funds for program implementation, administration, and TA.


(ii) Adequately trained staff to determine program needs, counsel students, provide testing services, and procure educational programs and services. Education counseling will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) individuals.


(iii) Adequate and appropriate classroom, laboratory, and office facilities and equipment, including computers to support local needs.


(iv) Access to telecommunications networks, computers, and physical or online libraries at times convenient to active duty personnel.


(3) In operating its programs, each Military Service will:


(i) Provide to newly assigned personnel, as part of their orientation to each new DoD installation or unit of assignment for RC personnel, information about voluntary education programs available at that DoD installation, unit, or State for RC personnel.


(ii) Maintain participants' educational records showing education accomplishments and educational goals.


(iii) Provide for the continuing professional development of their education services staff, including the participation of field staff in professional, as well as Service-sponsored, conferences, symposiums, and workshops.


(iv) Provide educational services, including TA counseling, academic advice and testing to their personnel and to personnel of other Services (including the U.S. Coast Guard when operating as a service in the Navy) who are assigned for duty at DoD installations of the host Service. These educational services will be provided by qualified professional (Education Services Series 1740 or an individual with equivalent qualifications) individuals in sufficient numbers to operate voluntary education programs as determined by individual Service standards. Outcomes from these educational services will include:


(A) A prior learning assessment that includes a review of all education transcripts to include the JST, the CCAF transcript, and academic transcript recommendations for ACE recommended credit.


(B) An assessment of the Service members' readiness to accomplish the degree requirements as outlined in the evaluated educational plan and a discussion of academic skills development programs.


(C) Discussion and review of technical credentials that can be obtained concurrent to academic pursuits.


(D) Discussion of credit-by-examination options.


(E) Review of academic program options, leading to a degree plan.


(F) Discussion with prospective military students on payment options and the use of education benefits for postsecondary courses to include the DoD TA Program, VA education benefit programs, State and federal grants and loans, commercial lending, and out-of-pocket costs for the Service member. Discussion will include streamlined tools and information to compare educational institutions using key measures of affordability and value through the VA eBenefits portal at *http://www.ebenefits.va.gov.* The eBenefits portal is updated by VA to facilitate access to school performance information and key federal financial aid documents.


(v) Continually assess the state of its voluntary education programs and periodically conduct a formal needs assessment by the appropriate DoD installation official (normally the Education Services Officer) to ensure that the best possible programs are available to their members at each DoD installation or in their State or area command for RC personnel. It is essential that a formal needs assessment be conducted if there is a significant change in the demographic profile of the DoD installation population.


(4) Eligible adult family members of Service members, DoD civilian employees and their eligible adult family members, and military retirees may participate in installation postsecondary education programs on a space-available basis at no cost to the individual Service TA programs.


(5) At locations where an educational program that is offered on a DoD installation is not otherwise conveniently available outside the DoD installation, civilians who are not directly employed by the DoD or other Federal agencies, and who are not eligible adult family members of DoD personnel, may be allowed to participate in DoD installation educational programs. While such participation contributes to positive community relations, participation must be on a student-funded, space-available basis at no cost to the individual Service TA programs, after the registration of Service members, DoD civilian employees, eligible adult family members, and military retirees. Additionally, a review of these potential participants by the relevant DoD installation ethics counselor may be required as part of the installation commander's access requirements. Participation may also be subject to the terms of status-of-forces or other regulating agreements.


(6) Education centers will maintain liaison with appropriate State planning and approving agencies and coordinating councils to ensure that planning agencies for continuing, adult, or postsecondary education are aware of the educational needs of military personnel located within their jurisdiction.


(7) In supporting a high school completion program, each Military Service will:


(i) Ensure that all Service members with less than a high school education have the opportunity to attain a high school diploma or its equivalent.


(ii) Ensure that neither a Military Service nor DANTES issues a certificate or similar document to Service members based on performance on high school equivalency tests. Military Services will recognize attainment of high school completion or equivalency only after a State- or territory-approved agency has awarded the appropriate credential.


(iii) Pay 100 percent of the cost of high school equivalency instruction or proficiency testing and credentialing for Service members.


(iv) Ensure that Service sponsored high school diploma programs are delivered by institutions that are State-funded or a Service component program accredited by a regional accrediting body or recognized by a State's secondary school authority.


(c) *Procedures for the responsible education advisor, on behalf of the installation commander, to follow to provide voluntary education programs and services from postsecondary educational institutions.* (1) Contacts by an educational institution with a Service member for the purpose of asking or encouraging the member to sign up for one of the educational institution's programs (assuming the program has some cost) are considered personal commercial solicitations. The responsible education advisor will ensure educational institutions comply with DoD Instruction 1344.07, “Personal Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installations” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134407p.pdf*) and all requirements established by the installation commander for solicitation. Materials available through the education center that provide basic information about the educational institution or its programs or services in compliance with this MOU will not be considered personal commercial solicitation including, but not limited to, brochures, flyers, and catalogs provided by the educational institution. The responsible education advisor will ensure adequate and appropriate materials are available at no cost to the Service member and at no additional charge to the educational institution meeting the requirements as stated in the policy section of this part and in compliance with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU.


(2) The responsible education advisor will limit DoD installation access to educational institutions or their agents meeting the requirements as stated in the policy section of this part and in compliance with the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU. Agents representing education institutions in the performance of contracted services are permitted DoD installation access only in accordance with the requirements of their contract and/or agreement.


(3) Educational institutions interested in providing education, guidance, training opportunities, and participating in sanctioned education fairs on a DoD installation provide their requests to the responsible education advisor, who will review and analyze these requests on behalf of the installation commander.


(4) The responsible education advisor will ensure all educational institutions and its agents granted access to DoD installations to provide education, guidance, training opportunities, and participate in sanctioned education fairs to Service members:


(i) Adhere to federal law, DoD Instruction 1344.07, DoD Instruction 1322.19, “Voluntary Education Programs in Overseas Areas” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/132219p.pdf;* and the cognizant Military Service's policies and regulations.


(ii) Comply with applicable DoD installation policies and procedures designated by the installation commander on such matters as fire and safety, environment, physical security, personnel background checks, vehicle inspection and registration, and any other applicable statues or regulations designated by the installation commander.


(5) Monitor educational institutions and its agents granted access to a DoD installation to ensure they do not:


(i) Use unfair, deceptive, abusive or fraudulent devices, schemes, or artifices, including misleading advertising or sales literature.


(ii) Engage in unfair, deceptive, or abusive marketing tactics, such as during unit briefings or assemblies; engaging in open recruiting efforts; or distributing marketing materials on the DoD installation at unapproved locations or events.


(iii) Market to or recruit newly assigned military personnel to the DoD installation, unless the Service member has received information about voluntary education programs and educational services available at that DoD installation, to include TA, from their education services staff or as part of their orientation to the new DoD installation.


(6) Ensure educational institutions granted access to DoD installations to provide programs, services, or education guidance to their students meet these criteria:


(i) Have a signed Voluntary Education Partnership MOU with DoD.


(ii) Are in compliance with State authorization requirements consistent with regulations issued by ED including 34 CFR 600.9. Educational institutions must meet the requirements of the state where services will be rendered to include compliance with all state laws as they relate to distance education.


(iii) Are State approved for the use of veterans' education benefits. Copies of the certification will be filed with the appropriate State approving agency for the military or veteran student.


(iv) Are certified to participate in federal student aid programs through the ED under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965. Title IV certification may be provisional so long as the educational institution maintains eligibility to participate in the Federal Direct Loan Program.


(v) Are accredited by a national or regional accrediting body recognized by the ED and conduct programs only from among those offered or authorized by the main administrative and academic office in accordance with standard procedures for authorization of degree programs by the educational institution.


(7) DoD installations seeking an educational institution to provide on-installation education programs, through the responsible education advisor, must:


(i) Communicate the educational needs of the DoD installation to a wide variety of potential providers.


(ii) Seek favorable tuition rates, student services, and instructional support from providers.


(iii) Provide to interested providers:


(A) The level of services and instruction desired, and specific degree programs being sought.


(B) A demographic profile of the DoD installation population and probable volume of participation in the program.


(C) Facilities and level of security at no charge to the educational institution.


(D) Cost associated with equipment and supporting services provided at the discretion of the DoD installation.


(E) A copy of this part.


(F) Special requirements, such as:


(*1*) Format (e.g., distance, evening, or weekend classes), independent study, short seminar, or other mode of delivery of instruction.


(*2*) Unique scheduling problems related to the operational mission of the DoD installation.


(*3*) Any DoD installation restrictions, limitations, or special considerations relevant to using an alternate delivery system (e.g., DL).


(*4*) Available computer hardware and supporting equipment.


(*5*) Electrical, satellite, and network capabilities at the site.


(8) In evaluating proposals, responsible education advisors must ensure potential providers meet, at a minimum, these criteria:


(i) Programs satisfy objectives defined by the most recent needs assessment.


(ii) Programs, courses, and completion requirements are the same as those at the provider's main administrative and academic campus.


(iii) The educational institution granting undergraduate academic credit must adhere to the Servicemembers Opportunity Colleges (SOC) Principles and Criteria (available at *http://www.soc.aascu.org/socconsortium/PublicationsSOC.html*) regarding the transferability of credit, the awarding of credit for military training and experience, and residency requirements.


(iv) The provider is prepared to:


(A) Offer academic counseling and flexibility in accommodating special military schedules.


(B) Ensure main administrative and academic office approval in faculty selection, assignment, and orientation; and participation in monitoring and evaluation of programs. Adjunct or part-time faculty will possess comparable qualifications as full-time permanent faculty members.


(C) Conduct on-installation or online courses that carry identical credit values, represent the same content and experience, and use the same student evaluation procedures as courses offered through the main administrative and academic campus. All substantive course change requirements must follow the schools accreditation agencies requirements. If the educational institution's accrediting agency's substantive change policy requires new courses or program offerings to be submitted to the agency for approval, the educational institution will be required to submit such items for approval before admitting Service members using military TA.


(D) Maintain the same admission and graduation standards that exist for the same programs at the main administrative and academic office, and include credits from courses taken at a branch or auxiliary campus of the same educational institution in establishing academic residency to meet degree requirements.


(E) Provide library and other reference and research resources, in either print or electronic format, that are appropriate and necessary to support course offerings.


(F) Establish procedures to maintain regular communication among central institutional academic leadership and administrators, and off-campus representatives and faculty. Any educational institution's proposal must specify these procedures.


(G) Provide students with regular and accessible academic and financial counseling services either electronically or in-person. At a minimum, this includes Title IV and VA education benefits.


(H) Charge tuition that is not more than tuition charged to nonmilitary students.


(I) Have established policies for awarding credit for military training by examinations, experiential learning, and courses completed using modes of delivery other than instructor-delivered, on-site classroom instruction.


(J) Conduct programs only from among those offered or authorized by the main administrative and academic office in accordance with standard procedures for authorization of degree programs by the educational institution.


(d) *Requirements and procedures for educational institutions seeking access to the DoD installation solely to provide academic counseling or student support services to students.* (1) Educational institutions must meet the criteria in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.


(2) Educational institutions must request access through the responsible education advisor via a written proposal. If a request is received from an educational institution seeking access to a joint DoD installation, the responsible education advisor from the education center will determine the appropriate Military Service to work the request. The request should include as a minimum:


(i) Educational institution name and intent or purpose of the visit.


(ii) Number and names of educational institution representatives that will be available.


(iii) Counseling delivery method: By appointment or walk-in.


(iv) Communication process used to inform students of their availability for counseling.


(3) The responsible education advisor will review and analyze the request on behalf of the installation commander. The installation commander has the final authority to approve, deny, suspend, or withdraw DoD installation access permission from an educational institution, as deemed appropriate.


(4) If a request is received from an educational institution seeking access to a DoD installation, the responsible education advisor will:


(i) Fully consider requests from those educational institutions complying with requirements as stated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section and be consistent in treatment of educational institutions in accordance with this part. Also, consider the value to the Service member as it relates to geographic location, accessibility and mission tempo.


(ii) If request is denied, provide a timely response to the educational institution and inform the educational institution they may reapply for access once reasons for denial are addressed.


(iii) Maintain copies of all correspondence in accordance with the DoD installation records management schedule and disposition, with a minimum time requirement of 2 years.


(5) If a DoD installation grants access to an educational institution to provide guidance to their students, the educational institution and its agents will:


(i) Only advise or counsel students at the education center or at a location approved by the responsible education advisor.


(ii) Maintain a record of students counseled and provide a copy to the education office. The record will annotate the type of program and the status of the Service member (current or reenrollment).


(iii) Comply with applicable DoD installation policies and procedures designated by the installation commander on such matters as fire and safety, environment, physical security, personnel background checks, vehicle inspection and registration, and any other applicable statues or regulations designated by the installation commander.


(e) *Interservice Voluntary Education Board.* Under the direction of the Voluntary Education Chief, the Interservice Voluntary Education Board is composed of full-time or permanent part-time employees of DoD or military members, and consists of one representative responsible for policy from the Office of the ASD(RA), and the senior voluntary education advisor responsible for policy each from the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps. The Director, DANTES, will serve as an ex-officio member. Meeting quarterly, the Board will:


(1) Provide a forum for the exchange of information and discussion of issues related to voluntary education programs.


(2) Develop recommendations for changes in policies and procedures.


(3) Develop recommendations for DANTES' activities and operations that support voluntary education programs.


(4) Review and prioritize DANTES activities that support DoD voluntary education programs, to include budget execution and recommend execution year adjustments.


(5) Develop recommended policy and program guidance for DANTES for the Future-Year Defense Program.


(f) *DANTES.* (1) Guidance and recommendations for DANTES will be developed with the advice of the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.


(2) The selection and rating of the Director, DANTES will be as follows:


(i) The DASD(MCFP) will convene and chair the search committee responsible for replacing the Director, DANTES, when the position is vacated. At the request of the USD(P&R), the Secretaries of the Military Departments will provide a senior manager to sit on the search committee. The committee will recommend the best qualified candidate to the DoD EA for DANTES, for possible appointment as the Director, DANTES.


(ii) The DoD EA for DANTES will designate the rater of the Director, DANTES. The Director, State Liaison and Educational Opportunity within the Office of the USD(P&R), MCFP, will provide input to the DoD EA designated rater concerning the performance of the Director, DANTES.


(3) DANTES will:


(i) Support the Service voluntary education programs by executing the program outlined in this part and the annual USD(P&R) supplemental guidance for those items not reflected in this paragraph of this section.


(ii) Provide execution information to the Interservice Voluntary Education Board quarterly and provide information required to assist with the program objective memorandum development as requested by the Board.


(iii) Support DoD off-duty, voluntary education programs and conduct special projects and developmental activities in support of education-related DoD functions.


(iv) Assist the Military Services in providing high-quality and valuable educational opportunities for Service members, their eligible adult family members, and DoD personnel, and assist personnel in achieving professional and personal educational objectives. This role includes the consolidated management of programs that prevent duplication of effort among the Services. Through its activities, DANTES supports DoD recruitment, retention, and the transition efforts.


(v) Assume responsibilities and functions that include:


(A) Managing and facilitating the delivery of a wide variety of examinations including the General Equivalency Diploma test, college admissions, and credit-by-examination programs.


(B) Upon request, issuing transcripts for the United States Armed Forces Institute and the examination and certification programs.


(C) Managing the contract through which former DoD Dependents Schools students can obtain copies of archived transcripts.


(D) Managing the contract and functions related to the evaluation of educational experiences in the Military Services that are covered by the contract.


(E) Providing or developing and distributing educational materials, reference books, counseling publications, educational software, and key educational resource information to Defense Agencies and DoD installations.


(F) Managing the SOC program contract and related functions.


(G) Managing the DoD contract that provides for periodic third-party reviews of DoD voluntary education programs titled the Third Party Education Assessment.


(H) Managing the contract and data received on the voluntary education programs for the VEMIS, which includes gathering, collating, and verifying participation and cost data from the Services. Providing requisite consolidated reports to USD(P&R). Requested data from the Military Services on voluntary education programs is located and stored at *https://afaems.langley.af.mil/vemis.* A user guide containing voluntary education program data and report information for the Military Services and DANTES is also available at this Web site, under the “Resources” tab.


(I) Managing the DoD independent study catalog and its support systems, as required.


(J) Negotiating, administering, and coordinating contracts for DoD Worldwide Education Symposiums in support of and in conjunction with the Interservice Voluntary Education Board.


(K) Establishing, refining, updating, and maintaining information on worldwide education support of DoD off-duty, voluntary education programs on the Internet. Maintaining necessary infrastructure to ensure that information on the Internet is always current and available to leadership, agency personnel, the public, and others.


(L) Administering the TTT program in accordance with section 1154 of chapter 58 of 10 U.S.C.


(M) Monitoring new technological developments, providing reports, cost analyses, and recommendations on educational innovations, and conducting special projects requested by the Department of Defense and the Services, approved by the Interservice Voluntary Education Board, and as reflected and approved in DANTES' annual policy guidance.


(N) Conducting staff development training on DANTES' policies, procedures, and practices related to voluntary education testing programs, and providing additional training as requested by the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Services.


(O) Serving as the Defense Media Activity's point of contact for information on DANTES programs for military personnel.


(P) Providing support, as requested, to DoD and Service Quality of Life and Transition support programs.


(Q) Providing other support in mission areas as directed by the USD(P&R) and the DASD(MCFP).


(R) Managing DoD contingency Tri-Service contracts, which provide educational opportunities for deployed Service members with guidance and oversight from the DoD Voluntary Education Chief.


(S) Monitoring and maintaining liaison with the office responsible for consolidating and distributing the JST for the Services.


(vi) Maintain liaison with education services officials of the Military Services, and appropriate Federal and State agencies and educational associations, in matters related to the DANTES mission and assigned functions.


(vii) Serve on panels and working groups designated by the DASD(MCFP).


(viii) Serve as the Executive Secretary at the Interservice Voluntary Education Board meeting convened annually to review DANTES programs and to develop recommendations for inclusion in annual policy guidance for DANTES. In this role, the Director, DANTES, will coordinate the meeting, prepare the agenda, review and analyze DANTES programs and initiatives outlined in the prior year's operational plan, and provide minutes after the meeting.


(ix) Assist the Services in screening candidates for the DANTES Senior Enlisted Advisor and DANTES RC Advisor positions.


(x) Maintain the repository for the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU between USD(P&R) and partner educational institutions, to include Service-specific addendums (see the Appendix to this section for the template of the DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU). DANTES will:


(A) Administer and update the system that is the repository of the MOUs per guidance from USD(P&R).


(B) Create, track, and maintain a centrally managed database for all signed documents.


(C) Publish an Internet-based list of all educational institutions that have a signed DoD Voluntary Education Partnership MOU.


(D) Generate reports in accordance with guidance from the USD(P&R) and procedures in DTM 12-004, “DoD Internal Information Collections” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/DTM-12-004.pdf*) and DoD 8910-1-M, “Department of Defense Procedures for Management of Information Requirements” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/891001m.pdf*).


(x) Provide data analyses and generate reports required by DoD and the Interservice Voluntary Education Board as needed.



---

[N] [79 FR 27737, May 15, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 27976, May 25, 2021]




