# ยง 513.510   Participants' responsibilities.

(a) *Certification by participants in primary covered transactions.* Each participant shall submit the certification in appendix A to this part for it and its principals at the time the participant submits its proposal in connection with a primary covered transaction, except that States need only complete such certification as to their principals. Participants may decide the method and frequency by which they determine the eligibility of their principals. In addition, each participant may, but is not required to, check the Nonprocurement List for its principals (Tel. #). Adverse information on the certification will not necessarily result in denial of participation. However, the certification, and any additional information pertaining to the certification submitted by the participant, shall be considered in the administration of covered transactions. 


(b) *Certification by participants in lower tier covered transactions.* (1) Each participant shall require participants in lower tier covered transactions to include the certification in appendix B to this part for it and its principals in any proposal submitted in connection with such lower tier covered transactions. 


(2) A participant may rely upon the certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it and its principals are not debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction by any Federal agency, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. Participants may decide the method and frequency by which they determine the eligiblity of their principals. In addition, a participant may, but is not required to, check the Nonprocurement List for its principals and for participants (Tel. #). 


(c) *Changed circumstances regarding certification.* A participant shall provide immediate written notice to Broadcasting Board of Governors if at any time the participant learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. Participants in lower tier covered transactions shall provide the same updated notice to the participant to which it submitted its proposals.




