# § 92.31   Region-specific regulations.

The season dates for the eligible subsistence-harvest areas are as follows:


(a) *Aleutian/Pribilof Islands region.* (1) Northern Unit (Pribilof Islands):


(i) Season: April 2-June 30.


(ii) Closure: July 1-August 31.


(2) Central Unit (Aleutian Region's eastern boundary on the Alaska Peninsula westward to and including Unalaska Island):


(i) Season: April 2-June 15 and July 16-August 31.


(ii) Closure: June 16-July 15.


(iii) Special Black Brant Season Closure: August 16-August 31, only in Izembek and Moffet lagoons.


(iv) Special Tundra Swan Closure: All hunting and egg gathering closed in Game Management Units 9(D) and 10.


(3) Western Unit (Umnak Island west to and including Attu Island):


(i) Season: April 2-July 15 and August 16-August 31.


(ii) Closure: July 16-August 15.


(b) *Yukon/Kuskokwim Delta region.* (1) Season: April 2-August 31.


(2) Closure: 30-day closure dates to be announced by the Service's Alaska Regional Director or his designee, after consultation with field biologists and the Association of Village Council President's Waterfowl Conservation Committee. This 30-day period will occur between May 15 and August 15 of each year. A press release announcing the actual closure dates will be forwarded to regional newspapers and radio and television stations.


(3) Special Black Brant Season Hunting Closure: From the period when egg laying begins until young birds are fledged. Closure dates to be announced by the Service's Alaska Regional Director or his designee, after consultation with field biologists and the Association of Village Council President's Waterfowl Conservation Committee. A press release announcing the actual closure dates will be forwarded to regional newspapers and radio and television stations.


(c) *Bristol Bay region.* (1) Season: April 2-June 14 and July 16-August 31 (general season); April 2-July 15 for seabird egg gathering only.


(2) Closure: June 15-July 15 (general season); July 16-August 31 (seabird egg gathering).


(d) *Bering Strait/Norton Sound region.* (1) Stebbins/St. Michael Area (Point Romanof to Canal Point):


(i) Season: April 15-June 14 and July 16-August 31.


(ii) Closure: June 15-July 15.


(2) Remainder of the region:


(i) Season: April 2-June 14 and July 16-August 31 for waterfowl; April 2-July 19 and August 21-August 31 for all other birds.


(ii) Closure: June 15-July 15 for waterfowl; July 20-August 20 for all other birds.


(e) *Kodiak Archipelago region.* The Kodiak Island Roaded Area is open to the harvesting of migratory birds and their eggs by registration permit only as administered by the Alaska Department of Fish and Game, Division of Subsistence, in cooperation with the Sun'aq Tribe of Kodiak. No hunting or egg gathering for Arctic terns, Aleutian terns, mew gulls, and emperor geese is allowed for the Kodiak Island Roaded Area Registration Permit Hunt. The Kodiak Island Roaded Area consists of that portion of Kodiak Island (including exposed tidelands) south of a line from Termination Point along the north side of Cascade Lake to Anton Larsen Bay and east of a line from Crag Point to the west end of Saltery Cove. Marine waters adjacent to the Kodiak Island Roaded Area within 500 feet from the water's edge are included in the Kodiak Island Roaded Area. The Kodiak Island Roaded Area does not include islands offshore of Kodiak Island. A registration permit is not required to hunt on lands and waters outside the Kodiak Island Roaded Area.


(1) Season: April 2-June 30 and July 31-August 31 for seabirds; April 2-June 20 and July 22-August 31 for all other birds.


(2) Closure: July 1-July 30 for seabirds; June 21-July 21 for all other birds.


(f) *Northwest Arctic region.* (1) Season: April 2-June 14 and July 16-August 31 (hunting in general); waterfowl egg gathering April 2-June 14 only; seabird egg gathering May 20-July 12 only; hunting molting/non-nesting waterfowl July 1-July 15 only.


(2) Closure: June 15-July 15, except for the taking of seabird eggs and molting/non-nesting waterfowl as provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(g) *North Slope region.* (1) Southern Unit (Southwestern North Slope regional boundary northeast to Icy Cape, and everything west of longitude line 161°55′ W and south of latitude line 69°45′ N to the west bank of the Sagavanirktok River and south along the west bank to the North Slope regional boundary, then west to the beginning):


(i) Season: April 2-June 29 and July 30-August 31 for seabirds; April 2-June 19 and July 20-August 31 for all other birds.


(ii) Closure: June 30-July 29 for seabirds; June 20-July 19 for all other birds.


(iii) Special Black Brant Hunting Season: June 20-July 5. The open area consists of the coastline from the mean high-water line outward to the North Slope regional boundary to include open water and barrier islands from southern Kasegaluk Lagoon from latitude line 69°16′ N to the north and east to longitude line 158°30′ W.


(2) Northern Unit (From Icy Cape, everything east of longitude line 161°55′ W and north of latitude line 69°45′ N to the west bank of Sagavanirktok River and north to 71°):


(i) Season: April 2-June 6 and July 7-August 31 for king and common eiders; April 2-June 15 and July 16-August 31 for all other birds.


(ii) Closure: June 7-July 6 for king and common eiders; June 16-July 15 for all other birds.


(3) Eastern Unit (East of eastern bank of the Sagavanirktok River):


(i) Season: April 2-June 19 and July 20-August 31.


(ii) Closure: June 20-July 19.


(4) Annual 30-day closure periods in the Southern, Northern, and Eastern Units of the North Slope Region may differ from fixed dates (see unit-specific closure dates in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section) if environmental and biological conditions warrant such a change. After consultation with Service field biologists, the North Slope Borough (NSB) Department of Wildlife Management, and the NSB Fish and Game Management Committee, the Service's Alaska Regional Director or his/her designee may announce closure dates that differ from those fixed dates.


(5) All Units: yellow-billed loons. Annually, up to 20 yellow-billed loons total for the region inadvertently entangled in subsistence fishing nets in the North Slope Region may be kept for subsistence use.


(6) North Coastal Zone (Cape Thompson north to Point Hope and east along the Arctic Ocean coastline around Point Barrow to Ross Point, including Iko Bay, and 5 miles inland).


(i) No person may at any time, by any means, or in any manner, possess or have in custody any migratory bird or part thereof, taken in violation of subparts C and D of this part.


(ii) Upon request from a Service law enforcement officer, hunters taking, attempting to take, or transporting migratory birds taken during the subsistence harvest season must present them to the officer for species identification.


(h) *Interior region.* (1) Season: April 2-June 14 and July 16-August 31; egg gathering May 1-June 14 only.


(2) Closure: June 15-July 15.


(i) *Upper Copper River region* (Harvest Area: Game Management Units 11 and 13) (Eligible communities: Gulkana, Chitina, Tazlina, Copper Center, Gakona, Mentasta Lake, Chistochina and Cantwell).


(1) Season: April 15-May 26 and June 27-August 31.


(2) Closure: May 27-June 26.


(3) The Copper River Basin communities listed above also documented traditional use harvesting birds in Game Management Unit 12, making them eligible to hunt in this unit using the seasons specified in paragraph (h) of this section.






(j) *Gulf of Alaska region.* (1) Prince William Sound Area West (Harvest area: Game Management Unit 6[D]), (Eligible Chugach communities: Chenega Bay, Tatitlek):


(i) Season: April 2-May 31 and July 1-August 31.


(ii) Closure: June 1-30.


(2) Prince William Sound Area East (Harvest area: Game Management Units 6[B]and [C]—Barrier Islands between Strawberry Channel and Softtuk Bar), (Eligible Chugach communities: Cordova, Tatitlek, and Chenega Bay):


(i) Season: April 2-April 30 (hunting); May 1-May 31 (gull egg gathering).


(ii) Closure: May 1-August 31 (hunting); April 2-30 and June 1-August 31 (gull egg gathering).


(iii) Species Open for Hunting: Greater white-fronted goose; snow goose; gadwall; Eurasian and American wigeon; blue-winged and green-winged teal; mallard; northern shoveler; northern pintail; canvasback; redhead; ring-necked duck; greater and lesser scaup; king and common eider; harlequin duck; surf, white-winged, and black scoter; long-tailed duck; bufflehead; common and Barrow's goldeneye; hooded, common, and red-breasted merganser; and sandhill crane. Species open for egg gathering: glaucous-winged, herring, and mew gulls.


(iv) Use of Boats/All-Terrain Vehicles: No hunting from motorized vehicles or any form of watercraft.


(v) Special Registration: All hunters or egg gatherers must possess an annual permit, which is available from the Cordova offices of the Native Village of Eyak and the U.S. Forest Service.




(3) Kachemak Bay Area (Harvest area: That portion of Game Management Unit [Unit] 15[C] west and south of a line beginning at the northern boundary of Unit 15[C] and mouth of the Kasilof River at 60°23′19″ N; 151°18′37″ W, extending south along the coastline of Cook Inlet to Bluff Point [59°40′00″ N], then south along longitude line 151°41′48″ W to latitude 59°35′56″ N, then east to the tip of Homer Spit [excluding any land of the Homer Spit], then northeast to the north bank of the Fox River [59°48′57″ N; 150°58′44″ W], and then east to the eastern boundary of Unit 15[C] at 150°19′59″ W) (Eligible Chugach Communities: Port Graham, Nanwalek):






(i) Season: April 2-May 31 and July 1-August 31.


(ii) Closure: June 1-30.






(k) *Cook Inlet* (Harvest area: portions of Game Management Unit 16[B] as specified below) (Eligible communities: Tyonek only):


(1) Season: April 2-May 31—That portion of Game Management Unit 16(B) west of the east bank of the Yentna River, south of the north bank of the Skwentna River, and south of the north bank of Portage Creek to the boundary of Game Management Unit 16(B) at Portage Pass; and August 1-31—That portion of Game Management Unit 16(B) west of longitude line 150°56′ W, south of the north banks of the Beluga River and Beluga Lake, then south of latitude line 61°26′08″ N.






(2) Closure: June 1-July 31.


(l) *Southeast Alaska.* (1) Community of Hoonah (Harvest area: National Forest lands in Icy Strait and Cross Sound, including Middle Pass Rock near the Inian Islands, Table Rock in Cross Sound, and other traditional locations on the coast of Yakobi Island. The land and waters of Glacier Bay National Park remain closed to all subsistence harvesting (50 CFR part 100.3(a)):


(i) Season: glaucous-winged gull egg gathering only: May 15-June 30.


(ii) Closure: July 1-August 31.


(2) Communities of Craig and Hydaburg (Harvest area: small islands and adjacent shoreline of western Prince of Wales Island from Point Baker to Cape Chacon, but also including Coronation and Warren islands):


(i) Season: glaucous-winged gull egg gathering only: May 15-June 30.


(ii) Closure: July 1-August 31.


(3) Community of Yakutat (Harvest area: Icy Bay (Icy Cape to Point Riou), and coastal lands and islands bordering the Gulf of Alaska from Point Manby southeast to and including Dry Bay):


(i) Season: glaucous-winged gull egg gathering: May 15-June 30.


(ii) Closure: July 1-August 31.



---

[N] [84 FR 12951, Apr. 3, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 18459, Apr. 2, 2020; 85 FR 73233, Nov. 17, 2020; 86 FR 20319, Apr. 19, 2021; 86 FR 22361, Apr. 28, 2021; 87 FR 38673, June 29, 2022]




