# § 1.865-2   Loss with respect to stock.

(a) *General rules for allocation of loss with respect to stock*—(1) *Allocation against gain.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, loss recognized with respect to stock shall be allocated to the class of gross income and, if necessary, apportioned between the statutory grouping of gross income (or among the statutory groupings) and the residual grouping of gross income, with respect to which gain (other than gain treated as a dividend under section 964(e)(1) or 1248) from a sale of such stock would give rise in the hands of the seller (without regard to section 865(f)). For purposes of this section, loss includes loss on property that is marked-to-market (such as under section 475) and subject to the rules of this section. Thus, for example, loss recognized by a United States resident on the sale of stock generally is allocated to reduce United States source income.


(2) *Stock attributable to foreign office.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, in the case of loss recognized by a United States resident with respect to stock that is attributable to an office or other fixed place of business in a foreign country within the meaning of section 865(e)(3), the loss shall be allocated to reduce foreign source income if a gain on the sale of the stock would have been taxable by the foreign country and the highest marginal rate of tax imposed on such gains in the foreign country is at least 10 percent.


(3) *Loss recognized by United States citizen or resident alien with foreign tax home*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, in the case of loss with respect to stock that is recognized by a United States citizen or resident alien that has a tax home (as defined in section 911(d)(3)) in a foreign country, the loss shall be allocated to reduce foreign source income if a gain on the sale of the stock would have been taxable by a foreign country and the highest marginal rate of tax imposed on such gains in the foreign country is at least 10 percent.


(ii) *Bona fide residents of Puerto Rico.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, in the case of loss with respect to stock in a corporation described in section 865(g)(3) recognized by a United States citizen or resident alien that is a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico during the entire taxable year, the loss shall be allocated to reduce foreign source income. If gain from a sale of such stock would give rise to income exempt from tax under section 933, the loss with respect to such stock shall be allocated to amounts that are excluded from gross income under section 933(1) and therefore shall not be allowed as a deduction from gross income. See section 933(1) and § 1.933-1(c).


(4) *Stock constituting a United States real property interest.* Loss recognized by a nonresident alien individual or a foreign corporation with respect to stock that constitutes a United States real property interest shall be allocated to reduce United States source income. For additional rules governing the treatment of such loss, see section 897 and the regulations thereunder.


(5) *Allocation for purposes of section 904.* For purposes of section 904, loss recognized with respect to stock that is allocated to foreign source income under this paragraph (a) shall be allocated to the separate category under section 904(d) to which gain on a sale of the stock would have been assigned (without regard to section 904(d)(2)(A)(iii)(III)). For purposes of § 1.904-4(c)(2)(ii)(A), any such loss allocated to passive income shall be allocated (prior to the application of § 1.904-4(c)(2)(ii)(B)) to the group of passive income to which gain on a sale of the stock would have been assigned had a sale of the stock resulted in the recognition of a gain under the law of the relevant foreign jurisdiction or jurisdictions.


(b) *Exceptions*—(1) *Dividend recapture exception*—(i) *In general.* If a taxpayer recognizes a loss with respect to shares of stock, and the taxpayer (or a person described in section 1059(c)(3)(C) with respect to such shares) included in income a dividend recapture amount (or amounts) with respect to such shares at any time during the recapture period, then, to the extent of the dividend recapture amount (or amounts), the loss shall be allocated and apportioned on a proportionate basis to the class or classes of gross income or the statutory or residual grouping or groupings of gross income to which the dividend recapture amount was assigned.


(ii) *Exception for de minimis amounts.* Paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall not apply to a loss recognized by a taxpayer on the disposition of stock if the sum of all dividend recapture amounts (other than dividend recapture amounts eligible for the exception described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section (passive limitation dividends)) included in income by the taxpayer (or a person described in section 1059(c)(3)(C)) with respect to such stock during the recapture period is less than 10 percent of the recognized loss.


(iii) *Exception for passive limitation dividends.* Paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall not apply to the extent of a dividend recapture amount that is treated as income in the separate category for passive income described in section 904(d)(2)(A) (without regard to section 904(d)(2)(A)(iii)(III)). The exception provided for in this paragraph (b)(1)(iii) shall not apply to any dividend recapture amount that is treated as income in the separate category for financial services income described in section 904(d)(2)(C).


(iv) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (b)(1) may be illustrated by the following examples:


(2) *Exception for inventory.* This section does not apply to loss recognized with respect to stock described in section 1221(1).


(3) *Exception for stock in an S corporation.* This section does not apply to loss recognized with respect to stock in an S corporation (as defined in section 1361).


(4) *Anti-abuse rules*—(i) *Transactions involving built-in losses.* If one of the principal purposes of a transaction is to change the allocation of a built-in loss with respect to stock by transferring the stock to another person, qualified business unit (within the meaning of section 989(a)), office or other fixed place of business, or branch that subsequently recognizes the loss, the loss shall be allocated by the transferee as if it were recognized with respect to the stock by the transferor immediately prior to the transaction. If one of the principal purposes of a change of residence is to change the allocation of a built-in loss with respect to stock, the loss shall be allocated as if the change of residence had not occurred. If one of the principal purposes of a transaction is to change the allocation of a built-in loss with respect to stock (or other personal property) by converting the original property into other property and subsequently recognizing loss with respect to such other property, the loss shall be allocated as if it were recognized with respect to the original property immediately prior to the transaction. Transactions subject to this paragraph shall include, without limitation, reorganizations within the meaning of section 368(a), liquidations under section 332, transfers to a corporation under section 351, transfers to a partnership under section 721, transfers to a trust, distributions by a partnership, distributions by a trust, or transfers to or from a qualified business unit, office or other fixed place of business. A person may have a principal purpose of affecting loss allocation even though this purpose is outweighed by other purposes (taken together or separately).


(ii) *Offsetting positions.* If a taxpayer recognizes loss with respect to stock and the taxpayer (or any person described in section 267(b) (after application of section 267(c)), 267(e), 318 or 482 with respect to the taxpayer) holds (or held) offsetting positions with respect to such stock with a principal purpose of recognizing foreign source income and United States source loss, the loss will be allocated and apportioned against such foreign source income. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii), positions are offsetting if the risk of loss of holding one or more positions is substantially diminished by holding one or more other positions.


(iii) *Matching rule.* If a taxpayer (or a person described in section 1059(c)(3)(C) with respect to the taxpayer) engages in a transaction or series of transactions with a principal purpose of recognizing foreign source income that results in the creation of a corresponding loss with respect to stock (as a consequence of the rules regarding the timing of recognition of income, for example), the loss shall be allocated and apportioned against such income to the extent of the recognized foreign source income. This paragraph (b)(4)(iii) applies to any portion of a loss that is not allocated under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (dividend recapture rule), including a loss in excess of the dividend recapture amount and a loss that is related to a dividend recapture amount described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) (de minimis exception) or (b)(1)(iii) (passive dividend exception) of this section.


(iv) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph (b)(4) may be illustrated by the following examples. No inference is intended regarding the application of any other Internal Revenue Code section or judicial doctrine that may apply to disallow or defer the recognition of loss. The examples are as follows:


(c) *Loss recognized by partnership.* A partner's distributive share of loss recognized by a partnership shall be allocated and apportioned in accordance with this section as if the partner had recognized the loss. If loss is attributable to an office or other fixed place of business of the partnership within the meaning of section 865(e)(3), such office or fixed place of business shall be considered to be an office of the partner for purposes of this section.


(d) *Definitions*—(1) *Terms defined in § 1.861-8.* See § 1.861-8 for the meaning of *class of gross income, statutory grouping of gross income,* and *residual grouping of gross income.*

(2) *Dividend recapture amount.* A dividend recapture amount is a dividend (except for an amount treated as a dividend under section 78), an inclusion described in section 951(a)(1)(A)(i) (but only to the extent attributable to a dividend (including a dividend under section 964(e)(1)) included in the earnings of a controlled foreign corporation (held directly or indirectly by the person recognizing the loss) that is included in foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(1)(A)) and an inclusion described in section 951(a)(1)(B).


(3) *Recapture period.* A recapture period is the 24-month period ending on the date on which a taxpayer recognized a loss with respect to stock. For example, if a taxpayer recognizes a loss on March 15, 2002, the recapture period begins on and includes March 16, 2000, and ends on and includes March 15, 2002. A recapture period is increased by any period of time in which the taxpayer has diminished its risk of loss in a manner described in section 246(c)(4) and the regulations thereunder and by any period in which the assets of the corporation are hedged against risk of loss (or are converted into and held as low-risk investments) with a principal purpose of enabling the taxpayer to hold the stock without significant risk of loss until the recapture period has expired. In the case of a loss recognized after a dividend is declared but before such dividend is paid, the recapture period is extended through the date on which the dividend is paid.


(4) *United States resident.* See section 865(g) and the regulations thereunder for the definition of United States resident.


(e) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* This section is applicable to loss recognized on or after January 11, 1999, except that paragraphs (a)(3)(ii), (b)(1)(iv) *Example 6,* (b)(4)(iii), (b)(4)(iv) *Example 3,* and (d)(3) of this section are applicable to loss recognized on or after January 8, 2002. For purposes of this paragraph (e), loss that is recognized but deferred (for example, under section 267 or 1092) shall be treated as recognized at the time the loss is taken into account. 


(2) *Application to prior periods.* A taxpayer may apply the rules of this section to losses recognized in any taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1987, and all subsequent years, provided that—


(i) The taxpayer's tax liability as shown on an original or amended tax return is consistent with the rules of this section for each such year for which the statute of limitations does not preclude the filing of an amended return on June 30, 2002; and 


(ii) The taxpayer makes appropriate adjustments to eliminate any double benefit arising from the application of this section to years that are not open for assessment.


(3) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (e) may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 8805, 64 FR 1511, Jan. 11, 1999, as amended by T.D. 8973, 66 FR 67085, Dec. 28, 2001; 67 FR 3812, Jan. 28, 2002]






