# ยง 95.305   Authorization to operate Personal Radio Services stations

Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 307(e)(1), this rule section authorizes eligible persons to operate part 95 Personal Radio Service stations and part 96 Citizens Broadband Radio Service stations without individual licenses, except as provided in paragraph (a). Such operation must comply with all applicable rules in this part.


(a) *Individual licenses.* A valid individual license may be required under this part to operate or use stations in a particular service, certain types of stations, stations transmitting on certain channels or frequency bands, or stations transmitting with power above a certain level. Any such requirements applicable to stations in any of the Personal Radio Services are set forth in the subpart governing that specific service. *See e.g.,* ยง 95.1705. Otherwise, the FCC does not require or accept applications for an individual license to operate any type of Personal Radio Service station.


(b) *Operator eligibility.* Some of the Personal Radio Services have specific operator eligibility requirements, which are set forth in the subparts governing those services. Otherwise, any person is eligible to operate a Personal Radio Service station, except as stated in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(c) *Foreign government operator.* No entity that is a foreign government or which is acting in its capacity as a representative of a foreign government is authorized by this section to operate Personal Radio Service stations.


(d) *Cease and desist order.* No person subject to a cease and desist order issued pursuant to ยง 95.313(d) is authorized by this section to operate Personal Radio Service stations.


(e) *Federal station.* No person is authorized by this section to operate a United States Government radio station.


(f) *Foreign station.* No person is authorized by this section to operate a foreign government radio station.




