# § 3430.802   Definitions.

The definitions applicable to the program under this subpart include:


*Capacity building* means enhancing and strengthening the quality and depth of an institution's research and academic programs as evidenced by its: faculty expertise, scientific and technical resources, research environment, curriculum, student experiential learning opportunities, scientific instrumentation, library resources, academic standing and racial, ethnic, or gender diversity of its faculty and student body, faculty and student recruitment and retention programs, and organizational structures and reward systems for attracting and retaining first-rate research and teaching faculty or students.


*Citizen or national of the United States* means:


(1) A citizen or native resident of a State; or,


(2) A person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a) (22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.


*Eligible participant* means an individual who is a citizen or national of the United States as defined in this section.


*Food and agricultural sciences* means basic, applied, and developmental research, extension, and teaching activities in food and fiber, agricultural, renewable energy and natural resources, forestry, and physical and social sciences, including activities relating to the following:


(1) Animal health, production, and well-being.


(2) Plant health and production.


(c) Animal and plant germ plasm collection and preservation.


(3) Aquaculture.


(4) Food safety.


(5) Soil, water, and related resource conservation and improvement.


(6) Forestry, horticulture, and range management.


(7) Nutritional sciences and promotion.


(8) Farm enhancement, including financial management, input efficiency, and profitability.


(9) Home economics (Family and Consumer Sciences).


(10) Rural human ecology.


(11) Youth development and agricultural education, including 4-H clubs.


(12) Expansion of domestic and international markets for agricultural commodities and products, including agricultural trade barrier identification and analysis.


(13) Information management and technology transfer related to agriculture.


(14) Biotechnology related to agriculture.


(15) The processing, distributing, marketing, and utilization of food and agricultural products. (7 U.S.C. Section 3103).


*Joint project proposal* means:


(1) An application for a project:


(i) Which will involve the applicant institution working in cooperation with one or more other entities not legally affiliated with the applicant institution, including other schools, colleges, universities, community colleges, junior colleges, units of State government, private sector organizations, or a consortium of institutions; and


(ii) Where the applicant institution and each cooperating entity will assume a significant role in the conduct of the proposed project.


(2) To demonstrate a substantial involvement with the project, the applicant institution/organization submitting a joint project proposal must retain at least 30 percent but not more than 70 percent of the awarded funds and no cooperating entity may receive less than 10 percent of awarded funds. Only the applicant institution must meet the definition of an eligible institution/organization as specified in this RFA; other entities participating in a joint project proposal are not required to meet the definition of an eligible institution/organization.


*Large-scale, Comprehensive Initiative (LCI) project proposal* means:


(1) An application for a project:


(i) Which will involve the applicant institution/organization working in cooperation with two or more other entities not legally affiliated with the applicant institution, including other schools, colleges, universities, community colleges, junior colleges, units of State government, private sector organizations, or a consortium of institutions; and


(ii) Where the applicant institution and each cooperating entity will assume a significant role in the conduct of the proposed project.


(2) To demonstrate a substantial involvement with the project, the applicant institution/organization submitting a LCI proposal must retain at least 30 percent but not more than 70 percent of the awarded funds and no cooperating entity may receive less than 10 percent of awarded funds. Only the applicant institution must meet the definition of an eligible institution as specified in this RFA; other entities participating in a joint project proposal are not required to meet the definition of an eligible institution. LCI Project Proposals must support a multi-partner approach to solving a major state or regional challenge in agricultural sciences education at the postsecondary level. LCI Project Proposals are characterized by multiple partners (each providing a specific expertise) organized and led by a strong applicant with documented project management ability to organize and carry out the initiative.


*Non-land-grant college of agriculture (NLGCA)* means a public college or university offering a baccalaureate or higher degree in the study of agriculture or forestry. The terms “NLGCA Institution” and “non-land-grant college of agriculture” do not include:


(1) Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; or


(2) Any institution designated under: a. the Act of July 2, 1862 (commonly known as the “First Morrill Act”; 7 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.,* or the `1862 Land Grants');


(3) The Act of August 30, 1890 (commonly known as the “Second Morrill Act”) (7 U.S.C. 321 *et seq.,* or the `1890 Land Grants');


(4) The Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-382; 7 U.S.C. 301 note, or the `1994 or Tribal Colleges Land Grants'); or


(5) Public Law 87-788 (commonly known as the “McIntire-Stennis Cooperative Forestry Act”) (16 U.S.C. 582a *et seq.*).


*Outcomes* means specific, measurable project results and benefits that, when assessed and reported; indicate the project's plan of operation has been achieved. Measurable outcomes include:


(1) Results are intended or unintended consequences of the project, (*e.g.,* “. . . additional course materials now available online to reinforce student learning during non-classroom hours”);


(2) Products may be actual items or services acquired with funds, (*e.g.,* “. . . mechanisms and content to transition existing course(s) or elements of course(s) for Web-based access” or “created new and innovative prevention and intervention initiatives”); and


(3) Impacts are a measure of the results by comparing what might have happened in the absence of the funded project, (*e.g.,* “. . . an observed, overall increase in student learning based upon 8% higher average test scores of those students who both attended class and used the supplemental, Web-based course materials”.)


*Regular project proposal* means a proposal for a project:


(1) Where the applicant institution will be the sole entity involved in the execution of the project; or


(2) Which will involve the applicant institution and one or more other entities, but where the involvement of the other entity(ies) does not meet the requirements for a joint project proposal as defined in this section.


*Sustainable Agriculture* means an integrated system of plant and animal production practices having a site-specific application that will, over the long-term—


(1) Satisfy human food and fiber needs;


(2) Enhance environmental quality and the natural resource base upon which the agriculture economy depends;


(3) Make the most efficient use of nonrenewable resources and on-farm resources and integrate, where appropriate, natural biological cycles and controls;


(4) Sustain the economic viability of farm operations; and


(5) Enhance the quality of life for farmers and society as a whole.


*Teaching* and *education* mean formal classroom instruction, laboratory instruction, and practicum experience in the food and agricultural sciences and matters relating thereto (such as faculty development, student recruitment and services, curriculum development, instructional materials and equipment, and innovative teaching methodologies) conducted by colleges and universities offering baccalaureate or higher degrees.




