# ยง 4903.2   What do these regulations cover?

(a) *Scope.* This part provides procedures for the collection of debts owed to PBGC, other than those subject to recoupment (29 CFR 4022, subpart E). This part also provides procedures for collection of other debts owed to the United States when a request for offset of a payment, for which PBGC is the payment agency, is received by PBGC from another agency (for example, when a PBGC employee owes a student loan debt to the United States Department of Education).


(b) *Applicability.* (1) This part applies to PBGC when collecting a debt owed to PBGC; to persons who owe debts to PBGC; to persons controlled by or controlling persons who owe debts to a Federal agency, and to Federal agencies requesting offset of a payment issued by PBGC as a payment agency (including salary payments to PBGC employees).


(2) This part does not apply to debts owed to PBGC being collected through recoupment under subpart E of part 4022 of this chapter. Benefits paid by PBGC generally will not be offset, subject to limited exceptions (e.g., in certain fiduciary breach situations).


(3) This part does not apply to tax debts, to any debt based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws, nor to any debt for which there is an indication of fraud or misrepresentation, as described in ยง 900.3 of the FCCS, unless the debt is returned by the Department of Justice to PBGC for handling.


(4) Nothing in this part precludes the use of other statutory or regulatory authority to collect or dispose of any debt. *See,* for example, 5 U.S.C. 5705, Advancements and Deductions, which authorizes PBGC to recover travel advances by offset of up to 100 percent of a Federal employee's accrued pay. *See, also,* 5 U.S.C. 4108, governing the collection of training expenses.


(5) To the extent that provisions of laws, other regulations, and PBGC enforcement policies differ from the provisions of this part, those provisions of law, other regulations, and PBGC enforcement policies apply to the remission or mitigation of fines, penalties, and forfeitures, and to debts arising under ERISA, rather than the provisions of this part.


(c) *Additional policies and procedures.* PBGC may, but is not required to, promulgate additional policies and procedures consistent with this part, the FCCS, and other applicable law, policies, and procedures.


(1) PBGC does not intend this regulation to prohibit PBGC from demanding the return of specific property or the payment of its value.


(2) The failure of PBGC to comply with any provision in this regulation will not serve as a defense to the existence of the debt.


(d) *Duplication not required.* Nothing in this part requires PBGC to duplicate notices or administrative proceedings required by contract, this part, or other laws or regulations.


(e) *Use of multiple collection remedies allowed.* PBGC and other Federal agencies may simultaneously use multiple collection remedies to collect a debt, except as prohibited by law. This part is intended to promote aggressive debt collection, using for each debt all available and appropriate collection remedies. To provide PBGC with flexibility in determining which remedies will be most efficient in collecting the particular debt, these remedies are not listed in any prescribed order.




