# § 72.32   Funding and matching share.

(a) *Recovery Action Program Grant Matching.* Up to 50 percent matching grants are authorized for the preparation of Recovery Action Programs (RAP). State, local and private in-kind donations of assistance (salaries, supplies, printing, etc.) for the preparation of a RAP may be used as all or part of the 50 percent local match. Such in-kind contributions for the UPARR Program may not be used as the matching share for other federally-assisted programs. In addition, Section 1009 of the Act provides that reasonable local costs of Recovery Action Program development may be used as part of a local match for Innovation or Rehabilitation grants only when the applicant has not received a Recovery Action Program grant. Reasonable costs means costs for supplies, salaries, etc., which are not excessive in relation to the normal market value within a geographic area. These costs must be well documented and included in the preapplication for the proposal in which they are to be used as a match. The match can only be used once, and allowed only after the RAP Has been approved by the respective NPS Regional Office.


(b) *Rehabilitation and Innovation grant matching.* The program provides for a 70 percent Federal match for rehabilitating existing recreation facilities and areas. Seventy percent matching funds are also authorized to local governments for innovation grants which will address systemwide coordination, management and community resource problems through innovative and cost-effective approaches.


(c) *Sources of Matching Share*—(1) *State Incentive.* As an incentive for State involvement in the recovery or urban recreation systems, the Federal government will match, dollar for dollar, State contributions to the local share of an Innovation or Rehabilitation grant; up to 15 percent of the approved grant. The Federal share will not exceed 85 percent of the approved grant. The Director shall also encourage States and private interests to contribute to the non-Federal share of project costs. State and local government shares may be derived from any State or local government source of revenue.


(2) *Cash.* State, local and private funds may be used as the non-Federal share of project costs. In addition, two types of Federal funds may be used as part of a local match: General Revenue Sharing (Treasury Department) and Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program funds (Department of Housing and Urban Development) [See also § 72.56(b)]. Section 1009 of the UPARR Act prohibits use of any other type of Federal grant to match UPARR grants. 


(3) *Non-Cash*—(i) *Material goods.* NPS encourages in-kind contributions including real property, buildings or building materials, and equipment to applicants by the State, other public agencies, private organizations or individuals. The value of the contributions may be used as all or part of the matching share of project costs, but must be appraised and approved by the Service prior to grant approval. Details regarding these types of donations are covered in OMB Circular A-102. In-kind contributions for the UPARR Program may not be used as the matching share for other Federally-assisted programs.


(ii) *Services.* Any type of service or assistance which relates directly to a grant and the provision of a recreation opportunity, can be used as a matching share; e.g., technical and planning services, construction labor, playground supervision or management services.




