# 6101.14   Interrogatories; requests for production; requests for admission[Rule 14].

(a) *Generally.* Interrogatories, requests for production, requests for admission, and responses thereto shall be in writing and served on the other party.


(b) *Interrogatories.* Interrogatories shall be answered or objected to separately in writing, under signed oath, within 30 days of service. A party may answer an interrogatory by specifying records from which the answer may be derived or ascertained when that response would be allowed under Rule 33(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


(c) *Requests for production.* Responses and objections to requests for production, inspection, and/or copying of documents, electronically stored information, or tangible things are due within 30 days of service of the requests and shall state when and how the responding party will make responsive material available.


(d) *Requests for admission*—(1) *Content.* A party may serve requests for admission that would be proper under Rule 36(a)(1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


(2) *Responses and failure to respond.* Responses and objections shall comply with Rule 36(a)(4) and (5) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. If the served party does not respond within 30 days of service of a request, the Board may on motion deem a matter admitted and conclusively established solely for the pending case.


(3) *Relief from admission.* The Board may allow a party to withdraw or amend an admission for good cause.


(e) *Altering time to respond.* The parties may agree to alter deadlines to respond to discovery requests. The Board may alter the deadlines to meet the needs of a case.


(f) *Supplementing and correcting responses.* A party must supplement or correct a response to a discovery request if and when this action would be required by Rule 26(e)(1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.




