# ยง 52.1573   Approval status.

(a) With the exceptions set forth in this subpart, the Administrator approves New Jersey's plans for attainment and maintenance of the national ambient air quality standards under section 110 of the Clean Air Act. Furthermore, the Administrator finds that the plan satisfies all requirements of Part D, Title I, of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, except as noted below in ยง 52.1581. In addition, continued satisfaction of the requirements of Part D for the ozone portion of the SIP depends on the adoption and submittal of RACT requirements by July 1, 1980 for the sources covered by CTGs issued between January, 1978 and January, 1979 and adoption and submittal by each subsequent January of additional RACT requirements for sources covered by CTGs issued by the previous January.


(b) *Visibility protection.* EPA approves the Regional Haze SIP revision submitted by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection on July 28, 2009, as supplemented on December 9, 2010, March 2, 2011 and December 7, 2011 as meeting the requirements of Clean Air Act section 169A and 40 CFR 51.308. In particular, EPA approves the New Jersey Regional Haze SIP as meeting the requirements of 40 CFR 51.308(e) regarding Best Available Retrofit Technology and 40 CFR 51.308(d)(2) and (d)(4)(v) regarding the calculation of baseline and natural conditions for the Brigantine Wilderness Area of the Edwin B. Forsythe National Wildlife Refuge, and the statewide inventory of emissions of pollutants that are reasonably anticipated to cause or contribute to visibility impairment in any mandatory Class I Federal Area.



---

[N] [45 FR 15541, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended at 77 FR 21, Jan. 3, 2012]




