# ยง 1102.29   Conduct of proceedings.

(a) *In general.* Unless otherwise provided in the notice of proceedings, all proceedings under this subpart shall be conducted as hereinafter provided.


(b) *Written submissions.* All aspects of the proceeding shall be conducted by written submissions only, with the exception of oral presentations allowed under ยง 1102.36 of this subpart.


(c) *Disqualification.* A Subcommittee member who deems himself or herself disqualified may at any time withdraw. Upon receipt of a timely and sufficient affidavit of personal bias or disqualification of such member, the ASC will rule on the matter as a part of the record and decision in the case.


(d) *User of ASC staff.* Appropriate members of the ASC's staff who are not engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in the proceeding may advise and assist the ASC in the consideration of the case and in the preparation of appropriate documents for its disposition.


(e) *Authority of Subcommittee Chairperson.* The Chairperson of the ASC, in consultation with other members of the ASC whenever appropriate, shall have complete charge of the proceeding and shall have the duty to conduct it in a fair and impartial manner and to take all necessary action to avoid delay in the disposition of proceedings in accordance with this subpart.


(f) *Conferences.* (1) The ASC may on its own initiative or at the request of any party, direct all parties or counsel to meet with one or more duly authorized ASC members or staff at a specified time and place, or to submit to the ASC or its designee, suggestions in writing for the purpose of considering any or all of the following:


(i) Scheduling of matters, including a timetable for the information-gathering phase of the proceeding;


(ii) Simplification and clarification of the issues;


(iii) Stipulations and admissions of fact and of the content and authenticity of documents;


(iv) Matters of which official notice will be taken; and


(v) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding, including disclosure of the names of persons submitting affidavits or other documents and exhibits which may be introduced into the public file of the proceeding.


(2) Such conferences will not be recorded, but the Secretary shall place in the proceeding's public file a memorandum summarizing the results of the conference and shall provide a copy of the memorandum to each party. The memorandum shall control the subsequent course of the proceedings, unless the ASC for good cause shown by one or more parties to the conference, modifies those results and instructs the Secretary to place an amendatory memorandum to that effect in the public file.


(g) *Changes or extensions of time and changes of place of proceeding.* The ASC, in connection with initiating a specific proceedings under ยง 1102.32 of this subpart, may instruct the Secretary to publish in the _Federal Register_ time limits different from those specified in this subpart, and may, on its own initiative or for good cause shown, issue an exemption changing the place of the proceeding or extending any time limit prescribed by this subpart, including the date for ending the information-gathering phase of the proceeding.


(h) *Call for further briefs, memoranda, statements; reopening of matters.* The ASC may call for the production of further information upon any issue, the submission of briefs, memoranda and statements (together with written responses), and, upon appropriate notice, may reopen any aspect of the proceeding at any time prior to a decision on the matter.



---

[N] [57 FR 31650, July 17, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 35004, Aug. 7, 1992]




