# § 184.1229   Calcium stearate.

(a) Calcium stearate (Ca(C_17_H_35_COO)_2_, CAS Reg. No. 1529-23-0) is the calcium salt of stearic acid derived from edible sources. It is prepared as a white precipitate by mixing calcium chloride and sodium stearate in aqueous solution.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 64, which is incorporated by reference, and the requirements of § 172.860(b)(2) of this chapter. Copies of the Food Chemicals Codex are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; a lubricant and release agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(18) of this chapter; and a stabilizer and thickener as defined in § 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [48 FR 52445, Nov. 18, 1983]




