# ยง 1665.6   Schedule of fees.

(a) *Prohibitions against charging fees.* Individuals will not be charged for:


(1) The search and review of the record.


(2) Any copies of the record produced as a necessary part of the process of making the record available for access, or


(3) Any copies of the requested record when it has been determined that access can only be accomplished by providing a copy of the record through the mail.


(4) Where a registrant has been charged under the Military Selective Service Act and must defend himself in a criminal prosecution, or where a registrant submits to induction and thereafter brings habeas corpus proceedings to test the validity of his induction, the Selective Service System will furnish to him, or to any person he may designate, one copy of his Selective Service file free of charge.


(b) *Waiver.* The Director of Selective Service may at no charge, provide copies of a record if it is determined the production of the copies is in the interest of the Government.


(c) *Fee schedule and method of payment.* Fees will be charged as provided below except as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(1) *Duplication of records.* Records will be duplicated at a rate of $.25 per page.


(2) Fees should be paid in full prior to issuance of requested copies. In the event the requester is in arrears for previous requests, copies will not be provided for any subsequent request until the arrears have been paid in full.


(3) Remittance shall be in the form of cash, a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Selective Service System and mailed or delivered to the records manager, Selective Service System, 1501 Wilson Blvd., Suite 700, Arlington, VA 22209.


(4) A receipt of fees paid will be given upon request.



---

[N] [47 FR 7224, Feb. 18, 1982; 69 FR 1525, Jan. 9, 2004, as amended at 89 FR 35006, May 1, 2024]






