# § 400.100   General eligibility requirements.

(a) Eligibility for refugee medical assistance is limited to those refugees who—


(1) Are ineligible for Medicaid or SCHIP but meet the financial eligibility standards under § 400.101;


(2) Meet immigration status and identification requirements in subpart D of this part or are the dependent children of, and part of the same assistance unit as, individuals who meet the requirements in subpart D, subject to the limitation in § 400.208 of this part with respect to nonrefugee children;


(3) Meet eligibility requirements and conditions in this subpart;


(4) Provide the name of the resettlement agency which resettled them; and 


(5) Are not full-time students in institutions of higher education, as defined by the Director, except where such enrollment is approved by the State, or its designee, as part of an individual employability plan for a refugee under § 400.79 of this part or a plan for an unaccompanied minor in accordance with § 400.112.


(b) A refugee may be eligible for refugee medical assistance under this subpart during a period of time to be determined by the Director in accordance with § 400.211.


(c) The State agency may not require that a refugee actually receive or apply for refugee cash assistance as a condition of eligibility for refugee medical assistance.


(d) All recipients of refugee cash assistance who are not eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP are eligible for refugee medical assistance.



---

[N] [45 FR 59323, Sept. 9, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 46090, Sept. 1, 1993; 58 FR 64507, Dec. 8, 1993; 60 FR 33603, June 28, 1995; 65 FR 15449, Mar. 22, 2000]




