# ยง 219.15   Project and activity consistency with the plan.

(a) *Application to existing authorizations and approved projects or activities.* Every decision document approving a plan, plan amendment, or plan revision must state whether authorizations of occupancy and use made before the decision document may proceed unchanged. If a plan decision document does not expressly allow such occupancy and use, the permit, contract, and other authorizing instrument for the use and occupancy must be made consistent with the plan, plan amendment, or plan revision as soon as practicable, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, subject to valid existing rights.


(b) *Application to projects or activities authorized after plan decision.* Projects and activities authorized after approval of a plan, plan amendment, or plan revision must be consistent with the plan as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Resolving inconsistency.* When a proposed project or activity would not be consistent with the applicable plan components, the responsible official shall take one of the following steps, subject to valid existing rights:


(1) Modify the proposed project or activity to make it consistent with the applicable plan components;


(2) Reject the proposal or terminate the project or activity;


(3) Amend the plan so that the project or activity will be consistent with the plan as amended; or


(4) Amend the plan contemporaneously with the approval of the project or activity so that the project or activity will be consistent with the plan as amended. This amendment may be limited to apply only to the project or activity.


(d) *Determining consistency.* Every project and activity must be consistent with the applicable plan components. A project or activity approval document must describe how the project or activity is consistent with applicable plan components developed or revised in conformance with this part by meeting the following criteria:


(1) *Goals, desired conditions, and objectives.* The project or activity contributes to the maintenance or attainment of one or more goals, desired conditions, or objectives, or does not foreclose the opportunity to maintain or achieve any goals, desired conditions, or objectives, over the long term.


(2) *Standards.* The project or activity complies with applicable standards.


(3) *Guidelines.* The project or activity:


(i) Complies with applicable guidelines as set out in the plan; or


(ii) Is designed in a way that is as effective in achieving the purpose of the applicable guidelines (ยง 219.7(e)(1)(iv)).


(4) *Suitability.* A project or activity would occur in an area:


(i) That the plan identifies as suitable for that type of project or activity; or


(ii) For which the plan is silent with respect to its suitability for that type of project or activity.


(e) *Consistency of resource plans within the planning area with the land management plan.* Any resource plans (for example, travel management plans) developed by the Forest Service that apply to the resources or land areas within the planning area must be consistent with the plan components. Resource plans developed prior to plan decision must be evaluated for consistency with the plan and amended if necessary.




