# ยง 350.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of the regulations in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


(a) *Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture. 


(b) *Service.* The Food Safety and Inspection Service of the Department. 


(c) *Administrator.* The Administrator of the Service or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead. 


(d) [Reserved] 


(e) *Inspector.* Any officer or employee of the Department authorized to perform any duties under the regulations in this part. 


(f) *Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, or joint stock company, or other organized group of any of the foregoing. 


(g) *Federally inspected and passed.* Inspected and passed under the Meat Inspection Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 71 *et seq.*) or under the provisions in paragraphs 306 (b) and (c) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1306 (b) and (c)). 


(h) *Official establishment.* An establishment operated under Federal meat inspection pursuant to the Meat Inspection Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 71 *et seq.*). 


(i) *Food article.* Any article of human food derived wholly or in part from meat, meat byproducts, or meat food products, which is not subject to the Federal meat inspection laws, and animal casings, for which the mark of Federal meat inspection is requested: *Provided,* That such articles and casings are derived from federally inspected and passed carcasses. 


(j) [Reserved] 


(k) *Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead in connection with the function involved. 



---

[N] [23 FR 9982, Dec. 23, 1958, as amended at 25 FR 9642, Oct. 7, 1960; 30 FR 258, Jan. 9, 1965. Redesignated and amended at 30 FR 4195, Mar. 31, 1965; 32 FR 6021, Apr. 15, 1967; 32 FR 13115, Sept. 15, 1967. Further redesignated at 35 FR 15554, Oct. 3, 1970, and amended at 43 FR 11147, Mar. 17, 1978; 54 FR 1329, Jan. 13, 1989] 




