# § 4.7d   Container status messages.

(a) *Container status messages required.* In addition to the advance filing requirements pursuant to §§ 4.7 and 4.7a of this part and the vessel stow plan requirements pursuant to § 4.7c of this part, for all containers destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States from a foreign port by vessel, the incoming carrier must submit messages regarding the status of the events as specified in paragraph (b) of this section if the carrier creates or collects a container status message (CSM) in its equipment tracking system reporting that event. CSMs must be transmitted to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) within the time prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section via a CBP-approved electronic data interchange system. There is no requirement that a carrier create or collect any CSMs under this paragraph that the carrier does not otherwise create or collect on its own and maintain in its electronic equipment tracking system.


(b) *Events required to be reported.* The following events must be reported if the carrier creates or collects a container status message in its equipment tracking system reporting that event:


(1) When the booking relating to a container which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel is confirmed;


(2) When a container which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel undergoes a terminal gate inspection;


(3) When a container, which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel, arrives or departs a facility (These events take place when a container enters or exits a port, container yard, or other facility. Generally, these CSMs are referred to as “gate-in” and “gate-out” messages.);


(4) When a container, which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel, is loaded on or unloaded from a conveyance (This includes vessel, feeder vessel, barge, rail and truck movements. Generally, these CSMs are referred to as “loaded on” and “unloaded from” messages);


(5) When a vessel transporting a container, which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel, departs from or arrives at a port (These events are commonly referred to as “vessel departure” and “vessel arrival” notices);


(6) When a container which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel undergoes an intra-terminal movement;


(7) When a container which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel is ordered stuffed or stripped;


(8) When a container which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel is confirmed stuffed or stripped; and


(9) When a container which is destined to arrive within the limits of a port in the United States by vessel is stopped for heavy repair.


(c) *Time of transmission.* For each event specified in paragraph (b) of this section that has occurred, and for which the carrier creates or collects a container status message (CSM) in its equipment tracking system reporting that event, the carrier must transmit the CSM to CBP no later than 24 hours after the CSM is entered into the equipment tracking system.


(d) *Contents of report.* The report of each event must include the following:


(1) Event code being reported, as defined in the ANSI X.12 or UN EDIFACT standards;


(2) Container number;


(3) Date and time of the event being reported;


(4) Status of the container (empty or full);


(5) Location where the event took place; and


(6) Vessel identification associated with the message if the container is associated with a specific vessel.


(e) A carrier may transmit other container status messages in addition to those required pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. By transmitting additional container status messages, the carrier authorizes Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to access and use those data.


(f) *Compliance date of this section*—(1) *General.* Subject to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, all affected ocean carriers must comply with the requirements of this section on and after January 26, 2010.


(2) *Delay in compliance date of section.* CBP may, at its sole discretion, delay the general compliance date set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section in the event that any necessary modifications to the approved electronic data interchange system are not yet in place or for any other reason. Notice of any such delay will be provided in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71779, Nov. 25, 2008]




