# ยง 1223.22   Regulated entity reports.

(a) *General.* Each regulated entity, through its Office of Minority and Women Inclusion or other office designated to perform the responsibilities of this part, shall report in writing, in such format as the Director may require, to the Director describing its efforts to promote diversity and ensure the inclusion and utilization of minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, and MWDOBs at all levels, in management and employment, in all business and activities, and in all contracts for services and those contracts for goods above the material clause threshold in ยง 1223.3(b) and the results of such efforts.


(1) Within 180 days after the effective date of this regulation each regulated entity and the Office of Finance shall submit to the Director or his or her designee a preliminary status report describing actions taken, plans for and progress toward implementing the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 4520 and this part; and including to the extent available the data and information required by this part to be included in an annual report.


(2) FHFA intends to use the preliminary status report solely for the purpose of examining the submitting regulated entity or the Office of Finance and reporting to the institution on its operations and the condition of its program.


(b) *FHFA use of reports.* The data and information reported to FHFA under this part (except for the initial report under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) are intended to be used for any permissible supervisory and regulatory purpose, including examinations, enforcement actions, identification of matters requiring attention, and production of FHFA examination, operating and condition reports related to one or more of the regulated entities. FHFA may use the information and data submitted to issue aggregate reports and data summaries that each regulated entity may use to assess its own progress and accomplishments, or to the public as it deems necessary. FHFA is not requiring, and does not desire, that reports under this part contain personally identifiable information.


(c) *Frequency of reports.* Each regulated entity shall submit an annual report on or before March 31 of each year, reporting on the period of January 1 through December 31 of the preceding year, and such other reports as the Director may require. If the date for submission falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the report is due no later than the next business day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday.


(d) *Annual summary.* Each regulated entity shall include in its annual report to the Director (pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1723a(k), 1456(c), or 1440, with respect to the regulated entities) a summary of its activities under this part during the previous year, including at a minimum, detailed information describing the actions taken by the regulated entity pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 4520 and a statement of the total amounts paid by the regulated entity to contractors during the previous year and the percentage of such amounts paid to contractors that are minorities or minority-owned businesses, women or women-owned businesses, and individuals with disabilities and disabled-owned businesses respectively, as limited by ยง 1207.3(b).



---

[N] [75 FR 81402, Dec. 28, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 25215, May 4, 2015; 82 FR 34395, July 25, 2017]




