# ยง 1544.407   Training, testing, and knowledge of individuals who perform screening functions.

(a) *Training required.* Before performing screening functions, an individual must have completed initial, recurrent, and appropriate specialized training as specified in this section and the aircraft operator's security program. No aircraft operator may use any screener, screener in charge, or checkpoint security supervisor unless that individual has satisfactorily completed the required training. This paragraph does not prohibit the performance of screening functions during on-the-job training as provided in ยง 1544.409 (b).


(b) *Use of training programs.* Training for screeners must be conducted under programs provided by TSA. Training programs for screeners-in-charge and checkpoint security supervisors must be conducted in accordance with the aircraft operator's security program.


(c) *Citizenship.* A screener must be a citizen or national of the United States.


(d) *Screener readiness test.* Before beginning on-the-job training, a screener trainee must pass the screener readiness test prescribed by TSA.


(e) *On-the-job training and testing.* Each screener must complete at least 60 hours of on-the-job training and must pass an on-the-job training test prescribed by TSA. No aircraft operator may permit a screener trainee to exercise independent judgment as a screener, until the individual passes an on-the-job training test prescribed by TSA.


(f) *Knowledge requirements.* Each aircraft operator must ensure that individuals performing as screeners, screeners-in-charge, and checkpoint security supervisors for the aircraft operator have knowledge of the provisions of this part, the aircraft operator's security program, and applicable Security Directives and Information Circulars to the extent necessary to perform their duties.


(g) *Disclosure of sensitive security information during training.* The aircraft operator may not permit a trainee to have access to sensitive security information during screener training unless a criminal history records check has successfully been completed for that individual in accordance with ยง 1544.229, and the individual has no disqualifying criminal offense.



---

[N] [67 FR 8364, Feb. 22, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 47704, Sept. 16, 2009]




