# § 226.218   Critical habitat for the U.S. DPS of smalltooth sawfish (

Critical habitat is designated for the U.S. DPS of smalltooth sawfish as described in this section. The textual descriptions in paragraph (b) of this section are the definitive source for determining the critical habitat boundaries. The maps of the critical habitat units provided in paragraph (d) of this section are for illustrative purposes only.


(a) *Physical and biological features essential to the conservation of the endangered U.S. DPS of smalltooth sawfish.* The physical and biological features essential to the conservation of the U.S. DPS of smalltooth sawfish, which provide nursery area functions are: red mangroves and shallow euryhaline habitats characterized by water depths between the Mean High Water line and 3 ft (0.9 m) measured at Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW). These features are included in critical habitat within the boundaries of the specific areas in paragraph (b) of this section, except where the features were not physically accessible to sawfish at the time of this designation (September 2009); for example, areas where existing water control structures prevent sawfish passage to habitats beyond the structure.


(b) *Critical habitat boundaries.* Critical habitat includes two areas (units) located along the southwest coast of peninsular Florida. The northern unit is the Charlotte Harbor Estuary Unit and the southern unit is the Ten Thousand Islands/Everglades (TTI/E) Unit. The units encompass portions of Charlotte, Lee, Collier, Monroe, and Miami-Dade Counties.


(1) *Charlotte Harbor Estuary Unit.* The Charlotte Harbor Estuary Unit is located within Charlotte and Lee Counties. The unit includes Charlotte Harbor, Gasparilla Sound, Pine Island Sound, Matlacha Pass, San Carlos Bay, Estero Bay, and the Caloosahatchee River. The unit is defined by the following boundaries. It is bounded by the Peace River at the eastern extent at the mouth of Shell Creek at 81°59.467′ W, and the northern extent of the Charlotte Harbor Preserve State Park at 26°58.933′ N. At the Myakka River the unit is bounded by the SR-776 Bridge and in Gasparilla Sound by the SR-771 Bridge. The COLREGS-72 lines between Gasparilla Island, Lacosta Island, North Captiva Island, Captiva Island, Sanibel Island, and the northern point of Estero Island are used as the coastal boundary for the unit. The southern extent of the unit is the Estero Bay Aquatic Preserve, which is bounded on the south by the Lee/Collier County line. Inland waters are bounded by SR-867 (McGregor Boulevard) from Punta Rassa Road to SR-80 near Fort Myers, then by SR-80 (Palm Beach Boulevard) to Orange River Boulevard, then by Orange River Boulevard to Buckingham Road, then by Buckingham Road to SR-80, and then following SR-80 until it is due south of the Franklin Lock and Dam (S-79), which is the eastern boundary on the Caloosahatchee River and a structural barrier for sawfish access. Additional inland water boundaries north and west of the lock are bounded by North Franklin Lock Road to North River Road, then by North River Road to SR-31, then by SR-31 to SR-78 near Cape Coral, then by SR-78 to SR-765, then by SR-765 to US-41, then by US-41 to US-17 (Marion Avenue) in Punta Gorda, then by US-17 to Riverside Drive, and then by Riverside Drive to the eastern extent of the Peace River at 81°59.467′ W. From the northern extent of the Charlotte Harbor Preserve State Park at 26°58.933′ N, inland waters are bounded westward along that latitude to Harbor View Road, then by Harbor View Road to US-41, then by US-41 to SR-776, then by SR-776 to the Myakka River Bridge.


(2) *Ten Thousand Islands/Everglades Unit (TTI/E).* The TTI/E Unit is located within Collier, Monroe, and Miami-Dade Counties, Florida. The unit includes waters within Everglades National Park (ENP), including Florida Bay, in the vicinity of Everglades City, within the Cape Romano-Ten Thousand Islands Aquatic Preserve (AP), and within the portion of Rookery Bay AP south of SR-92. The boundaries match the portion of Rookery Bay AP south of SR-92, and the Cape Romano-Ten Thousand Islands Aquatic Preserve AP. The unit boundaries also closely match the ENP boundaries with the following two exceptions: the unit boundary connects points 55 and 57 as illustrated in the critical habitat map that follows, which extend beyond the ENP boundary; and the unit boundary is located inside the ENP boundary between points 77 and 2, omitting the northeast portion of the ENP. The boundary of the unit is comprised of the following connected points, listed by point number in the ID field, degrees North latitude, degrees West longitude, and brief description of the boundary.


(c) *Areas not included in critical habitat.* Critical habitat does not include the following particular areas where they overlap with the areas described in paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) Pursuant to ESA section 3(5)(A)(i), all areas containing existing (already constructed) federally authorized or permitted man-made structures such as channels or canals maintained at depths greater than 3 ft. at MLLW, boat ramps, docks, and marinas deeper than 3 ft. at MLLW.


(2) Pursuant to ESA section 3(5)(A)(i), all waters identified as existing (already constructed) federally authorized channels as follows:


(i) Charlotte Harbor.


(ii) Ft. Myers Beach (Matanzas Pass).


(iii) Portions of the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway in the Caloosahatchee River.


(d) *Maps.* Overview maps of designated critical habitat for the U.S. DPS of smalltooth sawfish follow.



---

[N] [74 FR 45373, Sept. 2, 2009]





