# § 42.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*ALJ* means an Administrative Law Judge in the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.


*Benefit* means, in the context of statement, anything of value, including, but not limited to, any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.


*Claim* means any request, demand, or submission—


(a) Made to the Department of Veterans Affairs for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);


(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the Department of Veterans Affairs or to a party to a contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs—


(1) For property or services if the United States—


(i) Provided the property or services;


(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of the property or services; or 


(iii) Will reimburse the recipient or party for the purchase of the property or services; or 


(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—


(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or


(ii) Will reimburse the recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on the request or demand; or


(iii) Made to the Department of Veterans Affairs which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.


*Complaint* means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 42.7 of this part.


*Defendant* means any person alleged in a complaint under § 42.7 of this part to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 42.3 of this part.


*Government* means the United States Government.


*Individual* means a natural person.


*Initial Decision* means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 42.10 or § 42.37 of this part, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.


*Investigating official* means the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs or an officer or employee of the Office of the Inspector General and serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.


*Knows or has reason to know* means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—


(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or


(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.


*Makes,* wherever it appears, shall include the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires, *making* or *made,* shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms. 


*Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association or private organization and includes the plural of that term. 


*Representative* means any person designated by a party in writing. 


*Reviewing official* means the General Counsel of the Department of Veterans Affairs or designee who is—


(a) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official; 


(b) Not employed in the organization unit of the Department of Veterans Affairs in which the investigating official is employed; and 


(c) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.


*Statement* means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—


(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or 


(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)— 


(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or 


(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under the contract or for the grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under the contract or for the grant, loan, or benefit. 



---

[N] [53 FR 16710, May 11, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 34988, Aug. 23, 1989]




