# § 63.9931   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) *Compliance report due dates.* Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit a semiannual compliance report to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) (1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.9883 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.9883.


(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after your compliance report is due.


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(b) *Compliance report contents.* Each compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and, as applicable, paragraphs (b)(4) through (8) of this section.


(1) Company name and address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(4) If you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the compliance report must include the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i).


(5) If there were no deviations from the continuous compliance requirements in §§ 63.9923 and 63.9924 that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, work practice standards, or operation and maintenance requirements during the reporting period.


(6) If there were no periods during which a CPMS was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.


(7) For each deviation from an emission limitation in § 63.9890 that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a CPMS to comply with an emission limitation in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section and the information in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(i) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(ii) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable) as applicable and the corrective action taken.


(8) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a CPMS to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section and the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (xi) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(ii) The date and time that each continuous monitoring was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(iii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(iv) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(v) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(vi) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period including those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(vii) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.


(viii) A brief description of the process units.


(ix) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.


(x) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.


(xi) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(c) *Immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report.* If you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period that was not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report according to the requirements in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).


(d) *Part 70 monitoring report.* If you have obtained a title V operating permit for an affected source pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, you must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If you submit a compliance report for an affected source along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all the required information concerning deviations from any emissions limitation, work practice standards, or operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report satisfies any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of the compliance report does not otherwise affect any obligation you may have to report deviations from permit requirements for an affected source to your permitting authority.




