# § 201.460   Record before the Commission.

The Commission shall determine each matter on the basis of the record. 


(a) *Contents of the record.* (1) In proceedings for final decision before the Commission other than those reviewing a determination by a self-regulatory organization, the record shall consist of: 


(i) All items part of the record below in accordance with § 201.350; 


(ii) Any petitions for review, cross-petitions or oppositions; and 


(iii) All briefs, motions, submissions and other papers filed on appeal or review. 


(2) In a proceeding for final decision before the Commission reviewing a determination by a self-regulatory organization, the record shall consist of: 


(i) The record certified pursuant to § 201.420(d) by the self-regulatory organization; 


(ii) Any application for review; and 


(iii) Any submissions, moving papers, and briefs filed on appeal or review. 


(3) In a proceeding for final decision before the Commission reviewing a determination of the Board, the record shall consist of:


(i) The record certified pursuant to § 201.440(d) by the Board; 


(ii) Any application for review; and 


(iii) Any submissions, moving papers, and briefs filed on appeal or review. 




(4) In a proceeding for final decision before the Commission reviewing a determination of a security-based swap execution facility, the record shall consist of:


(i) The record certified pursuant to § 201.442(d) by the security-based swap execution facility;


(ii) Any application for review; and


(iii) Any submissions, moving papers, and briefs filed on appeal or review.




(b) *Transmittal of record to Commission.* Within 14 days after the last date set for filing briefs or such later date as the Commission directs, the Secretary shall transmit the record to the Commission. 


(c) *Review of documents not admitted.* Any document offered in evidence but excluded by the hearing officer or the Commission and any document marked for identification but not offered as an exhibit shall not be considered a part of the record before the Commission on appeal but shall be transmitted to the Commission by the Secretary if so requested by the Commission. In the event that the Commission does not request the document, the Secretary shall retain the document not admitted into the record until the later of: 


(1) The date upon which the Commission's order becomes final, or 


(2) The conclusion of any judicial review of that order. 



---

[N] [60 FR 32796, June 23, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 13180, Mar. 19, 2004; 88 FR 87232, Dec. 15, 2023]




