# § 585.96   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Production year ending August 31, 2010*—(1) *General reporting requirements.* Within 60 days after the end of the production year ending August 31, 2010, each manufacturer must submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration concerning its compliance with the head restraint requirements specified in § 571.202a, without regard to any option to comply with the standard in § 571.202 or with the European regulations referenced in S4.3(a) of § 571.202, for its passenger cars, trucks, buses and multipurpose passenger vehicles produced in that year. The report must provide the information specified in paragraph (2) of this section and in § 585.2 of this part.


(2) *Report content*—(i) *Basis for phase-in production goals.* Each manufacturer must provide the number of passenger cars and multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks and buses with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less manufactured for sale in the United States. The number must be either the manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2007 and before September 1, 2010, or, at the manufacturer's option, the manufacturer's production on or after September 1, 2009 and before September 1, 2010. A new manufacturer that has not previously manufactured these vehicles for sale in the United States must report the number of such vehicles manufactured during the production period beginning on or after September 1, 2009 and before September 1, 2010.


(ii) *Production.* Each manufacturer must report for the production year ending August 31, 2010: The total number of passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kg or less that meet § 571.202a, without regard to any option to comply with the standard in § 571.202 or with the European regulations referenced in S4.3(a) of § 571.202.


(b) *Production year ending August 31, 2011*—(1) *General reporting requirements.* Within 60 days after the end of the production year ending August 31, 2011, each manufacturer must submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration concerning its compliance with the rear head restraint requirements specified in § 571.202a. The report must provide the information specified in paragraph (2) of this section and in § 585.2 of this part.


(2) *Report content*—(i) *Basis for phase-in production goals.* Each manufacturer must provide the number of passenger cars and multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks and buses with a GVWR of 4,536 kg or less manufactured for sale in the United States with rear head restraints. The number must be either the manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles with rear head restraints manufactured on or after September 1, 2008 and before September 1, 2011, or, at the manufacturer's option, the manufacturer's production on or after September 1, 2010 and before September 1, 2011. A new manufacturer that has not previously manufactured these vehicles for sale in the United States must report the number of such vehicles manufactured during the production period on or after September 1, 2010 and before September 1, 2011.


(ii) *Production.* Each manufacturer must report for the production year ending August 31, 2011: The total number of passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kg or less that meet the rear head restraint requirements of § 571.202a.




