# ยง 3010.312   Requests for production of documents or things for purpose of discovery.

(a) *Service and contents.* In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any party may serve on any other party to the proceeding a request to produce and permit the party making the request, or someone acting on behalf of the requesting party or the requesting party's agent to inspect and copy any designated documents or things that constitute or contain matters, not privileged, that are relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and that are in the custody or control of the party to whom the request is addressed. The request shall set forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or category, and describe each item and category with reasonable particularity, and shall specify a reasonable time, place and manner of making inspection. The party requesting the production of documents or things shall file its request with the Commission and serve the request on the responding party.


(b) *Answers.* The party responding to the request shall file an answer with the Commission and serve the answer on the requesting party within 14 days after the request is filed, or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer. The answer shall state, with respect to each item or category, that inspection will be permitted as requested unless the request is objected to pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. The responding party may produce copies of documents or of electronically stored information in lieu of permitting inspection. Production must be completed no later than the time for inspection specified in the request unless good cause is shown.


(c) *Objections.* In the interest of expedition, the grounds for objection shall be clearly and fully stated. If an objection is made to part of an item or category, the part shall be specified. Any objection must state whether any responsive materials are being withheld on the basis of that objection. A party claiming privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state with particularity the reasons for its applicability. A party claiming undue burden shall state with particularity the effort that would be required to answer the request, providing estimates of cost and work hours required, to the extent possible. Objections shall be filed with the Commission and served on the requesting party within ten days of the request for production. The responding party may state an objection to a request to produce electronically stored information. If it objects to the form of the documents or things requested (or if no form was specified in the request), the responding party must state the form or forms it intends to use to produce the requested information.


(d) *Motions to compel requests for production of documents or things for purposes of discovery.* Motions to compel shall be filed within 14 days of the answer or objection to the discovery request. The text of the discovery request, and any answer provided, should be provided as an attachment to the motion to compel. Parties who have objected to requests for production of documents or things which are the subject of a motion to compel shall have seven days to answer. Answers will be considered supplements to the arguments presented in the initial objection.


(e) *Compelled answers.* Upon motion of any party to the proceeding to compel a response to discovery, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Commission or the presiding officer may compel production of documents or things to which an objection is overruled. Such compelled documents or things shall be made available to the party making the motion within seven days of the date of the order compelling production or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer, but before the conclusion of the hearing.


(f) *Orders and rulings.* The Commission or the presiding officer may direct any party or person to respond to a request for inspection on such terms and conditions as are just and may for good cause impose any protective conditions, including limitations or preconditions for inspections, as justice requires to protect a party or person from undue annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or expense.




