# § 424.520   Effective date of Medicare billing privileges.

(a) *Surveyed, certified or accredited providers and suppliers.* The effective date for billing privileges for providers and suppliers requiring State survey, certification or accreditation is specified in § 489.13 of this chapter. If a provider or supplier is seeking accreditation from a CMS-approved accreditation organization, the effective date is specified in § 489.13.


(b) *Independent Diagnostic Testing Facilities.* The effective date for billing privileges for IDTFs is specified in § 410.33(i) of this chapter.


(c) *DMEPOS suppliers.* The effective date for billing privileges for DMEPOS suppliers is specified in § 424.57(b) of this subpart and section 1834(j)(1)(A) of the Act.


(d) *Additional provider and supplier types.* (1) The effective date of billing privileges for the provider and supplier types identified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is the later of—


(i) The date of filing of a Medicare enrollment application that was subsequently approved by a Medicare contractor; or


(ii) The date that the provider or supplier first began furnishing services at a new practice location.


(2) The provider and supplier types to which paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies are as follows:


(i) Physicians.


(ii) Non-physician practitioners.


(iii) Physician organizations.


(iv) Non-physician practitioner organizations.


(v) Ambulance suppliers.


(vi) Opioid treatment programs.


(vii) Part B hospital departments.


(viii) Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment labs.


(ix) Intensive cardiac rehabilitation facilities.


(x) Mammography centers.


(xi) Mass immunizers/pharmacies.


(xii) Radiation therapy centers.


(xiii) Home infusion therapy suppliers.


(xiv) Physical therapists.


(xv) Occupational therapists.


(xvi) Speech language pathologists.



---

[N] [73 FR 69940, Nov. 19, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 50418, Aug. 16, 2010; 79 FR 72531, Dec. 5, 2014; 84 FR 63203, Nov. 15, 2019; 85 FR 70355, Nov. 4, 2020; 86 FR 62419, Nov. 9, 2021]




