# § 1.446-3   Notional principal contracts.

(a) *Table of contents.* This paragraph (a) lists captioned paragraphs contained in § 1.446-3. 


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of this section is to enable the clear reflection of the income and deductions from notional principal contracts by prescribing accounting methods that reflect the economic substance of such contracts. 


(c) *Definitions and scope*—(1) *Notional principal contract*—(i) *In general.* A notional principal contract is a financial instrument that provides for the payment of amounts by one party to another at specified intervals calculated by reference to a specified index upon a notional principal amount in exchange for specified consideration or a promise to pay similar amounts. An agreement between a taxpayer and a qualified business unit (as defined in section 989(a)) of the taxpayer, or among qualified business units of the same taxpayer, is not a notional principal contract because a taxpayer cannot enter into a contract with itself. Notional principal contracts governed by this section include interest rate swaps, currency swaps, basis swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors, commodity swaps, equity swaps, equity index swaps, and similar agreements. A collar is not itself a notional principal contract, but certain caps and floors that comprise a collar may be treated as a single notional principal contract under paragraph (f)(2)(v)(C) of this section. A contract may be a notional principal contract governed by this section even though the term of the contract is subject to termination or extension. Each confirmation under a master agreement to enter into agreements governed by this section is treated as a separate notional principal contract. 


(ii) *Excluded contracts.* A contract described in section 1256(b), a futures contract, a forward contract, and an option are not notional principal contracts. An instrument or contract that constitutes indebtedness under general principles of Federal income tax law is not a notional principal contract. An option or forward contract that entitles or obligates a person to enter into a notional principal contract is not a notional principal contract, but payments made under such an option or forward contract may be governed by paragraph (g)(3) of this section. 


(iii) *Transactions within section 475.* To the extent that the rules provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section are inconsistent with the rules that apply to any notional principal contract that is governed by section 475 and regulations thereunder, the rules of section 475 and the regulations thereunder govern. 


(iv) *Transactions within section 988.* To the extent that the rules provided in this section are inconsistent with the rules that apply to any notional principal contract that is also a section 988 transaction or that is integrated with other property or debt pursuant to section 988(d), the rules of section 988 and the regulations thereunder govern. 


(2) *Specified index.* A specified index is— 


(i) A fixed rate, price, or amount; 


(ii) A fixed rate, price, or amount applicable in one or more specified periods followed by one or more different fixed rates, prices, or amounts applicable in other periods; 


(iii) An index that is based on objective financial information (as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section); and 


(iv) An interest rate index that is regularly used in normal lending transactions between a party to the contract and unrelated persons. 


(3) *Notional principal amount.* For purposes of this section, a notional principal amount is any specified amount of money or property that, when multiplied by a specified index, measures a party's rights and obligations under the contract, but is not borrowed or loaned between the parties as part of the contract. The notional principal amount may vary over the term of the contract, provided that it is set in advance or varies based on objective financial information (as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section). 


(4) *Special definitions*—(i) *Related person and party to the contract.* A related person is a person related (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) to one of the parties to the notional principal contract or a member of the same consolidated group (as defined in § 1.1502-1(h)) as one of the parties to the contract. For purposes of this paragraph (c), a related person is considered to be a party to the contract. 


(ii) *Objective financial information.* For purposes of this paragraph (c), objective financial information is any current, objectively determinable financial or economic information that is not within the control of any of the parties to the contract and is not unique to one of the parties' circumstances (such as one party's dividends, profits, or the value of its stock). Thus, for example, a notional principal amount may be based on a broadly-based equity index or the outstanding balance of a pool of mortgages, but not on the value of a party's stock. 


(iii) *Dealer in notional principal contracts.* A dealer in notional principal contracts is a person who regularly offers to enter into, assume, offset, assign, or otherwise terminate positions in notional principal contracts with customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. 


(d) *Taxable year of inclusion and deduction.* For all purposes of the Code, the net income or net deduction from a notional principal contract for a taxable year is included in or deducted from gross income for that taxable year. The net income or net deduction from a notional principal contract for a taxable year equals the total of all of the periodic payments that are recognized from that contract for the taxable year under paragraph (e) of this section and all of the nonperiodic payments that are recognized from that contract for the taxable year under paragraph (f) of this section. 


(e) *Periodic payments*—(1) *Definition.* Periodic payments are payments made or received pursuant to a notional principal contract that are payable at intervals of one year or less during the entire term of the contract (including any extension periods provided for in the contract), that are based on a specified index described in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (iii), or (iv) of this section (appropriately adjusted for the length of the interval), and that are based on either a single notional principal amount or a notional principal amount that varies over the term of the contract in the same proportion as the notional principal amount that measures the other party's payments. Payments to purchase or sell a cap or a floor, however, are not periodic payments. 


(2) *Recognition rules*—(i) *In general.* All taxpayers, regardless of their method of accounting, must recognize the ratable daily portion of a periodic payment for the taxable year to which that portion relates. 


(ii) *Rate set in arrears.* If the amount of a periodic payment is not determinable at the end of a taxable year because the value of the specified index is not fixed until a date that occurs after the end of the taxable year, the ratable daily portion of a periodic payment that relates to that taxable year is generally based on the specified index that would have applied if the specified index were fixed as of the last day of the taxable year. If a taxpayer determines that the value of the specified index as of the last day of the taxable year does not provide a reasonable estimate of the specified index that will apply when the payment is fixed, the taxpayer may use a reasonable estimate of the specified index each year, provided that the taxpayer (and any related person that is a party to the contract) uses the same method to make the estimate consistently from year to year and uses the same estimate for purposes of all financial reports to equity holders and creditors. The taxpayer's treatment of notional principal contracts with substantially similar specified indices will be considered in determining whether the taxpayer's estimate of the specified index is reasonable. Any difference between the amount that is recognized under this paragraph (e)(2)(ii) and the corresponding portion of the actual payment that becomes fixed under the contract is taken into account as an adjustment to the net income or net deduction from the notional principal contract for the taxable year during which the payment becomes fixed. 


(iii) *Notional principal amount set in arrears.* Rules similar to the rules of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section apply if the amount of a periodic payment is not determinable at the end of a taxable year because the notional principal amount is not fixed until a date that occurs after the end of the taxable year. 


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (e) of this section. 


(f) *Nonperiodic payments*—(1) *Definition.* A nonperiodic payment is any payment made or received with respect to a notional principal contract that is not a periodic payment (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) or a termination payment (as defined in paragraph (h) of this section). Examples of nonperiodic payments are the premium for a cap or floor agreement (even if it is paid in installments), the payment for an off-market swap agreement, the prepayment of part or all of one leg of a swap, and the premium for an option to enter into a swap if and when the option is exercised. 


(2) *Recognition rules*—(i) *In general.* All taxpayers, regardless of their method of accounting, must recognize the ratable daily portion of a nonperiodic payment for the taxable year to which that portion relates. Generally, a nonperiodic payment must be recognized over the term of a notional principal contract in a manner that reflects the economic substance of the contract. 


(ii) *General rule for swaps.* A nonperiodic payment that relates to a swap must be recognized over the term of the contract by allocating it in accordance with the forward rates (or, in the case of a commodity, the forward prices) of a series of cash-settled forward contracts that reflect the specified index and the notional principal amount. For purposes of this allocation, the forward rates or prices used to determine the amount of the nonperiodic payment will be respected, if reasonable. See paragraph (f)(4) *Example 7* of this section. 


(iii) *Alternative methods for swaps.* Solely for purposes of determining the timing of income and deductions, a nonperiodic payment made or received with respect to a swap may be allocated to each period of the swap contract using one of the methods described in this paragraph (f)(2)(iii). The alternative methods may not be used by a dealer in notional principal contracts (as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section) for swaps entered into or acquired in its capacity as a dealer. 


(A) *Prepaid swaps.* An upfront payment on a swap may be amortized by assuming that the nonperiodic payment represents the present value of a series of equal payments made throughout the term of the swap contract (the level payment method), adjusted as appropriate to take account of increases or decreases in the notional principal amount. The discount rate used in this calculation must be the rate (or rates) used by the parties to determine the amount of the nonperiodic payment. If that rate is not readily ascertainable, the discount rate used must be a rate that is reasonable under the circumstances. Under this method, an upfront payment is allocated by dividing each equal payment into its principal recovery and time value components. The principal recovery components of the equal payments are treated as periodic payments that are deemed to be made on each of the dates that the swap contract provides for periodic payments by the payor of the nonperiodic payment or, if none, on each of the dates that the swap contract provides for periodic payments by the recipient of the nonperiodic payment. The time value component is needed to compute the amortization of the nonperiodic payment, but is otherwise disregarded. See paragraph (f)(4) *Example 5* of this section. 


(B) *Other nonperiodic swap payments.* Nonperiodic payments on a swap other than an upfront payment may be amortized by treating the contract as if it provided for a single upfront payment (equal to the present value of the nonperiodic payments) and a loan between the parties. The discount rate (or rates) used in determining the deemed upfront payment and the time value component of the deemed loan is the same as the rate (or rates) used in the level payment method. The single upfront payment is then amortized under the level payment method described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section. The time value component of the loan is not treated as interest, but, together with the amortized amount of the deemed upfront payment, is recognized as a periodic payment. See paragraph (f)(4) *Example 6* of this section. If both parties make nonperiodic payments, this calculation is done separately for the nonperiodic payments made by each party. 


(iv) *General rule for caps and floors.* A payment to purchase or sell a cap or floor must be recognized over the term of the agreement by allocating it in accordance with the prices of a series of cash-settled option contracts that reflect the specified index and the notional principal amount. For purposes of this allocation, the option pricing used by the parties to determine the total amount paid for the cap or floor will be respected, if reasonable. Only the portion of the purchase price that is allocable to the option contract or contracts that expire during a particular period is recognized for that period. Thus, under this paragraph (f)(2)(iv), straight-line or accelerated amortization of a cap premium is generally not permitted. See paragraph (f)(4) *Examples 1* and *2* of this section. 


(v) *Alternative methods for caps and floors that hedge debt instruments.* Solely for purposes of determining the timing of income and deductions, if a cap or floor is entered into primarily to reduce risk with respect to a specific debt instrument or group of debt instruments held or issued by the taxpayer, the taxpayer may amortize a payment to purchase or sell the cap or floor using the methods described in this paragraph (f)(2)(v), adjusted as appropriate to take account of increases or decreases in the notional principal amount. The alternative methods may not be used by a dealer in notional principal contracts (as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section) for caps or floors entered into or acquired in its capacity as a dealer. 


(A) *Prepaid caps and floors.* A premium paid upfront for a cap or a floor may be amortized using the “level payment method” described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section. See paragraph (f)(4) *Example 3* of this section. 


(B) *Other caps and floors.* Nonperiodic payments on a cap or floor other than an upfront payment are amortized by treating the contract as if it provided for a single upfront payment (equal to the present value of the nonperiodic payments) and a loan between the parties as described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(B) of this section. Under the level payment method, a cap or floor premium paid in level annual installments over the term of the contract is effectively included or deducted from income ratably, in accordance with the level payments. See paragraph (f)(4) *Example 4* of this section.


(C) *Special method for collars.* A taxpayer may also treat a cap and a floor that comprise a collar as a single notional principal contract and may amortize the net nonperiodic payment to enter into the cap and floor over the term of the collar in accordance with the methods prescribed in this paragraph (f)(2)(v). 


(vi) *Additional methods.* The Commissioner may, by a revenue ruling or a revenue procedure published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, provide alternative methods for allocating nonperiodic payments that relate to a notional principal contract to each year of the contract. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter. 


(3) *Term of extendible or terminable contracts.* For purposes of this paragraph (f), the term of a notional principal contract that is subject to extension or termination is the reasonably expected term of the contract. 


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (f) of this section.


(g) *Special rules*—(1) *Disguised notional principal contracts.* The Commissioner may recharacterize all or part of a transaction (or series of transactions) if the effect of the transaction (or series of transactions) is to avoid the application of this section. 


(2) *Hedged notional principal contracts.* If a taxpayer, either directly or through a related person (as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section), reduces risk with respect to a notional principal contract by purchasing, selling, or otherwise entering into other notional principal contracts, futures, forwards, options, or other financial contracts (other than debt instruments), the taxpayer may not use the alternative methods provided in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii) and (v) of this section. Moreover, where such positions are entered into to avoid the appropriate timing or character of income from the contracts taken together, the Commissioner may require that amounts paid to or received by the taxpayer under the notional principal contract be treated in a manner that is consistent with the economic substance of the transaction as a whole. 


(3) *Options and forwards to enter into notional principal contracts.* An option or forward contract that entitles or obligates a person to enter into a notional principal contract is subject to the general rules of taxation for options or forward contracts. Any payment with respect to the option or forward contract is treated as a nonperiodic payment for the underlying notional principal contract under the rules of paragraphs (f) and (g)(4) or (g)(5) of this section if and when the underlying notional principal contract is entered into. 


(4) *Swaps with significant nonperiodic payments*—(i) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section, a swap with significant nonperiodic payments is treated as two separate transactions consisting of an on-market, level payment swap and a loan. The loan must be accounted for by the parties to the contract independently of the swap. The time value component associated with the loan, determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, is recognized as interest expense to the payor and interest income to the recipient.


(ii) *Exception for cleared swaps and non-cleared swaps subject to margin or collateral requirements.* Paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to a swap if the contract is described in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) The swap is cleared by a derivatives clearing organization, as such term is defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), or by a clearing agency, as such term is defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered as a derivatives clearing organization under the Commodity Exchange Act or as a clearing agency under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, respectively, and the derivatives clearing organization or clearing agency requires the parties to the swap to post and collect margin or collateral.


(B) The swap is a non-cleared swap that requires the parties to meet the margin or collateral requirements of a federal regulator or that provides for margin or collateral requirements that are substantially similar to a cleared swap or a non-cleared swap subject to the margin or collateral requirements of a federal regulator. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B), the term *federal regulator* means the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), or a prudential regulator, as defined in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), as amended by section 721 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, Title VII.


(iii) *Coordination with section 163(j).* For the treatment of swaps with significant nonperiodic payments under section 163(j), see § 1.163(j)-1(b)(22)(ii).




(5) *Caps and floors that are significantly in-the-money.* [Reserved]


(6) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (g) of this section. 


(h) *Termination payments*—(1) *Definition.* A payment made or received to extinguish or assign all or a proportionate part of the remaining rights and obligations of any party under a notional principal contract is a termination payment to the party making the termination payment and the party receiving the payment. A termination payment includes a payment made between the original parties to the contract (an extinguishment), a payment made between one party to the contract and a third party (an assignment), and any gain or loss realized on the exchange of one notional principal contract for another. Where one party assigns its remaining rights and obligations to a third party, the original nonassigning counterparty realizes gain or loss if the assignment results in a deemed exchange of contracts and a realization event under section 1001. 


(2) *Taxable year of inclusion and deduction by original parties.* Except as otherwise provided (for example, in section 453, section 1092, or § 1.446-4), a party to a notional principal contract recognizes a termination payment in the year the contract is extinguished, assigned, or exchanged. When the termination payment is recognized, the party also recognizes any other payments that have been made or received pursuant to the notional principal contract, but that have not been recognized under paragraph (d) of this section. If only a proportionate part of a party's rights and obligations is extinguished, assigned, or exchanged, then only that proportion of the unrecognized payments is recognized under the previous sentence. 


(3) *Taxable year of inclusion and deduction by assignees.* A termination payment made or received by an assignee pursuant to an assignment of a notional principal contract is recognized by the assignee under the rules of paragraphs (f) and (g)(4) or (g)(5) of this section as a nonperiodic payment for the notional principal contract that is in effect after the assignment. 


(4) *Special rules*—(i) *Assignment of one leg of a contract.* A payment is not a termination payment if it is made or received by a party in exchange for assigning all or a portion of one leg of a notional principal contract at a time when a substantially proportionate amount of the other leg remains unperformed and unassigned. The payment is either an amount loaned, an amount borrowed, or a nonperiodic payment, depending on the economic substance of the transaction to each party. This paragraph (h)(4)(i) applies whether or not the original notional principal contract is terminated as a result of the assignment. 


(ii) *Substance over form.* Any economic benefit that is given or received by a taxpayer in lieu of a termination payment is a termination payment. 


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (h). The contracts in the examples are not hedging transactions as defined in § 1.1221-2(b), and all of the examples assume that no loss-deferral rules apply.


(i) *Anti-abuse rule.* If a taxpayer enters into a transaction with a principal purpose of applying the rules of this section to produce a material distortion of income, the Commissioner may depart from the rules of this section as necessary to reflect the appropriate timing of income and deductions from the transaction. 


(j)(1) *Effective/applicability date.* These regulations are effective for notional principal contracts entered into on or after December 13, 1993.


(2) The rules provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section apply to notional principal contracts entered into on or after September 14, 2021. Taxpayers may choose to apply the rules provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section to notional principal contracts entered into before September 14, 2021.



---

[N] [T.D. 8491, 58 FR 53128, Oct. 14, 1993; 59 FR 9411, Feb. 28, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8554, 59 FR 36358, July 18, 1994; T.D. 9719, 80 FR 26440, May 8, 2015; 80 FR 34051, June 15, 2015; T.D. 9905, 85 FR 56839, Sept. 14, 2020]




