# § 214.505   Required environmental control and protection systems for new on-track roadway maintenance machines with enclosed cabs.

(a) With the exception of machines subject to paragraph (i) of this section, the following new on-track roadway maintenance machines shall be equipped with operative heating systems, operative air conditioning systems, and operative positive pressurized ventilation systems:


(1) Ballast regulators;


(2) Tampers;


(3) Mechanical brooms;


(4) Rotary scarifiers;


(5) Undercutters; and


(6) Functional equivalents of any of the machines identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.


(b) New on-track roadway maintenance machines, and existing on-track roadway maintenance machines specifically designated by the employer, of the types identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, or functionally equivalent thereto, shall be capable of protecting employees in the cabs of the machines from exposure to air contaminants, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1000.


(c) An employer shall maintain a list of new and designated existing on-track roadway maintenance machines of the types identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, or functionally equivalent thereto. The list shall be kept current and made available to the Federal Railroad Administration and other Federal and State agencies upon request.


(d) An existing roadway maintenance machine of the type identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, or functionally equivalent thereto, becomes “designated” when the employer adds the machine to the list required in paragraph (c) of this section. The designation is irrevocable, and the designated existing roadway maintenance machine remains subject to paragraph (b) of this section until it is retired or sold.


(e) If the ventilation system on a new on-track roadway maintenance machine or a designated existing on-track roadway maintenance machine of the type identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, or functionally equivalent thereto, becomes incapable of protecting an employee in the cab of the machine from exposure to air contaminants in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1000, personal respiratory protective equipment shall be provided for each such employee until the machine is repaired in accordance with § 214.531.


(f) Personal respiratory protective equipment provided under paragraph (e) of this section shall comply with 29 CFR 1910.134.


(g) New on-track roadway maintenance machines with enclosed cabs, other than the types identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section or functionally equivalent thereto, shall be equipped with operative heating and ventilation systems.


(h) When new on-track roadway maintenance machines require operation from non-enclosed stations outside of the main cab, the non-enclosed stations shall be equipped, where feasible from an engineering standpoint, with a permanent or temporary roof, canopy, or umbrella designed to provide cover from normal rainfall and midday sun.


(i) Paragraph (a) of this section is not applicable to machines that are incapable of performing work functions other than by remote operation and are equipped with no operating controls (*i.e.,* remotely operated roadway maintenance machines) if the following conditions are met.


(1) If a remotely operated roadway maintenance machine is operated from the cab of a separate machine, that separate machine must comply with paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) If a remotely operated roadway maintenance machine is operated outside of the main cab of the separate machine in a manner that will expose the operator to air contaminants, as outlined in 29 CFR 1910.1000, the employee shall be protected in compliance with 29 CFR 1910.134.


(3) No person is permitted on the remotely operated roadway maintenance machine while the equipment is operating.


(4) Each remotely operated roadway maintenance machine must be clearly identified by stenciling, marking, or other written notice in a conspicuous location on the machine indicating the potential hazards of the machine being operated from a distance or that the machine may move automatically.



---

[N] [68 FR 44407, July 28, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 15143, Mar. 17, 2022]




