# § 1917.117   Manlifts.

(a) *Inspection.* Manlifts shall be inspected monthly by a designated person. Safety switches shall be checked weekly. Manlifts found to be unsafe shall not be operated until repaired. Inspections shall include at least the following:


(1) Step fastenings;


(2) Rails;


(3) Rail supports and fastenings;


(4) Roller and slides;


(5) Belt and belt tension;


(6) Handholds and fastenings;


(7) Floor landings;


(8) Guardrails;


(9) Lubrication;


(10) Safety switches;


(11) Warning signs and lights;


(12) Illumination;


(13) Drive pulley;


(14) Bottom (boot) pulley and clearance;


(15) Pulley supports;


(16) Motor;


(17) Drive mechanism;


(18) Brake;


(19) Electrical switches;


(20) Vibration and misalignment;


(21) “Skip” on up or down run when mounting the step (indicating worn gears); and 


(22) Emergency exit ladders.


(b) *Inspection records.* Inspection records shall be kept for at least one year. The record of the most recent inspection shall be posted in the vicinity of the manlift or in the terminal.


(c) *Emergency stop.* An emergency stop device shall be available within easy reach from any position on the belt.


(d) *Instructions.* Manlift use instructions shall be conspicuously posted.


(e) *Top floor warning sign and light.* An illuminated sign and red light that are visible to the user shall be provided under the top floor opening of the manlift to warn the user to get off at that floor.


(f) *Bottom floor warning sign.* A sign visible to descending passengers shall be provided to warn them to get off at the bottom floor.


(g) *Upper limit stop.* An automatic stop device shall be provided to stop the manlift when a loaded step passes the top landing, except that manlifts installed after October 3, 1983 shall have two such devices.


(h) *Handholds and steps.* Each step shall be provided with a corresponding handhold.


(i) *Emergency ladder.* A fixed emergency ladder accessible from any position on the lift and in accordance with the requirements of § 1917.118(d) shall be provided for the entire run of the manlift. 


(j) *Landings.* (1) Clear and unobstructed landing spaces shall be provided at each level. Manlifts constructed after October 3, 1983 and that have a distance of 50 feet (15.24 m) or more between floor landings shall have an emergency landing every 25 feet (7.62 m) or less of manlift travel.


(2) Open sides of emergency landings shall be protected by guardrails.


(3) Floor landing entrances and exits shall be guarded by mazes, self-closing gates, or equivalent devices.


(4) Landings shall be of sufficient size and strength to support 250 pounds (1,112 N). 


(k) *Floor opening guards.* The ascending sides of manlift floor openings shall be provided with cones or bevel guards to direct the user through the openings. 


(l) *Maintenance.* Manlifts shall be equipped, maintained, and used in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, which shall be available at the terminal.


(m) *Bottom pulley.* (1) The lower pulley shall be supported by the lowest landing.


(2) Sides of the bottom pulley support shall be guarded to prevent contact with the pulley or the steps.


(n) *Top clearance.* A clearance of at least 11 feet (3.35 m) shall be provided between the top landing and the ceiling. 


(o) *Brakes.* Manlifts shall be equipped with brakes that are:


(1) Self-engaging;


(2) Electrically released; and


(3) Capable of stopping and holding the manlift when the descending side is loaded with the maximum rated load.



---

[N] [48 FR 30909, July 5, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 40941, June 30, 2000]




