# § 1430.409   Dairy margin coverage payments.

(a) A DMC payment will be made to a participating dairy operation for any month when the average actual dairy production margin for that month falls below the coverage level threshold in effect for the participating dairy operation.


(b) Payments trigger at the catastrophic level or at the buy-up level; the payments will be calculated according to this paragraph. If the dairy operation only has catastrophic coverage or buy-up coverage at 95 percent, there will be a single calculation. If the dairy operation purchased buy-up coverage at less than 95 percent and the catastrophic level also triggers a payment, then there will be two calculations to determine the payment—first the calculation for the buy-up coverage percentage and then the calculation for the catastrophic level percentage, which is the balance of the established production history up to 95 percent; the result of these two calculations will be added together to determine the payment amount. Each calculation multiplies the payment rate times the coverage percentage times the production history or established adjusted base production history divided by 12 as follows:


(1) *Payment rate.* The amount by which the coverage level exceeds the average actual dairy production margin for a month;


(2) *Coverage percentage.* The coverage percentage; and


(3) *Production history.* The production history or established adjusted base production history or adjusted base production history of the dairy operation, divided by 12.




(c) If the dairy operation purchased buy-up level coverage at less than 95 percent of production history or adjusted base production history, then the dairy operation will receive a payment calculated at the buy-up level, plus the payment at the catastrophic level, if triggered, for the balance of 95 percent of its established production history or adjusted base production history. For example, if a producer purchased buy-up coverage at the 50 percent level, then that producer will also receive catastrophic level coverage for the next 45 percent for total coverage of 95 percent.





---

[N] [84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70708, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 14376, Feb. 27, 2024]




