# § 63.1212   What are the other requirements pertaining to the NIC?

(a) *Certification of intent to comply.* The Notice of Intent to Comply (NIC) must contain the following certification signed and dated by a responsible official as defined under § 63.2 of this chapter: I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this document and all attachments and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.


(b) *New units.* Any source that files a RCRA permit application or permit modification request for construction of a hazardous waste combustion unit after October 12, 2005 must:


(1) Prepare a draft NIC pursuant to § 63.1210(b) and make it available to the public upon issuance of the notice of public meeting pursuant to § 63.1210(c)(3); 


(2) Prepare a draft comprehensive performance test plan pursuant to the requirements of § 63.1207 and make it available for public review upon issuance of the notice of NIC public meeting;


(3) Provide notice to the public of a pre-application meeting pursuant to § 124.31 of this chapter or notice to the public of a permit modification request pursuant to § 270.42 of this chapter;


(4) Hold an informal public meeting [pursuant to § 63.1210(c)(1) and (c)(2)] no earlier than 30 days following notice of the NIC public meeting and notice of the pre-application meeting or notice of the permit modification request to discuss anticipated activities described in the draft NIC and pre-application or permit modification request for achieving compliance with the emission standards of this subpart; and


(5) Submit a final NIC pursuant to § 63.1210(b)(3).


(c) *Information Repository specific to new combustion units.* (1) Any source that files a RCRA permit application or modification request for construction of a new hazardous waste combustion unit after October 12, 2005 may be required to establish an information repository if deemed appropriate.


(2) The Administrator may assess the need, on a case-by-case basis for an information repository. When assessing the need for a repository, the Administrator shall consider the level of public interest, the presence of an existing repository, and any information available via the New Source Review and Title V permit processes. If the Administrator determines a need for a repository, then the Administrator shall notify the facility that it must establish and maintain an information repository.


(3) The information repository shall contain all documents, reports, data, and information deemed necessary by the Administrator. The Administrator shall have the discretion to limit the contents of the repository.


(4) The information repository shall be located and maintained at a site chosen by the source. If the Administrator finds the site unsuitable for the purposes and persons for which it was established, due to problems with location, hours of availability, access, or other relevant considerations, then the Administrator shall specify a more appropriate site.


(5) The Administrator shall require the source to provide a written notice about the information repository to all individuals on the source mailing list.


(6) The source shall be responsible for maintaining and updating the repository with appropriate information throughout a period specified by the Administrator. The Administrator may close the repository at his or her discretion based on the considerations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [70 FR 59555, Oct. 12, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 18982, Apr. 8, 2008]




