# § 53.4959-1   Taxes on failures by hospital organizations to meet section 501(r)(3).

(a) *Excise tax for failure to meet the section 501(r)(3) requirements*—(1) *In general.* If a hospital organization (as defined in § 1.501(r)-1(b)(18)) fails to meet the requirements of section 501(r)(3) separately with respect to a hospital facility it operates in any taxable year, there is imposed on the hospital organization a tax equal to $50,000. If a hospital organization operates multiple hospital facilities and fails to meet the requirements of section 501(r)(3) with respect to more than one facility it operates, the $50,000 tax is imposed on the hospital organization separately for each hospital facility's failure. The tax is imposed for each taxable year that a hospital facility fails to meet the requirements of section 501(r)(3).


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (a):


(b) *Interaction with other provisions*—(1) *Correction.* Unless a hospital organization's failure to meet the requirements of section 501(r)(3) involves an omission or error that is described in and corrected in accordance with § 1.501(r)-2(b) (and is thus not considered a failure), a failure to meet the requirements of section 501(r)(3) will result in a tax being imposed on the organization under this section, notwithstanding the organization's correction and disclosure of the failure in accordance with the guidance described in § 1.501(r)-2(c).


(2) *Interaction with other taxes.* The tax imposed by this section is in addition to any tax imposed by § 1.501(r)-2(d) or as a result of revocation of a hospital organization's section 501(c)(3) status.


(c) *Effective/applicability date.* Paragraph (a) of this section applies on and after December 29, 2014.



---

[N] [T.D. 9708, 79 FR 79015, Dec. 31, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 12765, Mar. 11, 2015]




