# § 63.5420   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit the first annual compliance status certification 12 months after you submit the Notification of Compliance Status. Each subsequent annual compliance status certification is due 12 months after the previous annual compliance status certification. The annual compliance status certification provides the compliance status for each month during the 12-month period ending 60 days prior to the date on which the report is due. Include the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section in the annual certification: 


(1) The name and address of the owner or operator. 


(2) The physical address of the leather finishing operation. 


(3) Each type of leather product process operation performed during the 12-month period covered by the report. 


(4) Each HAP identified under § 63.5390, in finishes applied during the 12-month period covered by the report. 


(5) A compliance status certification indicating whether the source complied with all of the requirements of this subpart throughout the 12-month period covered by the report. This certification must include the items in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section: 


(i) You are following the procedures described in the plan for demonstrating compliance. 


(ii) The compliance ratio value was determined to be less than or equal to 1.00, or the value was determined to be greater than 1.00. 


(b) You must submit a Deviation Notification Report for each compliance determination you make in which the compliance ratio exceeds 1.00, as determined under § 63.5330. Submit the deviation report by the fifteenth of the following month in which you determined the deviation from the compliance ratio. The Deviation Notification Report must include the items in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section:


(1) The name and address of the owner or operator. 


(2) The physical address of the leather finishing operation. 


(3) The 12-month period covered by the report and each type of leather product process operation performed during the 12-month period.


(4) The compliance ratio comprising the deviation. You may reduce the frequency of submittal of the Deviation Notification Report if the Administrator of these NESHAP approves an alternative schedule.


(5) An estimate of the quantity of HAP (in pounds) emitted during the 12 months specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in excess of the allowable HAP loss. Calculate this estimate of excess emissions by subtracting the allowable HAP loss determined as specified in § 63.5340 from the actual HAP loss determined as specified in § 63.5335.


(6) The cause of the events that resulted in the source failing to meet an applicable standard (including unknown cause, if applicable).


(c) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). The CEDRI Interface can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13 unless the Administrator agrees to or specifies an alternate reporting method.


(3) If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(4) If you are required to electronically submit a report through the CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of force majeure, you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the force majeure event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.



---

[N] [67 FR 9162, Feb. 27, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 3321, Feb. 12, 2019]




