# ยง 800.170   When a license or authorization or approval is required.

(a) *Requirement.* (1) Any individual who performs or represents that he or she is licensed or authorized to perform any or all inspection or Class X weighing services under the Act must be licensed or authorized by the Service to perform each service. 


(2) Any individual who performs or represents that he or she is licensed or authorized, or an approved weigher, to perform Class Y weighing services under the Act must be licensed or authorized, or approved, by the Service to perform this service.


(b) *Excepted activities.* A license or authorization, or approval for weighing, under the Act and regulations is not required for (1) opening or closing a carrier or container of grain, or transporting or filing official samples, or similar laboring functions; (2) typing or filing official inspection and weighing certificates or other official forms or performing similar clerical functions; (3) performing official equipment testing functions with respect to official inspection equipment; (4) performing inspection, weighing, or scale testing functions that are not conducted for the purposes of the Act; or (5) performing scale testing functions by a State or municipal agency or by the employees of such agencies.


(c) *30-day waiver.* A prospective applicant for a license as a sampler, inspection technician, or weighing technician may, for a period of time not to exceed 30 calendar days, help perform those official sampling, inspection, or Class X or Class Y weighing services for which the applicant desires to be licensed, under the direct physical supervision of an individual who is licensed to perform the services. The supervising individual shall be fully responsible for each function performed by the prospective applicant and shall initial any work form prepared by the prospective applicant.


(d) *No fee by Service.* No fee will be assessed by the Service for licensing an individual employed by an agency or contractor.


(e) *Fee by agency.* At the request of the Service, an agency may help examine an applicant for a warehouse sampler's license for competency and may assess a fee in accordance with the provisions of ยง 800.70. The fee shall be paid by the applicant or by the elevator that employs the applicant.



---

[N] [45 FR 15810, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 30325, June 5, 1981]




