# ยง 891.575   Leasing to eligible families.

(a) *Availability of assisted units for occupancy by eligible families.* (1) During the term of the HAP contract, a Borrower shall make available for occupancy by eligible families the total number of units for which assistance is committed under the HAP contract. For purposes of this section, making units available for occupancy by eligible families means that the Borrower: 


(i) Is conducting marketing in accordance with ยง 891.600(a); 


(ii) Has leased or is making good faith efforts to lease the units to eligible and otherwise acceptable families, including taking all feasible actions to fill vacancies by renting to such families; 


(iii) Has not rejected any such applicant family except for reasons acceptable to HUD.

 


(2) If the Borrower is temporarily unable to lease all units for which assistance is committed under the HAP contract to eligible families, one or more units may, with the prior approval of HUD, be leased to otherwise eligible families that do not meet the income eligibility requirements of 24 CFR 5.653. Failure on the part of the Borrower to comply with these requirements is a violation of the HAP contract and grounds for all available legal remedies, including an action for specific performance of the HAP contract, suspension or debarment from HUD programs, and reduction of the number of units under the HAP contract as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Reduction of number of units covered by the HAP contract.* HUD may reduce the number of units covered by the HAP contract to the number of units available for occupancy by eligible families if: 


(1) The Borrower fails to comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; or 


(2) Notwithstanding any prior approval by HUD, HUD determines that the inability to lease units to eligible families is not a temporary problem. 


(c) *Restoration.* HUD will agree to an amendment of the HAP contract to provide for subsequent restoration of any reduction made under paragraph (b) of this section if: 


(1) HUD determines that the restoration is justified by demand; 


(2) The Borrower otherwise has a record of compliance with the Borrower's obligations under the HAP contract; and 


(3) Contract and budget authority is available. 


(d) *Applicability.* In accordance with section 555 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990, paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to all contracts. An owner who had leased an assisted unit to an ineligible family consistent with the regulations in effect at the time will continue to lease the unit to that family. However, the owner must make the unit available for occupancy by an eligible family when the ineligible family vacates the unit. 


(e) *Occupancy by families that are not elderly or handicapped.* HUD may permit units in the project to be leased to other than elderly or handicapped families if: 


(1) The Borrower has made reasonable efforts to lease assisted and unassisted units to eligible families; 


(2) The Borrower has been granted HUD approval under paragraph (a) of this section; and 


(3) The Borrower is temporarily unable to achieve or maintain a level of occupancy sufficient to prevent financial default and foreclosure under the Section 202 loan documents. HUD approval under paragraph (e)(3) of this section will be of limited duration. HUD may impose terms and conditions to this approval that are consistent with program objectives and necessary to protect its interest in the Section 202 loan. 


(f) The regulations of 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking) apply to this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 72343, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66262, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016; 88 FR 75233, Nov. 2, 2023]




