# ยง 1048.115   What other requirements apply?

Engines that are required to meet the emission standards of this part must meet the following requirements:


(a) *Crankcase emissions.* Crankcase emissions may not be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere from any engine throughout its useful life, except as follows:


(1) Engines may discharge crankcase emissions to the ambient atmosphere if the emissions are added to the exhaust emissions (either physically or mathematically) during all emission testing. If you take advantage of this exception, you must do the following things:


(i) Manufacture the engines so that all crankcase emissions can be routed into the applicable sampling systems specified in 40 CFR part 1065.


(ii) Account for deterioration in crankcase emissions when determining exhaust deterioration factors.


(2) For purposes of this paragraph (a), crankcase emissions that are routed to the exhaust upstream of exhaust aftertreatment during all operation are not considered to be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere.


(b) *Torque broadcasting.* Electronically controlled engines must broadcast their speed and output shaft torque (in newton-meters). Engines may alternatively broadcast a surrogate value for determining torque. Engines must broadcast engine parameters such that they can be read with a remote device, or broadcast them directly to their controller area networks. This information is necessary for testing engines in the field (see ยง 1048.515). This requirement applies beginning in the 2007 model year. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit this requirement.


(c) *EPA access to broadcast information.* If we request it, you must provide us any hardware or tools we would need to readily read, interpret, and record all information broadcast by an engine's on-board computers and electronic control modules. If you broadcast a surrogate parameter for torque values, you must provide us what we need to convert these into torque units. We will not ask for hardware or tools if they are readily available commercially. 


(d) [Reserved] 


(e) *Adjustable parameters.* Engines that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the practically adjustable range. We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the practically adjustable range during any testing, including certification testing, production-line testing, or in-use testing. General provisions for adjustable parameters apply as specified in 40 CFR 1068.50.


(f) *Prohibited controls.* You may not design your engines with emission control devices, systems, or elements of design that cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety while operating. For example, an engine may not emit a noxious or toxic substance it would otherwise not emit that contributes to such an unreasonable risk. 


(g) *Defeat devices.* You may not equip your engines with a defeat device. A defeat device is an auxiliary emission-control device that reduces the effectiveness of emission controls under conditions that the engine may reasonably be expected to encounter during normal operation and use. This does not apply to auxiliary-emission control devices you identify in your certification application if any of the following is true:


(1) The conditions of concern were substantially included in the applicable test procedures described in subpart F of this part.


(2) You show your design is necessary to prevent engine (or equipment) damage or accidents.


(3) The reduced effectiveness applies only to starting the engine.



---

[N] [67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40467, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59233, Oct. 8, 2008; 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]




