# 22.102-2   Administration.

(a) Agencies shall cooperate with, and encourage contractors to use to the fullest extent practicable, the DOL Employment and Training Administration (DOLETA) at *http://www.doleta.gov,* and its affiliated local offices in meeting contractors' labor requirements. These requirements may be to staff new or expanding plant facilities, including requirements for workers in all occupations and skills from local labor market areas or through the Federal-State employment clearance system.


(b) Local State employment offices are operated throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In addition to providing recruitment assistance to contractors, cooperation with the local State Employment Service offices will further the national program of maintaining continuous assessment of manpower requirements and resources on a national and local basis.


(c)(1) The U.S. Department of Labor is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. The Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division is responsible for administration and enforcement of numerous wage and hour statutes including—


(i) 40 U.S.C. chapter 31, subchapter IV, Wage Rate Requirements (Construction);


(ii) 40 U.S.C. chapter 37, Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards;


(iii) The Copeland Act (18 U.S.C. 874 and 40 U.S.C. 3145);


(iv) 41 U.S.C. chapter 65, Contracts for Materials, Supplies, Articles, and Equipment Exceeding $10,000;


(v) 41 U.S.C. chapter 67, Service Contract Labor Standards.


(2) Contracting officers should contact the Wage and Hour Division's regional offices when required by the subparts relating to these statutes unless otherwise specified. Addresses for these offices may be found at Appendix B to 29 CFR Part 1.



---

[N] [48 FR 42258, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 56 FR 55374, Oct. 25, 1991; 68 FR 28082, May 22, 2003; 71 FR 36931, June 28, 2006; 79 FR 24203, Apr. 29, 2014; 80 FR 26427, May 7, 2015; 81 FR 58638, Aug. 25, 2016; 81 FR 91638, Dec. 16, 2016; 82 FR 51530, Nov. 6, 2017; 85 FR 27090, May 6, 2020]




