# § 9.201   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart. The definitions in parts 718 and 1400 of this title also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.


*Aquaculture* means any species of aquatic organisms grown as food for human consumption, fish raised as feed for fish that are consumed by humans, ornamental fish propagated and reared in an aquatic medium. Eligible aquacultural species must be raised by a commercial operator and in water in a controlled environment.


*Average revenue loss level* means the average percentage of revenue loss for contract producers determined by USDA for a geographic area based on the best available data including, but not limited to, losses reported by contract producers for the same area and type of livestock or poultry.




*Beginning farmer or rancher* means a farmer or rancher who has not operated a farm or ranch for more than 10 years and who materially and substantially participates in the operation. For a legal entity to be considered a beginning farmer or rancher, at least 50 percent of the interest must be beginning farmers or ranchers.




*Breeding stock* means:


(1) For cattle, bulls and cows;


(2) For hogs and pigs, boars and sows; and


(3) For lambs and sheep, rams and ewes.


*Broilers* includes any chicken that has been commercially produced for meat purposes that has left the farm for slaughter, and not used for laying or breeding purposes.


*Contract producer* means a producer who grows or produces an eligible commodity under contract for or on behalf of another person or entity. The contract producer does not have ownership in the commodity and is not entitled to a share from sales proceeds of the commodity.


*Crop insurance* means an insurance policy reinsured by Federal Crop Insurance Corporation under the provisions of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. It does not include private plans of insurance.


*Eggs* means dried, frozen, liquid, and shell eggs.




*Eligible contract livestock or poultry* means broilers, pullets, layers, poultry eggs, turkeys, ducks, geese, pheasants, quail, hogs, pigs, and other livestock or poultry types determined eligible and announced by USDA, including breeding stock of those eligible livestock and poultry types.




*Eligible revenue* means the revenue received by a contract producer for contract production of eligible contract livestock or poultry, as reported on Internal Revenue Service Form 1099.


*Experimental* means a crop for which all of the following apply:


(1) The crop is planted for experimental purposes conducted under the direct supervision of a State experiment station or commercial company;


(2) Production of the crop is destroyed before harvest or used for testing or other experimental purposes; and


(3) A representative of the State experiment station or the commercial company certifies that any production harvested from the experiment will not be marketed in any form.


*Flat-rate crop* means alfalfa, amaranth grain, buckwheat, canola, cotton, Extra Long Staple (ELS) cotton, crambe (colewort), einkorn, emmer, flax, guar, hemp, indigo, industrial rice, kenaf, khorasan, millet, mustard, oats, peanuts, quinoa, rapeseed, rice, rice, sweet, rice, wild, rye, safflower, sesame, speltz, sugar beets, sugarcane, teff, and triticale. The term excludes hay, except alfalfa, and crops with intended uses of grazing, green manure, or left standing.


*Floriculture* means cut flowers and cut greenery from annual and perennial flowering plants grown in a container or controlled environment for commercial sale. Floriculture is included in sales commodities.


*Fruits* means any of the following fruits: Abiu, acerola (Barbados cherry), achachairu, antidesma, apples, apricots, aronia (chokeberry), atemoya (custard apple), avocados, bananas, blueberries, breadfruit, cacao, caimito, calabaza melon, canary melon, canary seed, caneberries, canistel, cantaloupes, carambola (star fruit), casaba melon, cherimoya (sugar apple), cherries, Chinese bitter melon, citron, citron melon, coconuts, cranberries, crenshaw melon, dates, donaqua (winter melon), durian, elderberries, figs, genip, gooseberries, grapefruit, grapes, ground cherry, guamabana (soursop), guava, guavaberry, honeyberries, honeydew, huckleberries, Israel melons, jack fruit, jujube, juneberries, kiwiberry, kiwifruit, Korean golden melon, kumquats, langsat, lemons, limequats, limes, longan, loquats, lychee, mangos, mangosteen, mayhaw berries, mesple, mulberries, nectarines, noni, olives, oranges, papaya, passion fruits, pawpaw, peaches, pears, persimmons, pineapple, pitaya (dragon fruit), plantain, plumcots, plums, pomegranates, prunes, pummelo, quinces, raisins, rambutan, sapodilla, sapote, schizandra berries, sprite melon, star gooseberry, strawberries, tangelos, tangerines, tangors, wampee, watermelon, wax jamboo fruit, and wolfberry (goji).


*Hemp* means the plant species *Cannabis sativa L.* and any part of that plant, including the seeds thereof and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis, that is grown under a license or other required authorization issued by the applicable governing authority that permits the production of the hemp.


*Horticulture* means any of the following horticulture: Anise, basil, cassava, chervil (Fresh parsley), chia, chicory (radicchio), cilantro, cinnamon, curry leaves, galanga, ginger, ginseng, guayule, herbs, hops, lotus root, marjoram, meadowfoam, mint, moringa, niger seed, oregano, parsley, pennycress, peppermint, pohole, psyllium, rosemary, sage, savory, shrubs (forbs), sorrel, spearmint, tangos, tea, thyme, turmeric, vanilla, wasabi, water cress, and yu cha.


*Ineligible commodities* for CFAP 2 means any of the following commodities: Birdsfoot and trefoil, clover, cover crop, fallow, forage soybeans, forage sorghum, gardens (commercial and home), grass, kochia (prostrata), lespedeza, milkweed, mixed forage, pelts (excluding mink), perennial peanuts, pollinators, sunn hemp, vetch, and seed of ineligible crops other than grass seed.


*Layer* means a chicken producing table or commercial type shell eggs.


*Limited resource farmer or rancher* means a farmer or rancher:


(1) Who is a person whose:


(i) Direct or indirect gross farm sales did not exceed $180,300 in each calendar year for 2017 and 2018 (the relevant years for the 2020 program year); and


(ii) Total household income was at or below the national poverty level for a family of four in each of the same two previous years referenced in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition; 
24 or


(2) That is an entity and all members who hold an ownership interest in the entity meet the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition.




*NAP* means the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) and part 1437 of this title.


*Nursery crops* means decorative or nondecorative plants grown in a container or controlled environment for commercial sale. Nursery crops are included in sales commodities.


*Other livestock* means any of the following livestock: Animals commercially raised for food, fur, fiber, or feathers, including alpacas, bison, buffalo, beefalo, deer, ducks, elk, emus, geese, goats, guinea pigs, llamas, mink, ostrich, pheasants, pullets, quail, rabbits, reindeer, turkey, water buffalo, and yak. It includes by-products of those live animals (such as fleece). It excludes all equine, reptiles, bees, breeding stock (including eggs to be hatched for breeding stock), companion or comfort animals, pets, and animals raised for hunting or game purposes.


*Prevented planting* means the inability to plant the intended crop acreage with proper equipment by the final planting date for the crop type because of a natural disaster.


*Price trigger commodities* means price trigger crops and price trigger livestock and products as defined in this section.


*Price trigger crops* means any of the following crops: Barley, corn, sorghum, soybeans, sunflowers, upland cotton, wheat (all classes), excluding crops with an intended use of grazing, green manure, or left standing.


*Price trigger livestock and products* means any of the following livestock and products: Beef cattle, broilers, dairy (cow milk), eggs, lambs, sheep, hogs, and pigs; excluding breeding stock.


*Producer* means a person or legal entity who shares in the risk of producing a commodity. Except for contract producers, producers who are not in the business of farming at the time of application are not considered eligible producers.


*Pullet* means a young female chicken that has not laid an egg.


*Sales-based commodities* means, as defined in this section, aquaculture, sales-based crops, nursery crops and floriculture, other livestock, and the following commodities: Goat milk, grass seed, mink (including pelts), mohair wool, and turfgrass sod.


*Sales-based crops* means ambrosia, arundo, camelina, cactus, cardoon, fruits, honey, horticulture, maple sap, tobacco, tree nuts, and vegetables. Fruits, horticulture, tree nuts, and vegetables are defined in this section. The term excludes crops with an intended use of grazing, green manure, or left standing.




*Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher* means a farmer or rancher who is a member of a group whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. For entities, at least 50 percent of the ownership interest must be held by individuals who are members of such a group. Socially disadvantaged groups include the following and no others unless approved in writing by the Deputy Administrator:


(1) American Indians or Alaskan Natives;


(2) Asians or Asian-Americans;


(3) Blacks or African Americans;


(4) Hispanics or Hispanic Americans;


(5) Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders; and


(6) Women.




*Tree nuts* means any of the following tree nuts: Almonds, carob, cashew, chestnuts, coffee, hazel nuts, jojoba, macadamia nuts, pecans, pine nuts, pistachios, and walnuts.




*Turn* means a group of eligible contract livestock or poultry that is delivered to a contract producer who provides labor and equipment to produce the livestock or poultry for the integrator or owner. 




*Underserved farmer or rancher* means a beginning farmer or rancher, limited resource farmer or rancher, socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher, or veteran farmer or rancher.




*Vegetables* means any of the following vegetables: Alfalfa sprouts, aloe vera, artichokes, arugula (greens), asparagus, bamboo shoots, batatas, bean sprouts, beans (including dry edible), beets, bok choy, broccoflower, broccoli, broccolini, broccolo-cavalo, Brussel sprouts, cabbage, calaloo, carrots, cauliflower, celeriac, celery, chickpea (see beans, garbanzo), chives, collard greens, coriander, corn, sweet, cucumbers, daikon, dandelion greens, dasheen (taro root, malanga), dill, eggplant, endive, escarole, frisee, gailon (gai lein, Chinese broccoli), garlic, gourds, greens, horseradish, Jerusalem artichokes (sunchoke), kale, kohlrabi, leeks, lentils, lettuce, melongene, mesculin mix, microgreens, mushrooms, okra, onions, parsnip, peas (including dry edible), pejibaye (heart of palm), peppers, potatoes, potatoes sweet, pumpkins, radicchio, radishes, rhubarb, rutabaga, salsify (oyster plant), scallions, seed—vegetable, shallots, spinach, squash, swiss chard, tannier, taro, tomatillos, tomatoes, truffles, turnip top (greens), turnips, yam, and yautia (malanga);




*Veteran farmer or rancher* means a farmer or rancher:


(1) Who has served in the Armed Forces (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(10) 
25) and:


(i) Has not operated a farm or ranch for more than 10 years; or


(ii) Has obtained status as a veteran (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2) 
26) during the most recent 10-year period; or


(2) That is an entity and at least 50 percent of the ownership interest is held by members who meet the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition.




*WHIP+* means the Wildfires and Hurricanes Indemnity Program Plus (WHIP+) under part 760, subpart O, of this title.



---

[N] [85 FR 59386, Sept. 22, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 4882, Jan. 19, 2021; 86 FR 48017, Aug. 27, 2021; 88 FR 1877, Jan. 11, 2023]




