# § 93.2   Definitions.

Words used in the regulations in this subpart in the singular form will import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand. As used throughout the regulations in this subpart, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms will be construed to mean:


*Acid.* The grams of total acidity, calculated as anhydrous citric acid, per 100 grams of juice or citrus product. Total acidity is determined by titration with standard sodium hydroxide solution, using phenolphthalein as indicator.


*Brix or degrees Brix.* The percent by weight concentration of the total soluble solids of the juice or citrus product when tested with a Brix hydrometer calibrated at 20 °C (68 °F) and to which any applicable temperature correction has been made. The Brix or degrees Brix may be determined by any other method which gives equivalent results. 


*Brix value.* The pure sucrose or soluble solids value of the juice or citrus product determined by using the refractometer along with the “International Scale of Refractive Indices of Sucrose Solutions” and to which the applicable correction for acidity is added. The Brix value is determined in accordance with the refractometer method outlined in the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC INTERNATIONAL, Volumes I & II. 


*Brix value/acid ratio.* The ratio of the Brix value of the juice or citrus product, in degrees Brix, to the grams of anhydrous citric acid per 100 grams of juice or citrus product.


*Brix/acid ratio.* The ratio of the degrees Brix of the juice to the grams of anhydrous citric acid per 100 grams of the juice.


*Citrus.* All plants, edible parts and commodity products thereof, including pulp and juice of any orange, lemon, lime, grapefruit, mandarin, tangerine, kumquat or other tree or shrub in the genera *Citrus, Fortunella,* or *Poncirus* of the plant family Rutaceae.


*Recoverable oil.* The percent of oil by volume, determined by the bromate titration method after distillation and acidification as described in the current edition of the Official Methods of Analysis of AOAC INTERNATIONAL, Volumes I & II. 



---

[N] [61 FR 51351, Oct. 2, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 64316, Oct. 26, 2000]




