# § 356.8   Continued suspension of liquidation.

(a) *In general.* In the case of an administrative determination specified in clause (iii) or (vi) of section 516A(a)(2)(B) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1516a(a)(2)(B)(iii) and (vi)) and involving free trade area country merchandise, the Department shall not order liquidation of entries of merchandise covered by such a determination until the forty-first day after the date of publication of the notice described in clause (iii) or receipt of the determination described in clause (vi), as appropriate. If requested, the Department will order the continued suspension of liquidation of such entries in accordance with the terms of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. 




(b) *Eligibility to request continued suspension of liquidation.* (1) A participant in a binational panel review that was a domestic party to the proceeding, as described in section 771(9)(C), (D), (E), (F), or (G) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1677(9)(C), (D), (E), (F) and (G)), may request continued suspension of liquidation of entries of merchandise covered by the administrative determination under review by the panel and that would be affected by the panel review. 




(2) A participant in a binational panel review that was a party to the proceeding, as described in section 771(9)(A) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1677(9)(A)), may request continued suspension of liquidation of the merchandise which it manufactured, produced, exported, or imported and which is covered by the administrative determination under review by the panel. Foreign governments are not listed as interested parties who may request the continuation of suspension under 19 U.S.C. 1516a(g)(5)(C)(iii).






(c) *Request for continued suspension of liquidation.* A request for continued suspension of liquidation must include: 


(1) The name of the final determination subject to binational panel review and the case number assigned by the Department; 


(2) The caption of the binational panel proceeding; 


(3) The name of the requesting participant; 


(4) The requestor's status as a party to the proceeding and as a participant in the binational panel review; and 


(5) The specific entries to be suspended by name of manufacturer, producer, exporter, or U.S. importer. 


(d) *Filing and service.* (1) A request for Continued Suspension of Liquidation must be filed with the Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance, Attention: APO/Dockets Unit, Room 18022, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20230, in accordance with the requirements set forth in 19 CFR 351.303(b) and (d)(2). A letter of transmittal must be the first page of the request and be marked: Panel Review—Request for Continued Suspension of Liquidation. The request may be made no earlier than the date on which the first request for binational panel review is filed.


(2) The requesting party shall serve a copy of the Request for Continued Suspension of Liquidation on the United States Secretary and all parties to the proceeding in accordance with the requirements of 19 CFR 351.303(f).


(e) *Termination of Continued Suspension.* Upon completion of the panel review, including any panel review of remand determinations and any review by an extraordinary challenge committee, the Department will order liquidation of entries, the suspension of which was continued pursuant to this section. 



---

[N] [59 FR 229, Jan. 3, 1994, as amended at 86 FR 70049, Dec. 9, 2021; 89 FR 6015, Jan. 31, 2024; 89 FR 100303, Dec. 12, 2024]




