# § 1.9046   Special provisions related to spectrum manager leasing in the Citizens Broadband Radio Service.

(a) *Scope.* Subject to § 96.32 of this chapter, a Priority Access Licensee, as defined in § 96.3 of this chapter, is permitted to engage in spectrum manager leasing for any portion of its spectrum or geographic area, outside of the PAL Protection Area, for any bandwidth or duration period of time within the terms of the license with any entity that has provided a certification to the Commission in accordance with this section or pursuant to the general notification procedures of § 1.9020(e).


(b) *Certification.* The lessee seeking to engage in spectrum manager leasing pursuant to this section must certify with the Commission that it meets the same eligibility and qualification requirements applicable to the licensee before entering into a spectrum manger leasing arrangement with a Priority Access Licensee, as defined in § 96.3 of this chapter and maintain the accuracy of such certifications.


(1) Priority Access Licensees, as defined in § 96.3 of this chapter, are deemed to meet the certification requirements.


(2) Entities may also certify by using the Universal Licensing System and FCC Form 608.


(c) *Notifications regarding spectrum manager leasing arrangements.* Prior to lessee operation, the licensee seeking to engage in spectrum manager leasing pursuant to § 1.9020(e) must submit notification of the leasing arrangement to the Spectrum Access System Administrator, as defined in § 96.3 of this chapter, by electronic filing. The notification shall include the following information:


(1) Lessee contact information including name, address, telephone number, fax number, email address;


(2) Lessee FCC Registration Number (FRN);


(3) Name of Real Party in Interest and related FCC Registration Number (FRN);


(4) The specific spectrum leased (in terms of amount of bandwidth and geographic area involved) including the call sign(s) affected by the lease; and


(5) The duration of the lease.


(d) *Expiration, extension, or termination of a spectrum leasing arrangement.* (1) Absent Commission termination or except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section, a spectrum leasing arrangement entered into pursuant to this section will expire on the termination date set forth in the spectrum leasing notification.


(2) A spectrum leasing arrangement may be extended beyond the initial term set forth in the spectrum leasing notification for an additional period not to exceed the term of the Priority Access License, as defined in § 96.3 of this chapter, provided that the licensee notifies the Spectrum Access System Administrator, as defined in § 96.3 of this chapter, of the extension in advance of operation under the extended term and does so pursuant to the notification procedures in this section.


(3) If a spectrum leasing arrangement is terminated earlier than the termination date set forth in the notification, either by the licensee or by the parties' mutual agreement, the licensee must file a notification with the Spectrum Access System Administrator, no later than ten (10) days after the early termination, indicating the date of the termination. If the parties fail to put the spectrum leasing arrangement into effect, they must so notify the Spectrum Access System Administrator as promptly as practicable.


(e) The Commission will place information concerning the commencement, an extension or an early termination of a spectrum leasing arrangement on public notice.



---

[N] [81 FR 49065, July 26, 2016]


