# ยง 3020.118   Production of documents.

(a) *Service and contents.* (1) In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any participant may serve on any other participant a request to produce and permit the participant making the request, or someone acting on behalf of the participant, to inspect and copy any designated documents or things that constitute or contain matters, not privileged, that are relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding and that are in the custody or control of the respondent.


(2) The request shall set forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or category, and describe each item and category with reasonable particularity, and shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making inspection. The participant requesting the production of documents or items shall file its request with the Commission in conformance with part 3010, subpart B, of this chapter.


(b) *Answers.* (1) The respondent shall file an answer to a request under paragraph (a) of this section with the Commission in conformance with subpart B to part 3010 of this chapter within seven days after the request is filed, or within such other period as may be fixed by the Commission or presiding officer. The answer shall state, with respect to each item or category, whether inspection will be permitted as requested.


(2) If the respondent objects to an item or category, it shall state the reasons for objection in a motion to be excused from answering as prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Motions to be excused from answering.* A respondent may, in lieu of answering a request for production, file a motion pursuant to ยง 3020.105(b) to be excused from answering.




