# § 25.297   Report of Operations, Form 5130.9 or Form 5130.26.

(a) *Monthly report of operations.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each brewer shall prepare and submit a monthly report of brewery operations on Form 5130.9.


(b) *Quarterly report of operations.* (1) For calendar quarters commencing on or after January 1, 2015, a brewer who was liable for not more than $50,000 in taxes with respect to beer imposed by 26 U.S.C. 5051 and 7652 in the preceding calendar year and reasonably expects to be liable for not more than $50,000 in such taxes during the current calendar year shall file quarterly Form 5130.9 or Form 5130.26 (or any successor forms). For purposes of this section, “reasonably expects” means that the brewer was liable for not more than $50,000 in taxes the previous calendar year and that there is no other existing or anticipated circumstance known to the brewer (such as an increase in production capacity) that would cause the brewer's liability to increase beyond that level in the current calendar year.


(2) If a brewer determines that it will be liable for more than $50,000 in taxes with respect to beer imposed by 26 U.S.C. 5051 and 7652 during the current calendar year, the brewer shall file Form 5130.9 monthly beginning with the first month during which the tax liability exceeds $50,000, and shall concurrently file Form 5130.9 for any previous month of that quarter. When filing the first monthly report, a brewer shall state on the form that it will be liable for more than $50,000 in taxes for the current calendar year and will henceforth submit monthly filings. The brewer shall then continue to file Form 5130.9 for each subsequent month of that calendar year.


(3) The appropriate TTB officer may at any time require a brewer who is filing Form 5130.9 or Form 5130.26 quarterly to file such report monthly on Form 5130.9 if there is a jeopardy to the revenue.


(c) *Retention.* The brewer shall retain a copy of Form 5130.9 or Form 5130.26 (or any successor form) as part of the brewery records.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-345, 58 FR 40358, July 28, 1993, as amended by T.D. ATF-437, 66 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2001; T.D. TTB-123, 79 FR 58679, Sept. 30, 2014]




