# § 301.102   Definitions.

(a) For purposes of this part, the term *work-related injury* shall be defined to include any injury, including occupational disease or illness, proximately caused by the actual performance of the inmate's work assignment. 


(b)(1) For purposes of this part, the term *release* is defined as the removal of an inmate from a Bureau of Prisons correctional facility upon expiration of sentence, parole, final discharge from incarceration of a pretrial inmate, or transfer to a community corrections center or other non-federal facility, at the conclusion of the period of confinement in which the injury occurred. 


(2) In the case of an inmate who suffers a work-related injury while housed at a community corrections center, *release* is defined as the removal of the inmate from the community corrections center upon expiration of sentence, parole, or transfer to any non-federal facility, at the conclusion of the period of confinement in which the injury occurred. 


(3) In the case of an inmate who suffers a work-related injury while housed at a community corrections center and is subsequently transferred to a Bureau of Prisons facility, *release* is defined as the removal of the inmate from the Bureau of Prisons facility upon expiration of sentence, parole, or transfer to a community corrections center or other non-federal facility. 


(c) For purposes of this part, the term *dependent* is defined as the legally recognized spouse or child of an inmate for whose support the inmate is legally responsible in whole or part. 


(d) For purposes of this part, the term *work detail supervisor* may refer to either a Bureau of Prisons or a non-Bureau of Prisons supervisor. 


(e) For the purposes of this part, the phrase *housed at* or *based at* a “Bureau of Prisons institution” shall refer to an inmate that has a work assignment with a Bureau of Prisons institution or with another federal entity and is incarcerated at a Bureau of Prisons institution. For the purposes of this part, the phrase *based at* or *housed at* a “community corrections center” shall refer to an inmate who has a work assignment for a non-Bureau of Prisons federal entity and is incarcerated at a community corrections center. 



---

[N] [55 FR 9296, Mar. 12, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 2666, Jan. 18, 1994]




