# § 98.426   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c) of subpart A of this part, the annual report shall contain the following information, as applicable:


(a) If you use Equation PP-1 of this subpart, report the following information for each mass flow meter or CO_2_ stream that delivers CO_2_ to containers:


(1) Annual mass in metric tons of CO_2_.


(2) Quarterly mass in metric tons of CO_2_.


(3) Quarterly concentration of the CO_2_ stream.


(4) The standard used to measure CO_2_ concentration.


(5) The location of the flow meter in your process chain in relation to the points of CO_2_ stream capture, dehydration, compression, and other processing.


(b) If you use Equation PP-2 of this subpart, report the following information for each volumetric flow meter or CO_2_ stream that delivers CO_2_ to containers:


(1) Annual mass in metric tons of CO_2_.


(2) Quarterly volume in standard cubic meters of CO_2_.


(3) Quarterly concentration of the CO_2_ stream in volume or weight percent.


(4) Report density as follows:


(i) Quarterly density of the CO_2_ stream in metric tons per standard cubic meter if you report the concentration of the CO_2_ stream in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in weight percent.


(ii) Quarterly density of CO_2_ in metric tons per standard cubic meter if you report the concentration of the CO_2_ stream in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in volume percent.


(5) The method used to measure density.


(6) The standard used to measure CO_2_ concentration.


(7) The location of the flow meter in your process chain in relation to the points of CO_2_ stream capture, dehydration, compression, and other processing.


(c) For the aggregated annual mass of CO_2_ emissions calculated using Equation PP-3a or PP-3b, report the following:


(1) If you use Equation PP-3a of this subpart, report the annual CO_2_ mass in metric tons from all flow meters and CO_2_ streams that deliver CO_2_ to containers.


(2) If you use Equation PP-3b of this subpart, report:


(i) The total annual CO_2_ mass through main flow meter(s) in metric tons.


(ii) The total annual CO_2_ mass through subsequent flow meter(s) in metric tons.


(iii) The total annual CO_2_ mass supplied in metric tons.


(iv) The location of each flow meter in relation to the point of segregation.


(d) If you use Equation PP-4 of this subpart, report at the corporate level the annual mass of CO_2_ in metric tons in all CO_2_ containers that are imported or exported.


(e) Each reporter shall report the following information:


(1) The type of equipment used to measure the total flow of the CO_2_ stream or the total mass or volume in CO_2_ containers.


(2) The standard used to operate and calibrate the equipment reported in (e)(1) of this section.


(3) The number of days in the reporting year for which substitute data procedures were used for the following purpose:


(i) To measure quantity.


(ii) To measure concentration.


(iii) To measure density.




(f) Report the aggregated annual quantity of CO_2_ in metric tons that is transferred to each of the following end use applications, if known:


(1) Food and beverage.


(2) Industrial and municipal water/wastewater treatment.


(3) Metal fabrication, including welding and cutting.


(4) Greenhouse uses for plant growth.


(5) Fumigants (e.g., grain storage) and herbicides.


(6) Pulp and paper.


(7) Cleaning and solvent use.


(8) Fire fighting.


(9) Transportation and storage of explosives.


(10) Injection of carbon dioxide for enhanced oil and natural gas recovery that is covered by subpart UU of this part.


(11) Geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that is covered by subpart RR of this part.


(12) Geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide with enhanced oil recovery that is covered by subpart VV of this part.






(13) Research and development.


(14) Other.






(g) Each production process unit that captures a CO_2_ stream for purposes of supplying CO_2_ for commercial applications or in order to sequester or otherwise inject it underground when custody of the CO_2_ is maintained shall report the percentage of that stream, if any, that is biomass-based during the reporting year.


(h) If you capture a CO_2_ stream from a facility that is subject to this part and transfer CO_2_ to any facilities that are subject to subpart RR or VV of this part, you must:


(1) Report the facility identification number associated with the annual GHG report for the facility that is the source of the captured CO_2_ stream;


(2) Report each facility identification number associated with the annual GHG reports for each subpart RR and subpart VV facility to which CO_2_ is transferred; and


(3) Report the annual quantity of CO_2_ in metric tons that is transferred to each subpart RR and subpart VV facility.




(i) If you capture a CO_2_ stream at a facility with a DAC process unit, report the annual quantity of on-site and off-site electricity and heat generated for each DAC process unit as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section. The quantities specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section must be provided per energy source if known and must represent the electricity and heat used for the DAC process unit starting with air intake and ending with the compressed CO_2_ stream (*i.e.,* the CO_2_ stream ready for supply for commercial applications or, if maintaining custody of the stream, sequestration or injection of the stream underground).


(1) *Electricity excluding combined heat and power (CHP).* If electricity is provided to a dedicated meter for the DAC process unit, report the annual quantity of electricity consumed, in megawatt hours (MWh), and the information in paragraph (i)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) If the electricity is sourced from a grid connection, report the following information:


(A) State where the facility with the DAC process unit is located.


(B) County where the facility with the DAC process unit is located.


(C) Name of the electric utility company that supplied the electricity as shown on the last monthly bill issued by the utility company during the reporting period.


(D) Name of the electric utility company that delivered the electricity. In states with regulated electric utility markets, this will generally be the same utility reported under paragraph (i)(1)(i)(C) of this section, but in states with deregulated electric utility markets, this may be a different utility company.


(E) Annual quantity of electricity consumed in MWh, calculated as the sum of the total energy usage values specified in all billing statements received during the reporting year. Most customers will receive 12 monthly billing statements during the reporting year. Many utilities bill their customers per kilowatt-hour (kWh); usage values on bills that are based on kWh should be divided by 1,000 to report the usage in MWh as required under this paragraph (i)(1)(i)(E).


(ii) If electricity is sourced from on-site or through a contractual mechanism for dedicated off-site generation, for each applicable energy source specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section, report the annual quantity of electricity consumed, in MWh. If the on-site electricity source is natural gas, oil, or coal, also indicate whether flue gas is also captured by the DAC process unit.


(A) Non-hydropower renewable sources including solar, wind, geothermal and tidal.


(B) Hydropower.


(C) Natural gas.


(D) Oil.


(E) Coal.


(F) Nuclear.


(G) Other.


(2) *Heat excluding CHP.* For each applicable energy source specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, report the annual quantity of heat, steam, or other forms of thermal energy sourced from on-site or through a contractual mechanism for dedicated off-site generation, in megajoules (MJ). If the on-site heat source is natural gas, oil, or coal, also indicate whether flue gas is also captured by the DAC process unit.


(i) Solar.


(ii) Geothermal.


(iii) Natural gas.


(iv) Oil.


(v) Coal.


(vi) Nuclear.


(vii) Other.


(3) *CHP—(i) Electricity from CHP.* If electricity from CHP is sourced from on-site or through a contractual mechanism for dedicated off-site generation, for each applicable energy source specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i)(A) through (G) of this section, report the annual quantity consumed, in MWh. If the on-site electricity source for CHP is natural gas, oil, or coal, also indicate whether flue gas is also captured by the DAC process unit.


(A) Non-hydropower renewable sources including solar, wind, geothermal and tidal.


(B) Hydropower.


(C) Natural gas.


(D) Oil.


(E) Coal.


(F) Nuclear.


(G) Other.


(ii) *Heat from CHP.* For each applicable energy source specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section, report the quantity of heat, steam, or other forms of thermal energy from CHP sourced from on-site or through a contractual mechanism for dedicated off-site generation, in MJ. If the on-site heat source is natural gas, oil, or coal, also indicate whether flue gas is also captured by the DAC process unit.


(A) Solar.


(B) Geothermal.


(C) Natural gas.


(D) Oil.


(E) Coal.


(F) Nuclear.


(G) Other.





---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79171, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71977, Nov. 29, 2013; 80 FR 64660, Oct. 23, 2015; 89 FR 31943, Apr. 25, 2024]








