# § 3055.2   Contents of the annual report of service performance achievements.

(a) The items in paragraphs (b) through (n) of this section shall be included in the annual report of service performance achievements.


(b) The class or group-specific reporting requirements specified in §§ 3055.20 through 3055.25.


(c) The applicable service standard(s) for each product. If there has been a change to a service standard(s) since the previous report, a description of and reason for the change shall be provided. If there have been no changes to service standard(s) since the previous report, a certification stating this fact shall be provided.


(d) The applicable service goal(s) for each product.


(e) A description of the measurement system for each product, including:


(1) A description of what is being measured;


(2) A description of the system used to obtain each measurement;


(3) A description of the methodology used to develop reported data from measured data;


(4) A description of any changes to the measurement system or data reporting methodology implemented within the reported fiscal year; and


(5) Where proxies are used, a description of and justification for the use of each proxy.


(f) A description of the statistical validity and reliability of the results for each measured product.


(g) A description of how the sampled data represents the national geographic mail characteristics or behavior of the product.


(h) For each product that does not meet a service standard, an explanation of why the service standard is not met, and a plan describing the steps that have or will be taken to ensure that the product meets or exceeds the service standard in the future.


(i) The identification of each product, or component of a product, granted an exception from reporting pursuant to § 3055.3, and a certification that the rationale for originally granting the exception remains valid.


(j) Documentation showing how data reported at a given level of aggregation were derived from data reported at greater levels of disaggregation. Such documentation shall be in electronic format with all data links preserved. It shall show all formulas used, including volumes and other weighting factors. Any graphical representation of data provided shall also be accompanied by the underlying data presented in spreadsheet form.


(k) For each product, documentation showing how the reports required by subpart A of this part were derived from the reports required by subpart B of this part. Such documentation shall be in electronic format with all data links preserved. It shall show all formulas used, including volumes and other weighting factors.


(l) For each Market Dominant product, the average time in which the product was delivered, measured by actual delivery days, during the previous fiscal year, provided at the District, Postal Administrative Area, and National levels. “Actual delivery days” shall include all days in which Market Dominant products are eligible for delivery, excluding Sundays and holidays. The report shall include the following information on dispersion around the average:


(1) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +1 day of the applicable service standard;


(2) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +2 days of the applicable service standard; and


(3) The percent of mailpieces delivered within +3 days of the applicable service standard.


(m) A description of each Site-Specific Operating Plan, including operation completion time performance (as a percentage rounded to one decimal place) for each Site-Specific Operating Plan measurement category during the previous fiscal year. Such information shall be at the National level and disaggregated by Division and Region.


(n) A description of the total mail volumes measured and excluded from measurement. Such description shall include:


(1) For each class of Market Dominant products (except Special Services), a report of the reasons that mailpieces were excluded from measurement during the previous fiscal year. The report shall include:


(i) The exclusion reason;


(ii) The exclusion description;


(iii) The number of mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement for the individual exclusion reason; and


(iv) The exclusion reason as a percent of total mailpieces excluded from measurement, which is the number of mailpieces excluded from measurement (*i.e.,* provided in paragraph (n)(1)(iii) of this section) divided by the sum of all mailpieces excluded from measurement across all exclusion reason categories (*i.e.,* the sum of all values provided in paragraph (n)(1)(iii) of this section).


(2) The report described in paragraph (n)(1) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:


(3) For each class of Market Dominant products and for each Market Dominant product (except Special Services), a description of the mail volumes measured and un-measured during the previous fiscal year. The description shall explain in detail any notations regarding the Postal Service's inability to collect any data. Corresponding data shall also be provided for the same period last year (SPLY).


(4) The report described in paragraph (n)(3) of this section shall follow the format as shown below:


(5) Descriptions of the current methodologies used to verify the accuracy, reliability, and representativeness of service performance data for each service performance measurement system.



---

[N] [75 FR 38742, July 6, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 81141, Dec. 15, 2020; 88 FR 10038, Feb. 16, 2023]




