# ยง 61.193   Flight instructor privileges.

(a) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate is authorized within the limitations of that person's flight instructor certificate and ratings to conduct ground training, flight training, certain checking events, and to issue endorsements related to:


(1) A student pilot certificate;


(2) A pilot certificate;


(3) A flight instructor certificate;


(4) A ground instructor certificate;


(5) An aircraft rating;


(6) An instrument rating;


(7) A flight review, operating privilege, or recency of experience requirement of this part, or training to maintain or improve the skills of a certificated pilot;


(8) A practical test; and


(9) A knowledge test.


(b) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate is authorized, in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator, to:


(1) Accept an application for a student pilot certificate or, for an applicant who holds a pilot certificate (other than a student pilot certificate) issued under part 61 of this chapter and meets the flight review requirements specified in ยง 61.56, a remote pilot certificate with a small UAS rating;


(2) Verify the identity of the applicant; and


(3) Verify that an applicant for a student pilot certificate meets the eligibility requirements in ยง 61.83 or an applicant for a remote pilot certificate with a small UAS rating meets the eligibility requirements in ยง 107.61 of this chapter.


(c) The privileges authorized in this section do not permit a person who holds a flight instructor certificate to conduct operations that would otherwise require an air carrier or operating certificate or specific authorization from the Administrator.



---

[N] [Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016, as amended by Docket FAA-2015-0150, Amdt. 61-137, 81 FR 42208, June 28, 2016; Docket No. FAA-2023-1351; Amdt. No. 61-156, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]






