# ยง 101.515   TWIC/Personal Identification.

(a) Persons not described in ยง 101.514 must present personal identification in order to gain entry to a vessel, facility, and OCS facility regulated by parts 104, 105 or 106 of this subchapter. These individuals must be under escort, as that term is defined in ยง 101.105 of this part, while inside a secure area. This personal identification must, at a minimum, meet the following requirements:


(1) Be laminated or otherwise secure against tampering;


(2) Contain the individual's full name (full first and last names, middle initial is acceptable);


(3) Contain a photo that accurately depicts that individual's current facial appearance; and


(4) Bear the name of the issuing authority.


(b) The issuing authority in paragraph (a)(4) of this section must be:


(1) A government authority, or an organization authorized to act on behalf of a government authority; or


(2) The individual's employer, union, or trade association.


(c) Vessel, facility, and OCS facility owners and operators must permit law enforcement officials, in the performance of their official duties, who present proper identification in accordance with this section and ยง 101.514 to enter or board that vessel, facility, or OCS facility at any time, without delay or obstruction. Law enforcement officials, upon entering or boarding a vessel, facility, or OCS facility, will, as soon as practicable, explain their mission to the Master, owner, or operator, or their designated agent.


(d) *Inspection of credential.* (1) Each person who has been issued or possesses a TWIC must present the TWIC for inspection upon a request from TSA, the Coast Guard, or other authorized DHS representative; an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board; or a Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.


(2) Each person who has been issued or possesses a TWIC must pass an electronic TWIC inspection, and must submit his or her reference biometric, such as a fingerprint, and any other required information, such as a Personal Identification Number, upon a request from TSA, the Coast Guard, any other authorized DHS representative, or a Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.



---

[N] [USCG-2006-24196, 72 FR 3578, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended by USCG-2007-28915, 81 FR 57708, Aug. 23, 2016]




