# § 1356.68   Tribal title IV-E agency requirements for in-kind administrative and training contributions from third-party sources.

(a) *Option to claim in-kind expenditures from third-party sources for non-Federal share of administrative and training costs.* A Tribal title IV-E agency may claim allowable in-kind expenditures from third-party sources for the purpose of determining the non-Federal share of administrative or training costs subject to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.


(b) *In-kind expenditures for fiscal years 2010 and 2011*—(1) *Administrative costs.* A Tribal title IV-E agency may claim allowable in-kind expenditures from third-party sources of up to 25 percent of the total administrative funds expended during a fiscal quarter pursuant to section 474(a)(3)(C), (D) or (E) of the Act.


(2) *Training costs.* A Tribal title IV-E agency may claim in-kind training expenditures of up to 12 percent of the total training funds expended during a fiscal year quarter pursuant to section 474(a)(3)(A) and (B) of the Act, but only from the following sources:


(i) A State or local government;


(ii) An Indian Tribe, Tribal organization, or Tribal consortium other than the Indian Tribe, organization, or consortium submitting the title IV-E plan;


(iii) A public institution of higher education;


(iv) A Tribal College or University (as defined in section 316 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c)); and


(v) A private charitable organization.


(c) *In-kind expenditures for fiscal years 2012 and thereafter*—(1) *Administrative costs.* A Tribal title IV-E agency may claim in-kind expenditures from third-party sources of up to 50 percent of the total administrative funds expended during a fiscal quarter pursuant to section 474(a)(3)(C), (D) or (E) of the Act.


(2) *Training costs.* A Tribal title IV-E agency may claim in-kind training expenditures of up to 25 percent (or 30 percent consistent with section 203(b) of Pub. L. 110-351) of the total training funds expended during each quarter of fiscal year 2012 pursuant to section 474(a)(3)(A) and (B) of the Act. For fiscal year 2013 and thereafter, a Tribal title IV-E agency may claim in-kind training expenditures of up to 25 percent of the total training funds expended during a fiscal quarter pursuant to section 474(a)(3)(A) and (B) of the Act.


(3) *Third-party sources.* A Tribal title IV-E agency may claim in-kind training expenditures for training funds from any allowable third-party source.



---

[N] [77 FR 950, Jan. 6, 2012]




