# § 48.26   Experienced miner training.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e), this section applies to experienced miners who are—


(1) Newly employed by the operator;


(2) Transferred to the mine;


(3) Experienced surface miners transferred from underground to surface; or


(4) Returning to the mine after an absence of more than 12 months.


(b) Experienced miners must complete the training prescribed in this section before beginning work duties. Each experienced miner returning to mining following an absence of 5 years or more, must receive at least 8 hours of training. The training must include the following instruction:


(1) *Introduction to work environment.* The course shall include a visit and tour of the mine. The methods of mining or operations utilized at the mine shall be observed and explained. 


(2) *Mandatory health and safety standards.* The course shall include the mandatory health and safety standards pertinent to the tasks to be assigned. 


(3) *Authority and responsibility of supervisors and miners' representatives.* The course shall include a review and description of the line of authority of supervisors and miners' representatives and the responsibilities of such supervisors and miners' representatives; and an introduction to the operator's rules and the procedures for reporting hazards. 


(4) *Transportation controls and communication systems.* The course shall include instruction on the procedures in effect for riding on and in mine conveyances; the controls for the transportation of miners and materials; and the use of the mine communication systems, warning signals, and directional signs. 


(5) *Escape and emergency evacuation plans; firewarning and firefighting.* The course must include a review of the mine escape system and the escape and emergency evacuation plans in effect at the mine, and instruction in the firewarning signals and firefighting procedures in effect at the mine.


(6) *Ground controls; working in areas of highwalls, water hazards, pits, and spoil banks; illumination and night work.* The course shall include, where applicable, an introduction to and instruction on the highwall and ground control plans in effect at the mine; procedures for working safely in areas of highwalls, water hazards, pits, and spoil banks, the illumination of work areas, and safe work procedures for miners during hours of darkness.


(7) *Hazard recognition.* The course must include the recognition and avoidance of hazards present in the mine.


(8) *Prevention of accidents.* The course must include a review of the general causes of accidents applicable to the mine environment, causes of specific accidents at the mine, and instruction in accident prevention in the work environment.


(9) *Emergency medical procedures.* The course must include instruction on the mine's emergency medical arrangements and the location of the mine's first aid equipment and supplies.


(10) *Health.* The course must include instruction on the purpose of taking dust, noise, and other health measurements, where applicable; must review the health provisions of the Act; and must explain warning labels and any health control plan in effect at the mine.


(11) *Health and safety aspects of the tasks to which the experienced miner is assigned.* The course must include instruction in the health and safety aspects of the tasks assigned, including the safe work procedures of such tasks, information about the physical and health hazards of chemicals in the miner's work area, the protective measures a miner can take against these hazards, and the contents of the mine's HazCom program. Experienced miners who must complete new task training under § 48.27 do not need to take training under this paragraph. 


(12) Such other courses as may be required by the District Manager based on circumstances and conditions at the mine.


(c) The operator may include instruction in additional safety and health subjects based on circumstances and conditions at the mine.


(d) The training time spent on individual subjects must vary depending upon the training needs of the miners.


(e) Any miner returning to the same mine, following an absence of 12 months or less, must receive training on any major changes to the mine environment that have occurred during the miner's absence and that could adversely affect the miner's health or safety.


(1) A person designated by the operator who is knowledgeable of these changes must conduct the training in this paragraph. An MSHA approved instructor is not required to conduct the training outlined in this paragraph.


(2) No record of this training is required.


(3) The miner must complete annual refresher training as required in § 48.28, if the miner missed taking that training during the absence.



---

[N] [43 FR 47459, Oct. 13, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 23641, May 28, 1982; 63 FR 53760, Oct. 6, 1998; 67 FR 42389, June 21, 2002]




