# § 249.12   SFMNP costs.

(a) *General*—(1) *Composition of allowable costs.* In general, a cost item will be deemed allowable if it is reasonable and necessary for SFMNP purposes and otherwise satisfies allowability criteria set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. SFMNP purposes include the administration and operation of the SFMNP. Allowable SFMNP costs may be classified as follows:


(i) *Food costs and administrative costs.* Food costs are the costs of eligible foods provided to SFMNP participants. Administrative costs are the costs associated with providing SFMNP benefits and services to participants and generally administering the SFMNP. Specific examples of allowable administrative costs are listed in paragraph (b) of this section. A State agency may use up to 10 percent of its total Federal SFMNP grant to cover administrative costs. Any costs incurred for food and/or administration above the Federal grant level will be the State agency's responsibility.


(ii) *Direct and indirect costs.* Direct costs are food and administrative costs incurred specifically for the SFMNP. Indirect costs are administrative costs that benefit multiple programs or activities, and cannot be identified to any one program or activity without effort disproportionate to the results achieved. In accordance with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, a claim for reimbursement of indirect costs shall be supported by an approved allocation plan for the determination of such costs. An indirect cost rate developed through such an allocation plan may not be applied to a base that includes food costs.


(2) *Costs allowable with prior approval.* A State or local agency must obtain prior approval in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415 before charging to the SFMNP any capital expenditures and other cost items designated by 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415 as requiring such approval.


(3) *Unallowable costs.* Costs that are not reasonable and necessary for SFMNP purposes, or that do not otherwise satisfy the cost principles of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, are unallowable. Notwithstanding any other provision of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, the cost of constructing or operating a farmers' market is unallowable. The use of SFMNP funds to supplement congregate meal programs is prohibited. Unallowable costs may never be claimed for Federal reimbursement.


(b) *Specified allowable administrative costs.* Allowable administrative costs include the following:


(1) The costs associated with administration and start-up;


(2) The costs associated with the provision of nutrition education that meets the requirements of § 249.9;


(3) The costs of SFMNP coupon issuance, or participant education covering proper coupon redemption procedures;


(4) The cost of eligibility determinations and outreach services;


(5) The costs associated with the coupon and market management process, such as printing SFMNP coupons, processing redeemed coupons, purchasing bags or other containers to be used in home-delivery and bulk purchase operations, and training farmers, market managers, and/or farmers who operate CSA programs on SFMNP operations;


(6) The cost of monitoring and reviewing Program operations;


(7) The cost of SFMNP training;


(8) The cost of required reporting and recordkeeping;


(9) The cost of determining which local sites will be utilized;


(10) The cost of recruiting and authorizing farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs to participate in the SFMNP;


(11) The cost of preparing contracts for farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs;


(12) The cost of developing a data processing system for redemption and reconciliation of SFMNP coupons;


(13) The cost of designing program training and informational materials; and


(14) The cost of coordinating SFMNP responsibilities between designated administering agencies. 



---

[N] [71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]




