# § 721.6020   Phosphine, dialkylyphenyl.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as phosphine dialkylphenyl (P-83-1023) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v). The provision of § 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with information on the location and availability of SDSs does not apply when an SDS is not required under § 721.72(c). The provision of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information in an SDS does not apply when an SDS is not required under § 721.72(c). 


(iii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(2); (b)(2); and (c)(2).


(iv) *Release to Water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance: § 721.125 (a) through (g), (i), (j), and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 25991, June 5, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




