# § 488.68   State Agency responsibilities for OASIS collection and data base requirements.

As part of State agency survey responsibilities, the State agency or other entity designated by CMS has overall responsibility for fulfilling the following requirements for operating the OASIS system:


(a) *Establish and maintain an OASIS database.* The State agency or other entity designated by CMS must—


(1) Use a standard system developed or approved by CMS to collect, store, and analyze data;


(2) Conduct basic system management activities including hardware and software maintenance, system back-up, and monitoring the status of the database; and


(3) Obtain CMS approval before modifying any parts of the CMS standard system including, but not limited to, standard CMS-approved—


(i) OASIS data items;


(ii) Record formats and validation edits; and


(iii) Agency encoding and transmission methods.


(b) *Analyze and edit OASIS data.* The State agency or other entity designated by CMS must—


(1) Upon receipt of data from an HHA, edit the data as specified by CMS and ensure that the HHA resolves errors within the limits specified by CMS;


(2) At least monthly, make available for retrieval by CMS all edited OASIS records received during that period, according to formats specified by CMS, and correct and retransmit previously rejected data as needed; and


(3) Analyze data and generate reports as specified by CMS.


(c) *Ensure accuracy of OASIS data.* The State agency must audit the accuracy of the OASIS data through the survey process.


(d) *Restrict access to OASIS data.* The State agency or other entity designated by CMS must do the following:


(1) Ensure that access to data is restricted except for the transmission of data and reports to—


(i) CMS;


(ii) The State agency component that conducts surveys for purposes related to this function; and


(iii) Other entities if authorized by CMS.


(2) Ensure that patient identifiable OASIS data is released only to the extent that it is permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974.


(e) *Provide training and technical support for HHAs.* The State agency or other entity designated by CMS must—


(1) Instruct each HHA on the administration of the data set, privacy/confidentiality of the data set, and integration of the OASIS data set into the facility's own record keeping system;


(2) Instruct each HHA on the use of software to encode and transmit OASIS data to the State;


(3) Specify to a facility the method of transmission of data to the State, and instruct the facility on this method.


(4) Monitor each HHA's ability to transmit OASIS data.


(5) Provide ongoing technical assistance and general support to HHAs in implementing the OASIS reporting requirements specified in the conditions of participation for home health agencies; and


(6) Carry out any other functions as designated by CMS necessary to maintain OASIS data on the standard State system.



---

[N] [64 FR 3763, Jan. 25, 1999]






