# ยง 46.2   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part: 


(a) *Public utility* has the same meaning as in section 201(e) of the Federal Power Act. Such term does not include any rural electric cooperative which is regulated by the Rural Utilities Service of the Department of Agriculture or any other entities covered in section 201(f) of the Federal Power Act. 


(b) [Reserved] 


(c) *Purchaser* means any individual or corporation within the meaning of section 3 of the Federal Power Act who purchases electric energy from a public utility. Such term does not include the United States or any agency or instrumentality of the United States or any rural electric cooperative which is regulated by the Rural Utilities Service of the Department of Agriculture. 


(d) *Control* and *controlled* mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of an entity whether such power is exercised through one or more intermediary companies or pursuant to an agreement, written or oral, and whether such power is established through ownership or voting of securities, or common directors, officers, or stockholders, or voting trusts, holding trusts, or debt holdings, or contract, or any other direct or indirect means. A rebuttable presumption that control exists arises from the ownership or the power to vote, directly or indirectly, ten percent (10%) or more of the voting securities of such entity. 


(e) *Entity* means any firm, company, or organization including any corporation, joint-stock company, partnership, association, business trust, organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not, or a receiver or receivers, trustee or trustees of any of the foregoing. Such term does not include *municipality* as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act and does not include any Federal, State, or local government agencies or any rural electric cooperative which is regulated by the Rural Utilities Service of the Department of Agriculture. 


(f) *Electrical equipment* means any apparatus, device, integral component, or integral part used in an activity which is electrically, electronically, mechanically, or by legal prescription necessary to the process of generation, transmission, or distribution of electric energy. 
1

(g) *Produces or supplies* means any transaction including a sale, lease, sale-leaseback, consignment, or any other transaction in which an entity provides electrical equipment, coal, natural gas, oil, nuclear fuel, or other fuel to any public utility either directly or through an entity controlled by such entity. 


(h) *Appointee* means any person appointed on a temporary or permanent basis to perform any duties or functions described in ยง 46.4(a). 


(i) *Representative* means any person empowered, through oral or written agreement, to transact business on behalf of an entity and any person who serves as an advisor regarding policy or management decisions of the entity. The term does not include attorneys, accountants, architects, or any other persons who render a professional service on a fee basis. 



---

[N] [45 FR 23418, Apr. 7, 1980, as amended by Order 856, 84 FR 7283, Mar. 4, 2019]




