# ยง 998.53   Granting shore leave.

(a) *Authority.* (1) A professional mariner has an absolute right to use shore leave, subject to the right of the head of the agency to fix the time at which shore leave may be used.


(2) A professional mariner shall submit his or her request for shore leave in writing and whenever such a request for shore leave is denied, the denial shall be in writing.


(b) *Accumulation.* Shore leave for professional mariners may be accumulated for future use without limitation and is in addition to annual leave.


(c) *Charge for shore leave.* The minimum charge for shore leave is one day and additional charges are in multiples thereof.


(d) *Lump-sum payment.* Shore leave may not be the basis for lump-sum payment on separation from the Administration.


(e) *Terminal leave.* (1) Except as provided by paragraph (e)(2) of this section, NOAA shall not grant shore leave to a professional mariner as terminal leave. For the purpose of this paragraph terminal leave means an approved absence immediately before an employee's separation when an agency knows the employee will not return to duty before the date of his or her separation.


(2) NOAA shall grant shore leave as terminal leave when the professional mariner's inability to use shore leave was due to circumstances beyond his or her control and not due to his or her own act or omission.


(f) *Forfeiture of shore leave.* Shore leave not granted before:


(1) Separation from employment with the Administration, or


(2) Official assignment (other than by temporary detail) to a position within NOAA in which the employee does not earn shore leave, is forfeited. When an official assignment will result in forfeiture of shore leave, NOAA, to the extent administratively practicable shall give an employee an opportunity to use the shore leave he or she has to his or her credit either before the reassignment or not later than 6 months after the date of his reassignment when the agency is unable to grant the shore leave before the reassignment.






