# § 200.430   Compensation—personal services.

(a) *General.* Compensation for personal services includes all remuneration, paid currently or accrued, for services of employees rendered during the period of performance under the Federal award, including but not necessarily limited to wages and salaries. Compensation for personal services may also include fringe benefits addressed in § 200.431. Costs of compensation are allowable to the extent that they satisfy the specific requirements of this part and that the total compensation for individual employees:


(1) Is reasonable for the services rendered and conforms to the established written policy of the recipient or subrecipient consistently applied to both Federal and non-Federal activities;


(2) Follows an appointment made in accordance with the recipient's or subrecipient's laws, rules, or written policies and meets the requirements of Federal statute, where applicable; and


(3) Is determined and supported as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, when applicable.


(b) *Reasonableness.* Compensation for employees engaged in work on Federal awards will be reasonable to the extent that it is consistent with that paid for similar work in other activities of the recipient or subrecipient. In cases where the kinds of employees required for Federal awards are not found in the other activities of the recipient or subrecipient, compensation will be considered reasonable to the extent that it is comparable to that paid for similar work in the labor market in which the recipient or subrecipient competes for the kind of employees involved.


(c) *Professional activities outside the recipient or subrecipient.* Unless the Federal agency expressly authorizes an arrangement, a recipient or subrecipient must follow its written policies and procedures concerning the permissible extent of professional services that can be provided outside the recipient or subrecipient for non-organizational compensation. Where the recipient or subrecipient does not have written policies or procedures, or they do not adequately define the permissible extent of consulting or other non-organizational activities undertaken for extra outside pay, the Federal Government may require the recipient or subrecipient to allocate the effort of professional staff working on Federal awards between:


(1) Recipient or subrecipient activities, and


(2) Non-organizational professional activities. Appropriate arrangements governing compensation must be negotiated on a case-by-case basis if the Federal agency considers the extent of non-organizational professional effort excessive or inconsistent with the conflicts-of-interest terms and conditions of the Federal award.


(d) *Unallowable costs.* (1) Costs unallowable under other sections of these principles must not be allowable under this section solely because they constitute personnel compensation.


(2) The allowable compensation for certain employees is subject to a ceiling in accordance with Federal statute. See 10 U.S.C. 3744(a)(16), 41 U.S.C. 1127, and 41 U.S.C. 4304(a)(16) for the ceiling amount, covered compensation subject to the ceiling, covered employees, and other relevant provisions for cost-reimbursement contracts. For other types of Federal awards, other statutory ceilings may apply.


(e) *Special considerations.* Special considerations in determining the allowability of compensation will be given to any change in a recipient's or subrecipient's compensation policy resulting in a substantial increase in its employees' level of compensation (particularly when the change was concurrent with an increase in the ratio of Federal awards to other activities) or any change in the treatment of allowability of specific types of compensation due to changes in Federal policy.


(f) *Incentive compensation.* Incentive compensation to employees based on cost reduction, efficient performance, suggestion awards, or safety awards is allowable to the extent that the overall compensation is determined to be reasonable and such costs are paid or accrued according to an agreement entered into in good faith between the recipient or subrecipient and the employees before the services were rendered, or according to an established plan followed by the recipient or subrecipient so consistently as to imply, in effect, an agreement to make such payment.


(g) *Standards for Documentation of Personnel Expenses.* (1) Charges to Federal awards for salaries and wages must be based on records that accurately reflect the work performed. These records must:


(i) Be supported by a system of internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the charges are accurate, allowable, and properly allocated;


(ii) Be incorporated into the official records of the recipient or subrecipient;


(iii) Reasonably reflect the total activity for which the employee is compensated by the recipient or subrecipient, not exceeding 100 percent of compensated activities (for IHEs, this is the IBS);


(iv) Encompass federally-assisted and all other activities compensated by the recipient or subrecipient on an integrated basis but may include the use of subsidiary records as defined in the recipient's or subrecipient's written policy;


(v) Comply with the established accounting policies and procedures of the recipient or subrecipient (See paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section for treatment of incidental work for IHEs.); and


(vi) Support the distribution of the employee's salary or wages among specific activities or cost objectives if the employee works on more than one Federal award; a Federal award and non-Federal award; an indirect cost activity and a direct cost activity; two or more indirect activities allocated using different allocation bases; or an unallowable activity and a direct or indirect cost activity.


(vii) Budget estimates (meaning, estimates determined before the services are performed) alone do not qualify as support for charges to Federal awards, but may be used for interim accounting purposes, provided that:


(A) The system for establishing the estimates produces reasonable approximations of the activity performed;


(B) Significant changes in the related work activity (as defined by the recipient's or subrecipient's written policies) are promptly identified and entered into the records. Short-term (such as one or two months) fluctuations between workload categories do not need to be considered as long as the distribution of salaries and wages is reasonable over the longer term; and


(C) The recipient's or subrecipient's system of internal controls includes processes to perform periodic after-the-fact reviews of interim charges made to a Federal award based on budget estimates. All necessary adjustments must be made so that the final amount charged to the Federal award is accurate, allowable, and properly allocated.


(viii) Because practices vary as to the activity constituting a full workload (for example, the Institutional Base Salary (IBS) for IHEs), records may reflect categories of activities expressed as a percentage distribution of total activities.


(ix) It is recognized that teaching, research, service, and administration are often inextricably intermingled in an academic setting. Therefore, a precise assessment of factors contributing to costs is not required when IHEs record salaries and wages charged to Federal awards.


(2) For records that meet the standards required in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the recipient or subrecipient is not required to provide additional support or documentation for the work performed other than that referenced in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.


(3) In accordance with Department of Labor regulations implementing the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) (29 CFR part 516), charges for the salaries and wages of nonexempt employees, in addition to the supporting documentation described in this section, must also be supported by records indicating the total number of hours worked each day.


(4) Salaries and wages of employees used in meeting cost sharing requirements on Federal awards must be supported in the same manner as salaries and wages claimed for reimbursement from Federal awards.


(5) States, local governments, and Indian Tribes may use substitute processes or systems for allocating salaries and wages to Federal awards either in place of or in addition to the records described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section if approved by the cognizant agency for indirect cost. Such systems may include, but are not limited to, random moment sampling, “rolling” time studies, case counts, or other quantifiable measures of work performed.


(i) Substitute systems that use sampling methods (primarily for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Medicaid, and other public assistance programs) must meet acceptable statistical sampling standards, including:


(A) The sampling universe must include all of the employees whose salaries and wages are to be allocated based on sample results except as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii);


(B) The sample must cover the entire period involved; and


(C) The results must be statistically valid and applied to the period being sampled.


(ii) Allocating charges for the sampled employees' supervisors and clerical and support staff, based on the results of the sampled employees, will be acceptable.


(iii) Less than full compliance with the statistical sampling standards noted in paragraph (5)(i) may be accepted by the cognizant agency for indirect costs if it concludes that the amounts allocated to Federal awards will be minimal or if it concludes that the system proposed by the recipient or subrecipient will result in lower costs to Federal awards than a system which complies with the standards.


(6) Cognizant agencies for indirect costs are encouraged to approve alternative proposals based on outcomes and milestones for program performance when these are clearly documented. These plans are acceptable as an alternative to requirements in paragraph (g)(1) of this section when approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs.


(7) For Federal awards of similar purpose activity or instances of approved blended funding, a recipient or subrecipient may submit performance plans that incorporate funds from multiple Federal awards and account for their combined use based on performance-oriented metrics, provided the plans are approved in advance by all involved Federal agencies. In these instances, the recipient or subrecipient must submit a request for waiver of the requirements based on documentation that describes the method of charging costs, relates the charging of costs to the specific activity that is applicable to all fund sources, and is based on quantifiable measures of the activity in relation to time charged.


(8) For a recipient or subrecipient whose records do not meet the standards described in this section, the Federal Government may require personnel activity reports, including prescribed certifications, or equivalent documentation supporting the records as required in this section.


(h) *Nonprofit organizations.* This paragraph (h) provides guidance specific to only nonprofit organizations. For compensation to members of nonprofit organizations, trustees, directors, associates, officers, or the immediate families thereof, a determination must be made that the compensation is reasonable for the actual personal services rendered rather than a distribution of earnings above actual costs. Compensation may include director's and executive committee member's fees, incentive awards, off-site or incentive pay, location allowances, hardship pay, and cost-of-living differentials.


(i) *Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs).* This paragraph provides guidance specific to only IHEs.


(1) *Determining allowable personnel costs.* Certain conditions require special consideration and possible limitations in determining allowable personnel compensation costs under Federal awards. Among such conditions are the following:


(i) Allowable activities. Charges to Federal awards may include reasonable amounts for activities contributing and directly related to work under an agreement, such as delivering special lectures about specific aspects of the ongoing activity, writing reports and articles, developing and maintaining protocols (human, animals, etcetera), managing substances/chemicals, managing and securing project-specific data, coordinating research subjects, participating in appropriate seminars, consulting with colleagues and graduate students, and attending meetings and conferences.


(ii) Incidental activities. Incidental activities for which supplemental compensation is allowable under the written institutional policy (at a rate not to exceed institutional base salary) do not need to be included in the records described in paragraph (g). To charge payments of incidental activities directly, such activities must either be expressly authorized in the Federal award budget or receive prior written approval by the Federal agency.


(2) *Salary basis.* Charges for work performed on Federal awards by faculty members during the academic year are allowable at the institutional base salary (IBS) rate. Except as noted in paragraph (i)(1)(ii), in no event will charges to Federal awards, irrespective of the basis of computation, exceed the proportionate share of the IBS for that period. This principle applies to all members of the faculty at an institution. IBS is the annual compensation paid by an IHE for an individual's appointment, whether that individual's time is spent on research, instruction, administration, or other activities. IBS excludes any income an individual earns outside of duties performed for the IHE. Unless there is prior approval by the Federal agency, charges of a faculty member's salary to a Federal award may not exceed the proportionate share of the IBS for the period during which the faculty member worked on the Federal award.


(3) *Intra-Institution of Higher Education (IHE) consulting.* Intra-IHE consulting by faculty should be undertaken as an IHE responsibility requiring no compensation in addition to IBS. However, in unusual cases where consultation is across departmental lines or involves a separate or remote operation, and the work performed by the faculty members is in addition to their regular responsibilities, any charges for such work representing additional compensation above IBS are allowable provided that such consulting arrangements are expressly authorized in the Federal award or approved in writing by the Federal agency.


(4) *Extra service pay.* Extra service pay typically represents overload compensation, subject to institutional compensation policies for services above and beyond IBS. Where extra service pay results from Intra-IHE consulting, it is subject to the same requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. It is allowable if all of the following conditions are met:


(i) The IHE establishes consistent written policies which apply uniformly to all faculty members, not just those working on Federal awards.


(ii) The IHE establishes a consistent written definition of work covered by IBS, which is specific enough to determine conclusively when work beyond that level has occurred. This definition may be described in appointment letters or other documentation.


(iii) The supplementation amount paid is commensurate with the IBS pay rate and additional work performed. See paragraph (i)(2) of this section.


(iv) The salaries, as supplemented, fall within the salary structure and pay ranges established by and documented in writing or otherwise applicable to the IHE.


(v) The total salaries charged to Federal awards, including extra service payments, are subject to the standards of documentation as described in paragraph (g).


(5) *Periods outside the academic year.* (i) Except as specified for teaching activity in paragraph (i)(5)(ii) of this section, charges for work performed by faculty members on Federal awards during periods not included in the base salary period must be at a rate not more than the IBS.


(ii) Charges for teaching activities performed by faculty members on Federal awards during periods not included in IBS period must be based on the written policy of the IHE governing compensation to faculty members for teaching assignments during such periods.


(6) *Part-time faculty.* Charges for work performed on Federal awards by faculty members having only part-time appointments must be determined at a rate not more than that regularly paid for part-time assignments.


(7) *Sabbatical leave costs.* Rules for sabbatical leave are as follows:


(i) Costs of leaves of absence by employees for performance of graduate work or sabbatical study, travel, or research are allowable, provided the IHE has a uniform written policy on sabbatical leave for persons engaged in instruction and persons engaged in research. These costs must be allocated equitably among all related activities of the IHE.


(ii) Where sabbatical leave is included in fringe benefits for which a cost is determined for assessment as a direct charge, the aggregate amount of such assessments applicable to all work of the institution during the base period must be reasonable in relation to the IHE's actual experience under its sabbatical leave policy.


(8) *Salary rates for non-faculty members.* Non-faculty full-time professional personnel may also earn “extra service pay” in accordance with the IHE's written policy and paragraph (i)(1)(i).








