# § 2424.23   Post-petition conferences; conduct and record.

(a) *Scheduling a post-petition conference.* The FLRA will, in its discretion, schedule a post-petition conference to be conducted by an FLRA representative by telephone, in person, or through other means. Unless the Authority or an FLRA representative directs otherwise, parties must observe all time limits in this part, regardless of whether a post-petition conference is conducted or may be conducted.


(b) *Conduct of conference.* The post-petition conference will be conducted with representatives of the exclusive representative and the agency, who must be prepared and authorized to discuss, clarify, and resolve matters including the following:


(1) The meaning of the proposal or provision in dispute;


(2) Any disputed factual issue(s);


(3) Negotiability dispute objections and bargaining obligation claims regarding the proposal or provision; and


(4) Status of any proceedings—including an unfair labor practice charge under part 2423 of this subchapter, a grievance under the parties' negotiated grievance procedure, or an impasse procedure under part 2470 of this subchapter—that are directly related to the negotiability petition.


(c) *Discretionary extension of time limits.* The FLRA representative may, on determining that it will effectuate the purposes of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, 5 U.S.C. 7101 *et seq.,* and this part, extend the time limits for filing the agency's statement of position and any subsequent filings.


(d) *Record of the conference.* After the post-petition conference has been completed, the FLRA representative will prepare, and the FLRA will serve on the parties, a written record that includes whether the parties agree on the meaning of the disputed proposal or provision, the resolution of any disputed factual issues, and any other appropriate matter.


(e) *Hearings.* Instead of, or in addition to, conducting a post-petition conference, the Authority may exercise its discretion under § 2424.31 to hold a hearing or take other appropriate action to aid in decision making.



---

[N] [88 FR 62457, Sept. 12, 2023; 88 FR 69873, Oct. 10, 2023]






