# ยง 80.953   Inspection and certification.

(a) Each U.S. flag vessel subject to this subpart must have an inspection of the required radiotelephone installation at least once every 48 months. This inspection must be made while the vessel is in active service or within not more than one month before the date on which it is placed in service.


(b) An inspection and certification of a ship subject to this subpart must be made by a technician holding one of the following: a General Radiotelephone Operator License, a GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License, a Radiotelegraph Operator License, a Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, or a First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate. Additionally, the technician must not be the vessel's owner, operator, master, or an employee of any of them. The results of the inspection must be recorded in the ship's radiotelephone log and include:


(1) The date the inspection was conducted;


(2) The date by which the next inspection needs to be completed;


(3) The inspector's printed name, address, class of FCC license (including the serial number);


(4) The results of the inspection, including any repairs made; and


(5) The inspector's signed and dated certification that the vessel meets the requirements contained in this subpart and the Bridge-to-Bridge Act contained in subpart U of this part and has successfully passed the inspection.


(c) The vessel owner, operator, or ship's master must certify that the inspection required by paragraph (b) of this section was satisfactory.


(d) The ship's radiotelephone logs containing entries certifying that a Great Lakes safety inspection has been conducted must be retained on board and available for inspection until the next radio inspection.






