# ยง 423.17   Pretreatment standards for new sources (PSNS).

(a) *1982 PSNS.* Except as provided in 40 CFR 403.7, any new source as of October 14, 1980, subject to paragraph (a) of this section, which introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works, must comply with 40 CFR part 403, the following pretreatment standards for new sources, and the PSES in ยง 423.16, established on November 3, 2015. In the case of conflict, the more stringent standards apply:


(1) *PCBs.* There shall be no discharge of polychlorinated biphenyl compounds such as those used for transformer fluid.


(2) *Chemical metal cleaning wastes.* The pollutants discharged in chemical metal cleaning wastes shall not exceed the concentration listed in the following table:


(3) [Reserved]


(4)(i) *Cooling tower blowdown.* The pollutants discharged in cooling tower blowdown shall not exceed the concentration listed in the following table:


(ii) At the permitting authority's discretion, instead of the monitoring in 40 CFR 122.11(b), compliance with the standards for the 126 priority pollutants in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section may be determined by engineering calculations which demonstrate that the regulated pollutants are not detectable in the final discharge by the analytical methods in 40 CFR part 136.


(5) *Fly ash transport water.* There shall be no discharge of wastewater pollutants from fly ash transport water.


(b) *2015 PSNS.* Except as provided in 40 CFR 403.7, any new source as of June 7, 2013, subject to this paragraph (b), which introduces pollutants into a publicly owned treatment works must comply with 40 CFR part 403 and the following pretreatment standards for new sources:


(1) *PCBs.* There shall be no discharge of polychlorinated biphenyl compounds such as those used for transformer fluid.


(2) *Chemical metal cleaning wastes.* The pollutants discharged in chemical metal cleaning wastes shall not exceed the concentration listed in the following table:


(3) [Reserved]


(4)(i) *Cooling tower blowdown.* The pollutants discharged in cooling tower blowdown shall not exceed the concentration listed in the following table:


(ii) At the permitting authority's discretion, instead of the monitoring in 40 CFR 122.11(b), compliance with the standards for the 126 priority pollutants in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section may be determined by engineering calculations which demonstrate that the regulated pollutants are not detectable in the final discharge by the analytical methods in 40 CFR part 136.


(5) *Fly ash transport* water. There shall be no discharge of pollutants in fly ash transport water. Whenever fly ash transport water is used in any other plant process or is sent to a treatment system at the plant, the resulting effluent must comply with the discharge standard in this paragraph.


(6) *FGD wastewater.* The quantity of pollutants discharged in FGD wastewater shall not exceed the quantity determined by multiplying the flow of FGD wastewater times the concentration listed in the following table:


(7) *Flue gas mercury control wastewater.* There shall be no discharge of pollutants in flue gas mercury control wastewater. Whenever flue gas mercury control wastewater is used in any other plant process or is sent to a treatment system at the plant, the resulting effluent must comply with the discharge standard in this paragraph.


(8) *Bottom ash transport water.* There shall be no discharge of pollutants in bottom ash transport water. Whenever bottom ash transport water is used in any other plant process or is sent to a treatment system at the plant, the resulting effluent must comply with the discharge standard in this paragraph.


(9) *Gasification wastewater.* The quantity of pollutants discharged in gasification wastewater shall not exceed the quantity determined by multiplying the flow of gasification wastewater times the concentration listed in the following table:


(10) *Combustion residual leachate.* The quantity of pollutants discharged in combustion residual leachate shall not exceed the quantity determined by multiplying the flow of combustion residual leachate times the concentration listed in the following table:


(c) *2024 PSNS for combustion residual leachate.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, there shall be no discharge of pollutants in combustion residual leachate (CRL). Whenever CRL is used in any other plant process or is sent to a treatment system at the plant, the resulting effluent must comply with the discharge standard in this paragraph (c)(1).


(2) After the retirement of all units at a facility, the quantity of pollutants in CRL shall not exceed the quantity determined by multiplying the flow of CRL permeate times the concentrations listed in table 7 to ยง 423.13(g)(3)(i) or the flow of CRL distillate times the concentrations listed in the table in ยง 423.15(b)(13).



---

[N] [80 FR 67902, Nov. 3, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 40302, May 9, 2024]






