# ยง 490.203   Light Duty Alternative Fueled Vehicle Plan.

(a) *General Provisions.* (1) In lieu of meeting its requirements under section 490.201 exclusively with acquisitions for State fleets, a State may follow a Light Duty Alternative Fueled Vehicle Plan that has been approved by DOE under this section. 


(2) Any Light Duty Alternative Fueled Vehicle Plan must provide for voluntary acquisitions or conversions, or combinations thereof, by State, local, and private fleets that equal or exceed the State's alternative fuel vehicle acquisition requirement under section 490.201. 


(3) Any acquisitions of light duty alternative fueled vehicles by participants in the State plan may be included for purposes of compliance, irrespective of whether the vehicles are in excluded categories set forth in section 490.3 of this part. 


(4) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section or except for a fleet exempt under section 490.204, a State that does not have an approved plan in effect under this section is subject to the State fleet acquisition percentage requirements of section 490.201. 


(5) If a significant commitment under an approved plan is not met by a participant of a plan, the State shall meet its percentage requirements under section 490.201 or submit to DOE an amendment to the plan for DOE approval. 


(b) *Required elements of a plan.* Each plan must include the following elements: 


(1) Certification by the Governor, or the Governor's designee, that the plan meets the requirements of this subpart; 


(2) Identification of State, local and private fleets that will participate in the plan; 


(3) Number of new alternative fueled vehicles to be acquired by each plan participant; 


(4) A written statement from each plan participant to assure commitment; 


(5) A statement of contingency measures by the State to offset any failure to fulfill significant commitments by plan participants, in order to meet the requirements of section 490.201; 


(6) A provision by the State to monitor and verify implementation of the plan; 


(7) A provision certifying that all acquisitions and conversions under the plan are voluntary and will meet the requirements of ยง 247 of the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7587) and all applicable safety requirements. 


(c) *When to submit plan.* (1) For model year 1997, a State shall submit its plan on or before March 14, 1997.


(2) Beginning with model year 1998, a State shall submit its plan to DOE no later than June 1 prior to the first model year covered by such plan. 


(d) *Review and approval.* DOE shall review and approve a plan which meets the requirements of this subpart within 60 days of the date of receipt of the plan by DOE at the address in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. 


(e) *Disapproval of plans.* If DOE disapproves or requests a State to submit additional information, the State may revise and resubmit the plan to DOE within a reasonable time. 


(f) *How a State may modify an approved plan.* If a State determines that it cannot successfully implement its plan, it may submit to DOE for approval, at any time, the proposed modifications with adequate justifications. 


(g) *Where to submit plans.* (1) A State shall submit to DOE an original and two copies of the plan and shall be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, EE-33, 1000 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20585, or to such other address as DOE may announce in a _Federal Register_ notice. 


(2) Any requests for modifications shall also be sent to the address in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. 


(h) *MY 1997 Exemption.* (1) On or after September 1, 1996, a State shall be deemed automatically exempt from section 490.201 (a)(1) until DOE makes a final determination on a timely application to approve a plan for model year 1997 under this section if the State: 


(i) Has submitted the application; or 


(ii) Has sent a written notice to the Assistant Secretary, at the address under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, that it will file such an application on or before March 14, 1997. 


(2) During the period of an automatic exemption under this paragraph, a State may procure light duty motor vehicles in accordance with its normal procurement policies. 




