# § 721.11206   Alkylidene dicarbomonocycle, polymer with halo-substituted heteromonocycle and disubstituted alkyl carbomonocycle alkenedioate alkylalkenoate (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkylidene dicarbomonocycle, polymer with halo-substituted heteromonocycle and disubstituted alkyl carbomonocycle alkenedioate alkylalkenoate (PMN P-17-304) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after it has been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(6)(v) and (vi) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(ii) (skin sensitization), (g)(2)(i), (ii), and (v), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as an intermediate for thermoset plastic material. It is a significant new use to manufacture (includes importing) the substance to contain more than 0.1% residual isocyanate by weight.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 1109, Jan. 9, 2020]




