# § 110.62   Documentation a requester who is determined to be an eligible survivor must submit for the Secretary to make a determination of death benefits.

(a) A requester determined by the Secretary to be an eligible survivor and who seeks a death benefit under § 110.82(b) (the standard calculation) must provide, in addition to the documentation submitted under subpart F of this part, a written certification informing the Secretary whether a disability or death benefit was paid or payable under the PSOB Program with respect to the deceased injured countermeasure recipient. If such benefit was provided, the requester must submit documentation showing the amount of the benefit paid by the PSOB Program. If the deceased injured countermeasure recipient was covered under the PSOB and no such benefit was, or will be provided, the certification must explain whether any survivors are eligible for a death benefit under the PSOB Program and, if so, whether a death benefit may be paid or payable under the PSOB Program.


(b) The legal guardian seeking a death benefit under § 110.82(c) (the alternative calculation) on behalf of a dependent younger than the age of 18 determined by the Secretary to be an eligible survivor must provide, in addition to the documentation submitted under Subpart F of this part, the following:


(1) Documentation showing that the deceased injured countermeasure recipient is survived by one or more dependents younger than the age of 18. Such documentation must show the date of birth of all such dependents (*e.g.,* copies of birth certificates);


(2) Documentation showing that the requester is the legal guardian of all of the dependents described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, as required under § 110.63(a). If multiple dependents have different legal guardians, the legal guardian of each of the dependents must submit such documentation;


(3) A written selection by each legal guardian, on behalf of all of the dependents described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for whom he or she is the legal guardian, to receive proportional death benefits under the alternative calculation as described in § 110.82(c), in place of proportional benefits available under the standard calculation as described in § 110.82(b). Written selections are described in § 110.82(c)(1);


(4) Documentation showing the deceased injured countermeasure recipient's gross employment income at the time the covered injury was sustained (*e.g.,* the decedent's Federal tax return or pay stub(s) from all employers at the time of the covered injury); and


(5) A description of all third-party payers that have paid for, or that may be required to pay for, the benefits described in § 110.82(c)(3)(i). This description must include the amount of such benefits that have been paid or that may be paid in the future. If the representative knows of no such third-party payer, he or she must so certify in writing. If, at any time, the representative becomes aware that a third-party payer may have such an obligation, he or she must inform the Secretary within ten business days of becoming aware of this information, even after benefits have been paid by the Program.




