# § 416.1130   Introduction.

(a) *General.* Both earned income and unearned income include items received in- kind (see §  416.1102). Generally, we value in-kind items at their current market value, and we apply the various exclusions for both earned and unearned income. However, we have special rules for valuing shelter that is received as in-kind support and maintenance (a type of unearned income). This section and the ones that follow discuss these rules. In these sections (*i.e.,* §§  416.1130 through 416.1148) we use the in-kind support and maintenance you receive in the month as described in §  416.420 to determine your SSI benefit. We value the in-kind support and maintenance using the Federal benefit rate for the month in which you receive it. *Exception:* For the first 2 months for which a cost-of-living adjustment applies, we value in-kind support and maintenance you receive using the VTR or PMV based on the Federal benefit rate as increased by the cost-of-living adjustment.


*Example:* Mr. Jones resides in his son's house and receives all of his meals from his son. Mr. Jones receives a monthly SSI Federal benefit rate that is reduced by one-third. This one-third represents the value of the in-kind support and maintenance he receives because he lives, throughout a month, in the household of his son, who provides all of his food and shelter. In January, we increase his SSI benefit because of a cost-of-living adjustment. For that month, we determine that the VTR rule applies by considering the food and shelter he received from his son two months earlier in November, and we calculate the SSI payment using the Federal benefit rate for January.


(b) *How we calculate in-kind support and maintenance.*

(1) We calculate in-kind support and maintenance considering any shelter that is given to you or that you receive because someone else pays for it. Shelter includes room, rent, mortgage payments, real property taxes, heating fuel, gas, electricity, water, sewerage, and garbage collection services. You are not receiving in-kind support and maintenance in the form of room or rent if you are paying the amount charged under a business arrangement. A business arrangement exists when the amount of monthly required rent to be paid equals or exceeds the presumed maximum value described in § 416.1140(a)(1). If the required amount of rent is less than the presumed maximum value, we will impute as in-kind support and maintenance the difference between the required amount of rent and either the presumed maximum value or the current market rental value (see § 416.1101), whichever is less. In addition, cash payments to uniformed service members as allowances for on-base housing or privatized military housing are in-kind support and maintenance.




















(2) We have two rules for valuing the in-kind support and maintenance that we count. The one-third reduction rule applies if you are living in another person's household, you receive shelter from others living in the household, and others within the household pay for or provide you with all of your meals (see §§  416.1131 through 416.1133). The presumed value rule applies in all other situations in which you receive countable in-kind support and maintenance (see §§  416.1140 through 416.1145). If certain conditions exist, we do not count in-kind support and maintenance. These conditions are discussed in §§  416.1141 through 416.1145.



---

[N] [89 FR 21209, Mar. 27, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 25514, Apr. 11, 2024]




