# § 307.1   Definitions.

(a) *Alternative approach to APD requirements* means that the State has developed an APD that does not meet all conditions for APD approval in § 307.15(b) resulting in the need for a waiver under § 307.5. 


(b) *Business day* means a day on which State offices are open for business.


(c) *Alternative system* means the separate manual and/or automated processes that perform one or more of the required functions separately from the base system and that interfaces with the base system to ensure that the State can meet all requirements for purposes of the audit prescribed in section 403(h) of the Act. These separate processes may involve geographic areas, such as counties; administrative jurisdictions, such as courts; or separate means by which the State meets particular program requirements, e.g., collection of support for non-IV-A cases. 


(d) *Alternative system configuration* means an alternative to a comprehensive computerized support enforcement system. It includes a base system with electronic linkages to an alternative system(s), which is not part of the State's computerized support enforcement project (i.e., not the State's sole system effort), but which is necessary to meet the functional requirements of the statewide, comprehensive computerized support enforcement system under § 307.10, or § 307.11. 


(e) *Base system* means the hardware, operational software, applications software and electronic linkages in an alternative system configuration which allow the State to monitor, account for and control all support enforcement services and activities under the State plan. 


(f) *Certification* means approval of an operational computerized support enforcement system based on a determination that the system has an efficient and effective design and is comprehensive, except where a waiver applies. 


(g) *Comprehensive* means that a computerized support enforcement system meets the requirements prescribed in § 307.10, or § 307.11 of this part, as further defined in the OCSE guideline entitled “Automated Systems for Child Support Enforcement: A Guide for States.” 


(h) *Computerized support enforcement system* means a comprehensive, statewide system or an alternative system configuration which encompasses all political subdivisions within the State and which effectively and efficiently; 


(1) Introduces, processes, accounts for and monitors data used by the Child Support Enforcement program in carrying out activities under the State plan; and 


(2) Produces utilization and management information about support enforcement services as required by the State IV-D agency and Federal government for program administration and audit purposes. 


(i) *Planning* means: (1) The preliminary project activity to determine the requirements necessitating the project, the activities to be undertaken, and the resources required to complete the project;


(2) The preparation of an APD;


(3) The preparation of a detailed project plan describing when and how the computer system will be designed or transferred and adapted; and


(4) The preparation of a detailed implementation plan describing specific training, testing, and conversion plans to install the computer system.


(j) The following terms are defined at 45 CFR part 95, subpart F, in § 95.605:


(k) The definitions found in § 301.1 of this chapter are also applicable to this part.



---

[N] [57 FR 47002, Oct. 14, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 44814, Aug. 21, 1998; 68 FR 25305, May 12, 2003]




