# § 743.4   Conventional arms reporting.

(a) *Scope.* This section outlines special reporting requirements for exports of certain items included in the UN Register of Conventional Arms (UNRoCA) and Wassenaar Arrangement (WA) Munitions List. These reports cover substantially similar arms. States participating in the UNRoCA report annually on all transfers of arms (see *www.disarmament.unoda.org/convarms/register/*); Participating States of the Wassenaar Arrangement exchange information every six months on deliveries and transfers to non-WA governments of conventional arms set forth in the *Wassenaar Arrangement's Basic Documents* under Part II “Guideline and Procedures, including the Initial Elements”, Appendix 3: “Specific Information Exchange on Arms Content by Category”. Public Documents, Vol. 1—Founding Documents at *https://www.wassenaar.org/app/uploads/2021/12/Public-Docs-Vol-I-Founding-Documents.pdf*). BIS obtains the information needed for such conventional arms reporting from the information exporters are required to submit in the EEI submission in AES, pursuant to § 758.1(b)(9) and (g)(4)(ii) of the EAR. No additional reporting to BIS is required for purposes of this section. BIS does not submit reports for reexports or transfers (in-country) under this section. BIS does not include exports to Wassenaar member countries, identified in supplement no. 1 to part 743 in the Wassenaar reports. required under this section.


(b) *Information included in the reports*—(1) *Authorizations reported.* Exports authorized under BIS licenses, License Exceptions TMP, RPL, STA, or GOV (see part 740 of the EAR) and under the Validated End User authorization (see § 748.15 of the EAR).


(2) *ECCNs reported.* ECCNs 0A501.a and .b, 0A506.a. and .b, and 0A507.a and .b.


(3) *Quantity and recipient state reported.* The quantity and the name of the recipient state.


(c) *Contacts.* Information concerning the reporting requirements for items identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is available from the Office of Nonproliferation and Foreign Policy Controls (NFPC), Tel.: (202) 482-4188, Fax: (202) 482-4145.





---

[N] [89 FR 34706, Apr. 30, 2024]




