# § 248.319   Application for assistance.

(a) *Application for assistance.* State agencies or local housing authorities shall submit an application for assistance in a form prescribed by the Commissioner with the local HUD field office having jurisdiction over the project. The application shall include: 


(1) A copy of the approved plan of action, including all applicable notices of intent; 


(2) A copy of any worksheet or other document which demonstrates the extension and transfer preservation values of the project, the Federal cost limits (including the determination of relevant local market rents if applicable), and the preservation rents; 


(3) A request for each incentive required as part of the approved plan of action and the amount thereof; 


(4) A demonstration and certification by the Executive Director of the State agency or local housing authority that the assistance and incentives requested as part of the approved plan of action do not exceed the level of incentives required for a similarly situated project which is eligible low income housing as defined in subpart B of this part;


(5) Copies of proposed agreements, contracts and mortgage modifications proposed pursuant to § 248.315. 


(b) *Notification of approval.* Not later than 90 days after receipt of the application for assistance, the local HUD field office shall notify the Executive Director of the State agency or local housing authority of the approval or disapproval of the application. If the application is disapproved, the notification shall state the reasons therefor and afford the State agency or local housing authority the opportunity to revise the application to make it approvable. 


(c) *Funding.* After approving the State agency's or local housing authority's application for assistance, the HUD field office shall make the assistance in the approved application available to the State agency or local housing authority within the time frames specified in § 248.169. 


(d) *Agreements.* The State agency or local housing authority shall provide the local HUD field office with a copy of all agreements entered into with the owner pursuant to § 248.315. 


(e) *Section 8 contract administration.* Any contract for Section 8 assistance made pursuant to the approved plan of action, the State agency's or local housing authority's application for assistance and the regulations at 24 CFR 886, subpart A shall be administered by the State agency or local housing authority pursuant to § 886.120 of this title.




