# ยง 1312.27   Top secret control.

The EOP Security Officer serves as the Top Secret Control Officer (TSCO) for OMB. He will be assisted by the Alternate TSCOs in each division/office Holding Top Secret material. The ATSCOs will be responsible for the accountability and custodianship of Top Secret material within their divisions/offices. The provisions of this section do not apply to special intelligence material, which will be processed as prescribed by the controlling agency. 


(a) *Procedures.* All Top Secret material produced or received in OMB will be taken to the appropriate ATSCO for receipting, establishment of custodianship, issuance to the appropriate action officer, and, as appropriate, obtaining a receipt. Top Secret material in the custody of the TSCO or ATSCO will normally be segregated from other classified material and will be stored in a safe under his or her control. Such material will be returned to the appropriate ATSCO by action officers as soon as action is completed. OMB Form 87 will be used to establish custody, record distribution, routing, receipting and destruction of Top Secret material. Top Secret Access Record and Cover Sheet (Standard Form 703) will be attached to each Top Secret document while it is in the possession of OMB. 


(b) *Inventory.* The Associate Director (or Assistant Director) for Administration will notify each appropriate OMB office to conduct an inventory of its Top Secret material by May 1 each year. The head of each office will notify the EOP Security Officer when the inventory has been satisfactorily completed. Each Top Secret item will be examined to determine whether it can be downgraded or declassified, and the inventory will be adjusted accordingly. Discrepancies in the inventory, indicating loss or possible compromise, will be thoroughly investigated by the EOP Security Officer or by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as appropriate. Each ATSCO will retain his/her division's inventory in accordance with the security procedures set forth in this regulation. 




