# § 416.207   You do not give us permission to contact financial institutions.

(a) To be eligible for SSI payments you must give us permission to contact any financial institution and request any financial records that financial institution may have about you. You must give us this permission when you apply for SSI payments or when we ask for it at a later time. You must also provide us with permission from anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you, *i.e.,* deemors (*see* §§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204). 


(b) *Financial institution* means any: 


(1) Bank, 


(2) Savings bank, 


(3) Credit card issuer, 


(4) Industrial loan company, 


(5) Trust company, 


(6) Savings association, 


(7) Building and loan, 


(8) Homestead association, 


(9) Credit union, 


(10) Consumer finance institution, or 


(11) Any other financial institution as defined in section 1101(1) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act. 


(c) *Financial record* means an original of, a copy of, or information known to have been derived from any record held by the financial institution pertaining to your relationship with the financial institution. 


(d) We may ask any financial institution for information on any financial account concerning you. We may also ask for information on any financial accounts for anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you (*see* §§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204). 


(e) We ask financial institutions for this information when we think that it is necessary to determine your SSI eligibility or payment amount. 


(f) Your permission to contact financial institutions, and the permission of anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you, *i.e.,* a deemor (see §§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204), remains in effect until a terminating event occurs. The following terminating events only apply prospectively and do not invalidate the permission for past periods. 


(1) You cancel your permission in writing and provide the writing to us.


(2) The deemor cancels their permission in writing and provides the writing to us. 


(3) The basis on which we consider a deemor's income and resources available to you ends, e.g. when spouses separate or divorce or a child attains age 18. 


(4) Your application for SSI is denied, and the denial is final. A denial is final when made, unless you appeal the denial timely as described in §§ 416.1400 through 416.1499. 


(5) You are no longer eligible for SSI as described in §§ 416.1331 through 416.1335. 


(g) If you don't give us permission to contact any financial institution and request any financial records about you when we think it is necessary to determine your SSI eligibility or payment amount, or if you cancel the permission, you cannot be eligible for SSI payments. Also, except as noted in paragraph (h), if anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you (*see* §§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204) doesn't give us permission to contact any financial institution and request any financial records about that person when we think it is necessary to determine your eligibility or payment amount, or if that person cancels the permission, you cannot be eligible for SSI payments. This means that if you are applying for SSI payments, you cannot receive them. If you are receiving SSI payments, we will stop your payments. 


(h) You may be eligible for SSI payments if there is good cause for your being unable to obtain permission for us to contact any financial institution and request any financial records about someone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you (see §§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204). 


(1) Good cause exists if permission cannot be obtained from the individual and there is evidence that the individual is harassing you, abusing you, or endangering your life. 


(2) Good cause may exist if an individual other than one listed in paragraph (h)(3) of this section refuses to provide permission and: you acted in good faith to obtain permission from the individual but were unable to do so through no fault of your own, or you cooperated with us in our efforts to obtain permission. 


(3) Good cause does not apply if the individual is your representative payee and your legal guardian, if you are a minor child and the individual is your representative payee and your custodial parent, or if you are an alien and the individual is your sponsor or the sponsor's living-with spouse.



---

[N] [68 FR 53508, Sept. 11, 2003]




