# ยง 30.1   Purpose, applicability, and relationship to other laws.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this part is to promote equal opportunity for apprentices and applicants for apprenticeship in registered apprenticeship programs by prohibiting discrimination based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age (40 or older), genetic information, and disability. This part also prescribes affirmative action efforts sponsors must take to ensure equal opportunity for apprentices and applicants for apprenticeship. The regulations set forth the equal opportunity obligations of sponsors, the contents of affirmative action programs, procedures for the filing and processing of complaints, and enforcement procedures. These regulations also establish procedures for deregistration of an apprenticeship program in the event of noncompliance with this part and prescribe the equal opportunity requirements for recognition of State Apprenticeship Agencies (SAA) under part 29.


(b) *Applicability.* This part applies to all sponsors of apprenticeship programs registered with either the U.S. Department of Labor or a recognized SAA.


(c) *Relationship to other laws.* This part does not invalidate or limit the remedies, rights, and procedures under any Federal law or the law of any State or political subdivision of any State or jurisdiction that provides greater or equal protection for individuals based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age (40 or older), genetic information, or disability than are afforded by this part. It may be a defense to a charge of a violation of this part that a challenged action is required or necessitated by another Federal law or regulation, or that another Federal law or regulation prohibits an action that would otherwise be required by this part.




