# § 4000.23   When is my submission or issuance treated as filed or issued?

(a) *Filed or issued when sent.* Generally, we treat your submission as filed, or your issuance as provided, on the date you send it, if you meet certain requirements. The requirements depend upon the method you use to send your submission or issuance (see §§ 4000.24 through 4000.29). (Certain filings are always treated as filed when received, as explained in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.) A submission made through our Web site is considered to have been sent when you perform the last act necessary to indicate that your submission is filed and cannot be further edited or withdrawn.


(b) *Filed or issued when received*—(1) *In general.* If you do not meet the requirements for your submission or issuance to be treated as filed or issued when sent (see §§ 4000.24 through 4000.32), we treat it as filed or issued on the date received in a permitted format at the proper address. 


(2) *Certain filings always treated as filed when received.* We treat the following submissions as filed on the date we receive your submission, no matter what method you use: 


(i) *Applications for benefits.* An application for benefits or related submission (unless the instructions for the applicable forms provide for an earlier date); 


(ii) *Advance notice of reportable events.* Information required under subpart C of part 4043 of this chapter, dealing with advance notice of reportable events; 


(iii) *Form 200 filings.* Information required under subpart D of part 4043 of this chapter, dealing with notice of certain missed minimum funding contributions; and 


(iv) *Requests for approval of multiemployer plan amendments.* A request for approval of an amendment filed with the PBGC pursuant to part 4220 of this chapter. 


(3) *Determining our receipt date for your filing.* If we receive your submission at the correct address by 5 p.m. (our time) on a business day, we treat it as received on that date. If we receive your submission at the correct address after 5 p.m. on a business day, or anytime on a weekend or Federal holiday, we treat it as received on the next business day. For example, if you send your fax or e-mail of a Form 200 filing to us in Washington, DC, on Friday, March 15, from California at 3 p.m. (Pacific standard time), and we receive it immediately at 6 p.m. (our time), we treat it as received on Monday, March 18. A submission made through our Web site is considered to have been received when we receive an electronic signal that you have performed the last act necessary to indicate that your submission is filed and cannot be further edited or withdrawn.



---

[N] [68 FR 61347, Oct. 28, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 11543, Mar. 9, 2005]




