# § 10.219   Fees.

(a) Use table 1 to § 10.219(a) to calculate the mandatory fees for MMCs and associated endorsements.


(b) *Fee payment procedures.* Applicants may pay—


(1) All fees required by this section at the time the application is submitted; or


(2) A fee for each phase as follows:


(i) An evaluation fee when the application is submitted.


(ii) An examination fee before the first examination section is taken.


(iii) An issuance fee before issuance of the MMC.


(c) If the examination is administered at a place other than a Regional Examination Center (REC), the examination fee must be paid to the REC at least one week before the scheduled examination date.


(d) Unless the Coast Guard provides additional payment options, fee payment must be for the exact amount and must be made by electronic payment in a manner specified by the Coast Guard. For information regarding current forms of electronic payment, go to the National Maritime Center's (NMC) website, *https://www.dco.uscg.mil/national_maritime_center/.*

(e) Unless otherwise specified in this part, when two or more endorsements are processed on the same application the fees will be as follows:


(1) *Evaluation fees.* If an applicant simultaneously applies for a rating endorsement and a deck or engineer officer's endorsement, only the evaluation fee for the officer's endorsement will be charged. If an applicant simultaneously applies for a staff officer or radio officer endorsement along with the deck or engineer officer endorsement, only the evaluation fee for the deck or engineer officer's endorsement will be charged. No evaluation fee is charged for an STCW endorsement.


(2) *Examination fees.* One examination fee will be charged for each exam or series of exams for an original, raise of grade, or renewal of an endorsement on an MMC taken within 1 year from the date of the application approval. An examination fee will also be charged to process an open-book exercise used to renew an MMC. If an officer endorsement examination under part 11 of this chapter also fulfills the examination requirements in part 12 of this chapter for rating endorsements, only the fee for the officer endorsement examination is charged.


(3) *Issuance fees.* Only one issuance fee will be charged for each MMC issued, regardless of the number of endorsements placed on the credential. There is no fee for a Document of Continuity.


(f) The Coast Guard may assess additional charges to anyone to recover collection and enforcement costs associated with delinquent payments or failure to pay a fee. The Coast Guard will not provide credentialing services to a mariner who owes money for credentialing services previously provided.


(g) Anyone who fails to pay a fee or charge established under this section is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $6,500 for each violation.


(h) *No-fee MMC for certain applicants.* For the purpose of this section, a no-fee MMC applicant is a person who is a volunteer or a part- or full-time employee of an organization that is—


(1) Charitable in nature;


(2) Not for profit; and


(3) Youth oriented.


(i) *Determination of eligibility.* (1) An organization may submit a written request in a manner prescribed by the Coast Guard that may include mail, email, or electronic means to U.S. Coast Guard National Maritime Center, 100 Forbes Drive, Martinsburg, WV 25404, at email *IASKNMC@uscg.mil,* in order to be considered an eligible organization under the criteria set forth in paragraph (h) of this section. With the written request, the organization must provide evidence of its status as a youth-oriented, not-for-profit, charitable organization.


(2) The following organizations are accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section and need not submit evidence of their status: Boy Scouts of America, Sea Explorer Association, Girl Scouts of the United States of America, and Young Men's Christian Association of the United States of America.


(j) A letter from an organization determined eligible under paragraph (h) of this section must also accompany the person's MMC application to the Coast Guard. The letter must state that the purpose of the person's application is solely to further the conduct of the organization's maritime activities. The applicant will then be eligible under this section to obtain a no-fee MMC if other requirements for the MMC are met.


(k) An MMC issued to a person under paragraph (h) of this section will be endorsed restricting its use to vessels owned or operated by the sponsoring organization.


(l) The holder of a no-fee MMC issued under paragraph (h) of this section may have the restriction removed by paying the appropriate evaluation, examination, and issuance fees that would have otherwise applied.


(m) For members of the uniformed services, a qualified applicant under this section is exempt from paying evaluation, examination, or issuance fees for an MMC as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(1) For purposes of paragraph (m) of this section, *qualified applicant* means an individual who, at the time of submission of an application, is—


(i) A member of the uniformed services listed in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(5) on active duty;


(ii) A member of the Selected Reserve, as described in 10 U.S.C. 10143(a), of a reserve component named in 10 U.S.C. 10101; or


(iii) A member of the Ready Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service established in 42 U.S.C. 204(a)(1).


(2) For purposes of paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section—


(i) For the members of the armed forces, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(4), active duty is defined by 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(1);


(ii) For the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, active duty has the same meaning as found in 33 U.S.C. 3002(b)(1); and


(iii) For the members of the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, active duty has the meaning defined in 42 CFR 21.72(f).



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77890, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0288, 89 FR 63841, Aug. 6, 2024; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102333, Dec. 17, 2024]




