# § 235.6   Expedited application for approval of certain changes.

(a) *Qualifying changes.* A railroad may seek approval under this section, instead of under §§ 235.5 and 235.9-235.20 of this chapter for the following changes:


(1) Modification of a signal system consisting of the installation, relocation, or removal of one or more signals, interlocked switches, derails, movable-point frogs, or electric locks in an existing system directly associated with the implementation of positive train control pursuant to subpart I of part 236 of this chapter, if the modification does not include the discontinuance or decrease of limits of a signal or train control system.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) *Procedure of expedited application.* (1) To seek approval under this section, a railroad shall provide a notice and profile plan for the proposed modification to the FRA Regional Administrator having jurisdiction over the affected territory.


(2) Simultaneously with its filing with the FRA Regional Administrator, the railroad shall serve, either by hard copy or electronically, a copy of the notice and profile plan to representatives of employees responsible for maintenance, inspection, and testing of the affected signal system under part 236 of this chapter, as well as representatives of employees responsible for operating trains or locomotives in the affected territory.


(3) The railroad shall include in its submission to the FRA Regional Administrator a statement affirming that the railroad has complied with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, together with a list of the names and addresses of the persons served.


(4) In response to receipt of a notice and profile plan under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Regional Administrator shall in writing deny or approve, in full or in part, and with or without conditions, the request for signal system modification. For any portion of the request that is denied, the Regional Administrator shall refer the issue to the Railroad Safety Board as an application to modify the signal system.


(5) A railroad may rescind its application to the Regional Administrator and submit an application under §§ 235.5 and 235.9-235.20 of this chapter at any time prior to the decision of the Regional Administrator.


(c) The resultant arrangement of any change under this section shall comply with part 236 of this chapter.



---

[N] [79 FR 49715, Aug. 22, 2014]




