# § 412.211   Puerto Rico rates for Federal fiscal year 2004 and subsequent fiscal years.

(a) *General rule.* CMS determines the Puerto Rico adjusted prospective payment rate for inpatient operating costs for each inpatient hospital discharge occurring in Federal fiscal year 2004 and subsequent fiscal years that involves inpatient hospital services of a hospital in Puerto Rico subject to the prospective payment system for which payment may be made under Medicare Part A.


(b) *Geographic classifications.* (1) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(i) The term *urban area* means a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) as defined by the Executive Office of Management and Budget.


(ii) The term *rural area* means any area outside of an urban area.


(2) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2004, a hospital located in a rural county adjacent to one or more urban areas is deemed to be located in an urban area and receives the Federal payment amount for the urban area to which the greater number of workers in the county commute if the rural county would otherwise be considered part of an urban area, under the standards for designating MSAs if the commuting rates used in determining outlying counties were determined on the basis of the aggregate number of resident workers who commute to (and, if applicable under the standards, from) the central county or central counties of all adjacent MSAs. These EOMB standards are set forth in the notice of final revised standards for classification of MSAs published in the _Federal Register_ on December 27, 2000 (65 FR 82228), announced by EOMB on June 6, 2003, and available from CMS, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21244.


(c) *Computing the standardized amount.* CMS computes a Puerto Rico standardized amount that is applicable to all hospitals located in all areas. The applicable percentage change for updating the Puerto Rico specific standardized amount is as follows:


(1) For fiscal year 2004 through fiscal year 2009, increased by the applicable percentage change specified in § 412.64(d)(1)(ii)(A).


(2) For fiscal year 2010, increased by the market basket index for prospective payment hospitals (as defined in § 413.40(a) of this subchapter) for hospitals in all areas.


(3) For fiscal year 2011, increased by the applicable percentage change specified in § 412.64(d)(1)(iii).


(4) For fiscal year 2012 and subsequent fiscal years, the applicable percentage increase specified in § 412.64(d).


(d) *Computing Puerto Rico Federal rates for inpatient operating costs for hospitals located in all areas.* For each discharge classified within a DRG, CMS establishes for the fiscal year a Puerto Rico prospective payment rate for inpatient operating costs equal to the product of—


(1) The average standardized amount for the fiscal year for hospitals located in all areas; and


(2) The weighting factor determined under § 412.60(b) for that DRG.


(e) *Adjusting for different area wage levels.* CMS adjusts the proportion of the Puerto Rico rate for inpatient operating costs that are attributable to wages and labor-related costs for area differences in hospital wage levels by a factor (established by CMS based on survey data) reflecting the relative level of hospital wages and wage-related costs in the geographic area (that is, urban or rural area as determined under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section) of the hospital compared to the Puerto Rico average level of hospital wages and wage-related costs. The adjustment specified in this paragraph (e) also takes into account the earnings and paid hours of employment by occupational category.


(1) The wage index is updated annually.


(2) CMS determines the proportion of the Puerto Rico rate that is attributable to wages and labor-related costs from time to time, employing a methodology that is described in the annual update of the prospective payment system for payment of inpatient hospital operating costs published in the _Federal Register._

(3) For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2004, CMS employs 62 percent as the proportion of the rate that is adjusted for the relative level of hospital wages and wage-related costs, unless employing that percentage would result in lower payments for the hospital than employing the proportion determined under the methodology described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(f) *Adjusting the wage index to account for commuting patterns of hospital workers*—(1) *General criteria.* For discharges occurring on or after October 1, 2004, CMS adjusts the hospital wage index for hospitals located in qualifying areas to recognize the commuting patterns of hospital employees. A qualifying area is an area that meets all of the following criteria:


(i) Hospital employees in the area commute to work in an MSA (or MSAs) with a wage index (or wage indices) higher than the wage index of the area.


(ii) At least 10 percent of the county's hospital employees commute to an MSA (or MSAs) with a higher wage index (or wage indices).


(iii) The 3-year average hourly wage of the hospital(s) in the area equals or exceeds the 3-year average hourly wage of all hospitals in the MSA or rural area in which the county is located.


(2) *Amount of adjustment.* A hospital located in an area that meets the criteria under paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iii) of this section will receive an increase in its wage index that is equal to a weighted average of the difference between the prereclassified wage index of the MSA (or MSAs) with the higher wage index (or wage indices) and the prereclasssified wage index of the qualifying area, weighted by the overall percentage of the hospital employees residing in the qualifying area who are employed in any MSA with a higher wage index.


(3) *Process for determining the adjustment.* (i) CMS will use the most accurate data available, as determined by CMS, to determine the out-migration percentage for each area.


(ii) CMS will include, in its annual proposed and final notices of updates to the hospital inpatient prospective payment system, a listing of qualifying areas and the hospitals that are eligible to receive the adjustment to their wage indexes for commuting hospital employees, and the wage index increase applicable to each qualifying area.


(iii) Any wage index adjustment made under this paragraph (f) is effective for a period of 3 fiscal years, except that hospitals in a qualifying county may elect to waive the application of the wage index adjustment. A hospital may waive the application of the wage index adjustment by notifying CMS in writing within 45 days of the date of public display of the annual notice of proposed rulemaking for the hospital inpatient prospective payment system at the Office of the Federal Register.

(iv) A hospital in a qualifying area that receives a wage index adjustment under this paragraph (f) is not eligible for reclassification under Subpart L of this part.



---

[N] [69 FR 49248, Aug. 11, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 50414, Aug. 16, 2010; 76 FR 51783, Aug. 18, 2011; 82 FR 38512, Aug. 14, 2017]




