# § 26.91   What actions do certifiers take following DOT certification appeal decisions?

(a) If you are the certifier from whose action an appeal under § 26.89 is taken, the decision is binding. It is not binding on other certifiers.


(b) If you are a certifier to which a DOT determination under § 26.89 is applicable, you must take the following action:


(1) If the Department determines that you erroneously certified a firm, you must remove the firm's eligibility on receipt of the determination, without further proceedings on your part. Effective on the date of your receipt of the Department's determination, the consequences of a removal of eligibility set forth in § 26.87(j) take effect.


(2) If the Department determines that you erroneously failed to find reasonable cause to remove the firm's eligibility, you must expeditiously commence a proceeding to determine whether the firm's eligibility should be removed, as provided in § 26.87.


(3) If the Department determines that you erroneously declined to certify or removed the eligibility of the firm, you must certify the firm, effective on the date of your receipt of the written notice of Department's determination.


(4) If the Department determines that you erroneously determined that the presumption of social and economic disadvantage either should or should not be deemed rebutted, you must take appropriate corrective action as determined by the Department.


(5) If the Department affirms your determination, no further action is necessary.


(c) Where DOT has upheld your denial of certification to or removal of eligibility from a firm, or directed the removal of a firm's eligibility, other certifiers with whom the firm is certified may commence a proceeding to remove the firm's eligibility under § 26.87. Such certifiers must not remove the firm's eligibility absent such a proceeding. Where DOT has reversed your denial of certification to or removal of eligibility from a firm, other certifiers must take the DOT action into account in any certification action involving the firm. However, other certifiers are not required to certify the firm based on the DOT decision.



---

[N] [64 FR 5126, Feb. 2, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 24979, Apr. 9, 2024]




