# § 2806.24   How must I make rental payments for a linear grant?

(a) *Term grants.* For linear grants, except those issued in perpetuity, you must make either nonrefundable annual payments or a nonrefundable payment for more than 1 year, as follows:


(1) *One-time payments.* You may pay in advance the total rent amount for the entire term of the grant or any remaining years.


(2) *Multiple payments.* If you choose not to make a one-time payment, you must pay according to one of the following methods:


(i) *Payments by individuals.* If your annual rent is $100 or less, you must pay at 10-year intervals, not to exceed the term of the grant. If your annual rent is greater than $100, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed the term of the grant. For example, if you have a grant with a remaining term of 30 years, you may pay in advance for 10 years, 20 years, or 30 years, but not any other multi-year period.


(ii) *Payments by all others.* If your annual rent is $500 or less, you must pay rent at 10-year intervals, not to exceed the term of the grant. If your annual rent is greater than $500, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed the term of the grant.


(b) *Perpetual grants.* For linear grants issued in perpetuity (except as noted in §§ 2806.25 and 2806.26), you must make either nonrefundable annual payments or a nonrefundable payment for more than 1 year, as follows:


(1) *Payments by individuals.* If your annual rent is $100 or less, you must pay at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years. If your annual rent is greater than $100, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years.


(2) *Payments by all others.* If your annual rent is $500 or less, you must pay rent at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years. If your annual rent is greater than $500, you may pay annually or at 10-year intervals, not to exceed 30 years.


(c) *Proration of payments.* The BLM prorates the first year rental amount based on the number of months left in the calendar year after the effective date of the grant. If your grant requires, or you chose a 10-year payment term, or multiples thereof, the initial rent bill consists of the remaining partial year plus the next 10 years, or multiple thereof.



---

[N] [73 FR 65072, Oct. 31, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 92216, Dec. 19, 2016]




