# § 33.35   Methods of drilling; dust-collector unit.

(a) *General.* All drilling shall be done with conventional, commercial drilling equipment—pneumatic-percussion, hydraulic-rotary, and/or electric-rotary types—in accordance with the applicant's specifications. 


(b) *Pneumatic-percussion drilling.* A stoper-type drill with a piston diameter of 2
1/2 to 3 inches shall be used for roof drilling, A hand-held, sinker-type drill with a piston diameter of 2
1/2 to 3 inches shall be used for down drilling and also for horizontal drilling, except that the drill shall be supported mechanically. Compressed air for operating the drill shall be supplied at a gage pressure of 85-95 pounds per square inch. Drill bits shall be detachable, cross type with hard inserts, and shall be sharp when starting to drill each set of 10 holes. In roof drilling, 1
1/4- and 1
1/2-inch diameter drill bits shall be used; in horizontal and down drilling, 1
3/4-inch diameter bits shall be used. The drill steel shall be 
7/8-inch hexagonal and of hollow type to permit the introduction of compressed air through the drill steel when necessary to clean a hole during drilling. 


(c) *Rotary drilling.* A hydraulic-rotary drill with a rated drilling speed of 18 feet per minute free lift, capable of rotating drill steel at 900 revolutions per minute with 100 foot-pounds torque, and having a feed force of 7,000 pounds, shall be used for roof drilling. An electric-rotary drill, supported by a post mounting, with a rated drilling speed of 30 inches per minute and powered by a 2.25 horsepower motor, shall be used for horizontal drilling. For roof drilling, the bits shall be hard-tipped, 1
3/8 and 1
1/2 inches outside diameter, and 1
1/4-inch auger-type drill steel shall be used. For horizontal drilling, the bits shall be hard-tipped, 2 inches outside diameter, and 1
3/4-inch auger-type drill steel shall be used. Drill bits shall be sharp when starting to drill each set of 10 holes. 




