# § 622.6   Vessel identification.

This section does not apply to subpart R of this part, which has its own specific vessel identification requirements in § 622.402.


(a) *Applicability*—(1) *Official number.* A vessel for which a permit has been issued under subparts B through U of this part, except for subpart R, and a vessel that fishes for or possesses pelagic sargassum in the South Atlantic EEZ, must display its official number—




(i) On the port and starboard sides of the deckhouse or hull and, for vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) long, on an appropriate weather deck, so as to be clearly visible from an enforcement vessel or aircraft.


(ii) In block arabic numerals permanently affixed to or painted on the vessel in contrasting color to the background.


(iii) At least 18 inches (45.7 cm) in height for vessels over 65 ft (19.8 m) long; at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) in height for vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) long; and at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) in height for vessels 25 ft (7.6 m) long or less.


(2) *Official number and color code.* The following vessels must display their official number as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and, in addition, must display their assigned color code: A vessel for which a permit has been issued to fish with a sea bass pot, as required under § 622.170(a)(1); and, in the EEZ around Puerto Rico, St. Croix, or St. Thomas and St. John, a vessel fishing commercially with traps for reef fish, as defined in subparts S through U of this part, or a vessel fishing for spiny lobster, when color codes are required and have been assigned to the vessel by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, as applicable. Color codes required for vessels fishing in the EEZ around Puerto Rico, St. Croix, or St. Thomas and St. John are assigned by Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, as applicable. Color codes required in all other fisheries are assigned by the RA. The color code must be displayed—


(i) On the port and starboard sides of the deckhouse or hull and, for vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) long, on an appropriate weather deck, so as to be clearly visible from an enforcement vessel or aircraft.


(ii) In the form of a circle permanently affixed to or painted on the vessel.


(iii) At least 18 inches (45.7 cm) in diameter for vessels over 65 ft (19.8 m) long; at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) in diameter for vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) long; and at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) in diameter for vessels 25 ft (7.6 m) long or less.


(b) *Duties of operator.* The operator of a vessel specified in paragraph (a) of this section must keep the official number and the color code, if applicable, clearly legible and in good repair and must ensure that no part of the fishing vessel, its rigging, fishing gear, or any other material on board obstructs the view of the official number or the color code, if applicable, from an enforcement vessel or aircraft.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, amended at 87 FR 56215, Sept. 13, 2022]




