# § 721.10430   Tetra alkyl ammonium salt (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tetra alkyl ammonium salt (PMN P-97-823) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) and (c)(2) (the following statement must be included in the safety data sheet (SDS): “The results of an eye irritation test in rabbits resulted in deaths at levels of the PMN substance greater than 25 percent concentration”).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(j) (use of the substance as described in the PMN at concentrations less than or equal to 25 percent).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (h), and (i) and are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 58690, Sept. 21, 2012]




