# § 515.7   Appeals of initial adverse agency determination.

(a) *Adverse determination.* An initial adverse agency determination of a request may consist of: A determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part; a determination that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located; a determination that the requested record is not a record subject to the Privacy Act; a determination that a record will not be amended; a determination to deny a request for an accounting; a determination on any disputed fee matter; and any associated denial of a request for expedited treatment under the Commission's FOIA regulations.


(b) *Appeals.* If the Privacy Act Officer issues an adverse determination in response to a request, the requester may file a written notice of appeal. The notice shall be accompanied by the original request, the initial adverse determination that is being appealed, and a statement describing why the adverse determination was in error. The appeal shall be addressed to the Privacy Act Appeals Officer at the locations listed in § 515.3 of this part no later than 90 calendar days after the date of the letter denying the request. Both the appeal letter and envelope should be marked “Privacy Act Appeal.” Any Privacy Act appeals submitted via electronic mail should state “Privacy Act Appeal” in the subject line.


(c) *Responses to appeals.* The decision on appeal will be made in writing within 20 working days of receipt of the notice of appeal by the Privacy Act Appeals Officer. For good cause shown, however, the Privacy Act Appeals Officer may extend the 20 day working period. If such an extension is taken, the requester shall be promptly notified of such extension and the anticipated date of decision. A decision affirming an adverse determination in whole or in part will include a brief statement of the reason(s) for the determination, including any Privacy Act exemption(s) applied. If the adverse determination is reversed or modified in whole or in part, the requester will be notified in a written decision and the request will be reprocessed in accordance with that appeal decision. The response to the appeal shall also advise of the right to institute a civil action in a federal district court for judicial review of the decision.




(d) *When appeal is required.* In order to institute a civil action in a federal district court for judicial review of an adverse determination, a requester must first appeal it under this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 8141, Jan. 24, 2017, as amended at 82 FR 34403, July 25, 2017]




