# § 7.82   Voluntary disclosure of major food allergens.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following terms have the meanings indicated.


(1) *Major food allergen* means any of the following:


(i) Milk, egg, fish (for example, bass, flounder, or cod), Crustacean shellfish (for example, crab, lobster, or shrimp), tree nuts (for example, almonds, pecans, or walnuts), wheat, peanuts, and soybeans; or


(ii) A food ingredient that contains protein derived from a food specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, except:


(A) Any highly refined oil derived from a food specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section and any ingredient derived from such highly refined oil; or


(B) A food ingredient that is exempt from major food allergen labeling requirements pursuant to a petition for exemption approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under 21 U.S.C. 343(w)(6) or pursuant to a notice submitted to the FDA under 21 U.S.C. 343(w)(7), provided that the food ingredient meets the terms or conditions, if any, specified for that exemption.


(2) *Name of the food source from which each major food allergen is derived* means the name of the food as listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, except that:


(i) In the case of a tree nut, it means the name of the specific type of nut (for example, almonds, pecans, or walnuts);


(ii) In the case of Crustacean shellfish, it means the name of the species of Crustacean shellfish (for example, crab, lobster, or shrimp); and


(iii) The names “egg” and “peanuts,” as well as the names of the different types of tree nuts, may be expressed in either the singular or plural form, and the names “soy,” “soybean,” or “soya” may be used instead of “soybeans.”


(b) *Voluntary labeling standards.* Major food allergens used in the production of a malt beverage product may, on a voluntary basis, be declared on a label. However, if any one major food allergen is voluntarily declared, all major food allergens used in production of the malt beverage product, including major food allergens used as fining or processing agents, must be declared, except when covered by a petition for exemption approved by the appropriate TTB officer under § 7.83. The major food allergens declaration must consist of the word “Contains” followed by a colon and the name of the food source from which each major food allergen is derived (for example, “Contains: egg”).


(c) *Cross reference.* For mandatory labeling requirements applicable to malt beverage products containing FD&C Yellow No. 5, sulfites, aspartame, and cochineal extract or carmine, see § 7.63(b).




