# § 5001.108   Eligible REAP—Energy Efficient Equipment and Systems (EEE) projects and requirements.

For a REAP EEE project to be eligible for a loan guarantee under this part, it must meet the criteria specified in § 5001.102(a) through (c) and in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section and be for a borrower that is an agricultural producer eligible to submit an application for the project in accordance with § 5001.126. The EEE project can be located in a rural or non-rural area as long as the energy efficient equipment or systems are used for agricultural production or processing in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If the borrower plans to use taxable bonds as debt instruments the provision § 5001.105(b)(19) must be met.






(a) The project must be for the purchase and installation of energy efficient equipment or systems for agricultural production or processing that exceed the following standards:


(1) Energy efficiency building codes, if available;


(2) Federal or State energy efficiency standards, if available; and


(3) Other energy efficiency standards determined appropriate by the Secretary.


(i) If no codes or standards described in such subparagraph apply to the energy efficient equipment or system to be purchased or installed pursuant to such subparagraph, the Secretary shall require, to the maximum extent practicable, such equipment or systems to meet the same efficiency measurements as the most efficient available equipment or system in the market; and


(ii) The Secretary shall not provide such a loan guarantee for the purchase or installation of any energy efficient equipment or system unless more than one type of such equipment or system is available in the market.


(b) The EEE project must be for commercially available technology.


(c) The EEE project must have technical merit as certified by the vendor/installer. An application that does not include said certification will be deemed incomplete and therefore is not eligible to compete for funding.









---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79712, Sept. 30, 2024]








