# § 240.3a69-2   Definition of “swap” as used in section 3(a)(69) of the Act—additional products.

(a) *In general.* The term *swap* has the meaning set forth in section 3(a)(69) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(69)).


(b) *Inclusion of particular products.* (1) The term *swap* includes, without limiting the meaning set forth in section 3(a)(69) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(69)), the following agreements, contracts, and transactions:


(i) A cross-currency swap;


(ii) A currency option, foreign currency option, foreign exchange option and foreign exchange rate option;


(iii) A foreign exchange forward;


(iv) A foreign exchange swap;


(v) A forward rate agreement; and


(vi) A non-deliverable forward involving foreign exchange.


(2) The term *swap* does not include an agreement, contract, or transaction described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that is otherwise excluded by section 1a(47)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)(B)).


(c) *Foreign exchange forwards and foreign exchange swaps.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section:


(1) A foreign exchange forward or a foreign exchange swap shall not be considered a swap if the Secretary of the Treasury makes a determination described in section 1a(47)(E)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)(E)(i)).


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section:


(i) The reporting requirements set forth in section 4r of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6r) and regulations promulgated thereunder shall apply to a foreign exchange forward or foreign exchange swap; and


(ii) The business conduct standards set forth in section 4s(h) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6s) and regulations promulgated thereunder shall apply to a swap dealer or major swap participant that is a party to a foreign exchange forward or foreign exchange swap.


(3) For purposes of section 1a(47)(E) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)(E)) and this section, the term *foreign exchange forward* has the meaning set forth in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)).


(4) For purposes of section 1a(47)(E) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)(E)) and this section, the term *foreign exchange swap* has the meaning set forth in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25)).


(5) For purposes of sections 1a(24) and 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24) and (25)) and this section, the following transactions are not foreign exchange forwards or foreign exchange swaps:


(i) A currency swap or a cross-currency swap;


(ii) A currency option, foreign currency option, foreign exchange option, or foreign exchange rate option; and


(iii) A non-deliverable forward involving foreign exchange.



---

[N] [77 FR 48356, Aug. 13, 2012]




