# § 1101.46   Other administrative or judicial proceeding exception.

(a) *Statutory provision.* Section 6(b)(4)(B) provides that the requirements of section 6(b)(1) do not apply to public disclosure of “information in the course of or concerning any * * * other administrative or judicial proceeding under this Act.”


(b) *Scope of exception.* This exception applies to an administrative or judicial proceeding, other than a rulemaking or administrative adjudicatory proceeding, under the CPSA, FHSA, FFA, or PPPA. Proceedings within this exception include:


(1) A proceeding to act on a petition to start a rulemaking proceeding. This proceeding begins with the filing of a petition and ends when the petition is denied or, if granted, when the rulemaking proceeding begins. Information subject to the exception for petition proceedings is the petition itself and the supporting documentation, and information subsequently compiled by the staff and incorporated or referenced in the staff briefing papers for and recommendation to the Commission.


(2) A proceeding to act on a request for exemption from a rule or regulation. This proceeding begins with the filing of a request for exemption and ends when the request is denied or, if granted, when the Commission takes the first step to implement the exemption, e.g., when an amendment to the rule or regulation is proposed.


(3) A proceeding to issue a subpoena or general or special order. This proceeding begins with a staff request to the Commission to issue a subpoena or general or special order and ends once the request is granted or denied.


(4) A proceeding to act on a motion to quash or to limit a subpoena or general or special order. This proceeding begins with the filing with the Commission of a motion to quash or to limit and ends when the motion is granted or denied.


(5) Any judicial proceeding to which the Commission is a party. This proceeding begins when a complaint is filed and ends when a final decision (including appeal) is rendered with respect to the Commission.


(6) Any administrative proceeding to which the Commission is a party, such as an administrative proceeding before the Merit Systems Protection Board or the Federal Labor Relations Authority. This proceeding begins and ends in accordance with the applicable regulations or procedures of the administrative body before which the proceeding is heard.


(7) A proceeding to obtain a retraction from the Commission pursuant to subpart F of these rules. This proceeding begins with the filing with the Secretary of the Commission of a request for retraction and ends when the request is denied or, if granted, when the information is retracted.


(c) *In the course of or concerning.* The phrase “in the course of or concerning” shall have the same meaning as set forth in either § 1101.44 (c) and (d) or § 1101.45 (c) and (d), whichever is applicable.




