# § 98.2   Who must report?

(a) The GHG reporting requirements and related monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this part apply to the owners and operators of any facility that is located in the United States or under or attached to the Outer Continental Shelf (as defined in 43 U.S.C. 1331) and that meets the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section; and any supplier that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section:


(1) *A facility that contains any source category that is listed in Table A-3 of this subpart.* For these facilities, the annual GHG report must cover stationary fuel combustion sources (subpart C of this part), miscellaneous use of carbonates (subpart U of this part), and all applicable source categories listed in Tables A-3 and A-4 of this subpart.


(2) *A facility that contains any source category that is listed in Table A-4 of this subpart and that emits 25,000 metric tons CO*_2_*e or more per year in combined emissions from stationary fuel combustion units, miscellaneous uses of carbonate, and all applicable source categories that are listed in Table A-3 and Table A-4 of this subpart.* For these facilities, the annual GHG report must cover stationary fuel combustion sources (subpart C of this part), miscellaneous use of carbonates (subpart U of this part), and all applicable source categories listed in Table A-3 and Table A-4 of this subpart.


(3) *A facility that in any calendar year starting in 2010 meets all three of the conditions listed in this paragraph (a)(3).* For these facilities, the annual GHG report must cover emissions from stationary fuel combustion sources only.


(i) The facility does not meet the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.


(ii) The aggregate maximum rated heat input capacity of the stationary fuel combustion units at the facility is 30 mmBtu/hr or greater.


(iii) The facility emits 25,000 metric tons CO_2_e or more per year in combined emissions from all stationary fuel combustion sources.


(4) *A supplier that is listed in Table A-5 of this subpart.* For these suppliers, the annual GHG report must cover all applicable products for which calculation methodologies are provided in the subparts listed in Table A-5 of this subpart.


(5) Research and development activities are not considered to be part of any source category defined in this part.


(b) To calculate GHG emissions for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_e per year emission threshold in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall calculate annual CO_2_e emissions, as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.


(1) Calculate the annual emissions of CO_2_, CH_4_, N_2_O, and each fluorinated GHG in metric tons from all applicable source categories listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The GHG emissions shall be calculated using the calculation methodologies specified in each applicable subpart and available company records.


(2) For each general stationary fuel combustion unit, calculate the annual CO_2_ emissions in metric tons using any of the four calculation methodologies specified in § 98.33(a). Calculate the annual CH_4_ and N_2_O emissions from the stationary fuel combustion sources in metric tons using the appropriate equation in § 98.33(c). Exclude carbon dioxide emissions from the combustion of biomass, but include emissions of CH_4_ and N_2_O from biomass combustion.


(3) For miscellaneous uses of carbonate, calculate the annual CO_2_ emissions in metric tons using the procedures specified in subpart U of this part.


(4) Sum the emissions estimates from paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section for each GHG and calculate metric tons of CO_2_e using Equation A-1 of this section.


(5) For purpose of determining if an emission threshold has been exceeded, include in the emissions calculation any CO_2_ that is captured for transfer off site.


(c) To calculate GHG emissions for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_e/year emission threshold for stationary fuel combustion under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, calculate CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions from each stationary fuel combustion unit by following the methods specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Then, convert the emissions of each GHG to metric tons CO_2_e per year using Equation A-1 of this section, and sum the emissions for all units at the facility.


(d) To calculate GHG quantities for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_ per year threshold for importers and exporters of coal-to-liquid products under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, calculate the mass in metric tons per year of CO_2_ that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the quantity of coal-to-liquid products that are imported during the reporting year and, that are exported during the reporting year. Compare the imported quantities and the exported quantities separately to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_ per year threshold. Calculate the quantities using the methodology specified in subpart LL of this part.


(e) To calculate GHG quantities for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_e per year threshold for importers and exporters of petroleum products under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, calculate the mass in metric tons per year of CO_2_ that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the combined volume of petroleum products and natural gas liquids that are imported during the reporting year and that are exported during the reporting year. Compare the imported quantities and the exported quantities separately to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_ per year threshold. Calculate the quantities using the methodology specified in subpart MM of this part.






(f) To calculate GHG quantities for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_e per year threshold under paragraph (a)(4) of this section for importers and exporters of industrial greenhouse gases and for importers and exporters of CO_2_, the owner or operator shall calculate the mass in metric tons per year of CO_2_e imports and exports as described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section. Compare the imported quantities and the exported quantities separately to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_ per year threshold.


(1) Calculate the mass in metric tons per year of CO_2_, N_2_O, each fluorinated GHG, and each fluorinated heat transfer fluid that is imported and the mass in metric tons per year of CO_2_, N_2_O, each fluorinated GHG, and each fluorinated heat transfer fluid that is exported during the year.








(2) Convert the mass of each imported and each GHG exported from paragraph (f)(1) of this section to metric tons of CO_2_e using Equation A-1 of this section.


(3) Sum the total annual metric tons of CO_2_e in paragraph (f)(2) of this section for all imported GHGs. Sum the total annual metric tons of CO_2_e in paragraph (f)(2) of this section for all exported GHGs.


(g) If a capacity or generation reporting threshold in paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies, the owner or operator shall review the appropriate records and perform any necessary calculations to determine whether the threshold has been exceeded.


(h) An owner or operator of a facility or supplier that does not meet the applicability requirements of paragraph (a) of this section is not subject to this rule. Such owner or operator would become subject to the rule and reporting requirements, if a facility or supplier exceeds the applicability requirements of paragraph (a) of this section at a later time pursuant to § 98.3(b)(3). Thus, the owner or operator should reevaluate the applicability to this part (including the revising of any relevant emissions calculations or other calculations) whenever there is any change that could cause a facility or supplier to meet the applicability requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. Such changes include but are not limited to process modifications, increases in operating hours, increases in production, changes in fuel or raw material use, addition of equipment, and facility expansion.




(i) Except as provided in this paragraph, once a facility or supplier is subject to the requirements of this part, the owner or operator must continue for each year thereafter to comply with all requirements of this part, including the requirement to submit annual GHG reports, even if the facility or supplier does not meet the applicability requirements in paragraph (a) of this section in a future year.


(1) If reported CO_2_e emissions, calculated in accordance with § 98.3(c)(4)(i), are less than 25,000 metric tons per year for five consecutive years, then the owner or operator may discontinue complying with this part provided that the owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator that announces the cessation of reporting and explains the reasons for the reduction in emissions. The notification shall be submitted no later than March 31 of the year immediately following the fifth consecutive year of emissions less than 25,000 tons CO_2_e per year. The owner or operator must maintain the corresponding records required under § 98.3(g) for each of the five consecutive years prior to notification of discontinuation of reporting and retain such records for three years following the year that reporting was discontinued. The owner or operator must resume reporting if annual CO_2_e emissions, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section, in any future calendar year increase to 25,000 metric tons per year or more.


(2) If reported CO_2_e emissions, calculated in accordance with § 98.3(c)(4)(i), were less than 15,000 metric tons per year for three consecutive years, then the owner or operator may discontinue complying with this part provided that the owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator that announces the cessation of reporting and explains the reasons for the reduction in emissions. The notification shall be submitted no later than March 31 of the year immediately following the third consecutive year of emissions less than 15,000 tons CO_2_e per year. The owner or operator must maintain the corresponding records required under § 98.3(g) for each of the three consecutive years and retain such records for three years prior to notification of discontinuation of reporting following the year that reporting was discontinued. The owner or operator must resume reporting if annual CO_2_e emissions, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section, in any future calendar year increase to 25,000 metric tons per year or more.








(3) If the operations of a facility or supplier are changed such that all applicable processes and operations subject to paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section cease to operate, then the owner or operator may discontinue complying with this part for the reporting years following the year in which cessation of such operations occurs, provided that the owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator that announces the cessation of reporting and certifies to the closure of all applicable processes and operations no later than March 31 of the year following such changes. If one or more processes or operations subject to paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section at a facility or supplier cease to operate, but not all applicable processes or operations cease to operate, then the owner or operator is exempt from reporting for any such processes or operations in the reporting years following the reporting year in which cessation of the process or operation occurs, provided that the owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator that announces the cessation of reporting for the process or operation no later than March 31 following the first reporting year in which the process or operation has ceased for an entire reporting year. Cessation of operations in the context of underground coal mines includes, but is not limited to, abandoning and sealing the facility. This paragraph (i)(3) does not apply to seasonal or other temporary cessation of operations. This paragraph (i)(3) does not apply to the municipal solid waste landfills source category (subpart HH of this part), or the industrial waste landfills source category (subpart TT of this part). This paragraph (i)(3) does not apply when there is a change in the owner or operator for facilities in industry segments with a unique definition of facility as defined in § 98.238 of the petroleum and natural gas systems source category (subpart W of this part), unless the changes result in permanent cessation of all applicable processes and operations. The owner or operator must resume reporting for any future calendar year during which any of the GHG-emitting processes or operations resume operation.




(4) The provisions of paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section apply to suppliers subject to subparts LL through QQ of this part by substituting the term “quantity of GHG supplied” for “emissions.” For suppliers, the provisions of paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) apply individually to each importer and exporter and individually to each petroleum refinery, fractionator of natural gas liquids, local natural gas distribution company, and producer of CO_2_, N_2_O, or fluorinated greenhouse gases (*e.g.,* a supplier of industrial greenhouse gases might qualify to discontinue reporting as an exporter of industrial greenhouse gases but still be required to report as an importer; or a company might qualify to discontinue reporting as a supplier of industrial greenhouse gases under subpart OO of this part but still be required to report as a supplier of carbon dioxide under subpart PP of this part).


(5) If the operations of a facility or supplier are changed such that a process or operation no longer meets the “Definition of Source Category” as specified in an applicable subpart, then the owner or operator may discontinue complying with any such subpart for the reporting years following the year in which change occurs, provided that the owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator that announces the cessation of reporting for the process or operation no later than March 31 following the first reporting year in which such changes persist for an entire reporting year. The owner or operator must resume complying with this part for the process or operation starting in any future calendar year during which the process or operation meets the “Definition of Source Category” as specified in an applicable subpart.


(6) If an entire facility or supplier is merged into another facility or supplier that is already reporting GHG data under this part, then the owner or operator may discontinue complying with this part for the facility or supplier, provided that the owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator that announces the discontinuation of reporting and the e-GGRT identification number of the reconstituted facility no later than March 31 of the year following such changes.


(7) If a facility in an industry segment with a unique definition of facility as defined in § 98.238 of the petroleum and natural gas systems source category (subpart W of this part) undergoes the type of change in owner or operator specified in paragraph § 98.4(n)(4) of this subpart, then the prior owner or operator may discontinue complying with the reporting requirements of this part for the facility for the reporting years following the year in which the change in owner or operator occurred, provided that the prior owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator that announces the discontinuation of reporting no later than March 31 of the year following such change.


(j) Table A-2 of this subpart provides a conversion table for some of the common units of measure used in part 98.


(k) To calculate GHG quantities for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_e per year threshold under paragraph (a)(4) of this section for facilities that destroy fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated heat transfer fluids, the owner or operator shall calculate the mass in metric tons per year of CO_2_e destroyed as described in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Calculate the mass in metric tons per year of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated heat transfer fluid that is destroyed during the year.


(2) Convert the mass of each destroyed fluorinated GHG or fluorinated heat transfer fluid from paragraph (k)(1) of this section to metric tons of CO_2_e using equation A-1 to this section.


(3) Sum the total annual metric tons of CO_2_e in paragraph (k)(2) of this section for all destroyed fluorinated GHGs and destroyed fluorinated heat transfer fluids.





---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 39758, July 12, 2010; 75 FR 57685, Sept. 22, 2010; 76 FR 73899, Nov. 29, 2011; 75 FR 74487, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 73776, Dec. 11, 2014; 81 FR 89248, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31889, Apr. 25, 2024; 89 FR 42218, May 14, 2024]












