# ยง 211.10   Records and reporting requirements.

(a) *Records.* Cooperating sponsors and recipient agencies shall maintain records and documents in a manner which accurately reflects the operation of the program and all transactions pertaining to the receipt, storage, distribution, sale, inspection and use of commodities and to receipt and disbursement of any monetized proceeds and program income. Such records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the close of the U.S. fiscal year to which they pertain, or longer, upon request by A.I.D. for cause, such as in the case of litigation of a claim or an audit concerning such records. The cooperating sponsor shall transfer to A.I.D. any records, or copies thereof, requested by A.I.D. 


(b) *Reports.* Cooperating sponsors shall submit two copies of audits performed in accordance to ยง 211.5(c). In addition, cooperating sponsors shall submit to USAID or the Diplomatic Post, and to AID/W such reports as A.I.D. may reasonably request. The following is a list of the principal types of reports that are to be submitted at least annually: 


(1) Periodic summary reports showing receipt, distribution, and inventory of commodities and proposed schedules of shipments or calls forward. 


(2) Reports relating to the generation of monetized proceeds and program income and the use of such funds for purposes specified in the Operational Plan or TA. See ยง 211.5(l). 


(3) Reports relating to progress and problems in the implementation of the program. 


(4) Reports shall be submitted in sufficient detail to enable USAID or the Diplomatic Post to assess and to make recommendations as to the ability of the cooperating sponsors to effectively plan, manage, control and evaluate the Food for Peace programs under their administration. 


(5) At the time that an emergency program under Public Law 480, title II is initiated, whether by a governmental or nongovernmental cooperating sponsor, USAID or the Diplomatic Post should 


(i) Make a determination regarding the ability of the cooperating sponsor to perform the record-keeping required by this ยง 211.10, and 


(ii) In those instances in which those specific record-keeping requirements cannot be followed, due to emergency circumstances, specify exactly which essential information will be recorded in order to account fully for title II commodities and monetized proceeds. 


(c) *Inspection and audit.* Cooperating sponsors and recipient agencies shall cooperate with and assist U.S. Government representatives to enable them at any reasonable time to: 


(1) Examine activities and records of the cooperating sponsor, recipient agencies, processors, or others, pertaining to the receipt, storage, distribution, processing, repackaging, sale and use of commodities by recipients; 


(2) Inspect commodities in storage, or the facilities used in the handling or storage of commodities; 


(3) Examine and audit books and records, including financial books and records and reports pertaining to storage, transportation, processing, repackaging, distribution, sale and use of commodities and pertaining to the deposit and use of any monetized proceeds and program income; 


(4) Review the overall effectiveness of the program as it relates to the objectives set forth in the Operational Plan or TA; and 


(5) Examine or audit the procedure and methods used in carrying out the requirements of this Regulation. 


