# ยง 152.403   Definitions of fee categories.

(a) *New chemical registration review* means review of an application for registration of a pesticide product containing a chemical active ingredient which is not contained as an active ingredient in any other pesticide product that is registered under FIFRA at the time the application is made.


(b) *New biochemical and microbial registration review* means review of an application for registration of a biochemical or microbial pesticide product containing a biochemical or microbial active ingredient not contained in any other pesticide product that is registered under FIFRA at the time the application is made. For purposes of this subpart, the definitions of biochemical and microbial pesticides contained in ยง 158.2000 and ยง 158.2100, respectively, shall apply.


(c) *New use pattern registration review* means review of an application for registration, or for amendment of a registration entailing a major change to the use pattern of an active ingredient contained in a product registered under FIFRA or pending Agency decision on a prior application at the time of application. For purposes of this paragraph, examples of major changes include but are not limited to, changes from non-food to food use, outdoor to indoor use, ground to aerial application, terrestrial to aquatic use, and non-residential to residential use.


(d) *Old chemical registration review* means review of an application for registration of a new product containing active ingredients and uses which are substantially similar or identical to those currently registered or for which an application is pending Agency decision.


(e) *Amendment review* means review of any application requiring Agency approval to amend the registration of a currently registered product, or for which an application is pending Agency decision, not entailing a major change to the use pattern of an active ingredient.


(f) *Experimental use permit review* means review of an application for a permit pursuant to section 5 of FIFRA to apply a limited quantity of a pesticide in order to accumulate information necessary to register the pesticide. The application may be for a new chemical or for a new use of an old chemical. The fee applies to such experimental uses of a single unregistered active ingredient (no limit on the number of other active ingredients, in a tank mix, already registered for the crops involved) and no more than three crops. This fee does not apply to experimental use permits required for small-scale field testing of microbial pest control agents (40 CFR 172.3).



---

[N] [53 FR 19114, May 26, 1988, as amended at 72 FR 61028, Oct. 26, 2007]




