# ยง 54.1609   De-enrollment from the Emergency Broadband Benefit Program.

(a) *De-enrollment generally.* If a participating provider has a reasonable basis to believe that an Emergency Broadband Benefit Program subscriber does not meet or no longer meets the criteria to be considered an eligible household under 47 CFR 54.1605, the participating provider must notify the subscriber of impending termination of his or her Emergency Broadband Benefit discount. Notification of impending termination must be sent in writing separate from the subscriber's monthly bill, if one is provided, and must be written in clear, easily understood language. The participating provider must allow a subscriber 30 days following the date of the impending termination letter to demonstrate continued eligibility. A subscriber making such a demonstration must present proof of continued eligibility to the National Verifier or the participating provider consistent with the participating provider's approved alternative verification process. A participating provider must de-enroll any subscriber who fails to demonstrate eligibility within five business days after the expiration of the subscriber's deadline to respond.


(b) *De-enrollment for duplicative support.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, upon notification by the Administrator to any participating provider that a subscriber is receiving the Emergency Broadband Benefit discount from another participating provider, or that more than one member of a subscriber's household is receiving the Emergency Broadband Benefit discount and that the subscriber should be de-enrolled from participation in that provider's Emergency Broadband Benefit program, the participating provider must de-enroll the subscriber from participation in that provider's Emergency Broadband Benefit discount within five business days. A participating provider shall not claim any de-enrolled subscriber for Emergency Broadband Benefit reimbursement following the date of that subscriber's de-enrollment.


(c) *De-enrollment requested by subscriber.* If a participating provider receives a request from a subscriber to de-enroll, it must de-enroll the subscriber within two business days after the request.




