# ยง 536.88   Settlement authority for claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act.

(a) *General.* Subject to the Attorney General's approval of payments in excess of $200,000 for a single claim, or if the total value of all claims and potential claims arising out of a single incident exceeds $200,000 (for which USARCS must write an action memorandum for submission to the Department of Justice), the following officials are delegated authority to settle (including payment in full or in part, or denial) and make final offers on claims under this subpart:


(1) The Judge Advocate General (TJAG);


(2) The Assistant Judge Advocate General (TAJAG); and


(3) The Commander USARCS.


(b) *ACO heads.* A head of an area claims office (ACO) is delegated authority to pay up to $50,000 in settlement of a claim, regardless of the amount claimed, and to disapprove or make a final offer in a claim presented in an amount not exceeding $50,000, provided the value of all claims and potential claims arising out of a single incident does not exceed $200,000.


(c) *CPO heads.* A head of a claims processing office (CPO) with approval authority is delegated authority to approve, in full or in part, claims presented for $5,000 or less, and to pay claims regardless of amount, provided an award of $5000 or less is accepted in full satisfaction of the claim.


(d) *Further guidance.* Authority to further delegate payment authority is set forth in ยง 536.3(g)(1) of this part. For further discussions related to approval, settlement and payment authority, see paragraphs 2-69 and 2-71 of DA Pam 27-162.


(e) *Settlement of multiple claims from a single incident.* (1) Where a single act or incident gives rise to multiple claims cognizable under this subpart, and where one claim cannot be settled within the monetary jurisdiction for one claim of the authority acting on the claim or all claims cannot be settled within the monetary jurisdiction for a single incident, no final offer will be made. All claims will be forwarded, along with a recommended disposition, to the Commander USARCS.


(2) If the Commander USARCS determines that all claims can be settled for a total of $200,000 or less, he may return claims to the field office for settlement. If the Commander USARCS, determines that all claims cannot be settled for a total of $200,000, he must request Department of Justice authority prior to settlement of any one claim. The field claims office must not concede liability by paying any one claim of lesser value.




