# § 59.300   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart.


*Boxed lamb.* The term “boxed lamb” means those carlot-based portions of a lamb carcass including fresh primals, subprimals, cuts fabricated from subprimals excluding portion-control cuts such as chops and steaks similar to those portion cut items described in the Institutional Meat Purchase Specifications (IMPS) for Fresh Lamb and Mutton Series 200, and thin meats (e.g., inside and outside skirts, pectoral meat, cap and wedge meat, and blade meat) not older than 14 days from date of manufacture; fresh ground lamb, lamb trimmings, and boneless processing lamb not older than 7 days from date of manufacture; frozen primals, subprimals, cuts fabricated from subprimals, and thin meats not older than 180 days from date of manufacture; and frozen ground lamb, lamb trimmings, and boneless processing lamb not older than 90 days from date of manufacture.


*Branded.* The term “branded” means boxed lamb cuts produced and marketed under a corporate trademark (for example, products that are marketed on their quality, yield, or breed characteristics), or boxed lamb cuts produced and marketed under one of USDA's Meat Grading and Certification Branch, Certified programs.


*Carcass characteristics.* The term “carcass characteristics” means the range and average carcass weight in pounds, the quality grade and yield grade (if applicable), and the lamb average dressing percentage.


*Carlot-based.* The term “carlot-based” means any transaction between a buyer and a seller destined for three or less delivery stops consisting of any combination of carcass weights. When used in reference to boxed lamb cuts the term “carlot-based” means any transaction between a buyer and seller consisting of 1,000 pounds or more of one or more individual boxed lamb items.


*Established.* The term “established”, when used in connection with prices, means that point in time when the buyer and seller agree upon a net price.


*Formula marketing arrangement.*

(1) When used in reference to live lambs, the term “formula marketing arrangement” means the advance commitment of lambs for slaughter by any means other than through a negotiated purchase or a forward contract, using a method for calculating price in which the price is determined at a future date.


(2) When used in reference to boxed lamb, the term “formula marketing arrangement” means the advance commitment of boxed lamb by any means other than through a negotiated purchase or a forward contract, using a method for calculating price in which the price is determined at a future date.


*Forward contract.*

(1) When used in reference to live lambs, the term “forward contact” means an agreement for the purchase of lambs, executed in advance of slaughter, under which the base price is established by reference to publicly available prices.


(2) When used in reference to boxed lamb, the term “forward contract” means an agreement for the sale of boxed lamb, executed in advance of manufacture, under which the base price is established by reference to publicly available quoted prices.


*Importer.* The term “importer” means any person engaged in the business of importing lamb meat products with the intent to sell or ship in U.S. commerce. For any calendar year, the term includes only those that imported an average of 1,000 metric tons of lamb meat products per year during the immediately preceding 4 calendar years. Additionally, the term includes those that did not import an average 1,000 metric tons of lamb meat products during the immediately preceding 4 calendar years, if the Secretary determines that the person should be considered an importer based on their volume of lamb imports.


*Packer.* The term “packer” means any person with 50 percent or more ownership in a facility engaged in the business of buying lambs in commerce for purposes of slaughter, of manufacturing or preparing meat products from lambs for sale or shipment in commerce, or of marketing meats or meat products from lambs in an unmanufactured form acting as a wholesale broker, dealer, or distributor in commerce. For any calendar year, the term includes only a federally inspected lamb processing plant which slaughtered or processed the equivalent of an average of 35,000 head of lambs per year during the immediately preceding 5 calendar years. Additionally, the term includes a lamb processing plant that did not slaughter or process an average of 35,000 lambs during the immediately preceding 5 calendar years if the Secretary determines that the processing plant should be considered a packer after considering its capacity.


*Packer-owned lambs.* The term “packer-owned lambs” means lambs that a packer owns for at least 28 days immediately before slaughter.


*Type of purchase.* The term “type of purchase” means a negotiated purchase, a formula market arrangement, and a forward contract.


*Type of sale.* The term “type of sale” with respect to boxed lamb, means a negotiated sale, a formula market arrangement, and a forward contract.


*Yield grade lamb carcass reporting.* The term “yield grade lamb carcass reporting” means if the lot includes 80 percent or more of one yield grade, the lot will be considered a single yield grade lot. If the lot contains less than 80 percent of one yield grade, the lot will be considered a mixed grade lot and all yield grades comprising 10 percent or more will be used to describe the lot.



---

[N] [73 FR 28633, May 16, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 10062, Feb. 29, 2016; 81 FR 52974, Aug. 11, 2016]




