# § 21.7654   Pursuit and absences.

Except as provided in this section, a reservist must submit a verification to VA each month of his or her enrollment during the period for which the reservist is to be paid. This verification shall be in a form prescribed by the Secretary. 


(a) *Exceptions to the monthly verification requirement.* A reservist does not have to submit a monthly verification as described in the introductory text of this section when the reservist— 


(1) Is enrolled in a correspondence course; or 


(2) Has received an advance payment for the training completed during a month.


(b) *Items to be reported on all monthly verifications.* (1) The monthly verification for all reservists will include a report on the following items when applicable: 


(i) Continued enrollment in and actual pursuit of the course; 


(ii) The date of interruption or termination of training; 


(iii) Except as provided in § 21.7656(a), changes in the number of credit hours or in the number of clock hours of attendance; 


(iv) Nonpunitive grades; and 


(v) Any other changes or modifications in the course as certified at enrollment. 


(2) The verification of enrollment must: 


(i) Contain the information required for release of payment; 


(ii) If required or permitted by the Secretary to be submitted on paper, be signed by the reservist on or after the final date of the reporting period, or if permitted by the Secretary to be submitted by telephone or electronically in a manner designated by the Secretary, be submitted in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary on or after the final date of the reporting period; and 


(iii) If submitted on paper, clearly show the date on which it was signed. 


(c) *Additional requirements for apprenticeships and other on-job training programs.* (1) When a reservist is pursuing an apprenticeship or other on-job training, he or she must monthly certify training by reporting the number of hours worked.


(2) The information provided by the reservist must be verified by the training establishment.



---

[N] [61 FR 29308, June 10, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 61101, Oct. 16, 2001]




