# § 85.2119   Labeling requirements.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, each part certified pursuant to these regulations shall have “Certified to EPA Standards” and the name of the aftermarket part manufacturer or other party designated to determine the validity of warranty claims placed on the part. The name of the aftermarket part manufacturer or other party and the statement, “Certified to EPA Standards,” must be made durable and readable for at least the useful life mileage interval of the part. 


(b) In lieu of the name of the aftermarket part manufacturer or other party and “Certified to EPA Standards,” the part may contain unique identification markings. A description of the marking and statement that such marking is intended in lieu of the name of the aftermarket part manufacturer or other party and “Certified to EPA Standards,” shall be made to the Agency in the notification of intent to certify. The unique symbol shall not be used on any uncertified or decertified part built or assembled after the date of decertification.


(c) The package in which the certified aftermarket part is contained must have the following information conspicuously placed thereon:


(1) The statement “Certified by (name of manufacturer or warranter) to EPA Emission Standards”,


(2) A list of the vehicles or engines (in accordance with § 85.2115(a)(1)(ii)) for which the part has been certified,


(3) A statement of the maintenance or replacement interval for which the part has been certified, if the interval is of a shorter duration than the interval specified in the written instructions for proper maintenance and use for the original equipment,


(4) A description of the maintenance necessary to be performed on the part in the proper maintenance and use of the part, if such maintenance is in addition to or different from that maintenance necessary on the original equipment part, and 


(5) The instructions for proper installation if different from the vehicle manufacturer's recommended installation instruction for that part.


(d) The information required by paragraphs (c)(4) and (5) of this section may be provided on a written insert with the certified aftermarket part if the insert also contains the information required in paragraphs (c) (1), (2) and (3) of this section. 


(e) The information required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be provided in a catalog rather than on the package or on an insert: *Provided,* That access to the catalog is readily available to purchasers and installers of the part. 


(f) When an aftermarket part manufacturer desires to certify existing in-service stocks of its products, it may do so provided: 


(1) The part does not differ in any operational or durability characteristic from the aftermarket parts specified in the notification made pursuant to § 85.2115, and 


(2) A supplemental information sheet is made available to all parties selling the part. 


(i) The supplemental sheet shall be made available in sufficient quantities so that it can be provided with all parts sold as certified, and 


(ii) The supplemental sheet shall contain all of the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. 



---

[N] [45 FR 78461, Nov. 25, 1980, as amended at 54 FR 32593, Aug. 8, 1989]




