# ยง 9701.609   Proposal notice.

(a) *Notice period.* The Department must provide at least 15 days advance written notice of a proposed adverse action. However, if there is reasonable cause to believe the employee has committed a crime for which a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed, the Department must provide at least 5 days advance written notice.


(b) *Contents of notice.* (1) The proposal notice must inform the employee of the factual basis for the proposed action in sufficient detail to permit the employee to reply to the notice, and inform the employee of his or her right to review the Department's evidence supporting the proposed action. The Department may not use evidence that cannot be disclosed to the employee, his or her representative, or designated physician pursuant to 5 CFR 297.204.


(2) When some but not all employees in a given competitive level are being furloughed, the proposal notice must state the basis for selecting a particular employee for furlough, as well as the reasons for the furlough. The notice is not necessary for furlough without pay due to unforeseeable circumstances, such as sudden breakdowns in equipment, acts of God, or sudden emergencies requiring immediate curtailment of activities.


(c) *Duty status during notice period.* An employee will remain in a duty status in his or her regular position during the notice period. However, when the Department determines that the employee's continued presence in the workplace during the notice period may pose a threat to the employee or others, result in loss of or damage to Government property, or otherwise jeopardize legitimate Government interests, the Department may elect one or a combination of the following alternatives:


(1) Assign the employee to duties where the Department determines the employee is no longer a threat to safety, the Department's mission, or Government property;


(2) Allow the employee to take leave, or place him or her in an appropriate leave status (annual leave, sick leave, or leave without pay) or absence without leave if the employee has absented himself or herself from the worksite without approved leave; or


(3) Place the employee in a paid, non-duty status for such time as is necessary to effect the action. 




