# § 761.353   Second level of sample selection.

The second level of sample selection reduces the size of the 19-liter subsample that was collected according to either § 761.347 or § 761.348 and subsampled according to § 761.350. The purpose of the sample size reduction is to limit the amount of time required to manually cut up larger particles of the waste to pass through a 9.5 millimeter (mm) screen.


(a) *Selecting a portion of the subsample for particle size reduction.* At the chemical extraction and analysis laboratory, pour the 19-liter subsample onto a plastic sheet or into a pan and divide the subsample into quarters. Use a random number generator or random number table to select one of these quarters.


(b) *Reduction of the particle size by the use of a 9.5 mm screen.* Collect the contents of the selected quarter of waste resulting from conducting the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section and shake the waste in a 9.5 mm screen. Separate the waste material which passes through the screen from the waste material which does not pass through the screen. Manually cut or otherwise reduce the size of all parts of the waste portion which did not pass through the 9.5 mm screen, such that each part of the waste shall pass through the 9.5 mm screen by shaking.


(c) Drying the reduced particle size waste. Dry all of the waste portion resulting from conducting the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section, from 10 to 15 hours in a drying oven at 100 °C. Allow the dried waste to cool to room temperature.


(d) *Mixing the dried waste.* Place all of the waste resulting from conducting the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section in a 19-liter pail or similarly sized, cylinder-shaped container. Mix the dried material according to one of the two following options:


(1) *First mixing option.* Completely close the container and roll the container a minimum of 10 complete revolutions to mix the contents.


(2) *Second mixing option.* Use a sturdy stirring rod, such as a broom handle or other device that reaches the bottom of the container, to stir the waste for a minimum of 10 complete revolutions around the container at a distance approximately half way between the outside and the center of the container.




