# § 761.17   Regulatory authority obligations at time of permit application review.

(a) Upon receipt of an administratively complete application for a permit for a surface coal mining operation, or an administratively complete application for revision of the boundaries of a surface coal mining operation permit, the regulatory authority must review the application to determine whether the proposed surface coal mining operation would be located on any lands protected under § 761.11.


(b) The regulatory authority must reject any portion of the application that would locate surface coal mining operations on land protected under § 761.11 unless:


(1) The site qualifies for the exception for existing operations under § 761.12;


(2) A person has valid existing rights for the land, as determined under § 761.16;


(3) The applicant obtains a waiver or exception from the prohibitions of § 761.11 in accordance with §§ 761.13 through 761.15; or


(4) For lands protected by § 761.11(c), both the regulatory authority and the agency with jurisdiction over the park or place jointly approve the proposed operation in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Location verification.* If the regulatory authority has difficulty determining whether an application includes land within an area specified in § 761.11(a) or within the specified distance from a structure or feature listed in § 761.11(f) or (g), the regulatory authority must request that the Federal, State, or local governmental agency with jurisdiction over the protected land, structure, or feature verify the location.


(1) The request for location verification must:


(i) Include relevant portions of the permit application.


(ii) Provide the agency with 30 days after receipt to respond, with a notice that another 30 days is available upon request.


(iii) Specify that the regulatory authority will not necessarily consider a response received after the comment period provided under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) If the agency does not respond in a timely manner, the regulatory authority may make the necessary determination based on available information.


(d) *Procedures for joint approval of surface coal mining operations that will adversely affect publicly owned parks or historic places.* (1) If the regulatory authority determines that the proposed surface coal mining operation will adversely affect any publicly owned park or any place included in the National Register of Historic Places, the regulatory authority must request that the Federal, State, or local agency with jurisdiction over the park or place either approve or object to the proposed operation. The request must:


(i) Include a copy of applicable parts of the permit application.


(ii) Provide the agency with 30 days after receipt to respond, with a notice that another 30 days is available upon request.


(iii) State that failure to interpose an objection within the time specified under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section will constitute approval of the proposed operation.


(2) The regulatory authority may not issue a permit for a proposed operation subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless all affected agencies jointly approve.


(3) Paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section do not apply to:


(i) Lands for which a person has valid existing rights, as determined under § 761.16.


(ii) Lands within the scope of the exception for existing operations in § 761.12.



---

[N] [64 FR 70836, Dec. 17, 1999]




