# § 945.105   Definitions.

The terms *Department, Elderly person, HUD, NAHA, Public Housing Agency (PHA),* and *Secretary* are defined in 24 CFR part 5.


*Act* means the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437-1440). 


*Accessible units* means units that meet the requirement of accessibility with respect to dwellings as set forth in the second definition of “accessible” in 24 CFR 8.3. 


*Allocation plan.* See § 945.201. 


*CHAS* means the comprehensive housing affordability strategy required by section 105 of the National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12705) or any successor plan prescribed by HUD. 


*Designated family* means the category of family for whom the project is designated (e. g., elderly family in a project designated for elderly families). 


*Designated housing* or *designated project* means a project (or projects), or a portion of a project (or projects) (as these terms are defined in this section), that has been designated in accordance with the requirements of this part. 


*Disabled family* means a family whose head or spouse or sole member is a person with disabilities. The term “disabled family” may include two or more persons with disabilities living together, and one or more persons with disabilities living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the person or persons with disabilities. A disabled family may include persons with disabilities who are elderly. 


*Elderly family* means a family whose head, spouse, or sole member is an elderly person. The term “elderly family” includes an elderly person, two or more elderly persons living together, and one or more elderly persons living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the elderly person or persons. An elderly family may include elderly persons with disabilities and other family members who are not elderly. 


*Family* includes but is not limited to a single person as defined in this part, a displaced person (as defined in 24 CFR part 912), a remaining member of a tenant family, a disabled family, an elderly family, a near-elderly family, and a family with children. It also includes an elderly family or a disabled family composed of one or more elderly persons living with one or more disabled persons. 


*Housing* has the same meaning as “project,” which is defined in this section. 


*Mixed population project* means a public housing project reserved for elderly families and disabled families. This is the project type referred to in NAHA as being designated for elderly and disabled families. A PHA that has a mixed population project or intends to develop one need not submit an allocation plan or request a designation. However, the project must meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 960 subpart D. 


*Near-elderly family* means a family whose head, spouse, or sole member is a near-elderly person. The term “near-elderly family” includes two or more near-elderly persons living together, and one or more near-elderly persons living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the near-elderly person or persons. A near-elderly family may include other family members who are not near-elderly. 


*Near-elderly person* means a person who is at least 50 years of age but below the age of 62, who may be a person with a disability. 


*Non-elderly disabled person* means a person with a disability who is less than 62 years of age. 


*Person with disabilities* means a person who—


(a) Has disability as defined in section 223 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 423), or 


(b) Is determined to have a physical, mental, or emotional impairment that—


(1) Is expected to be of long-continued and indefinite duration, 


(2) Substantially impedes his or her ability to live independently, and 


(3) Is of such a nature that such ability could be improved by more suitable housing conditions, or 


(c) Has a developmental disability as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6001(5)). 


*Portion of project* includes: One or more buildings in a multi-building project; one or more floors of a project or projects; a certain number of dwelling units in a project or projects. (Designation of a portion of a project does not require that the buildings, floors or units be contiguous.) 


*Project* means low-income housing developed, acquired, or assisted by a PHA under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (other than section 8) for which there is an Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) between HUD and the PHA. For purposes of this part, the terms *housing* and *public housing* mean the same as project. Additionally, as used in this part, and unless the context indicates otherwise, the term *project* when used in the singular includes the plural, and when used in the plural, includes the singular, and also includes a “portion of a project,” as defined in this section. 


*Public housing* or *public housing project.* See definition of “project” in this section. 


*Service provider* means a person or organization qualified and experienced in the provision of supportive services, and that is in compliance with any licensing requirements imposed by State or local law for the type of service or services to be provided. The service provider may provide the service on either a for-profit or not-for-profit basis. 


*Single person* means a person who lives alone or intends to live alone, who is not an elderly person, a person with disabilities, a displaced person, or the remaining member of a tenant family. 


*Supportive service plan.* See § 945.205. 


*Supportive services* means services available to persons residing in a development, requested by disabled families and for which there is a need, and may include, but are not limited to, meal services, health-related services, mental health services, services for nonmedical counseling, meals, transportation, personal care, bathing, toileting, housekeeping, chore assistance, safety, group and socialization activities, assistance with medications (in accordance with any applicable State laws), case management, personal emergency response, and other appropriate services. 



---

[N] [59 FR 17662, Apr. 13, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 5214, Feb. 9, 1996]




