# ยง 63.10023   How do I establish my PM CPMS operating limit and determine compliance with it?

The provisions of this section ยง 63.10023 are only applicable before July 6, 2027 unless it is for an IGCC unit. On or after July 6, 2027 you may not use PM CPMS, unless it is an IGCC unit, for demonstrating compliance with the filterable PM emissions limits of this subpart.


(a) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the filterable PM, individual non-mercury HAP metals, or total non-mercury HAP metals limit (or for liquid oil-fired units, individual HAP metals or total HAP metals limit, including Hg) in Table 1 or 2, record all hourly average output values (e.g., milliamps, stack concentration, or other raw data signal) from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the test runs (e.g., nine 1-hour average PM CPMS output values for three 3-hour test runs).


(b) Determine your operating limit as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. You must verify an existing or establish a new operating limit after each repeated performance test.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) Determine your operating limit as follows:


(i) If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emissions do not exceed 75 percent of your emissions limit, you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. Calculate the operating limit by establishing a relationship of PM CPMS signal to PM concentration using the PM CPMS instrument zero, the average PM CPMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average PM concentration from the Method 5 compliance test with the procedures in (b)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Determine your PM CPMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures.


(*1*) Zero point data for in-situ instruments should be obtained by removing the instrument from the stack and monitoring ambient air on a test bench.


(*2*) Zero point data for extractive instruments should be obtained by removing the extractive probe from the stack and drawing in clean ambient air.


(*3*) The zero point can also can be obtained by performing manual reference method measurements when the flue gas is free of PM emissions or contains very low PM concentrations (e.g., when your process is not operating, but the fans are operating or your source is combusting only natural gas) and plotting these with the compliance data to find the zero intercept.


(*4*) If none of the steps in paragraphs (A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.


(B) Determine your PM CPMS instrument average (*x*) in milliamps, and the average of your corresponding three PM compliance test runs (*y*), using equation 10.


(C) With your PM CPMS instrument zero expressed in milliamps, your three run average PM CPMS milliamp value, and your three run average PM emissions value (in lb/MWh) from your compliance runs, determine a relationship of PM lb/MWh per milliamp with equation 11.


(D) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using the PM lb/MWh per milliamp value from equation 11 in equation 12, below. This sets your operating limit at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.


(ii) If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emissions exceed 75 percent of your emissions limit, you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test demonstrating compliance with the PM limit to establish your operating limit.


(A) Determine your operating limit by averaging the PM CPMS milliamp output corresponding to your three PM performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using equation 13.


(iii) Your PM CPMS must provide a 4-20 milliamp output and the establishment of its relationship to manual reference method measurements must be determined in units of milliamps.


(iv) Your PM CPMS operating range must be capable of reading PM concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to two times your allowable emission limit. If your PM CPMS is an auto-ranging instrument capable of multiple scales, the primary range of the instrument must be capable of reading PM concentration from zero to a level equivalent to two times your allowable emission limit.


(v) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, record and average all milliamp output values from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the compliance test runs.


(vi) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (e.g. beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp signal corresponding to each PM compliance test run.


(c) You must operate and maintain your process and control equipment such that the 30 operating day average PM CPMS output does not exceed the operating limit determined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 24086, Apr. 24, 2013; 81 FR 20187, Apr. 6, 2016; 89 FR 38567, May 7, 2024]




