# ยง 1090.500   Gasoline produced from blending transmix into PCG.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a transmix blender that blends transmix into PCG must comply with the requirements of this section.


(2) Small volumes of fuel that are captured in pipeline sumps or trapped in pipeline pumps or valve manifolds and that are injected back into batches of gasoline or diesel fuel are exempt from the requirements in this section.


(b) *Requirements.* (1) The distillation end-point of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline must not exceed 437 degrees Fahrenheit.


(2) The resultant transmix-blended gasoline must meet the downstream sulfur per-gallon standard in ยง 1090.205(c) and the applicable RVP standard in ยง 1090.215.


(3) The transmix blender must comply with the recordkeeping requirements in ยง 1090.1255.


(4) The transmix blender must maintain and follow a written quality assurance program that meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(5) In the event that the test result for any sample collected under the quality assurance program specified in paragraph (c) of this section indicates that the gasoline does not comply with any of the applicable standards in this part, the transmix blender must do all the following:


(i) Immediately take steps to stop the sale of the gasoline that was sampled.


(ii) Take reasonable steps to determine the cause of the noncompliance and prevent future instances of noncompliance.


(iii) Notify EPA of the noncompliance.


(iv) If the transmix was blended by a computer controlled in-line blending system, increase the rate of sampling and testing to a minimum frequency of once per week and a maximum frequency of once per day and continue the increased frequency of sampling and testing until the results of 10 consecutive samples and tests indicate that the gasoline complies with applicable standards, at which time the sampling and testing may be conducted at the original frequency.


(c) *Quality assurance program.* (1) The quality assurance program must be designed to assure that the type and amount of transmix blended into PCG will not cause violations of the applicable fuel quality standards.


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, as a part of the quality assurance program, a transmix blender must collect samples of gasoline after blending transmix and test the samples to ensure the end-point temperature of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline does not exceed 437 degrees Fahrenheit, using one of the following sampling methods:


(i) For transmix that is blended in a tank (including a tank on a barge), collect a representative sample of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline following each occasion transmix is blended.


(ii) For transmix that is blended by a computer controlled in-line blending system, the transmix blender must collect composite samples of the resultant transmix-blended gasoline at least twice each calendar month during which transmix is blended.


(3) Any transmix blender may petition EPA for approval of a quality assurance program that does not include the minimum sampling and testing requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. To seek approval for such an alternative quality assurance program, the transmix blender must submit a petition to EPA that includes all the following:


(i) A detailed description of the quality assurance procedures to be carried out at each location where transmix is blended into PCG, including a description of how the transmix blender proposes to determine the ratio of transmix that can be blended with PCG without violating any of the applicable standards in this part, and a description of how the transmix blender proposes to determine that the gasoline produced by the transmix blending operation meets the applicable standards.


(ii) A letter signed by the RCO or their delegate stating that the information contained in the submission is true to the best of their belief must accompany the petition.


(iii) A transmix blender that petitions EPA to use an alternative quality assurance program must comply with any request by EPA for additional information or any other requirements that EPA includes as part of EPA's evaluation of the petition. However, the transmix blender may withdraw their petition or approved use of an alternative quality assurance program at any time, upon notice to EPA.




