# § 18.32   Computing and extending time.

(a) *Computing time.* The following rules apply in computing any time period specified in these rules, a judge's order, or in any statute, regulation, or executive order that does not specify a method of computing time.


(1) When the period is stated in days or a longer unit of time:


(i) Exclude the day of the event that triggers the period;


(ii) Count every day, including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays; and


(iii) Include the last day of the period, but if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the period continues to run until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.


(2) *“Last day” defined.* Unless a different time is set by a statute, regulation, executive order, or judge's order, the “last day” ends at 4:30 p.m. local time where the event is to occur.




(3) *“Next day” defined.* The “next day” is determined by continuing to count forward when the period is measured after an event and backward when measured before an event.


(4) *“Legal holiday” defined.* “Legal holiday” means the day set aside by statute for observing New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day; and any day on which the district office in which the document is to be filed is closed or otherwise inaccessible.


(b) *Extending time.* When an act may or must be done within a specified time, the judge may, for good cause, extend the time:


(1) With or without motion or notice if the judge acts, or if a request is made, before the original time or its extension expires; or


(2) On motion made after the time has expired if the party failed to act because of excusable neglect.


(c) *Additional time after certain kinds of service.* When a party may or must act within a specified time after service and service is made under § 18.30(a)(2)(ii)(C) or (D), 3 days are added after the period would otherwise expire under paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 28785, May 19, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 37539, July 1, 2015]




