# § 423.904   Eligibility determinations for low-income subsidies.

(a) *General rule.* The State agency must make eligibility determinations and redeterminations for low-income premium and cost-sharing subsidies in accordance with subpart P of part 423.


(b) *Notification to CMS.* The State agency must inform CMS of cases where eligibility is established or redetermined, in a manner determined by CMS.


(c) *Screening for eligibility for Medicare cost-sharing and enrollment under the State plan.* States must—


(1) Screen individuals who apply for subsidies under this part for eligibility for Medicaid programs that provide assistance with Medicare cost-sharing specified in section 1905(p)(3) of the Act.


(2) Offer enrollment for the programs under the State plan (or under a waiver of the plan) for those meeting the eligibility requirements.


(d) *Application form and process*—(1) *Assistance with application.* No later than July 1, 2005, States must make available—


(i) Low-income subsidy application forms;


(ii) Information on the nature of, and eligibility requirements for, the subsidies under this section; and


(iii) Assistance with completion of low-income subsidy application forms.


(2) *Completion of application.* The State must require an individual or personal representative applying for the low-income subsidy to—


(i) Complete all required elements of the application and provide documents, as necessary, consistent with paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and


(ii) Certify, under penalty of perjury or similar sanction for false statements, as to the accuracy of the information provided on the application form.


(3) *The application process and States.* (i) States may require submission of statements from financial institutions for an application for low-income subsidies to be considered complete; and


(ii) May require that information submitted on the application be subject to verification in a manner the State determines to be most cost-effective and efficient.


(4) *Other information.* States must provide CMS with other information as specified by CMS that may be needed to carry out the requirements of the Part D prescription drug benefit.




