# § 600.10   Date, extent, duration, and consequence of eligibility.

(a) *Date of eligibility.* (1) If the Secretary determines that an applicant institution satisfies all the statutory and regulatory eligibility requirements, the Secretary considers the institution to be an eligible institution as of the date—


(i) The Secretary signs the institution's program participation agreement described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart B, for purposes of participating in any title IV, HEA program; and


(ii) The Secretary receives all the information necessary to make that determination for purposes other than participating in any title IV, HEA program.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) *Extent of eligibility.* (1) If the Secretary determines that the entire applicant institution, including all its locations and all its educational programs, satisfies the applicable requirements of this part, the Secretary extends eligibility to all educational programs and locations identified on the institution's application for eligibility.


(2) If the Secretary determines that only certain educational programs or certain locations of an applicant institution satisfy the applicable requirements of this part, the Secretary extends eligibility only to those educational programs and locations that meet those requirements and identifies the eligible educational programs and locations in the eligibility notice sent to the institution under § 600.21.


(3) Eligibility does not extend to any location that an institution establishes after it receives its eligibility designation if the institution provides at least 50 percent of an educational program at that location, unless—


(i) The Secretary approves that location under § 600.20(e)(4); or 


(ii) The location is licensed and accredited, the institution does not have to apply to the Secretary for approval of that location under § 600.20(c), and the institution has reported to the Secretary that location under § 600.21. 


(c) *Educational programs.* (1) An eligible institution that seeks to establish the eligibility of an educational program must obtain the Secretary's approval—


(i) Pursuant to a requirement regarding additional programs included in the institution's Program Participation Agreement (PPA) under 34 CFR 668.14;


(ii) For the first direct assessment program under 34 CFR 668.10, the first direct assessment program offered at each credential level, and for a comprehensive transition and postsecondary program under 34 CFR 668.232;


(iii) For an undergraduate program that is at least 300 clock hours but less than 600 clock hours and does not admit as regular students only persons who have completed the equivalent of an associate degree under 34 CFR 668.8(d)(3); and


(iv) For the first eligible prison education program under subpart P of 34 CFR part 668 offered at the first two additional locations as defined under § 600.2 at a Federal, State, or local penitentiary, prison, jail, reformatory, work farm, juvenile justice facility, or other similar correctional institution.






(2) Except as provided under § 600.20(c), an eligible institution does not have to obtain the Secretary's approval to establish the eligibility of any program that is not described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(3) For a gainful employment program under 34 CFR part 668, subpart S, subject to any restrictions in 34 CFR 668.603 on establishing or reestablishing the eligibility of the program, an eligible institution must update its application under § 600.21.




(4) An institution must repay to the Secretary all HEA program funds received by the institution for an educational program, and all the title IV, HEA program funds received by or on behalf of students who enrolled in that program if the institution—


(i) Fails to comply with the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; or


(ii) Incorrectly determines that an educational program that is not subject to approval under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is an eligible program for title IV, HEA program purposes.


(d) *Duration of eligibility.* (1) If an institution participates in the title IV, HEA programs, the Secretary's designation of the institution as an eligible institution under the title IV, HEA programs expires when the institution's program participation agreement, as described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart B, expires.


(2) If an institution participates in an HEA program other than a title IV, HEA program, the Secretary's designation of the institution as an eligible institution, for purposes of that non-title IV, HEA program, does not expire as long as the institution continues to satisfy the statutory and regulatory requirements governing its eligibility.


(e) *Consequence of eligibility.* (1) If, as a part of its institutional eligibility application, an institution indicates that it wishes to participate in a title IV, HEA program and the Secretary determines that the institution satisfies the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements governing institutional eligibility, the Secretary will determine whether the institution satisfies the standards of administrative capability and financial responsibility contained in 34 CFR part 668, subpart B.


(2) If, as part of its institutional eligibility application, an institution indicates that it does not wish to participate in any title IV, HEA program and the Secretary determines that the institution satisfies the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements governing institutional eligibility, the institution is eligible to apply to participate in any HEA program listed by the Secretary in the eligibility notice it receives under § 600.21. However, the institution is not eligible to participate in those programs, or receive funds under those programs, merely by virtue of its designation as an eligible institution under this part.



---

[N] [59 FR 22336, Apr. 29, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 47801, Sept. 19, 1994; 65 FR 65671, Nov. 1, 2000; 71 FR 45692, Aug. 9, 2006; 75 FR 66676, Oct. 29, 2010; 79 FR 65006, Oct. 31, 2014; 84 FR 31452, July 1, 2019; 85 FR 54810, Sept. 2, 2020; 87 FR 63691, Oct. 20, 2022; 87 FR 65487, Oct. 28, 2022; 88 FR 70185, Oct. 10, 2023]




