# § 73.620   Interference calculation and protection of TV broadcast services.

(a) Due to the frequency spacing that exists between Channels 4 and 5, between Channels 6 and 7, and between Channels 13 and 14, the minimum adjacent channel technical criteria specified in this section shall not be applicable to these pairs of channels (see § 73.603(a)).


(b) Interference is to be predicted based on the procedures found in § 73.616(d)(1).


(c) An application will not be accepted if it is predicted to cause interference to more than an additional 0.5 percent of the population served by another TV station. For this purpose, the population served by the station receiving additional interference does not include portions of the population within the noise-limited service contour of that station that are predicted to receive interference from the TV allotment facilities of the applicant or portions of that population receiving masking interference from any other station.


(d) A petition to add a new channel to the TV Table or any application to modify an existing TV station or allotment will not be accepted if it is predicted to cause more than 0.5 percent new interference, consistent with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, to a Class A TV station authorized pursuant to subpart J of this part, within the protected contour defined in § 73.6010.


(e) Negotiated agreements on interference. TV stations may operate with increased effective radiated power (ERP) and/or antenna height above average terrain (HAAT) that would result in more than 0.5 percent additional interference to another TV station if that station agrees, in writing, to accept the additional interference. Such agreements must be submitted with the application for authority to construct or modify the affected TV station. Negotiated agreements under this paragraph can include the exchange of money or other considerations from one station to another, including payments to and from noncommercial television stations assigned to reserved channels. Applications submitted pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph will be granted only if the Commission finds that such action is consistent with the public interest.


(f) The interference protection requirements contained in this section apply to television station operations under both the TV transmission standard in § 73.682(d) and the Next Gen TV transmission standard in § 73.682(f).



---

[N] [89 FR 7247, Feb. 1, 2024]






