# ยง 1206.300   How to make a request for Agency records.

(a) A requester submitting a request for records must include his/her name, and an email or mailing address in order for the Agency to be able to send responsive records and/or to be able to contact the requester to obtain additional information or clarification of the request sought (see ยง 1206.301). The request must also address fees or provide justification for a fee waiver (see ยง 1206.302) as well as address the fee category in accordance with ยง 1206.507. The request should also include a telephone number in case the FOIA office needs to contact the requester regarding the request; however, this information is optional when submitting a request if an email or mailing address is provided. A requester may also submit a request online via the NASA FOIA website, *https://www.nasa.gov/FOIA/Contacts.html.* Do not include a social security number on any correspondence with the FOIA office. If the FOIA unit determines processing fees will exceed the fee category entitlement, the unit will require a personal mailing address for billing purposes or for commercial use requesters, a business mailing address.


(b) NASA does not have a central location for submitting FOIA requests and it does not maintain a central index or database of records in its possession. Instead, Agency records are decentralized and maintained by various Centers and offices throughout the country. All NASA Centers have the capability to receive requests electronically, either through email or a Web portal. To make a request for any of the NASA Center records, a requester should write directly to the FOIA office of the Center that maintains the records being sought. A request will receive the quickest possible response if it is addressed to the FOIA office of the Center that maintains the records requested. If a requester does not know which Center(s) may have the requested records, he/she may send his/her request(s) to the NASA's Headquarters (HQ) FOIA Public Liaison, 300 E Street SW, Room 5L19, Washington, DC 20546, Fax number: (202) 358-4332, email address: *hq-foia@nasa.gov,* and the HQ FOIA unit will forward the request to the Center(s) that it determines to be most likely to maintain the records that are sought.


(c) NASA has not yet implemented a records management application for automated capture and control of e-records; therefore, official files are primarily paper files.


(d) A member of the public may submit a FOIA request for an Agency record by mail, facsimile (FAX), electronic mail (email), or by submitting a written request in person to the FOIA office having responsibility over the record requested or to the NASA Headquarters (HQ) FOIA Office. A requester may also submit a request online via the NASA FOIA website.


(e) When a requester is unable to determine the proper NASA FOIA Office to direct a request to, the requester may send the request to the NASA HQ FOIA Office, 300 E. Street SW., Washington, DC 20546-0001. The HQ FOIA Office will forward the request to the Center(s) that it determines to be most likely to maintain the records that are sought.


(1) For locations, mailing/email addresses of NASA FOIA Centers, visit our website at *https://www.nasa.gov/FOIA/Contacts.html.*

(2) A misdirected request may take up to ten (10) additional working (meaning all days except Saturdays, Sundays and all Federal legal holidays) days to reroute to the proper FOIA office.


(f) A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself (a Privacy Act request) must comply with the verification of identity provisions set forth in 14 CFR 1212.202.


(g) Where a request pertains to a third party, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by the individual who is the subject of the record requested, or a declaration by that individual made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746, authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or submit proof that the individual is deceased (e.g., a copy of a death certificate or a verifiable obituary).


(h) As an exercise of its administrative discretion, each Center FOIA office may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary, i.e., a notarized statement from the subject of the file, in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to a third party disclosure. Information will only be released on a case-by-case basis to third party requesters if they have independently provided authorization from the individual who is the subject of the request.



---

[N] [79 FR 46678, Aug. 11, 2014, as amended at NASA-2019-0005, 84 FR 54775, Oct. 11, 2019]




