# ยง 107.109   Application for renewal.

(a) Each application for renewal of a special permit or party status to a special permit must conform to the following requirements:


(1) The application must:


(i) Be submitted to the Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety (Attention: General Approvals and Permits, PHH-31), Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, East Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001;


(ii) Be submitted with any attached supporting documentation submitted in an appropriate format by facsimile (fax) to: (202) 366-3753 or (202) 366-3308; or


(iii) Be submitted electronically by e-mail to: *specialpermits@dot.gov;* or on-line at: *http://www.phmsa.dot.gov/hazmat/regs/sp-a.*

(2) The application must identify by number the special permit for which renewal is requested.


(3) The application must state the name, mailing address, physical address(es) of all known new locations not previously identified in the application where the special permit would be used and all locations not previously identified where the special permit was used, e-mail address (if available), and telephone number of the applicant. If the applicant is not an individual, the application must state the name, mailing address, physical address(es) of all known new locations not previously identified in the application where the special permit would be used and all locations not previously identified where the special permit was used, e-mail address (if available), and telephone number of an individual designated as the point of contact for the applicant for all purposes related to the application, the name of the company Chief Executive Officer (CEO), president, or ranking executive officer, and the Dun and Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System (D-U-N-S) identifier. In addition, each applicant for renewal of party status must state why party status to the special permit is needed and must submit a certification of understanding of the provisions of the special permit to which party status is being requested.




(4) The application must include either a certification by the applicant that the original application, as it may have been updated by any application for renewal, remains accurate (*e.g.,* all section references, shipping descriptions, email address, etc.) and complete; or include an amendment to the previously submitted application as is necessary to update and ensure the accuracy and completeness of the application, with certification by the applicant that the application as amended is accurate and complete.








(5) The application must include a statement describing all relevant operational, shipping, and incident experience of which the applicant is aware in connection with the special permit since its issuance or most recent renewal. If the applicant is aware of no incidents, the applicant must so certify. When known to the applicant, the statement must indicate the approximate number of shipments made or packages shipped, as applicable, and the number of shipments or packages involved in any loss of contents, including loss by venting other than as authorized in subchapter C.


(6) When a Class 1 material is forbidden for transportation by aircraft, except under a special permit (*see* Columns 9A and 9B in the table in 49 CFR 172.101), an application to renew a special permit to transport such Class 1 material on passenger-carrying or cargo-only aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of less than 12,500 pounds must certify that no person within the categories listed in 18 U.S.C. 842(i) will participate in the transportation of the Class 1 material.


(7) If the renewal is requested after the expiration date of the special permit, the following information is required:


(i) The reason the special permit authorization was allowed to expire;


(ii) A certification statement that no shipments were transported after the expiration date of the special permit, or a statement describing any transportation under the terms of the special permit after the expiration date, if applicable; and


(iii) A statement describing the action(s) the applicant will take to ensure future renewal is requested before the expiration date.


(8) If no operations or shipments have been made since the issuance or renewal of the special permit, the applicant must provide specific justification as to why the special permit should be renewed.


(9) A statement indicating whether the applicant will be acting as a shipper (offeror), carrier or both under the terms of the special permit.


(b) If, at least 60 days before an existing special permit expires the holder files an application for renewal that is complete and conforms to the requirements of this section, the special permit will not expire until final administrative action on the application for renewal has been taken.



---

[N] [76 FR 462, Jan. 5, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 44501, July 26, 2011; 76 FR 43524, July 20, 2011; 76 FR 56310, Sept. 13, 2011; 87 FR 79764, Dec. 27, 2022]




