# ยง 217.195   Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

(a) The Coast Guard must submit a Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan to NMFS for approval in advance of construction. Marine mammal monitoring must be conducted in accordance with the conditions in this section and the Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan.


(b) Monitoring must be conducted by qualified, NMFS-approved PSOs, in accordance with the following:


(1) PSOs must be independent of the activity contractor (*i.e.* not employed by the construction contractor), and have no other assigned tasks during monitoring periods.


(2) At least one PSO must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.


(3) Other PSOs may substitute education (degree in biological science or related field) or training for prior experience.


(4) Where a team of three or more PSOs are required, one observer shall be designated as lead observer or monitoring coordinator. The lead observer must have prior experience performing the duties of a PSO during construction activity pursuant to a NMFS-issued incidental take authorization.


(5) The Coast Guard must submit PSO curriculum vitae (CVs) for approval by NMFS. PSOs must be approved by NMFS prior to beginning any activity subject to this regulation.


(c) PSOs must record all observations of marine mammals as described in the Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan, regardless of distance from the pile being driven. PSOs shall document any behavioral reactions in concert with distance from piles being driven or removed.


(d) The Coast Guard shall deploy additional PSOs to monitor harassment zones according to the minimum requirements defined in Marine Mammal Monitoring Plan, subject to approval by NMFS. These observers shall collect sighting data and behavioral responses to pile driving for marine mammal species observed in the region of activity during the period of activity, and shall communicate with the shutdown zone observer(s) as appropriate with regard to the presence of marine mammals. All observers shall be trained in identification and reporting of marine mammal behaviors.


(e) Reporting:


(1) Annual reporting:


(i) Coast Guard shall submit a draft monitoring report to NMFS within 90 work days of the completion of required monitoring for each portion of the project as well as a comprehensive summary report at the end of the project. Coast Guard shall provide a final report within 30 days following resolution of comments on the draft report. If no work requiring monitoring is conducted within a calendar year, Coast Guard shall provide a statement to that effect in lieu of a draft report.


(ii) These reports shall contain, at minimum, the following:


(A) Dates and times (begin and end) of all marine mammal monitoring;


(B) Construction activities occurring during each daily observation period, including the number and type of piles driven or removed and by what method (*i.e.,* impact or vibratory) and the total equipment duration for vibratory or DTH for each pile. When possible, the number of strikes for each pile/hole (impact driving, DTH); and, for DTH, the duration of operation for both impulsive and non-impulsive components as well as the strike rate must be included;


(C) PSO locations during marine mammal monitoring;


(D) Environmental conditions during monitoring periods (at beginning and end of PSO shift and whenever conditions change significantly), including Beaufort sea state and any other relevant weather conditions including cloud cover, fog, sun glare, and overall visibility to the horizon, and estimated observable distance;


(E) Upon observation of a marine mammal, the following information: Name of PSO who sighted the animal(s) and PSO location and activity at time of sighting; Time of sighting; Identification of the animal(s) (*e.g.,* genus and species, lowest possible taxonomic level, or unidentified), PSO confidence in identification, and the composition of the group if there is a mix of species; Distance and bearing of each marine mammal observed relative to the pile being driven for each sighting (if pile driving was occurring at time of sighting); Estimated number of animals (min, max, and best estimate); Estimated number of animals by cohort (adults, juveniles, neonates, group composition, *etc.*); Animal's closest point of approach and estimated time spent within the harassment zone; and Description of any marine mammal behavioral observations (*e.g.,* observed behaviors such as feeding or traveling), including an assessment of behavioral responses thought to have resulted from the activity (*e.g.,* no response or changes in behavioral state such as ceasing feeding, changing direction, flushing, or breaching);


(F) Number of marine mammals detected within the harassment zones, by species;


(G) Detailed information about any implementation of any mitigation triggered (*e.g.,* shutdowns and delays), a description of specific actions that ensued, and resulting changes in behavior of the animal(s), if any.


(2) Coast Guard shall submit a comprehensive summary report to NMFS not later than 90 days following the conclusion of marine mammal monitoring efforts described in this subpart. All PSO datasheets and/or raw sighting data must be submitted with the draft reports.


(3) All draft and final monitoring reports must be submitted to *PR.ITP.MonitoringReports@noaa.gov* and *ITP.Hotchkin@noaa.gov.*

(f) Reporting of injured or dead marine mammals:


(1) In the event that personnel involved in the construction activities discover an injured or dead marine mammal, the Coast Guard must immediately cease the specified activities and report the incident to the Office of Protected Resources (*PR.ITP.MonitoringReports@noaa.gov* and *ITP.Hotchkin@noaa.gov*), NMFS and to Alaska Regional Stranding Coordinator as soon as feasible. If the death or injury was likely caused by the specified activity, the Coast Guard must immediately cease the specified activities until NMFS is able to review the circumstances of the incident and determine what, if any, additional measures are appropriate to ensure compliance with the terms of the regulations under this subpart and LOAs. The Coast Guard must not resume their activities until notified by NMFS. The report must include the following information:


(i) Time, date, and location (latitude/longitude) of the first discovery (and updated location information if known and applicable);


(ii) Species identification (if known) or description of the animal(s) involved;


(iii) Condition of the animal(s) (including carcass condition if the animal is dead);


(iv) Observed behaviors of the animal(s), if alive;


(v) If available, photographs or video footage of the animal(s); and


(vi) General circumstances under which the animal was discovered.


(2) [Reserved]






