# ยง 955.17   Suspension and revocation.

(a) *Cause, nature and duration.* (1) OSM may, and upon a finding of willful conduct of the blaster OSM shall, suspend for a definite or indefinite period, revoke or take other necessary action on the certificate of an OSM-certified blaster for any of the reasons specified in ยง 850.15(b) of this chapter.


(2) Where OSM has reliable information which demonstrates that the storage, transportation or use of explosives by an OSM-certified blaster is likely to threaten public safety or the environment, OSM shall suspend his or her certificate as soon as is practicable.


(3) OSM shall make the nature and duration of a suspension, revocation or other action under this section commensurate with the cause of the action and what the person whose certificate is subjected to the action does to correct it.


(b) *Notice and hearing.* When practicable, OSM shall give a certificate holder written notice and an opportunity for an informal hearing prior to suspending, revoking or taking other action on his or her OSM blaster certificate. OSM shall limit any action taken without such notice and opportunity to a temporary suspension for a maximum term of 90 days pending a decision on a final suspension, revocation or other action after such notice and opportunity have been provided.


(c) *Decision and appeal.* By certified mail within 30 days after giving written notice and an opportunity for an informal hearing, OSM shall notify the certificate holder in writing of its final decision on his or her OSM blaster certificate, including the reasons for any suspension, revocation or other action. If the certificate was granted through reciprocity, OSM shall notify the State regulatory authority of its action. In any decision suspending, revoking or taking other action on an OSM blaster certificate, OSM shall grant to the certificate holder the right of appeal to the Department of the Interior Board of Land Appeals under 43 CFR 4.1280 to 4.1286.


(d) *Surrender of certificate.* Upon receiving written notice that his or her OSM blaster certificate was suspended, revoked or subjected to other action, a certificate holder immediately shall surrender the certificate to OSM in the manner specified in the notice.


(e) *Reinstatement and reissuance.* (1) OSM shall reinstate a suspended OSM blaster certificate by returning the certificate to the former certificate holder with notice of reinstatement when:


(i) The term of a definite suspension expires; or


(ii) The former certificate holder demonstrates, and OSM finds, that the cause of an indefinite suspension has been corrected.


(2) OSM shall reissue an OSM blaster certificate to an applicant whose certificate was revoked if his or her application demonstrates, and OSM finds, that:


(i) The cause of the revocation has been corrected; and


(ii) The applicant meets all other applicable requirements of this part.


(f) *Conformance with State action.* OSM shall suspend, revoke or take other commensurate action on an OSM blaster certificate granted through reciprocity if the State regulatory authority suspends, revokes or takes other action on the corresponding State certificate.



---

[N] [51 FR 19462, May 29, 1986; 51 FR 22282, June 19, 1986] 




