# § 52.119   Identification of plan—conditional approvals.

This section identifies plan revisions that are conditionally approved based upon commitments received from the State.


(a)-(b) [Reserved]


(c) A plan revision for the Maricopa County Air Quality Department (MCAQD) submitted June 22, 2017, by the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ), the Governor's designee, providing MCAQD's Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) demonstration for the 2008 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards, and rule submissions in satisfaction thereof.


(1) The conditional approval is based upon the February 25, 2019 commitment from the State to submit a SIP revision consisting of rule revisions that will cure the identified deficiencies. MCAQD commits to submit these rules to the ADEQ within eleven (11) months after the EPA's conditional approval, and ADEQ commits to make the final submission to the EPA not later than twelve (12) months after the EPA's approval. If the State fails to meet its commitment, the conditional approval will be treated as a disapproval with respect to the rules and CTG categories for which the corrections are not made. The following MCAQD rules and additional materials are conditionally approved:


(i)-(ii) [Reserved] 


(iii) Rule 352, *Gasoline Cargo Tank Testing and Use;*

(iv) Rule 353, *Storage and Loading of Gasoline at Gasoline Dispensing Facilities;* and


(v) The RACT demonstration titled “Analysis of Reasonably Available Control Technology for the 2008 8-Hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) State Implementation Plan (RACT SIP),” only those portions of the document beginning with “Gasoline Tank Trucks And Vapor Collection System Leaks” on page 34 through the first full paragraph on page 35, and Appendix C: CTG RACT Spreadsheet, the rows beginning with “Gasoline Tank Trucks and Vapor Collection System Leaks” on page 65, through “Service Stations—Stage I” on pages 67-69. This demonstration represents the RACT requirement for the following source categories: Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Gasoline Tank Trucks and Vapor Collection Systems (EPA-450/2-78-051); and Design Criteria for Stage I Vapor Control Systems—Gasoline Service Stations (EPA-450/R-75-102).


(2) [Reserved]


(3) The EPA is conditionally approving portions of the Arizona SIP revisions submitted on June 22, 2017. The conditional approval is based upon the February 25, 2019 commitment from the State to submit a SIP revision consisting of rule revisions that will cure the identified deficiencies within twelve (12) months after the EPA's conditional approval. If the State fails to meet its commitment, the conditional approval will be treated as a disapproval with respect to the rules and CTG categories for which the corrections are not met. The following MCAQD rules and additional materials are conditionally approved:


(i) Rule 336, *Surface Coating Operations*;


(ii) The RACT demonstration titled “Analysis of Reasonably Available Control Technology for the 2008 8-Hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) State Implementation Plan (RACT SIP),” only those portions of the document claiming RACT was met for the following CTG source categories, “Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources—Volume VI: Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products,” EPA-450/2-78-15, June 1978, “Control Techniques Guidelines for Miscellaneous Metal and Plastic Parts Coatings,” EPA-453/R-08-003, September 2008, and “Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources—Volume II: Surface Coating of Cans, Coils, Paper, Fabrics, Automobiles, and Light-Duty Trucks” EPA-450/2-77-008, May 1977 (cans and fabrics categories, only).



---

[N] [83 FR 19635, May 4, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 13548, Apr. 5, 2019; 85 FR 10988, Feb. 26, 2020; 85 FR 43694, July 20, 2020; 86 FR 975, Jan. 7, 2021; 86 FR 31938, June 16, 2021; 87 FR 8424, Feb. 15, 2022; 88 FR 7880, Feb. 7, 2023; 89 FR 97544, Dec. 9, 2024]




