# § 63.129   Transfer operations provisions—reporting and recordkeeping for performance tests and notification of compliance status.

(a) Each owner or operator of a Group 1 transfer rack shall: 


(1) Keep an up-to-date, readily accessible record of the data specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(8) of this section, as applicable. 


(2) Include the data specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(7) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status report as specified in § 63.152(b) of this subpart. If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with § 63.152(h), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.










(3) If any subsequent performance tests are conducted after the Notification of Compliance Status has been submitted, report the data in paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(7) of this section in the next Periodic Report as specified in § 63.152(c) of this subpart. 


(4) Record and report the following when using a control device other than a flare to achieve a 98 weight percent reduction in total organic HAP or a total organic HAP concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, as specified in § 63.126(b)(1) of this subpart: 


(i) The parameter monitoring results for thermal incinerators, catalytic incinerators, boilers or process heaters, absorbers, condensers, or carbon adsorbers specified in table 7 of this subpart, recorded during the performance test, and averaged over the time period of the performance testing. 


(ii) The percent reduction of total organic HAP or TOC achieved by the control device determined as specified in § 63.128(a) of this subpart, or the concentration of total organic HAP or TOC (parts per million by volume, by compound) determined as specified in § 63.128(a) of this subpart at the outlet of the control device. For combustion devices, the concentration shall be reported on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(iii) The parameters shall be recorded at least every 15 minutes. 


(iv) For a boiler or process heater, a description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater. 


(5) Except as specified in paragraph (a) of § 63.108, record and report the following when using a flare to comply with § 63.126(b)(2):




(i) Flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); 


(ii) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.128(b) of this subpart; and 


(iii) All periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame is absent. 


(6) Record and report the following when using a scrubber following a combustion device to control a halogenated vent stream, as specified in § 63.126(d) of this subpart: 


(i) The percent reduction or scrubber outlet mass emission rate of total hydrogen halides and halogens determined according to the procedures in § 63.128(d) of this subpart; 


(ii) The parameter monitoring results for scrubbers specified in table 7 of this subpart, and averaged over the time period of the performance test; and 


(iii) The parameters shall be recorded at least every 15 minutes. 


(7) Record and report the halogen concentration in the vent stream determined according to the procedures as specified in § 63.128(d) of this subpart. 


(8) Report that the emission stream is being routed to a fuel gas system or a process, when complying using § 63.126(b)(4). 


(b) If an owner or operator requests approval to use a control device other than those listed in table 7 of this subpart or to monitor a parameter other than those specified in table 7 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures as required under § 63.151(f) or § 63.152(e) of this subpart. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application or by other appropriate means. 


(c) For each parameter monitored according to table 7 of this subpart or paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish a range for the parameter that indicates proper operation of the control device. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 63.152(b)(2) of this subpart shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application or amendment. 


(d) Each owner or operator shall maintain a record describing in detail the vent system used to vent each affected transfer vent stream to a control device. This document shall list all valves and vent pipes that could vent the stream to the atmosphere, thereby bypassing the control device; identify which valves are secured by car-seals or lock-and-key type configurations; and indicate the position (open or closed) of those valves which have car-seals. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, equipment leaks such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.


(1) For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, the last sentence in paragraph (d) of this section no longer applies. Instead, the exemptions specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section apply.


(i) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.165(e)(4) of subpart H of this part, equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.


(ii) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) [Reserved]




(e) An owner or operator meeting the requirements of § 63.128(h) of this subpart shall submit, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart, the information specified in § 63.128(h)(1) of this subpart. 


(f) An owner or operator meeting the requirements of § 63.128(h) of this subpart shall submit, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.152(b) of this subpart, the operating range for each monitoring parameter identified for each control device. 



---

[N] [59 FR 19468, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 64576, Dec. 5, 1996; 62 FR 2750, Jan. 17, 1997; 64 FR 20191, Apr. 26, 1999; 89 FR 43199, May 16, 2024]






