# § 960.255   Self-sufficiency incentives—Disallowance of increase in annual income.

(a) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


*Baseline income.* The annual income immediately prior to implementation of the disallowance described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section of a person who is a member of a qualified family.


*Disallowance.* Exclusion from annual income. 


*Previously unemployed* includes a person who has earned, in the twelve months previous to employment, no more than would be received for 10 hours of work per week for 50 weeks at the established minimum wage. 


*Qualified family.* A family residing in public housing:


(i) Whose annual income increases as a result of employment of a family member who was unemployed for one or more years previous to employment; 


(ii) Whose annual income increases as a result of increased earnings by a family member during participation in any economic self-sufficiency or other job training program; or 


(iii) Whose annual income increases, as a result of new employment or increased earnings of a family member, during or within six months after receiving assistance, benefits or services under any state program for temporary assistance for needy families funded under Part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act, as determined by the PHA in consultation with the local agencies administering temporary assistance for needy families (TANF) and Welfare-to-Work (WTW) programs. The TANF program is not limited to monthly income maintenance, but also includes such benefits and services as one-time payments, wage subsidies and transportation assistance—provided that the total amount over a six-month period is at least $500. 


(b) *Disallowance of earned income*—(1) *Initial 12-month exclusion.* During the 12-month period beginning on the date on which a member of a qualified family is first employed or the family first experiences an increase in annual income attributable to employment, the PHA must exclude from the annual income (as defined in § 5.609 of this title) of a qualified family any increase in the income of the family member as a result of employment over the baseline income of that family member.


(2) *Phase-in of rent increase.* Upon the expiration of the 12-month period defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and for the subsequent 12-month period, the PHA must exclude from the annual income of a qualified family at least 50 percent of any increase in income of such family member as a result of employment over the family member's baseline income.


(3) *Maximum 2-year disallowance.* The disallowance of increased income of an individual family member as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is limited to a lifetime 24-month period. It applies for a maximum of 12 months for disallowance under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and a maximum of 12 months for disallowance under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, during the 24-month period starting from the initial exclusion under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(4) Effect of changes on currently participating families. Families eligible for and participating in the disallowance of earned income under this section prior to May 9, 2016 will continue to be governed by this section in effect as it existed immediately prior to that date.


(c) *Inapplicability to admission.* The disallowance of increases in income as a result of employment under this section does not apply for purposes of admission to the program (including the determination of income eligibility and income targeting). 


(d) *Individual Savings Accounts.* As an alternative to the disallowance of increases in income as a result of employment described in paragraph (b) of this section, a PHA may choose to provide for individual savings accounts for public housing residents who pay an income-based rent, in accordance with a written policy, which must include the following provisions:


(1) The PHA must advise the family that the savings account option is available; 


(2) At the option of the family, the PHA must deposit in the savings account the total amount that would have been included in tenant rent payable to the PHA as a result of increased income that is disallowed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section; 


(3) Amounts deposited in a savings account may be withdrawn only for the purpose of: 


(i) Purchasing a home; 


(ii) Paying education costs of family members; 


(iii) Moving out of public or assisted housing; or 


(iv) Paying any other expense authorized by the PHA for the purpose of promoting the economic self-sufficiency of residents of public housing; 


(4) The PHA must maintain the account in an interest bearing investment and must credit the family with the net interest income, and the PHA may not charge a fee for maintaining the account; 


(5) At least annually the PHA must provide the family with a report on the status of the account; and 


(6) If the family moves out of public housing, the PHA shall pay the tenant any balance in the account, minus any amounts owed to the PHA. 




(e) *Limitation.* This section applies to a family that is:


(1) Receiving the disallowance of earned income under this section on December 31, 2023 or


(2) Eligible to receive the Jobs Plus program rent incentive pursuant to the Jobs Plus FY2023 notice of funding opportunity (NOFO) or earlier appropriations and distributed through prior Jobs Plus NOFOs.


(f) *Sunset.* This section will lapse on January 1, 2030.





---

[N] [65 FR 16726, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12373, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 9670, Feb. 14, 2023]








