# § 24.301   Payment for actual reasonable moving and related expenses.

(a) *General.* (1) Any owner-occupant or tenant who qualifies as a displaced person (defined at § 24.2(a)) and who moves from a dwelling (including a mobile home) or who moves from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization is entitled to payment of his or her actual moving and related expenses, as the agency determines to be reasonable and necessary.


(2) A non-occupant owner of a rented mobile home is eligible for actual cost reimbursement under this section to relocate the mobile home. If the mobile home is not acquired as real estate, but the homeowner-occupant obtains a replacement housing payment under one of the circumstances described at § 24.502(a)(3), the homeowner-occupant is not eligible for payment for moving the mobile home but may be eligible for a payment for moving personal property from the mobile home.


(b) *Moves from a dwelling.* A displaced person's actual, reasonable, and necessary moving expenses for moving personal property from a dwelling may be determined based on the cost of one, or a combination of the methods in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section (eligible expenses for moves from a dwelling include the expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section):


(1) *Commercial move.* Moves performed by a professional mover.


(2) *Self-move.* Moves that may be performed by the displaced person in one or a combination of the following methods:


(i) *Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule.* The Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule described in § 24.302.


(ii) *Actual cost move.* Supported by receipted bills for labor and equipment. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff necessary for moving the residential personal property. Costs for moving personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly market rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover.


(iii) *A moving cost estimate.* Prepared by a qualified agency staff person, as developed from the agency's thorough review of the personal property to be moved and documented costs for materials, equipment, and labor. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff. Costs for moving residential personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover. The cost of materials should equal those readily available locally.


(iv) *Commercial mover estimate.* Based on the lower of two bids from a commercial mover. Federal funding agencies may establish policies and procedures which require its grantees to calculate and subtract an estimated amount of overhead and profit from the moving cost bids to establish a reimbursement eligibility.


(c) *Moves from a mobile home.* Eligible expenses for moves from a mobile home include those expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section. In addition to the items in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner-occupant of a mobile home that is moved as personal property and used as the person's replacement dwelling, is also eligible for the moving expenses described in paragraphs (g)(8) through (10) of this section. A displaced person's actual, reasonable, and necessary moving expenses for moving personal property from a mobile home may be determined based on the cost of one, or a combination of the following methods:


(1) *Commercial move.* Moves performed by a professional mover.


(2) *Self-move.* Moves that may be performed by the displaced person in one or a combination of the following methods:


(i) *Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule.* The Fixed Residential Moving Cost Schedule described in § 24.302.


(ii) *Actual cost move.* Supported by receipted bills for labor and equipment. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff necessary for moving the residential personal property. Costs for moving personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly market rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover.


(iii) *A moving cost estimate.* Prepared by a qualified agency staff person, as developed from the agency's thorough review of the personal property to be moved, and documented estimated costs for materials, equipment, and labor. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover for moving staff. Costs for moving residential personal property that requires special handling should not exceed the hourly rate for a commercial specialist. Equipment rental fees should be based on the actual cost of renting the equipment but not exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover. The cost of materials should equal those readily available locally.


(iv) *Commercial mover estimate.* Based on the lower of two bids from a commercial mover. Federal funding agencies may establish policies and procedures which require its grantees to calculate and subtract an estimated amount of overhead and profit from the moving cost bids to establish a reimbursement eligibility.


(d) *Moves from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization.* Eligible expenses for moves from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization include those expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) and (11) through (18) of this section and § 24.303. Personal property as determined by an inventory from a business, farm, or nonprofit organization may be moved by one or a combination of the following methods:


(1) *Commercial move.* Based on the lower of two bids or estimates prepared by a commercial mover. At the agency's discretion, payment for a low cost or uncomplicated move may be based on a single bid or estimate.


(2) *Self-move.* A self-move payment may be based on one or a combination of the following:


(i) The lower of two bids or estimates prepared by a commercial mover or qualified agency staff person. At the agency's discretion, payment for a low cost or uncomplicated move may be based on a single bid or estimate; or


(ii) Supported by receipted bills for labor and equipment. Hourly labor rates should not exceed the rates paid by a commercial mover to employees performing the same activity and, equipment rental fees should be based on the actual rental cost of the equipment but not to exceed the cost paid by a commercial mover.


(iii) A qualified agency staff person may develop a move cost finding by estimating and determining the cost of a small uncomplicated nonresidential personal property move of $5,000 or less, with the written consent of the person. This estimate may include only the cost of moving personal property which does not require disconnect and reconnect and/or specialty moving services necessary for activities including crating, lifting, transportation, and setting of the item in place.


(e) *Personal property only.* Eligible expenses for a person who is required to move personal property from real property but is not required to move from a dwelling (including a mobile home), business, farm, or nonprofit organization include those expenses described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) and (18) of this section. (*See* appendix A to this part, section 24.301(e).)


(f) *Advertising signs.* The amount of a payment for direct loss of an advertising sign, which is personal property shall be the lesser of:


(1) The depreciated reproduction cost of the sign, as determined by the agency, less the proceeds from its sale; or


(2) The estimated cost of moving the sign, but with no allowance for storage.


(g) *Eligible actual moving expenses.* (1) Transportation of the displaced person and personal property. Transportation costs for a distance beyond 50 miles are not eligible, unless the agency determines that relocation beyond 50 miles is justified.


(2) Packing, crating, unpacking, and uncrating of the personal property.


(3) Disconnecting, dismantling, removing, reassembling, and reinstalling relocated household appliances and other personal property. For businesses, farms, or nonprofit organizations this includes machinery, equipment, substitute personal property, and connections to utilities available within the building; it also includes modifications to the personal property, including those mandated by Federal, State, or local law, code, or ordinance, necessary to adapt it to the replacement structure, the replacement site, or the utilities at the replacement site, and modifications necessary to adapt the utilities at the replacement site to the personal property.


(4) An agency may determine that the storage of personal property is a reasonable and necessary moving expense for a displaced person or person required to move temporarily under this part. Agencies may approve a payment for storage when the process of relocating from the acquired site to the replacement site is delayed for reasons beyond the control of the displaced person. Storage may not be longer than 12 months, starting at the date of vacation from the acquired site and ending when the replacement site becomes available. Agencies may approve storage for more than 12 months in unusual instances as justified, documented, and approved by the agency.


(5) Insurance for the replacement value of the property in connection with the move and necessary storage.


(6) The replacement value of property lost, stolen, or damaged in the process of moving (not through the fault or negligence of the displaced person, his or her agent, or employee) where insurance covering such loss, theft, or damage is not reasonably available.


(7) A displaced tenant is entitled to reasonable reimbursement, as determined by the agency, for actual expenses not to exceed $1,000, incurred for rental replacement dwelling application fees or credit reports required to lease a replacement dwelling.


(8) Other moving-related expenses that are not listed as ineligible under paragraph (h) of this section, as the agency determines to be reasonable and necessary.


(9) The reasonable cost of disassembling, moving, and reassembling any appurtenances attached to a mobile home, such as porches, decks, skirting, and awnings, which were not acquired, anchoring of the unit, and utility “hookup” charges.


(10) The reasonable cost of repairs and/or modifications so that a mobile home can be moved and/or made decent, safe, and sanitary.


(11) The cost of a nonrefundable mobile home park entrance fee, to the extent it does not exceed the fee at a comparable mobile home park, if the person is displaced or temporarily moved from a mobile home park or the agency determines that payment of the fee is necessary to effect relocation.


(12) Any actual, reasonable, or necessary costs of a license, permit, fee, or certification required of the displaced person to operate a business, farm, or nonprofit at the replacement location. However, the payment may be based on the remaining useful life of the existing license, permit, fees, or certification.


(13) Professional services as the agency determines to be actual, reasonable, and necessary for:


(i) Planning the move of the personal property;


(ii) Moving the personal property; and


(iii) Installing the relocated personal property at the replacement location.


(14) Relettering signs, replacing stationery on hand at the time of displacement or temporary move, and making reasonable and necessary updates to other media that are made obsolete as a result of the move. (*See* appendix A to this part, section 24.301(g)(14).)


(15) Actual direct loss of tangible personal property incurred as a result of moving or discontinuing the business or farm operation. The payment shall consist of:


(i) If the item is currently in use, the lesser of:


(A) The estimated cost to move the item up to 50 miles and reinstall; or


(B) The fair market value in place of the item, as is for continued use, less the proceeds from its sale. To be eligible for payment, the claimant must make a good faith effort to sell the personal property, unless the agency determines that such effort is not necessary.


(ii) If the item is not currently in use: The estimated cost of moving the item 50 miles, as is.


(iii) When payment for property loss is claimed for goods held for sale, the fair market value shall be based on the cost of the goods to the business, not the potential selling prices. (*See* appendix A of this part, section 24.301(g)(15).)


(16) The reasonable cost incurred in attempting to sell an item that is not to be relocated.


(17) If an item of personal property, which is used as part of a business or farm operation is not moved but is promptly replaced with a substitute item that performs a comparable function at the replacement site, the displaced person is entitled to payment of the lesser of:


(i) The cost of the substitute item, including installation costs of the replacement site, minus any proceeds from the sale or trade-in of the replaced item; or


(ii) The estimated cost of moving and reinstalling the replaced item but with no allowance for storage. At the agency's discretion, the estimated cost for a low cost or uncomplicated move may be based on a single bid or estimate.


(18) Searching for a replacement location.


(i) A business or farm operation is entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses, not to exceed $5,000, as the agency determines to be reasonable, which are incurred in searching for a replacement location, including:


(A) Transportation;


(B) Meals and lodging away from home;


(C) Time spent searching, based on reasonable salary or earnings;


(D) Fees paid to a real estate agent or broker to locate a replacement site, exclusive of any fees or commissions related to the purchase of such sites;


(E) Time spent in obtaining permits and attending zoning hearings; and


(F) Expenses negotiating the purchase of a replacement site based on a reasonable salary or fee, including actual, reasonable, and necessary attorney's fees.


(ii) The Federal funding agency may, on a program wide or project basis, allow a one-time payment of $1,000 for search expenses with minimal or no documentation as an alternative payment method to paragraph (g)(18)(i) of this section. (*See* appendix A to this part, section 24.301(g)(18).)


(19) When the personal property to be moved is of low value and high bulk, and the cost of moving the property would be disproportionate to its value in the judgment of the agency, the allowable moving cost payment shall not exceed the lesser of: the amount which would be received if the property were sold at the site; or the replacement cost of a comparable quantity delivered to the new business location. Examples of personal property covered by this paragraph (g)(19) include, but are not limited to, stockpiled sand, gravel, minerals, metals, and other similar items of personal property as determined by the agency.


(h) *Ineligible moving and related expenses.* The following is a nonexclusive listing of payments a displaced person is not entitled to:


(1) The cost of moving any structure or other real property improvement in which the displaced person reserved ownership. (However, this part does not preclude the computation under § 24.401(c)(2)(iii));


(2) Interest on a loan to cover moving expenses;


(3) Loss of goodwill;


(4) Loss of profits;


(5) Loss of trained employees;


(6) Any additional operating expenses of a business or farm operation incurred because of operating in a new location except as provided in § 24.304(a)(6);


(7) Personal injury;


(8) Any legal fee or other cost for preparing a claim for a relocation payment or for representing the claimant before the agency;


(9) Expenses for searching for a temporary or replacement dwelling which include costs for mileage, meals, lodging, time and professional real estate broker or attorney's fees;


(10) Physical changes to the real property at the temporary or replacement location of a business or farm operation except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section and § 24.304(a);


(11) Costs for storage of personal property on real property already owned or leased by the displaced person or person to be moved temporarily;


(12) Refundable security and utility deposits; and


(13) Cosmetic changes to a replacement or temporary dwelling, which are not required by State or local law, such as painting, draperies, or replacement carpet or flooring.


(i) *Notification and inspection (nonresidential).* The agency shall inform the displaced person and persons required to move temporarily, in writing, of the requirements of this section as soon as possible after the initiation of negotiations. This information may be included in the relocation information provided the person as set forth in § 24.203. To be eligible for payments under this section the person must:


(1) Provide the agency reasonable advance notice of the approximate date of the start of the move or disposition of the personal property and an inventory of the items to be moved. However, the agency may waive this notice requirement after documenting its file accordingly.


(2) Permit the agency to make reasonable and timely inspections of the personal property at both the displacement and replacement sites and to monitor the move.


(j) *Transfer of ownership (nonresidential).* Upon request and in accordance with applicable law, the claimant shall transfer to the agency ownership of any personal property that has not been moved, sold, or traded in.






