# ยง 881.208   Financing.

(a) *Types of financing.* Any type of construction financing and long-term financing may be used, including:


(1) Conventional loans from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, pension funds, insurance companies or other financial institutions;


(2) Mortgage insurance programs under the National Housing Act; and


(3) Financing by tax-exmpt bonds or other obligations.


(b) *HUD approval.* HUD must approve the terms and conditions of the financing to determine consistency with these regulations and to assure they do not purport to pledge or give greater rights or funds to any party than are provided under the Agreement, Contract, and/or ACC. Where the project is financed with tax-exempt obligations, the terms and conditions will be approved in accordance with the following:


(1) An issuer of obligations that are tax-exempt under any provision of Federal law or regulation, the proceeds of the sale of which are to be used to purchase GNMA mortgage-backed securities issued by the mortgagee of the Section 8 project, will be subject to 24 CFR part 811, subpart B. 


(2) Issuers of obligations that are tax-exempt under Section 11(b) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 will be subject to 24 CFR part 811, subpart A if paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not applicable. 


(3) Issuers of obligations that are tax-exempt under any provision of Federal law or regulation other than Section 11(b) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 will be subject to 24 CFR 811, subpart A if paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not applicable, except that such issuers that are State Agencies qualified under 24 CFR part 883 are not subject to 24 CFR part 811, subpart A and are subject solely to the requirements of 24 CFR part 883 with regard to the approval of tax-exempt financing. 


(c) *Pledge of contracts.* An owner may pledge, or offer as security for any loan or obligation, an Agreement, Contract or ACC entered into pursuant to this part: *Provided, however,* That such financing is in connection with a project constructed pursuant to this part and approved by HUD. Any pledge of the Agreement, Contract, or ACC, or payments thereunder, will be limited to the amounts payable under the Contract or ACC in accordance with its terms. If the pledge or other document provides that all payments will be paid directly to the mortgagee or the trustee for bondholders, the mortgagee or trustee will make all payments or deposits required under the mortgage, trust indenture of HUD regulations and remit any excess to the owner. 


(d) *Foreclosure and other transfers.* In the event of foreclosure, assignment or sale approved by HUD in lieu of foreclosure, or other assignment or sale approved by HUD: 


(1) The Agreement, the Contract and the ACC, if applicable, will continue in effect, and 


(2) Housing assistance payments will continue in accordance with the terms of the Contract.


(e) *Financing of manufactured home parks.* In the case of a substantially rehabilitated manufactured home park, the principal amount of any mortgage attributable to the rental spaces in the park may not exceed an amount per space determined in accordance with ยง 207.33(b) of this Title.



---

[N] [45 FR 7085, Jan. 31, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 62797, Sept. 22, 1980; 48 FR 12706, Mar. 28, 1983; 49 FR 17449, Apr. 24, 1984]




