# § 59.664   What are the requirements for importing portable fuel containers into the United States?

As specified in this section, we may require you to post a bond if you import into the United States containers that are subject to the standards of this subpart. See paragraph (f) of this section for the requirements related to importing containers that have been certified by someone else.


(a) Prior to importing containers into the U.S., we may require you to post a bond to cover any potential compliance or enforcement actions under the Clean Air Act if you cannot demonstrate to us that you have assets of an appropriate liquidity readily available in the United States with a value equal to the retail value of the containers that you will import during the calendar year.


(b) We may set the value of the bond up to five dollars per container.


(c) You may meet the bond requirements of this section by obtaining a bond from a third-party surety that is cited in the U.S. Department of Treasury Circular 570, “Companies Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds and as Acceptable Reinsuring Companies” (*https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/circular-570.html*).


(d) If you forfeit some or all of your bond in an enforcement action, you must post any appropriate bond for continuing importation within 90 days after you forfeit the bond amount.


(e) You will forfeit the proceeds of the bond posted under this section if you need to satisfy any United States administrative final order or judicial judgment against you arising from your conduct in violation of this subpart.


(f) This paragraph (f) applies if you import for resale containers that have been certified by someone else. You and the certificate holder are each responsible for compliance with the requirements of this subpart and the Clean Air Act. No bond is required under this section if either you or the certificate holder meet the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section. Otherwise, the importer must comply with the bond requirements of this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 8533, Feb. 26, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 34357, June 29, 2021] 




