# § 1.31   Procedures for addressing petitions.

(a) *Petitions for rulemaking.* An interested person may petition for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule, administered by the Commission pursuant to Section 18(a)(1)(B) of the FTC Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(1)(B)) or other statutory authorities. A request to issue, amend, or repeal an interpretive rule, including an industry guide, may also be submitted by petition. For purposes of this section, a “petition” means a written request to issue, amend, or repeal a rule or interpretive rule administered by the Commission or a petition seeking an exemption from the coverage of a rule.


(b) *Requirements.* Petitions must include the following information:


(1) The petitioner's full name, address, telephone number, and email address (if available), along with an explanation of how the petitioner's interests would be affected by the requested action;


(2) A full statement of the action requested by the petitioner, including the text and substance of the proposed rule or amendment, or a statement identifying the rule proposed to be repealed, and citation to any existing Commission rules that would be affected by the requested action;


(3) A full statement of the factual and legal basis on which the petitioner relies for the action requested in the petition, including all relevant facts, views, argument, and data upon which the petitioner relies, as well as information known to the petitioner that is unfavorable to the petitioner's position. The statement should identify the problem the requested action is intended to address and explain why the requested action is necessary to address the problem.


(c) *Supporting data.* If an original research report is used to support a petition, the information should be presented in a form that would be acceptable for publication in a peer reviewed scientific or technical journal. If quantitative data are used to support a petition, the presentation of the data should include a complete statistical analysis using conventional statistical methods. Sources of information appropriate to use in support of a petition include, but are not limited to:


(1) Professional journal articles,


(2) Research reports,


(3) Official government statistics,


(4) Official government reports,


(5) Industry data, and


(6) Scientific textbooks.


(d) *Filing.* A petition should be submitted via email to *electronicfilings@ftc.gov* or sent via postal mail or commercial delivery to Federal Trade Commission, Office of the Secretary, Suite CC-5610, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580. If the petition meets the requirements for Commission consideration described in this section, the Secretary will assign a docket number to the petition. Once a petition has been docketed, the FTC will notify the petitioner in writing and provide the petitioner with the number assigned to the petition and an agency contact for inquiries relating to the petition. The petition number should be referenced by the petitioner in all contacts with the agency regarding the petition.


(e) *Confidential treatment.* If a petition contains material for which the petitioner seeks confidential treatment, the petitioner must file a request for confidential treatment that complies with § 4.9(c) of this chapter and two versions of the petition and all supporting materials, consisting of a confidential and a public version. Every page of each such document shall be clearly and accurately labeled “Public” or “Confidential.” In the confidential version, the petitioner must use brackets or similar conspicuous markings to indicate the material for which it is claiming confidential treatment. In the public version, the petitioner must redact all material for which it seeks confidential treatment in the petition and supporting materials or all portions thereof for which confidential treatment is requested. The written request for confidential treatment that accompanies the petition must include a description of the material for which confidential treatment is requested and the factual and legal basis for the request. Requests for confidential treatment will only be granted if the General Counsel grants the request in accordance with the law and the public interest, pursuant to § 4.9(c) of this chapter.


(f) *Notice and public comment.* After a petition has been docketed as described in paragraph (d) of this section, the Office of the Secretary will provide public notice of the petition on behalf of the Commission in the _Federal Register_ and publish the document online for public comment for 30 days through the Federal eRulemaking portal at *https://www.regulations.gov.* Any person may file a statement in support of or in opposition to a petition prior to Commission action on the petition by following the instructions provided in the _Federal Register_ notice inviting comment on the petition. All comments on a petition will become part of the public record.


(g) *Resolution of petitions.* The Commission may grant or deny a petition in whole or in part. If the Commission determines to commence a rulemaking proceeding in response to a petition, the Commission will publish a rulemaking notice in the _Federal Register_ and will serve a copy of the notice initiating the rulemaking proceeding on the petitioner. If the petition is deemed by the Commission as insufficient to warrant commencement of a rulemaking proceeding, the Commission will make public its determination and notify the petitioner, who may be given the opportunity to submit additional data. Petitions that are moot, premature, repetitive, frivolous, or which plainly do not warrant consideration by the Commission may be denied or dismissed without prejudice to the petitioner.



---

[N] [86 FR 59852, Oct. 29, 2021]






