# ยง 3415.14   Proposal review.

(a) All grant applications will be acknowledged. Prior to technical examination, a preliminary review will be made for responsiveness to the program solicitation (e.g., relationship of application to announced program area). Proposals that do not fall within the guidelines as stated in the program solicitation will be eliminated from competition and will be returned to the applicant.


(b) All applications will be carefully reviewed by the Director or Administrator, qualified officers or employees of the Department, the respective peer review group, and *ad hoc* reviewers, as required. Written comments will be solicited from *ad hoc* reviewers when required, and individual written comments and in-depth discussions will be provided by peer review group members prior to recommending applications for funding. Applications will be ranked and support levels recommended within the limitation of total available funding for each research program area as announced in the program solicitation.


(c) No awarding official will make a grant based upon an application covered by this part unless the application has been reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this part and unless said reviewers have made recommendations concerning the scientific merit and relevance to the program of such application.


(d) Except to the extent otherwise provided by law, such recommendations are advisory only and are not binding on program officers or on the awarding officials of NIFA and ARS.




