# ยง 1980.1207   Approval to provide retail broadband service.

(a) *Service area assessment.* For applicants requesting to provide retail broadband service under the special broadband authority, applications must be posted publicly for 45 days.


(1) During the public notice period, service providers may voluntarily submit information required by the RUS Administrator onto the agency's mapping tool, or alternate methods if determined by the RUS Administrator under ยง 1980.1206(d). Information submitted by service providers shall be exempt from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(2)(B).552.


(2) If no broadband service provider submits information under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the agency shall consider the number of providers in the proposed service area to be established by using any other data regarding the availability of broadband service that the RUS may collect or obtain through reasonable efforts.


(b) *Use of funds.* After review of information submitted from service providers, if any, and all available data on broadband availability, if the RUS determines that the minimum acceptable level of broadband service is available in the proposed retail service area, the Awarding Agency shall not approve the use of funds for such purpose. The Awarding Agency, however, may approve the use of funds for retail broadband service if:


(1) Areas with the minimum acceptable level of broadband service are eliminated from the proposed service area; and


(2) The applicant covenants that it will not provide service in these areas with funds from the Awarding Agency.


(c) *Use of Funds for wholesale broadband service.* For applicants requesting that funds be used for wholesale broadband service, the applicant must agree:


(1) To publicly advertise in the service area that broadband service is available at wholesale to any service provider; and


(2) That the same wholesale contract will be used for all service providers requesting wholesale service and offered at the same per unit price.






